Report of the directors The directors present their report and the audited The directors will recommend an issue to Mr D E Baird, Sir John Rose, the Hon A L Bondurant, financial statements of Rolls-Royce Group plc the shareholders of B Shares with an aggregate Mr P J Byrom, Mr J P Chefns, Mr C-P Forster, Company for the year ended December 31, 2003. nominal value of 5.00p per ordinary share, or in the Mr C H Green, Mr J M Guyette, Dr M G J W Howse, absence of shareholder approval, a final dividend Lord Moore of Lower Marsh, Sir Robin Nicholson, New holding company of the same amount per ordinary share.
With the Mr A B Shilston, Mr I C Strachan, Mr C G Symon and At the Annual General Meeting of Rolls-Royce plc interim dividend of 3.18p per ordinary share, paid Sir John Weston.
held on May 29, 2003 shareholders approved the on January 5, 2004, this will make a total return introduction of a new holding company by way The non-executive directors are appointed by the to shareholders of 8.18p per share for the year.
of a Scheme of Arrangement under Section 425 Board on the basis of recommendations put to it If approved, the Company will issue the B Shares of the Companies Act 1985 the Scheme.
All the to shareholders registered on March 12, 2004. non-executive directors are considered by the The Scheme became effective on June 23, 2003 Payments to shareholders who elect to redeem Board to be independent of management and free and the Company became the holding company their B Shares, or the issue of new ordinary shares of any relationship which could materially interfere of Rolls-Royce plc.
Under the Scheme all to shareholders who elect to convert, will be on with the exercise of their independent judgement.
shareholders of Rolls-Royce plc at the effective July 5, 2004.
These elections must be made by The Board reviews the independence of date received shares in the Company on a June 18, 2004. non-executive directors at least annually.
Directors The Board does not accept the view that a References throughout the Annual Report and Directors who held ofce during 2003 are listed on non-executive director automatically loses his or the audited Financial Statements to the Company page 28 with the exception of Sir Ralph Robins.
her independence after serving as a director for refer to Rolls-Royce Group plc from June 23, 2003 Mr A B Shilston was appointed as Finance Director more than three consecutive terms of three years.
onwards and prior to that, to Rolls-Royce plc.
of Rolls-Royce plc with effect from January 1, 2003.
The Board considers that in a long-term, complex Sir Ralph Robins, who was a director and Chairman Principal activities and technologically advanced business, it is of Rolls-Royce plc, retired on January 31, 2003.
The principal activities of the Group are described essential that non-executive directors have the Mr D E Baird was appointed as non-executive in the prole on the inside front cover.
opportunity to acquire, over a number of years, the Chairman of Rolls-Royce plc on February 1, 2003. experience and knowledge of the business and Results for the year On his appointment, Mr D E Baird met the criteria the sectors within which the Group operates.
The The Acting Chairmans statement, the Chief for independence contained in the revised Board has concluded that Lord Moore and Executives review and the Finance Directors Combined Code.
Before his appointment, the Sir Robin Nicholson, both of whom have served as review describe the years operations, research and Chairman disclosed to the Board his other non-executive directors of the Company for more development activities and future prospects.
significant commitments which are described than nine years, remain fully independent.
On February 12, 2004, the Company will announce on page 28.
The Company has entered into separate Deeds of that it is proposing to change the arrangements Rolls-Royce Group plc was incorporated on Indemnity in favour of its directors.
The deeds for making payments to shareholders.
The original directors were provide substantially the same protection as that proposed arrangements, shareholders will receive Mr A B Shilston and Mr C E Blundell.
Mr C E Blundell already provided to directors under the indemnity B Shares in place of a dividend.
The B Shares can was also appointed Company Secretary.
All the in Article 170 of the Companys Articles of then either be redeemed for cash or converted remaining directors of Rolls-Royce plc were Association.
The Company has also arranged into ordinary shares in the Company.
The issue of appointed as directors of the Company on appropriate insurance cover for legal action taken B Shares in this way will result in significant tax March 26, 2003.
Mr C E Blundell resigned as a against its directors.
If approved by shareholders, director on April 10, 2003. the Company expects to make further issues of Corporate governance B Shares in lieu of dividends, provided that it The Hon A L Bondurant, Mr C-P Forster and The Company is committed to the highest continues to be in the best interests of the Mr I C Strachan were appointed as non-executive standards of corporate governance.
The Board Company and its shareholders to do so.
directors of Rolls-Royce Group plc with effect from confirms that the Company has complied with the September 19, 2003. provisions of the Combined Code as it applied in Full details of this proposal will be included in the 2003.
This report and, where appropriate, the documents which will accompany this Annual Under the Companys Articles of Association,  report describe how the Report.
A resolution seeking shareholder approval one third of the directors are subject to re-election Board has applied the principles and complied for this proposal will be included in the Notice for every year, with each director also being subject to with the provisions of the Combined Code.
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
re-election at intervals of not more than three years.
Any director appointed during the year is The Board has noted the recommendations of the required to retire and seek re-election by the revised Combined Code published by the shareholders at the next AGM.
In 2003 the Board Financial Reporting Council on July 23, 2003, which reviewed its policy with respect to the re-election apply to reporting periods beginning on or after of directors and concluded that in future all the November 1, 2003.
The Board confirms that it will directors should retire each year, with the report its compliance with the recommendations nominations committee recommending to the of the revised Combined Code in the 2004 Annual Board which of those directors should be Report.
In the meantime, the Board has taken steps proposed for re-election at the next AGM.
The to implement the provisions of the revised Code Board completed this process in February 2004 and the progress made by the Company in and, on the basis of recommendations made by response to the Code is described in the following the nominations committee, agreed that it should sections of this report.
propose to shareholders, the re-election of 29 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual Report 2003 Report of the directors continued The Board The Boards tasks Operation of the Board The Board comprises a non-executive chairman, a Consistent with this primary goal, the Boards tasks The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it chief executive, five other executive directors and are to: for decision, which is updated annually.
requirement for Board approval on these matters is ensure that, when executed, the Groups understood and is communicated widely During the year, the division of responsibilities strategic and financial plans generate throughout the Group.
between the Chairman and Chief Executive shareholder value and that the necessary has been established in writing and agreed by financial and human resources are in place to To enable the Board to function effectively, the the Board.
Lord Moore of Lower Marsh is deliver those plans.
The Board will review and directors have full and timely access to all relevant non-executive Deputy Chairman of the Company approve major allocations of capital and information.
and the Companys Senior Independent Director.
significant business decisions to ensure that Board meetings they are fully in line with the primary goal: In December 2003, Mr D E Baird suffered a stroke The Board met eight times during the year.
Details and is not expected to return to his duties before ensure that effective controls are in place to of the directors attendance are contained in the March 2004.
In Mr D E Bairds absence Lord Moore manage risk: table below.
has served as Acting Chairman and will continue monitor progress and ensure that the Groups Board committees to do so until Mr D E Baird is able to resume his financial and other forms of reporting present an In 2003 the Board reviewed the terms of reference duties as Chairman.
The Board has concluded that accurate assessment of the Groups position and and membership of Board committees in the light Lord Moores performance of this role on a prospects and are effectively communicated to of the revised Combined Code.
Details of the temporary basis does not affect his status as an shareholders and other stakeholders: membership and the principal terms of reference independent non-executive director.
The full terms of ensure that the Group meets the highest legal Biographical details of the Board, including other reference for the principal Board committees are and ethical standards: significant commitments, are given on page 28. available on the Investors section of the Groups evaluate continuously the performance of the website at www.
Information and Professional Development Groups senior executives and develop an The Chairman has taken steps to ensure that on As part of its review of committees, the Board effective remuneration policy.
Ensure that joining the Board, newly appointed directors follow concluded that the Health, Safety and succession plans are in place for Board directors a comprehensive induction programme and Environment Committee and the Nuclear and senior executives and approve candidates receive relevant information on the Group.
Over Propulsion Assurance Committee should operate for election to the Board: the induction period, new directors visit key sites as executive committees reporting to the Board and meet with Business Sector Presidents and establish the necessary committees to enable through the Chief Executive.
other employees to gain knowledge and the Board to full its charter:and Attendance at the three principal Board understanding of the Group and its business.
In evaluate the effectiveness of the Board and its committees is shown in the table below.
addition, an existing executive director acts as committees at least annually.
mentor to each newly appointed non-executive director, providing guidance and information as required.
There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys Attendance at meetings of the Board and its principal committees in 2003 expense.
This is in addition to the access every Director Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended director has to the Company Secretary and the Mr D E Baird 8 7 6 5 General Counsel.
Sir John Rose 8 8 6 6 Board Charter Mr J P Chefns 8 8 During the year the Board has reviewed its Mr C H Green 8 8 processes and its operational effectiveness and has Mr J M Guyette 8 8 established the following Charter of its core Dr M G J W Howse 8 8 responsibilities: Mr A B Shilston 8 8 Hon A L Bondurant 2 2 1 1 Primary goal Mr P J Byrom 8 8 4 4 5 4 6 5 Creating value for the long-term investor in the Mr C-P Forster 2 1 1 1 Company is the primary goal of directors and Lord Moore of Lower Marsh 8 8 4 4 6 6 5 4 underpins all decisions taken by the Board.
Sir Robin Nicholson 8 8 4 4 6 6 5 5 Mr I C Strachan 2 1 Mr C G Symon 8 8 5 5 6 6 Sir John Weston 8 8 5 5 6 6 During the period a director was in ofce or a member of a committee 30 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual Report 2003 Report of the directors continued The Group Executive In the first quarter of each year, the committee All other advisory services consulting The auditors The Group Executive is responsible for the running reviews the performance of each director of the are generally prohibited from providing these of the Group within the strategy determined by Company and recommends to the Board which services.
It is chaired by Sir John Rose, Chief directors should be proposed for re-election at the Throughout the year the committee monitors the Executive, and its other members are: next AGM.
The performance of the Chairman is cost of non-audit work undertaken by the auditors appraised at a meeting of the non-executive Mr A Arendt, Chairman Rolls-Royce and is, therefore, in a position to take action if at any directors chaired by the Deputy Chairman.
Deutschland Ltd & Co KG time it believes that there is a risk of the auditors Mr B Baker, Commercial Director and Remuneration committee independence being undermined through the General Counsel The remuneration committees the committee award of this work.
Mr C E Blundell, Company Secretary and membership and principal terms of reference are The committee reviews and approves the Business Director of Government Relations set out in the directors remuneration report on Assurance work programmes and ensures that this Mr J P Chefns, Chief Operating officer pages 37 to 47.
The committee met six times function is adequately resourced and that it is Mr E T Curley, President Energy Business during the year.
The number of meetings attended coordinated with the work of the external auditors.
Mr C H Green, President Defence Aerospace by each member is shown in the table on page 30.
Mr J M Guyette, President and Chief Executive Risk committee Audit committee officer of Rolls-Royce North America Inc.
The risk committee the committee is chaired by The audit committee the committee, which Mr C J Hole, Director of Procurement Sir John Rose and its other members are consists exclusively of independent non-executive Dr M G J W Howse, Director Engineering Mr J P Chefns, Mr C H Green, Mr J M Guyette, directors, is chaired by Mr P J Byrom who has and Technology Dr M G J W Howse and Mr A B Shilston.
The recent and relevant financial experience, and its Dr S Lanyado, President Marine Business committee is accountable for the Groups risk other members are Lord Moore of Lower Marsh, Mr I A Lloyd, Managing Director Aero Repair management and for reporting key risks and the Sir Robin Nicholson and Mr I C Strachan from and Overhaul associated mitigating actions to the Board.
The committee met four Dr M Lloyd, Director Gas Turbine Operations times during the year.
The number of meetings The Group community investment committee Mr J R Rivers, Director Human Resources attended by each member is shown in the table The Group community investment committee Mr A B Shilston, Finance Director on page 30. the committee is chaired by Sir John Weston and Mr M J Terrett, President Civil Aerospace its other members are Sir Robin Nicholson, The committee has responsibility for reviewing the Nominations committee Mr C H Green, Mr J M Guyette, Mr A Arendt, Groups financial reporting and accounting The nominations committee the committee is Chairman, Rolls-Royce Deutschland Ltd & Co KG, policies, including reviewing announcements to chaired by the Chairman of the Company, Mr A Fokkens, President Commercial Marine, and the London Stock Exchange.
It is also responsible Mr D E Baird.
Its other members are the Mr J R Rivers, Director Human Resources.
The for the relationship with the external auditors and Hon A L Bondurant from November 14, 2003, committee is responsible for administering the for the internal audit function, which is termed Lord Moore of Lower Marsh, Sir Robin Nicholson Companys policy on charitable donations Business Assurance.
Mr P J Byrom, Mr C G Symon worldwide.
The policy pursued by the committee and Sir John Weston served as members of the The committee is responsible for recommending when considering charitable appeals is set out on committee until November 14, 2003.
The to the Board the appointment of the external page 35. committee met six times during the year.
It is also responsible for reviewing the During the year the committee reviewed its number of meetings attended by each member scope of the audit, approving the audit fee and, on operations and with the Boards approval, adopted is shown in the table on page 30. an annual basis, satisfying itself that the auditors are revised terms of reference and membership independent.
The committee makes recommendations to the reecting the establishment of a Group-wide Board on the appointment and the In addition, the committee is responsible for policy.
The committee is supported by a series of reappointment of executive and non-executive assessing the Groups internal controls and its national committees dealing with national appeals directors and on the membership of Board systems for assessing and mitigating financial and which are considered within the policy established committees.
It is assisted in the former task by non-financial risk.
The Board believes that the external recruitment consultants.
The committee adoption of these changes will improve both the In order to safeguard auditor independence and reviews succession planning for appointments to prole and coherence of the Groups charitable objectivity, the following policy is applied in the Board and to other senior positions within the activities.
relation to services provided by the auditors: Group.
It also leads the annual process by which Political donations the Board evaluates its collective performance and Audit related services these are undertaken by the In line with its established policy, the Group made that of individual directors.
auditors as it is work that they must, or are best no political donations during 2003. suited, to perform.
It includes formalities relating to In carrying out its tasks, the committee gives borrowings, shareholder and other circulars, risk careful consideration to the balance of skills management services, various regulatory reports required on the Board, including the need to and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
reect diversity, international experience and managerial and business skills.
Before making an Tax, accounting and mergers and acquisitions The appointment, the committee satisfies itself that auditors are used for this work where they are best the individual appointee will have sufficient time suited to undertake it.
All other significant available to discharge his or her responsibilities consulting work in these areas is put out to tender.
31 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual Report 2003 Report of the directors continued Communication with shareholders Internal controls and risk management Risk management system The Company attaches importance to the The risk management system is an integral part of Directors responsibilities effectiveness of its communications with managements approach to delivering business The directors are responsible for the Groups shareholders.
It publishes a concise Annual Review objectives and is a systematic process designed to system of internal control and for maintaining and and Summary Financial Statement as well as a full identify, assess, treat, manage and communicate reviewing its effectiveness from both a financial Annual Report and there is a separate risks.
It also provides a method of escalation and and operational perspective.
The system of internal environmental report.
delegation to the appropriate level within the control is designed to manage, rather than organisation and ensures actions are owned, There is regular dialogue with individual eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business dened, resourced and effective.
institutional shareholders as well as general objectives and to provide reasonable but not presentations after the preliminary and interim absolute assurance against material misstatement Management is responsible for the ongoing results.
In October 2003, the Company held a major or loss.
The Groups approach to internal control is identication and evaluation of significant risks investor seminar at which the presidents of the based on the underlying principle of line within their areas of responsibility and, using a business sectors and senior executives described managements accountability for control and risk common process, for the operation of suitable the Groups businesses and key strategic priorities.
Risks may arise from All shareholders can gain access to these and other a variety of internal and external sources.
They may In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of presentations, as well as to the Annual Report and be associated with regulations, customer internal control, the Board has taken account of the other information about the Group, through the requirements, and competitor actions or could results of all the work carried out to audit and Groups website at www.
They may result from the capability of the processes used to review the activities of the Group.
also attend the Companys AGM at which the execute the business or from external and largely important business developments during the There is an ongoing process to identify, assess and unpredictable events such as terrorist activity or financial year are highlighted and at which they manage risk, including those risks affecting the war.
All risks, irrespective of source, are managed have an opportunity to ask questions.
This process is subject to through processes operated by project and continuous improvement and has been in place functional teams.
Management reports regularly to The directors are informed on a regular basis of throughout the financial year to which these the risk committee on its view of risks and how key shareholder issues, including share price statements apply and up to the date of their they are managed, so that the Board can then performance, composition of the shareholder approval.
consider and review these risks in terms of their register, and City expectations.
research is commissioned annually into The Board has reviewed the risk management institutional shareholder perceptions of the Group.
process and confirms that it complies with the During 2003, the communication and Turnbull Committee Guidance on Internal Control understanding of risk have continued to be The Chairman and Chief Executive ensure that issued in September 1999. enhanced throughout the business, including the the views of shareholders are regularly and ongoing development of plans to address the risks comprehensively communicated to the Board.
The Board has a risk committee, chaired by the identied in areas such as business continuity.
The Senior independent director and the Chief Executive, with specic accountability for the Management has undertaken comprehensive risk non-executive directors are briefed on system of risk management and for reporting key reviews for all key projects, programmes and shareholdersviews and have the opportunity to risks and their associated mitigating actions to the business change plans.
All the processes operated meet with shareholders as appropriate.
Details of the membership of the by the Group are subject to continuous committee are set out on page 31.
All directors attend the Companys AGM and the improvement activity.
Chairmen of the audit, remuneration and Organisation Systems of internal control nominations committees are available to answer The Group has a clearly dened organisation The general managers of individual businesses are any questions from shareholders on the work of structure within which operational management aware of their responsibility to operate systems of their committees.
have detailed responsibilities and levels of internal control which provide reasonable authorisation, supported by written job The Company confirms that it sends the AGM assurance of effective and efficient operations, descriptions and operating manuals.
notice and relevant documentation to all reliable financial information and compliance with shareholders at least 20 working days before the Rolls-Royce also has a code of business conduct laws and regulations.
Financial managers are date of the AGM.
For those shareholders who have which lays down the principles to be followed by required to acknowledge in writing that their elected to receive communications electronically, employees in the course of conducting business.
routine financial reporting is based on reliable data notice is given of the availability of documents on The code also gives guidance to support and that their results are properly stated in the Groups website.
achievement of the required standards.
Additionally, a condential reporting line has been The Group has a comprehensive budgeting introduced to enable UK employees to report, system with an annual budget approved by the outside of the normal management chain, any Board.
Revised forecasts for the year are reported at concerns they may have with regard to business least quarterly.
Actual results are reported monthly conduct.
against budget and variances reviewed.
32 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual Report 2003 Report of the directors continued The activities of the Group are subject to review Health, Safety and Environment HS&E The nuclear operations continue to make good by the Department of Risk, including Business The HS&E committee, chaired by the Chief progress in reducing the volumes of waste Assurance and Project Risk Assessment, and the Executive, is responsible for policy development disposed.
The Group has actively supported the assurance functions of Health, Safety and and assurance: setting Group objectives and Environment Agency in updating the discharge Environment, Quality and Engineering.
These targets: performance review:management system authorisations for the two licensed sites in Derby functions operate to work programmes agreed review:and reporting.
The Group is supported by and this process was approaching completion at by the appropriate Board member.
the Environmental Advisory Board EAB, the end of 2003.
No application has been made to comprised of external members who are increase any of the existing discharge limits and The Business Assurance function, which works respected authorities in their elds.
The EAB proposals have been made to decrease most closely with the external auditors, undertakes a reviews and makes independent limits.
The Group has volunteered the closure of its programme of financial and operational audits recommendations on the environmental and landll site at Crich near Derby, which had been and reviews agreed by the audit committee and sustainability aspects of the Groups activities.
used for the disposal of low-level radioactive waste.
The programme Throughout this process, the Group has actively includes independent reviews of the systems of The corporate HS&E audit programme provides sought to keep the local community informed internal control and risk management.
Findings are an independent assessment of the level of about decisions and progress by means of public reported to the audit committee four times a year implementation of the Groups HS&E meetings, newsletters and discussions with and to the risk committee twice a year.
Several HS&E audits were community representatives.
completed in 2003, including audits covering Corporate Social Responsibility three UK-based businesses, operations in Brazil and Health and safety management The Group attaches importance to the pursuit of six sites in North America.
HS&E reviews were also The Group experienced no work related fatalities excellence as a responsible corporate citizen in its undertaken at two joint ventures in Singapore.
during 2003 and lost-time injuries compared operations throughout the world and continues Good progress continues to be made with the favourably with the engineering sector averages.
to develop its approach to Corporate Social implementation of the Group-wide standard for an The increasing application of a structured Responsibility CSR.
By far the greatest integrated HS&E management system.
During the risk-management approach to safety should contribution the Group makes in this area comes year training was provided on a range of HS&E enable further improvements in performance to from the wealth created by maintaining highly issues up to senior management level.
skilled jobs which arise from its business activities.
The Board believes that progress in this area will In 2004, the Group will publish its external The independent safety review programme for deliver competitive advantage and will contribute environment report Powering a better world.
2003, undertaken by external safety consultants, to the Groups long-term success.
The Group has This will include a report on progress made in covered machinery safety and contractor selection well-developed policies on issues such as health, achieving the five-year environmental and safety and control.
Other initiatives include measures to safety and environment, supply chain, charitable targets announced in 1998, as well as reporting on improve the statutory inspection of equipment.
donations, community involvement, employment progress towards the environmental improvement Regrettably an accident occurred in April 2003 at policy and employee learning and development.
targets set for products by 2010.
During 2003 the a UK site of the Groups Marine business.
An Details of these policies are set out on pages 33 to Group worked with Deloitte & Touche LLP with the employee sustained a fractured pelvis, when a 36.
During the year an international CSR working aim of providing independent assurance of data fabrication on which he was working, fell over.
group, established by the Board, has reviewed the acquisition and reporting procedures.
A ne of 10,000 was subsequently imposed for risks and opportunities associated with CSR and The Group operates three sites in the UK, which failure to implement appropriate controls.
This has established a framework for structured manufacture, support and test nuclear reactor incident has been the subject of a detailed review decision making in this area.
cores for Royal Navy submarines.
The Group by the Groups Major Incident Board and the Supply chain continues to maintain a strong safety record on lessons learnt have been communicated to all In 2003, the Group has developed and these sites.
HS&E issues are managed as an integral businesses.
implemented a Supplier Code of Conduct as part part of our activities and an improving trend has of its Supplier Advanced Business Requirements been noted on all key HS&E measures.
SABRe enables approved suppliers On the manufacturing site within this business, to understand the key performance criteria significant investments have continued to be required of them.
The Supplier Code of Conduct made by updating plant and equipment and imposes the minimum standards required of the improving waste management practices.
These supply base in terms of the integrity of their improvements have enabled the Periodic Safety business relationships with the Group.
The Review of the site to be concluded and signed off Rolls-Royce Purchasing Code of Conduct has also by the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate NII.
In been implemented in tandem with the Supplier addition, the NII has accepted the Groups findings Code to ensure that Group personnel operate and that there is no reasonably foreseeable off-site adhere to the same high standards that are hazard.
expected of the supply base.
Rolls-Royce Corporation has been actively involved in ensuring that it meets US Government requirements to source from a required quota of small and disadvantaged businesses.
33 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual Report 2003 Report of the directors continued Environment Occupational Health During 2003 the Group consulted broadly over The Group is certied to the international The Group continues to provide a preventative proposed changes to the Rolls-Royce Pension environmental management systems standard Occupational Health service to its employees with Fund for employees in the UK.
It is the Groups aim that any newly a concentration on rehabilitation, education, health process new arrangements, which began on acquired business should achieve certication promotion and monitoring.
The Groups Chief January 1, 2004, were agreed with the employee within two years of acquisition.
Implementation Medical officer is responsible for setting a representatives and accepted by employees.
These programmes are in place and during 2003 consistent standard of global delivery.
arrangements strike a balance between increased certication was awarded to several additional sites employer contributions and changes to benets Health promotion campaigns were delivered at in the UK, USA, Norway and Poland.
that will help to sustain a secure, affordable and major locations worldwide during 2003 and competitive dened benefit scheme for A Group company was prosecuted in June 2003 included a Posture Awareness week, an employees.
following the release of a small quantity of heating International Heart week and an Occupational oil in the previous year.
A failure of a fuel lter on a Disease awareness campaign.
The comprehensive The Group has announced plans to invest in new warehouse space heating appliance on a approach taken to managing workplace pressure and modern facilities in Derby, Hucknall and Bristol UK site led to the oil entering a neighbouring was included as an example of best practice in the and are consulting with employee representatives stream via surface water drains.
The Court imposed Beacons of Excellence publication on stress over the new working practices required to a ne of 10,000.
The Groups Major Incident Board management, a report commissioned by the support the business case for investment.
A new has reviewed this incident, with the lessons learnt UK Health and Safety Executive.
facility at Inchinnan in Scotland opens in 2004. being communicated to all businesses.
A further The Group sets stringent occupational health The Group has developed a network of Resource UK site, which produces ceramic components, has related objectives and targets for reducing Centres to support the redeployment and training been the subject of an abatement notice issued by occupational disease and work related ill health.
of employees affected by restructuring and Amber Valley Borough District Council in relation An absence management policy, supported by a redundancy.
In partnership with employee to alleged odour emitted from kilns.
significant mainframe software application, is promoting early representatives and external bodies, the Group has effort has been applied to resolve this situation, intervention and active rehabilitation in the also helped develop a model to retain key skills including the appointment of specialist prevention of long-term disability.
Employment policy The Group continues to build on the Investors in In 2002 the Group was placed first in its business The number of Group employees at the end of the People award gained in 2002 for all businesses in sector amongst those companies completing the year was 35,214 2002 37,255. the UK.
The Group is progressively implementing Business in the Environment BiE index of the benets and principles of this standard corporate environmental management and The Groups employment policies and practices through all of its businesses worldwide.
39th out of a total of 192 participants.
support overall business objectives by motivating and developing employees to meet the The Group has long had an equal opportunities The Group has continued to make excellent requirements of the business and its customers.
policy and recognises the importance of progress towards meeting targets set in 1998 for Policies continue to be reviewed and developed to developing a diverse and inclusive workforce.
It the improved environmental performance of its support the changing needs and international continues to support initiatives to attract more products.
The Group attaches importance to nature of the business.
women and people from ethnic minorities to developing products with lower emissions.
It is also pursue careers in engineering.
In 2003 it involved in a number of industry-wide initiatives A strong emphasis is placed on effective committed to working with other major aimed at reducing the environmental impact of worldwide employee communications and each engineering companies to increase the number Rolls-Royce products while continuing to provide business has its own programme of of women with engineering, science and safe, efficient and affordable power for customers.
communication adapted to its particular needs.
technology qualications developing their careers The Group continues to participate in the UK The Group consults with employees and in R&D based industries.
carbon dioxide emissions trading scheme.
Under employee representatives on a wide range of The Groups policy is to provide, wherever possible, this initiative, the Group accepted targets for the topics relating to its overall business objectives.
employment, training and development reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from its Regular meetings are held in each business to opportunities for disabled people.
It is also operations in the UK.
In December 2003 the Group discuss opportunities and issues of common committed to supporting employees who also joined the Chicago Climate Exchange CCX.
become disabled and to helping disabled CCX is a recently formed exchange, which aims to In recent years, senior employee representatives employees make the best possible use of their administer the worlds first multinational and have worked closely with management to skills and potential.
multisector market place for reducing and trading improve the quality of consultation and greenhouse gas emissions.
Setting and meeting The Group is committed to encouraging communication, resulting in a jointly agreed challenging energy reduction targets will support employee share ownership.
A Company and Union Forum is now the Groups involvement in this initiative.
regularly invited to participate in share save plans held at least twice a year involving senior and have committed to save over 100 million to management and employee representatives from buy shares in the Company.
In addition UK across the Group followed by supporting employees can receive part of their annual bonus communication in each business.
This process is in Company shares and can make monthly share currently being broadened and a Special purchases from their gross salary, in accordance Negotiating Body has been established to develop with statutory arrangements.
and introduce a Global Council that will cover all employees in the Group worldwide.
34 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual Report 2003 Report of the directors continued Learning and development The Group continues to work closely with schools, Elsewhere, the Group has made charitable The Group continues to invest in improving colleges and universities to promote science and donations amounting to 661,000 in those individual and business capability by offering technology.
Its policy is to work with government, countries in which it has a significant presence.
development opportunities and training local and national institutions and education In North America, this included support for the programmes for employees, customers, suppliers establishments to widen studentsexperience of work of United Way, Habitat for Humanity and and the communities in which it operates.
The industry and promote careers in the aerospace, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University.
In Germany Group has a strong tradition of succession energy and marine sectors.
In partnership with a the Group supported the Federal Presidents planning driven by development cells in all developer of business simulations, the Group has Annual Summer Festival and in the Nordic businesses and functions, with leadership successfully piloted a programme to stimulate countries it supported a number of local sports development programmes designed to support enterprise education in schools.
This programme, and arts-based projects.
profitable Pursuit, will roll out during 2004.
A list of the principal donations made in 2003 is The Group has continued to apply, on a global The Group supports a wide range of education available on written request to the Company basis, the Rolls-Royce Learning System which sets projects and initiatives including Open Industry, Secretary.
frameworks for leadership, continuing professional Specialist Colleges, Education Action Zones, In addition to our charitable donations, development and business management Arkwright Scholarships and Science and contributions of around 565,000 were made to development.
Working with academic partners Engineering Ambassadors SEAS.
It continues to projects through the Groups corporate around the world, the Group has a broad range of be active in supporting international education sponsorship committee and through educational programmes that cover managerial, professional, and sponsoring international students.
the UK Governments Chevening scheme, the Group currently supports students from China, The Group has a long and successful history of In 2003, the Group spent 28.6 million on the Indonesia, Korea, Vietnam and Malaysia.
As part of its education and training of employees and recruited commitment to being a good corporate citizen, 130 graduates and 100 modern apprentices The Groups prole as an Employer of Choice for it assists the communities in which its businesses and technicians.
In addition there were graduates is demonstrated by its success in operate and its employees live and work.
235 undergraduate students in the Group for national surveys in the UK and Germany.
Employees are also encouraged to play their own training periods of between two and 12 months.
In 2003, the Group was awarded an international role in the community.
This community At the end of 2003 there were 260 graduates on distinction for Innovation and Excellence in involvement is designed to support the Groups formal training programmes and 350 apprentices Corporate Education by the Corporate University values of reliability, integrity and innovation and is and technicians worldwide.
Xchange, a North American benchmarking group.
directed towards supporting education, the Working on local community projects forms a key environment, the arts and economic and social Community investment part of development programmes for trainees and regeneration.
Charitable donations are an integral part of the managers.
These community projects involve Groups involvement in the community.
In 2003, The Group is publishing its first Community Report working with external partners in education, the the Groups total charitable donations amounted in 2004.
This will illustrate the range of support arts, the environment and regeneration.
The Group community investment given to community based organisations and As a way of investing in local communities, committee Group CIC was established in 2003 to projects.
the Group offers free places to local partners on oversee the implementation and operation of a Examples of activities include: internal training programmes.
The Group has new, Group-wide policy on charitable donations.
actively pursued a policy of sharing learning The Group CIC is supported by a series of national sponsoring ViVA, an orchestra resident in Derby, facilities, and in Derby has attracted 4,800 committees which operate within the policy through which the Group supports concert enrolments from community learners.
In established by the Group CIC.
giving and music education programmes in Indianapolis, the Group supports the Wayne schools: The policy the Group CIC follows when Township Helping One Student to Succeed considering charitable appeals is set out below: establishing a UK-wide partnership with HOSTS programme.
Volunteers from the site help The Princes Trust to support its team and students with reading, maths and comprehension As a forward-looking, innovative and global business start-up programmes: skills.
Other sites offer similar help to local schools.
company, Rolls-Royce Group plc is committed to being a good corporate citizen in its operations developing an environmental education project During 2003 the Group has been recognised by throughout the world.
The Companys policy on with The National Forest Company: the UK Government as a Centre of Vocational donations is to direct its support primarily to Excellence CoVE for Lean Manufacturing, in supporting project Compass, working with causes with educational, engineering and scientific partnership with Derby College and Amicus.
homeless ex-service men and women: objectives, as well as to social objectives connected Working with the Sector Skills Council SEMTA, with the Companys business and place in the Indianapolis-based employees supporting ten training places have been offered for people to wider community.
Habitat for Humanity by helping to construct a take up apprenticeships for employment in the home for a local family: wider supply chain.
During 2003, charitable donations in the UK amounted to 397,000.
This included continuing working with The Design Museum on a range of support for the Derbyshire and Greater Bristol interactive workshops for young people: and Community Foundations: SSAFA Forces Help supporting the Royal Aeronautical Societys Appeal for the Gulf: Open Industry and the Institute centenary events.
35 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual Report 2003 Report of the directors continued The Group also nances the administration of the Share capital Payroll Giving Scheme for UK employees.
In 2003, The following have a notiable interest in the the scheme helped employees to make donations Companys ordinary shares at February 11, 2004: of over 321,000 to over 200 charities of their % of issued share capital choice.
The high level of UK employee BMW AG 9.51 participation, in excess of 20 per cent, was Franklin Resources, Inc. 10.19 identied as best practice in the UK Chancellor of the Exchequers Giving Campaign.
Annual General Meeting As part of community investment activities, Auditors employees are encouraged to take up A resolution to reappoint the auditors, opportunities for development within local KPMG Audit Plc, and to authorise the directors to community based projects.
Examples of this determine their remuneration, will be proposed at include: the AGM.
education business partnerships running Other resolutions successful mentoring programmes for school The Notice of the AGM includes a special pupils: resolution to amend the Articles of Association of participating in the UKs Science and the Company relating to the restrictions on the Engineering Ambassadors Scheme: directors power to incur borrowings.
In addition an ordinary resolution is proposed to obtain providing support to employees who are school shareholder approval for the Rolls-Royce Group plc governors: and Performance Share Plan.
The background to these working with organisations such as The Princes and other resolutions is set out in the Notice of Trust and Young Enterprise to provide business the AGM.
The Group is able to offer support in-kind to local By order of the Board initiatives.
This may include the provision of places on in-house training programmes: the donation of surplus computer equipment and furniture: and offering the free use of meeting rooms and premises.
The Group is a member of Business in the Charles Blundell, Company Secretary Community and actively supports Common February 11, 2004 Purpose programmes across the UK.
These two organisations aim to promote greater business awareness and involvement in wider community issues and encourage greater employee participation.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
36 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual Report 2003
