Board of directors at February 11, 2004 Euan Baird MA, DSc Non-executive Chairman Carl-Peter Forster Non-executive director Ian C Strachan Non-executive director Appointed to the Board in 2002 and appointed Appointed to the Board in 2003.
Chairman and Chief Appointed to the Board in 2003.
Former Chief Executive of non-executive Chairman in February 2003.
He is a director Executive of Adam Opel AG.
Former Managing Director of BTR plc and former Deputy Chief Executive 1991 to 1995 of Areva France, Socit Gnrale France, the New York BMW South Africa and Head of Manufacturing for and Chief Financial officer 1987 to 1991 of Rio Tinto plc.
Stock Exchange US and a non-executive director of BMW AG.
He is Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of the He is non-executive Chairman of Instinet Group Inc and a Scottish Power plc UK.
He was formerly Chairman and Germany based ASIC manufacturer, ZMD AG and the non-executive director of Reuters Group plc, Johnson Chief Executive officer of Schlumberger Limited France Austrian based private equity company, Lead Equities AG.
Matthey plc, Xstrata plc and Transocean Inc.
He is a former and USA, a director of Banque Paribas from May 1994 until Age 49. non-executive director of Commercial Union.
Age 60 October 1999 and a non-executive director of The BOC Group plc from July 1995 until January 1999.
He is a Colin H Green BSc, CEng, FREng, FIMechE, FRAeS Carl G Symon BSc, MSc Non-executive director member of the Advisory Committee of Banque fide France President Defence Aerospace Appointed to the Board in 1999.
He was previously and a trustee of the Carnegie Institution of Washington.
Appointed to the Board in 1996.
He joined Chairman and Chief Executive officer, IBM UK.
Rolls-Royce in 1968, became Director Military Engines in numerous executive positions in IBM Corp. in Canada, USA, 1989, Executive Vice President Business Operations Latin America and Asia during a 32 year international Sir John Rose Chief Executive Allison Engine Company, Inc. in 1995, Managing Director career.
He is Chairman of a number of private companies, Appointed to the Board in 1992.
He joined Aerospace Group in 1996, Director Operations in 1998 Vice-Chairman of Cross Atlantic Capital Partners, and Rolls-Royce in 1984 and was Managing Director and was appointed President Defence Aerospace in Managing Director, Global Business Development and Aerospace Group from 1995 to 1996 when he was 2001.
He is a non-executive director of BAA plc.
He is a Alliances, DiamondCluster International Inc.
He is also a appointed Chief Executive.
He is a non-executive director Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Royal non-executive director of BT Group plc and Rexam PLC.
of Eli Lilly and Company US.
Aeronautical Society and the Institution of Mechanical Age 57.
He is also President of the Society of British Lord Moore of Lower Marsh PC, BSc Aerospace Companies and a director of the UK Council for Sir John Weston KCMG Non-executive director Non-executive Deputy Chairman and Electronic Business.
Appointed to the Board in 1998.
During his Diplomatic Senior independent non-executive director Service career he has lived and worked in Europe, the USA Appointed to the Board in 1994 and appointed Deputy James M Guyette BSc and Asia.
In London he was Deputy Secretary to the Chairman in 1996.
While a Member of Parliament for President and Chief Executive officer of Cabinet and Political Director in the Foreign Ofce.
He Croydon Central 1974-92, he served in a series of senior Rolls-Royce North America Inc. served as British Ambassador to NATO 1992 to 1995, and ministerial posts, including Economic Secretary, Financial Appointed to the Board in 1998.
He became President and subsequently as British Ambassador to the United Nations Secretary and then as Secretary of State for Transport, for Chief Executive officer of Rolls-Royce North America Inc. in in New York until July 1998.
He is a non-executive director Health, and for Social Security.
After leaving politics he held October 1997.
Until 1994 he was Executive Vice President, of Hakluyt & Co Ltd, Hon President of the Community numerous executive positions, including Chairman of Marketing and Planning of United Airlines.
He is a director Foundation Network UK, Chairman of Governors of Credit Suisse Asset Management and directorships at Blue of the Private Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, Illinois Sherborne School and Honorary Fellow of Worcester Circle Industries plc, Camelot plc, GTECH Corp, Monitor and of priceline.
He is a former non-executive director of Company Inc. and Private Client Bank AG.
He has served on BT Group plc from 1998 to 2002.
Age 65. the Supervisory Board of ITT Automative Europe Germany Dr Michael G J W Howse OBE, FREng, FIMechE, FInstP, and as a Governor of the London School of Economics.
He FRAes, CEng, PhD, Cphys FInstP Charles Blundell MA Company Secretary is currently European Chairman of Monitor Company and a Director Engineering and Technology He joined Rolls-Royce in 1993 and was appointed director of Marvin & Palmer Inc. Age 66.
Appointed to the Board in 2001.
He joined Company Secretary in 1995.
Rolls-Royce in 1968 and has held a variety of positions Hon Amy L Bondurant Non-executive director within Engineering, including Chief Development Engineer Appointed to the Board in 2003.
Managing Director of RB211 Development, Head of Advanced Engineering for Bozman Partners, a private investment fund with ofces in the Aerospace Group, Director of Engineering and Membership of principal Board committees: Washington and Paris.
A former US Ambassador to the Technology Civil Aerospace.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Audit committee OECD from 1997 to 2001.
A former senior member Academy of Engineering, Royal Aeronautical Society, P J Byrom Chairman, Lord Moore of Lower Marsh, partner and Board member of Washington DC law rm, Institution of Mechanical Engineers and the Institute of Sir Robin Nicholson and I C Strachan.
Verner, Liipfert, Bernhard, McPherson and Hand and former Physics, a Board member of the Engineering and Remuneration committee Senior Counsel to the United States Senate Committee on Technology Board, a former Chairman of the Technical C G Symon Chairman, P J Byrom, C-P Forster and Commerce, Science and Transportation and to the Board of the Society of British Aerospace Companies and Sir John Weston.
A Board member of the Visiting Professor in the School of Mechanical Engineering Nominations committee American Hospital in Paris and a Member of the Council on at Craneld University.
D E Baird Chairman, Hon A L Bondurant, Lord Moore of Foreign Relations and of the Council of American Lower Marsh, Sir Robin Nicholson and Sir John Rose.
Sir Robin Nicholson FREng, FRS Non-executive director Peter J Byrom BSc, FCA Non-executive director Appointed to the Board in 1986.
Until 1996 he was an Appointed to the Board in 1997.
He was a director of executive director of Pilkington plc.
He is a Fellow of the N M Rothschild & Sons Limited from 1977 to 1996.
He is Royal Academy of Engineering, a Fellow of the Royal Chairman of Domino Printing Sciences plc and of Molins Society, a non-executive director of BP p. l. c. and he is a PLC, and a non-executive director of Wilson Bowden plc.
He was a member of the UK He is a Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
Governments Council for Science and Technology from its inception in 1993 until 2000.
John P Chefns BSc, Ing, FREng, FRAeS Chief Operating officer Andrew B Shilston MA, ACA, MCT Finance Director Appointed to the Board in 2001.
He joined Appointed to the Board as Finance Director in January Rolls-Royce in 1967, became President and Chief Executive 2003, having joined Rolls-Royce in 2002.
He was Finance officer of Rolls-Royce Industries Canada Inc. in 1991, Director of Enterprise Oil plc from 1993 until 2002.
He is a Director, Civil Engine Business in 1993, President Civil non-executive director of AEA Technology plc.
Aerospace in 1998 and Chief Operating officer in 2001.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering and of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
He is a member of the Institution of Electrical Engineers and of the Order of Engineers of Quebec.
28 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual Report 2003
