Rotork Annual Report 2003 17 Report of the Directors The directors submit their report and the Substantial shareholdings to the length of directors service contracts audited accounts for the year ended As at 1 March 2003 the Company had Code provision B.
1.7, which are 31 December 2003 as set out on pages been formally notified that the following commented on in detail in the 28 to 55. have material interests in 3% or more of Remuneration Report.
the issued ordinary share capital of the Activities Company: The Company complies with the Code Rotork p. l. c. is a holding company.
m % provisions on internal control having during principal activities of the Rotork Group are the year continued to embed procedures the design, manufacture and support of Aviva 5.9 6.9 necessary to implement the guidance issued actuators, systems and related products Legal & General in the Turnbull Report, and by reporting worldwide.
Investment Management 3.5 4.9 in accordance with that guidance.
Prudential plc 3.0 3.5 Rotork Actuation provides a range of Threadneedle Asset The Board has ultimate responsibility for the products, systems and services for the Management Ltd 2.7 3.1 Companys system of internal control and is motorisation and manual operation of and required to set appropriate policies and to adaption to industrial valves and dampers Research and development review its effectiveness.
The role of for isolation duty and process control Total Group expenditure on research and management is to implement Board policies.
It does this through its Electric development in the year was 2,071,000 Actuator, Gears and Fluid System 2002: 2,367,000 further details of which The system of internal control is designed operations.
Actuated valves are major are contained in the Operating and to reduce but cannot eliminate the risks of control elements in refineries, pipelines, Financial Review on pages 4 to 15. failure to meet business objectives.
Internal power stations, water distribution systems control therefore can only provide and effluent treatment plants and in all Charitable donations reasonable but not absolute assurance in industries in which liquids or gases are During the year the Group made charitable meeting such business objectives or against transported through pipes.
donations of 30,000 2002: 28,000. material misstatement or loss.
Reviews of the Group's activities including There were no political donations made in A continuous process for identifying, the acquisition post year end in January the year or the prior year.
evaluating and managing the significant 2004 of the business and assets of risks faced by the Company continued to Deanquip Valve Automation from Directors be applied and developed during the year Deanquip Sales Pty Ltd. of Melbourne, The names of the directors in office under review and operated up to the date Australia are set out in the Operating and throughout the year and their biographical of approval of the annual report and Financial Review on pages 4 to 15. details are as shown on page 16.
Senior managers with interests of the directors in office at the end responsibility across all functions participate Dividends of the financial year in the shares of the in the risk management process that The directors recommend a final dividend of Company are as shown in note 9 to the identifies and evaluates the key risks 8,142,000 for the year, payable on financial statements on page 39. including social and environmental facing 28 May 2004 to shareholders on the register the Companys businesses.
This represents 9.50p per WH Whiteley, GE Malcolm, RE Slater and deliberations are reported to the Audit share 2002: 8.90p which, with the interim RH Arnold have service agreements and Committee and Board.
This process is based dividend of 5.25p per share 2002: 5.00p details of these are contained in the on senior managers detailed knowledge will produce a total dividend per ordinary Remuneration Report on pages 21 to 26. and understanding of key risks within and share of 14.75p 2002: 13.90p.
external to the business based on formal At the Annual General Meeting, in management information and reports and Shares issued or purchased accordance with the Articles of Association, their interaction and daily dealings with Details of the ordinary shares issued and A Walker and WH Whiteley will retire by those reporting directly to them, their purchased and the preference shares rotation and, being eligible, will offer colleagues and external parties.
Internal purchased during 2003 are given in themselves for re-election.
financial audits are undertaken on a regular note 19 on page 47. basis by the head office accounting Corporate governance function.
Work will continue to further The Company applied the principles set out embed internal control and risk management in section 1 of the Combined Code for the into the operations of the business and to period under review and has throughout further enhance and add to the relevant the year complied with the provisions set processes including consideration of social out in the Code apart from those relating and environmental risks.
18 Rotork Annual Report 2003 Report of the Directors continued The processes that are used by the Board and additional meetings will be convened appropriate directors and officers to review the effectiveness of this system of as necessary.
During the year Mr. Lockwood, insurance cover.
The Chairmans other internal control include the following: Mr. Matthews, Mr. Whiteley, Mr. Slater and significant commitments in the year are Mr. Malcolm attended every Board meeting.
During the year the Audit Committee: Mr. Walker attended seven of the eight Board meetings.
Mr. Arnold attended five The Board has three standing committees: Monitors and reviews the effectiveness Board meetings in person and the remainder of internal audit activities: by video-link for part of the meeting.
The Audit Committee is comprised of the Reviews and monitors external auditor non-executive directors, RC Lockwood independence and objectivity and the The Chairman ensures through the Company Chairman, JW Matthews and A Walker.
effectiveness of the audit process: Secretary that the Board Agenda and all It usually meets three times a year to Considers reports from management, relevant information is provided to the Board review published financial information, the internal and external audit on the sufficiently in advance of meetings.
The effectiveness of both external and internal system of internal financial control and Chairman and Company Secretary discuss audit and internal financial and other any material control weaknesses: the Agenda ahead of every meeting.
The Finance Director, Chief Receives reports on Health and Safety meetings the Chairman ensures that all Executive and the external auditors and environmental issues: directors are able to make an effective normally attend meetings and there is a Discusses with management the range contribution throughout meetings and every meeting at least once a year between the of actions taken on problem areas for director is encouraged to participate and Committee and the external auditors at the business identified by Board provide opinions for each Agenda item.
The which management is not present.
members or in the internal and external Chairman always seeks to achieve audit reports.
unanimous decisions of the Board following The matter of auditor independence is due discussion of Agenda items.
The considered by the Committee.
The Auditor Additionally: Schedule of Reserved Matters details those does provide non-audit services.
Auditor matters specifically reserved for Board objectivity and independence is The Board receives copies of the decision.
The types of decision which are safeguarded by ensuring all non-audit minutes of all Audit Committee reserved for Board decision relate to matters services are managed and directed by the meetings: which cannot or the Board considers should Company executive management and by The Board reviews the role of not be delegated to the Chief Executive and ensuring disclosure of non-audit fees to the insurances in managing risk across the executive management.
For significant general Group: approval of Group commercial strategy and consulting projects more than one service The Board regularly receives written and succession planning, approval of Group delivery provider is considered.
Categories oral reports from management on all annual operating and capital expenditure of non-audit work provided by the auditor aspects of production, operations, budgets and recommendations for payment with fees are set out on page 36.
Within financial and risk management matters.
of final dividend and decisions for interim the Audit Committees Terms of Reference dividends and dividend policy, approval of is a requirement for the Committee to Prior to the year-end the full Board following the Annual Report and financial statements assess the independence of the external discussion at the Audit Committee formally and announcements of final and interim auditor ensuring key partners are rotated at reviews the effectiveness of the Groups results, ensuring sound internal control and appropriate intervals and to ensure that the system of internal control.
risk management, executive director provision of non-audit services does not remuneration, corporate governance matters impair the external auditors independence The Board currently has seven members including Board and Committee performance or objectivity.
comprising three non-executive directors, appraisals, Board and Committee including the Chairman, and four executive membership.
The decisions which are left to A revised Terms of Reference for the directors.
There is a clear division of management are all those related to the Audit Committee was approved by the responsibility approved by the Board in successful operation and management of the Board following publication of the revised writing between the Chairman and the Companys business and in implementing the Combined Code in July 2003 Revised Chief Executive that ensures that there is commercial strategy within the limits set by Code and is available to view on the a balance of power and authority.
the Board annually for overall operational Companys website.
JW Matthews is the Senior Independent budgets and capital expenditure.
Of the members of the Audit Committee The Chairman ensures that meetings of Mr. Lockwood and Mr. Matthews attended The full Board had eight meetings spread non-executives without the executives all three meetings of the Committee during appropriately over the course of the year present are held.
The Company maintains the year.
Mr. Walker attended two of the Rotork Annual Report 2003 19 Committee meetings.
Mr. Slater and questions to the Chairman at the AGM and be invited to replace the Company Mr. Whiteley attended all three meetings of individual shareholder enquiries are dealt Chairman on both Committees.
Mr. Malcolm with throughout the year by the Company and Mr. Arnold attended two meetings by Secretarys department.
Pending the appointment of the third invitation.
independent non-executive director Revised Combined Code Published detailed above, the Nomination Committee During the year the Board approved on July 2003 Revised Code will comprise the two independent Audit Committee recommendation a During the year the Board appointed a directors on the Board at the time of Whistleblowing Policy.
Committee of the Company Chairman, the publication of this Report and the Chief Senior Independent non-executive Director, Executive and Chairman.
The third The work of the Remuneration Committee the Chief Executive and the Company independent non-executive director will on is described in the Remuneration Report on Secretary to consider the implications of the appointment be invited to join the pages 21 to 26.
Mr. Lockwood and Revised Code for future Corporate Nomination Committee.
At such time a Mr. Matthews attended the four formal Governance of the Company and the Board.
majority of the members of the Nomination meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee presented recommendations Committee will be independent nonMr.
Walker attended three of the formal to the Board and these were agreed.
The Chief Executive was invited to attend the four formal meetings for Currently there are two independent nonThe Board intends during financial year parts of those meetings.
executives on the Board as defined by the 2004 to put in place a formal process for Revised Code.
As Rotork p. l. c. is considered performance evaluation of the Board, its The Nomination Committees three a large Company by the Revised Code it is Committees and individual directors.
members during the year were recognised that for full compliance, based RC Lockwood who chairs the committee, on the current four executive directors, two Corporate Social Responsibility JW Matthews and WH Whiteley.
The further independent non-executives would The Companys environmental policy is Committee meets regularly to undertake need to be appointed.
The Boards stated within the Environmental Report its duties in relation to succession planning intention is to immediately search for an published on the Companys website.
and in recommending specific additional independent non-executive as appointments to the Board.
The Committee further described below.
This decision is The 2003 Environmental Report will set out is at the time of publication of this Annual considered by the Board to be a significant the key indicators for measurement of Report preparing to undertake a search for step towards full compliance in respect of environmental performance within the an additional independent non-executive the Revised Code provisions when they Bath, Leeds and Nottingham director with recent and relevant financial become applicable to the Company manufacturing sites and additionally experience.
Terms of Reference for the concerning Board and Committee provide environmental information for the Nomination Committee compliant with the composition.
It is noted that for companies Netherlands, USA, Italian and Indian Revised Code were approved by the Board outside the FTSE350 the two current manufacturing sites.
A strategy to further following its publication and are available independent non-executives on the Board develop global environmental reporting of on the Companys website.
would make the Company compliant with all Rotork manufacturing plants is in place.
The strategy also includes plans for the The Nomination Committee met at various implementation of a formal environmental times throughout the year.
The Board is aware of the requirement in management system compliant with the Revised Code that for both Audit and ISO14001 at the Bath plant and thereafter Communication with shareholders is given Remuneration Committees there should be to other manufacturing sites on a high priority.
All members of the Board at least three members all of whom should progressive basis.
During 2004-2005 audits receive copies of all analysts reports of be independent non-executive directors.
of the Groups main suppliers will include which the Company is made aware.
The As a transitional measure the Audit and supplier environmental audits.
The Chief Executive reports at each Board Remuneration Committees will retain their Environmental Report references the meeting upon his meetings with analysts current membership until the Board Groups corporate social responsibility and fund managers.
The Company intends appoints a further independent noninfrastructure including the standing to write to major shareholders enquiring executive director with recent and relevant Environmental Committee: Social whether in the light of the revised financial experience at which time the Committee and the over-arching Corporate Combined Code they wish to receive any Company Chairman will step down from and Social Responsibility Committee additional communication with the membership of both the Audit and chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
Individual Remuneration Committees and the shareholders have an opportunity to put additional independent non-executive will 20 Rotork Annual Report 2003 Report of the Directors continued The Company has awareness of the UN The Group has health and safety policies in they continue to adopt the going concern backed International Labour Core Labour place.
The Group is working toward a global basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Companys policy is not to health and safety policy compliant with discriminate on grounds of colour, race, occupational health and safety management The directors have responsibility for gender, age, ethnicity or religious beliefs or system ohsas for the benefit of employees ensuring that the Company keeps ever operate with unacceptable worker and those they interact with worldwide.
accounting records which disclose with treatment such as the use of child or reasonable accuracy the financial position forced labour.
The Group aims to uphold Business integrity and fair dealing is key to of the Company and which enable them to and support human rights wherever it the Groups relationships with suppliers and ensure that the financial statements comply operates respecting local laws and contractors.
Many of the Groups suppliers with the Companies Act 1985. regulations.
Generally the Companys have had long-term relationships with the overseas offices are managed and operated Group.
Most key suppliers are registered to The directors have general responsibility for by nationals of the relevant country.
Supplier development is ongoing taking such steps as are reasonably open to the year the Company signed up to the UN and involves elements of the ISO9000 them to safeguard the assets of the Group Global Compact initiative.
The Compact system developed in the motor industry.
and to prevent and detect fraud and other brings together companies, UN agencies, irregularities.
labour and civil society to support nine The Company is a constituent of the principles in the areas of human rights, FTSE4Good Index.
Creditor payment policy labour and the environment.
While there is no formal code or standard, Statement of directors responsibility it is Company and Group policy to settle The Companys doing the right thing for preparing the financial statements terms of payment with creditors when publication available on the Companys The following statement, which should be agreeing the terms of each transaction and website sets out the way in which the Group read in conjunction with the auditors to abide by creditors terms of payment encourages employees to become Statement of Auditors Responsibilities, provided that the supplier is also complying shareholders through its employee share included in the audit report, is made with a with all relevant terms and conditions.
schemes and to make available to employees view to distinguishing for shareholders the There are no creditors subject to special opportunities for training and development respective responsibilities of the directors arrangements outside suppliers terms and including direct financial support related to and of the auditors in relation to the conditions.
The Company does not have job roles within the Company.
The doing the financial statements.
any trade suppliers so that a creditor day right thing publication also highlights how payment period is not appropriate.
employee communication is fostered through Company law requires the directors to employee committees and makes reference prepare financial statements for each Auditors to the Groups involvement with the wider financial year which give a true and fair view Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc community.
For many years the Company of the state of affairs of the Company and as auditors and to authorise the directors has pursued a policy of community the Group as at the end of the financial year to determine their remuneration are to be involvement through financial support and of the profit or loss for that period.
proposed at the forthcoming Annual fostering partnership with local charitable General Meeting.
and voluntary organisations, trusts and local The directors consider that in preparing the support groups.
A Charity Committee made financial statements on pages 28 to 55, the Annual General Meeting up of employees at all levels considers local Company has selected suitable accounting The Annual General Meeting of the community charitable and similar requests.
policies which have been consistently applied Company will be held at the Companys Projects are then followed through with visits and supported by reasonable and prudent offices at Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, and reports by employees and feedback to judgements and estimates, and that all Bath BA1 3JQ on Friday, 21 May 2004 the Charity Committee.
Sponsorship is also accounting standards which they consider to at 12 noon.
A separate circular containing given to local youth and sporting clubs and be applicable have been followed subject to the Notice of the Meeting is sent to to local cultural and social events.
There is any explanations and any material departures shareholders with this Annual Report.
also direct engagement in community issues.
disclosed in the notes to the financial For example in Bath a representative of the statements.
The directors are required to use On behalf of the Board Company sits on a local group supporting a going concern basis in preparing the local initiatives for cultural, social and financial statements unless this is economic development.
After making enquiries, the there was also involvement in Bath Heritage directors have a reasonable expectation that which concerns itself with Baths world the Company and the Group have adequate Stephen Rhys Jones, Secretary heritage status.
resources to continue in operational existence 25 March 2004 for the foreseeable future.
