RPS Group Plc 62 Report and accounts 2003 Report of the directors The Directors present their report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2003.
Results and dividend The profit and loss account is set out on page 67 and shows the profit for the year.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 0.94p 2002: 0.82p per share.
This together with the interim dividend of 0.88p 2002: 0.76p per share paid on 25th October gives a total dividend of 1.82p 2002: 1.58p per share for the year ended 31st December 2003.
Principal activities, trading review and future developments The principal activity of the Group is the provision of environmental consultancy and related services including environmental planning, environmental engineering, safety, health and safety, occupational hygiene and design.
A review of operations is contained in the Operating and financial review on pages 4 to 21.
The principal operating subsidiary undertakings are listed in note 13 to the accounts.
Options were exercised on 4th June 2003.
The market price of the shares at 31st December 2003 was 147.5p and the range during the financial year was 106p to 173.5p.
There were no changes in the Directors interests between 31st December 2003 and 17th March 2004.
None of the Directors were materially interested in any significant contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries were party during the year.
Employees The Groups policies in relation to employees are disclosed on pages 12 to 16.
Charitable and community donations During the year the Group made charitable donations of 33,000 to non political organisations.
Total contributions including contributions in kind exceeded 50,000.
Supplier payment policy The Group has due regard to the payment terms of suppliers and settles all undisputed accounts in accordance with payment terms agreed with the supplier.
At the year end the Group had 44 days purchases outstanding in respect of payments to suppliers and sub-contractors 2002: 36 days.
At the year end the Company had 32 days purchases outstanding in respect of payments to suppliers and sub-contractors 2002: 28 days.
Going concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
RPS Group Plc 65 Report and accounts 2003 Report of the directors continued Directors responsibilities The Directors are required by UK Company Law to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have: selected suitable accounting policies and have applied them consistently: made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: stated that applicable accounting standards have been followed: prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis.
The Board has procedures in place according to the guidance Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code to review and assess all areas of risk and risk management, referred to on page 46.
The Board undertakes a regular review on the effectiveness of all internal controls.
This review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
During the year the Directors were required to ensure that proper accounting records were kept, which disclosed with reasonable accuracy at all times the financial position of the Company and hence enabled them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are required to safeguard the assets of the Company and to take reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Directors report and other information included in the annual report is prepared in accordance with company law in the United Kingdom.
They are also responsible for ensuring that the annual report includes information required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The maintenance and integrity of the web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the information contained in the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements and other information included in annual reports may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Auditors On 31st December 2003, BDO Stoy Hayward, the Company's auditors, transferred its business to BDO Stoy Hayward LLP, a limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2000.
Accordingly BDO Stoy Hayward resigned as auditors on that date and the Directors appointed BDO Stoy Hayward LLP as its successor with effect from 1st January 2004.
A resolution to reappoint BDO Stoy Hayward LLP as auditors will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
Post balance sheet events On 8th March 2004 the Company completed the acquisition of Troy-Ikoda Limited for a maximum consideration of 1.2 million.
Further details are given in the Operating and Financial Review on page 8 and note 32.
There have been no other material post balance sheet events.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 20th May 2004.
In addition to the ordinary business there are six items of special business, three of which relate to the adoption of new share plans.
Details of these new share plans can be found in the shareholders circular which accompanies the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
An Ordinary Resolution will be proposed to renew the Directors authority to allot relevant securities until the next Annual General Meeting.
The authority sought will be in respect of securities having an aggregate nominal value of 1,397,903 representing approximately 24% of the issued share capital as at 17th March 2004.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority other than to allot shares to satisfy outstanding commitments to issue shares as consideration under previous acquisition agreements and under the Companys share option schemes.
A Special Resolution will be proposed renewing the authority of the Directors to allot equity securities for cash as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to such allotment i in connection with a rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer and ii up to an aggregate nominal amount of 290,104.85 being approximately 5% of the issued share capital as at 17th March 2004.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority other than in respect of the allotment of shares to satisfy outstanding commitments to issue shares as consideration under previous acquisition agreements.
The authority will expire at the next Annual General Meeting.
A further Special Resolution will be proposed authorising the Company to make market purchases of up to 9,670,162 of its own shares representing 5% of its issued share capital of the Company as at 17th March 2004.
The minimum price which may be paid for such shares is 0.03 per share.
The maximum price which may be paid for any ordinary share shall be no more than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the ordinary share is purchased.
The authority will be exercised only if the Directors believe that to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of the shareholders generally.
The total number of outstanding options to subscribe for equity shares as at the date of this report was 5,742,480.
These rights represent 3% of the issued share capital as at such date and would represent 3.1% of the issued share capital of the Company, if the full authority to purchase its own shares in accordance with the resolution were to be exercised by the Company.
By order of the Board April Rigby Secretary 17th March 2004 Section 03 Accounts
