RPS Group Plc 10 Report and accounts 2003 Organisation and prospects Operating Structure A significant part of the Groups success derives from the clarity and accountability of Turnover 2003 its management structure.
The core of this structure is the individual office which normally Geographic comprises a separate business unit, each of which is treated separately for the purposes breakdown of budgeting and accounting.
Offices are grouped into either functional or geographical UK 60.3% divisions: there are currently seven divisions.
During the course of 2003 we strengthened Ireland 31.4% further this divisional structure by delegating more authority to the divisional management Netherlands 7.4% within a clear framework of responsibility.
We have also appointed new Managing Directors Other 0.9% to each of the Divisions.
This refined organisation is capable of delivering and managing effectively, significantly more organic and acquired growth.
Turnover m 99: 32.4 00: 57.4 01: 74.8 02: 104.8 03: 124.6 Planning, Transport and Environment UK RPS was named in the Planning Survey published 2003, which includes 133,000 new dwellings in the in November 2003 as the UKs leading planning Milton Keynes South Midlands region by 2016. consultancy for the sixth year in succession, widening Key facts the existing gap between itself and various rivals in PTE Divisional Employees: 508 almost every planning sector.
In December 2003, Office Locations: 21 the division acquired the infrastructural planning consultancy Woods Warren and secured a strategic new foothold in Milton Keynes.
This new planning Miller Hare office is well placed to benefit from sustainable economic development plans for the region published by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister in July RPS Group Plc 11 Report and accounts 2003 Organisation and prospects continued 2003 Group turnover by division 8 1 7 2 6 3 5 4 1 Planning Transport and Environment Eng.
& Wales 2 Water Services UK 3 Health, Safety and Environment Eng.
& Wales 4 Engineering and Safety UK 5 Scotland excluding Water Services and Engineering and Safety 6 Ireland 7 Netherlands 8 Energy Services The acquisitions made during the course of the year have been integrated within the appropriate divisions.
We have also created a new Energy Services Division following the acquisition of Hydrosearch.
For 2004 we have integrated the various activities in Scotland into the functional divisions covering England and Wales.
The separate Scottish division, therefore, no longer exists, although we continue to maintain offices and 39 staff in Edinburgh, Glasgow and Aberdeen to give local and specialist support to our Scottish clients.
Our divisional businesses are responsible for marketing their own services as well as seeking opportunities to cross-sell services from other parts of the Group.
The Group provides support to this marketing function through its business information team which is also responsible for the Group web site and intranet.
We made a significant investment in the intranet during 2003 as it is the main mechanism we use to develop internal communications in the Group.
In order to do this we also upgraded our IT networks.
The businesses in England, Wales and Scotland are supported by centrally run accountancy and personnel functions, with these services being provided locally in Ireland and the Netherlands.
The Energy Services division has small offices in Perth, Australia and Houston, USA: these are managed as part of this division but have local accounting staff.
Health, Safety and Environment The division has successfully trialled its online Building management training modules for launch of which Health Interactive service with several major clients, began in January 2004. including managing agents Drivers Jonas and the Keys facts Housing Association, Shaftesbury Housing Group.
HSED Divisional Employees: 170 The interactive web based management tool uses Office Locations: 7 the internet to deliver consultancy services such as: Health and Safety, Fire Safety, Asbestos Management and Environmental Management.
In response GSK to increasing client demands for in-house client training courses, the division has been developing a comprehensive range of 20 safety and environmental Section 01 Operating and Financial Review RPS Group Plc 12 Report and accounts 2003 Organisation and prospects continued Key Business Drivers As a business to business support service company we assist our clients in responding to the opportunities and problems which they face.
These arise from: the commercial advantage to be gained by developing or redeveloping land, other natural resources such as energy reserves, or buildings: this requires proper planning, design and evaluation of the potential effects of the proposed development: the necessity for public agencies, privatised utilities, regulated businesses and their agents to provide adequate infrastructure: again such provision requires proper planning, design, evaluation of environmental effects and risk management: the necessity to comply with regulations and legislation which relate to planning, environmental and health & safety matters: this regulation and legislation derives from the activities of both the European Union and the national Governments and continues to expand at a rapid pace: the need to manage and, where possible, eliminate risk which may arise from environmental or health and safety issues: potential risks arise when, for example, assets are being purchased and or developed or from the existence of substances which, if not properly disposed of or managed, could damage the natural environment or human health.
All these drivers are set within the context that the Governments in all the countries in which we operate, are intent upon improving the environment and creating sustainable societies.
This is a general trend of fundamental importance to our business and one which will develop further, providing long-term opportunities for us.
Employees Whilst it may be currently the trend to view staff as human capital we favour treating all employees as individuals and relate to them as such in all aspects of our management.
The Group remains committed to creating an employment environment which will attract, retain and motivate employees of high calibre.
Throughout the Group emphasis is placed upon personal development to meet both todays needs and those of the future.
Employee communication and consultation is encouraged at all levels of the business.
The criteria for selection and promotion are the individuals suitability for the position of employment offered and his or her skills and abilities.
Divisions manage the remuneration of staff at office level within the guidelines of the approved annual budgets and are able to set their own bonus schemes subject to Group Board approval.
RPS Group Plc 13 Report and accounts 2003 Organisation and prospects continued We have all the traditional personnel management structures within our business carrying out all the necessary administrative functions.
There are two personnel management groups, one dealing with the UK and Ireland and a separate one dealing with the Netherlands this is necessary in order to deal appropriately with the structurally different legislation, custom and practice.
The Group offered all employees the opportunity to participate in a new SAYE share scheme which was approved by the shareholders at the AGM on the 25th April 2003.
We have recently undertaken a comprehensive review of our remuneration strategy paying particular attention to the effect of this upon success in recruiting and retaining the highest quality staff.
This review was assisted by specialist consultants appointed by the Remuneration Committee and was conducted primarily at divisional level.
The consequences of this review have been the proposals to shareholders for the introduction of new share incentive schemes which are available to all employees, particularly targeted towards senior professional staff.
Other sections of this report provide additional information about our staff below Board level, who are vital to the future of RPS.
Water Services Our Water Services division has been extending the Keys facts reach of its core services from established areas such WS Divisional Employees: 391 as potable and waste water network monitoring and Office Locations: 9 maintenance into strategic management consultancy covering asset planning, regulatory reporting, economic assessment and integrated network management.
Major new framework agreements have been secured with a number of water UKAEA companies across the UK.
Section 01 Operating and Financial Review RPS Group Plc 14 Report and accounts 2003 Organisation and prospects continued UK Netherlands Ireland 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 Total average number of employees 1,380 1,255 129 155 574 422 Days absent % 5.1 7.0 2.4 3.0 2.0 1.9 Average length of service years 5 5 6 7 6 4 Working part time % 5.6 4.5 16.3 18.1 4.0 4.0 Women All employees % 33.7 32.4 19.4 23.2 30.0 19.0 Senior managers % 10.9 4.9 9.1 11.1 1.0 1.0 Senior executives % 0.3 0.5 Ethnic minorities All employees % 1.7 1.1 7.0 12.0 9.5 10.0 Age profile Employees aged under 25 % 14.9 16.9 8.5 10.3 15.3 21.0 Employees aged 25-29 % 22.8 21.7 35.7 27.1 19.6 22.6 Employees aged 30-49 % 45.8 45.1 39.5 39.4 50.2 44.5 Employees aged 50 % 16.5 16.3 16.3 23.2 14.9 11.8 Health and safety Minor accidents and near misses 8 14 3 Reported accidents 7 9 2 Pensions Active members 580 509 133 139 220 167 Current pensioners 10 9 15 15 5 5 Staff turnover % 17.5 19.0 12.4 19.4 13.0 Equal Opportunities in Employment RPS provides equal opportunities for all its employees and potential employees regardless of their sex, sexual orientation, age, race, religion, ethnic origin, disability, marital status, colour, and nationality.
The policy applies to the advertisement of jobs, recruitment and appointment, training, conditions of work, pay and to every aspect of employment.
RPS Group Plc 15 Report and accounts 2003 Organisation and prospects continued We recognise our obligations to ensure that people with disabilities are afforded equal opportunities to employment and progress within the Group.
We deplore all forms of sexual and racial harassment and seek to ensure that our working environment is sympathetic to all employees.
Advice is available to all employees involved in employment decisions, particularly in respect of promotion, transfer, training and discipline, as well as all stages of recruitment and selection.
RPSs policy on equal opportunities covers all areas of discrimination.
We seek to comply with the Sex Discrimination Act, the Race Relations Act, the Disability Discrimination Act, Equal Pay Acts and the Protection from Harassment Act.
Training and Continuous Professional Development RPS is committed to the training, education and development of its employees to increase effectiveness, develop potential and ensure adequate succession planning.
Our HR Director and her team are responsible for the recruitment and the oversight of corporate induction courses within the Group.
Divisional Directors and their appointed project managers are responsible for the management of training and for the verification of technical competence for all project personnel, in accordance with our Quality Management System.
RPS is a recognised commercial training provider in a number of specific technical fields and is certified by such external bodies as CCNSG ECITB on site safety courses.
RPS operates a CIWEM approved structured training scheme for its chartered water and environmental engineers.
Our aim is to help the development of individuals throughout their employment with the Company, by underpinning the strengthening skills and professional ethics, whilst broadening their business knowledge.
One of the key objectives of the scheme is the long-term commitment to Continuous Professional Development CPD of all existing staff within the organisation.
Thereby individuals are always able to demonstrate technical experience in specific sectors, such as the water industry, or in relevant aspects of environmental consultancy.
RPS Planning, Transport and Environment division awarded its first group of Bursaries during 2003, to nine students.
We believe this to be the first occasion in the planning sector that support has been provided for the continued educational and professional development of students without committing them to work for the sponsoring company after graduating.
This is intended to develop relationships between RPS and universities, academics and high calibre graduates.
Energy Services RPSs acquisition of Hydrosearch Associates in This management oriented formula is conducive to September 2003 raises the Groups turnover rapid growth given favourable market conditions.
RPS Hydrosearch, the core Keys facts of the Groups new Energy Services division, is a HYD Divisional Employees: 27 geoscience based business which focuses on oil and September to December average was 64 gas exploration: pipeline and subsea cable positioning Office Locations: 6 and the renewable energy sector, particularly within offshore wind energy.
Mirroring energy industry UKAEA practice, about 20% of its personnel are directly employed by the company with 80% of its manpower resourced on a flexible contract basis.
Section 01 Operating and Financial Review RPS Group Plc 16 Report and accounts 2003 Organisation and prospects continued The six universities and the eight associated courses involved were: Imperial College, London MSc Environmental Technology : Oxford Brookes University BA Town & Country Planning : South Bank University London BA Hons Urban and Environmental Planning : South Bank University London PgDip Town Planning : University of Newcastle upon Tyne BA Hons Town Planning : University of Southampton MSc: Transportation Planning and Engineering : University of Southampton BEng & the MEng Acoustical Engineering : and University of Leeds Institute for Transport Studies Masters programmes.
This scheme will continue in the year ahead, broadening the schemes in terms of the courses offered and participating universities.
The Groups Energy Services Division has acted as a sponsor for a PhD student at the University College, London, contributing a total of 3,000 towards a doctorate on how microfossils can indicate the environmental deposition and age of rocks in a major oil drilling province.
In Ireland, we again awarded a total of five postgraduate scholarships at four universities, each valued at 316,000, to students studying environmental, civil and structural engineering courses at: Trinity College, Dublin: University College, Dublin: University College, Cork: and The National University of Ireland, Galway.
Over the coming year RPS will be taking on three students under the Leonardo da Vinci II scheme, a European Commission supported initiative aimed at providing work placements for qualified engineering students from designated development regions of the European Community seeking to work within leading companies in other European countries.
The LDVII scheme assists qualified engineering graduates gain valuable experience within their chosen profession, apply their technical skills and study best commercial practice in different European countries and working environments.
Three Spanish engineering graduates, all from Gran Canaria, will initially undertake a six month work placement during 2004, working in one of three selected RPS divisions, namely RPS Planning, Transport and Environment, RPS Water Services and the RPS Group Ireland.
RPS Group Plc 17 Report and accounts 2003 Organisation and prospects continued RPS is currently the only private sector sponsor of Tomorrows Planners, the work experience scheme for graduates from black and ethnic minorities operated by the UK Planning Directorate.
In doing so, RPS aims to promote inclusion and representation in the planning profession in addition to inclusivity within development planning and urban regeneration.
Succession Management We aim to identify and provide training, education and development for employees, in order that they can develop and apply this knowledge to greater and more demanding roles in the future.
Wherever possible we try to identify successors to key posts within the organisation as part of our ongoing succession management policy.
Central to identifying our training and educational needs is staff appraisal.
This activity is concerned with developing staff by identifying and meeting performance and training needs as well as developing individual potential.
Appraisals are intended to complement the standard staff induction programme on Company policy and procedures, which covers topics including safety or equipment handling and involves assessments of competency on a more administrative level.
Staff appraisal is a continuous process and is not limited to formal meetings.
However formal appraisal meetings take place in most parts of the Group at least once a year.
Growth RPS operates in markets which are generally attractive and expanding with good long-term prospects, but fast changing.
We need, therefore, to keep our products and services and how we market and deliver them under continuous review.
The Board believes that the long-term health and growth of the Group will be best secured by ensuring that RPS is, and is perceived by clients and staff, to be a market leader in each of our business areas.
Our corporate strategy is designed to achieve this.
Our financial growth objectives focus on profit rather than turnover.
Whilst it is tempting to remain in products and markets where margins are falling in order to maintain turnover, we do not adopt this approach.
Instead we endeavour to find ways of delivering service in more attractive ways to clients or if this is not possible scale back or end our involvement in unattractive markets and develop and invest in new, more attractive, areas.
Engineering and Safety Challenging market conditions in the nuclear other RPS divisions already operating in high risk decommissioning sector prompted by the industries other than nuclear.
governments Energy Bill have impacted less on Keys facts RPS than its competitors.
The Bill sets out new EAS Divisional Employees: 82 arrangements for managing the UKs civil nuclear Office Locations: 1 decommissioning programme.
Anticipating the hiatus in activity, the division has been focusing away from lower margin engineering design work and has UKAEA UKAEA sought to maximise its market share in safety case consultancy and higher margin front end engineering consultancy.
The division has also been supporting Section 01 Operating and Financial Review RPS Group Plc 18 Report and accounts 2003 Organisation and prospects continued The Board is committed to achieving substantial year on year profit and earnings growth for the Group, but does not set specific targets for this.
We are endeavouring to deliver long-term shareholder value and have, therefore, to balance annual earnings growth with investment in both our existing clients, staff and products and the development of our product offering and capability.
It is inevitable that there will, from time to time, be periods when the need to invest slows the immediate rate of growth, but the investments will be made in order to secure long-term returns.
The first half of 2004 is likely to be such a period.
Margins We have, for a long period, maintained our operating margins in excess of the sector norm.
The Group operates systems which allow project managers to secure the best margin available from each of the projects they work upon.
It is inevitable that, in day to day business, margins will fluctuate.
The Board is, however, vigilant in the identification of trends that suggest specific markets are beginning to suffer structural lower margins.
If this appears to be the case action will be taken to limit the effect of this upon overall Group margins.
The share incentive schemes currently being put in place should over time become self funding, but will increase costs and reduce margins in the meantime.
Acquisitions The acquisition strategy RPS has pursued over the last decade has brought considerable benefit to shareholders, clients and staff.
The companies acquired recently have enabled us to build strong positions in both Ireland and our Planning Transport and Environment Division and to create a new Energy Services Division.
This, in turn, enables us to offer a broader, higher quality service to our clients and attractive employment to staff or potential recruits.
The financial performance of the companies which have been acquired have increased the Groups earnings growth significantly.
The Board sees the maintenance of this element of the strategy as being of importance to the continued growth of RPS and is prepared to consider more significant acquisitions as well as making acquisitions outside the countries in which we currently operate.
RPS Group Plc 19 Report and accounts 2003 Organisation and prospects continued Funding At the year end the Group had cash deposits of 21.7 million and no debt.
RPS normally generates sufficient free cash to fund its working capital and capital expenditure requirements.
Additional cash resources are, therefore, only needed in order to pursue the Groups acquisition strategy.
From time to time, therefore the Board secures funds by means of arranging debt finance or equity placings.
The last equity placing was completed in April 2001 when c. 40 million was raised by means of a rights issue.
All this has subsequently been committed to acquisitions although 15.3 million remains to be paid in deferred consideration, of which 13.7 million will be in cash.
In addition to our cash balances we have available an acquisition facility of 20 million.
The Board believes this will enable the Group to maintain its strategy throughout 2004, although it is possible that a larger acquisition may necessitate additional debt or equity finance.
Dividend Policy Our dividend has grown at an average annual compound rate of about 15% over the five years.
Provided earnings growth can be sustained and the debt and equity structures of the business does not change materially, the Board anticipates that the future pattern will be similar.
The final dividend will normally be greater than the interim payment.
Shareholder Value The Board manages the Group in order to achieve good levels of growth in shareholder value on a consistent long-term basis.
The Board, however, recognises that this can only be achieved by providing a competitive service which adds value to our clients organisations and offering an attractive working environment and career prospects to our staff.
Striking this balance whilst also respecting our responsibility to society at large, is the main challenge facing the Board.
That the Group has continued to grow quickly during recent economic turbulence suggests we are operating in an attractive sector and implementing a good strategy successfully.
This provides a comforting platform to provide further improvement to the return to our shareholders in the future.
RPS Group Ireland The acquisition of M C OSullivan MCOS at the Keys facts end of June 2002 enabled us to fulfil our objective of IRE Divisional Employees: 680 creating the leading planning, infrastructure and Office Locations: 10 environmental consultancy in Ireland, serving both the public and private sectors.
During 2003, the integration of MCOS with our existing Irish activities progressed successfully.
Notable successes in winning new work on this combined basis have been EIF secured in areas ranging from residential, retail, office, municipal, hotel and leisure developments to a national public awareness campaign for the Department of the Environment.
Section 01 Operating and Financial Review RPS Group Plc 20 Report and accounts 2003 Organisation and prospects continued Corporate Governance RPS has had a strong system of governance in place throughout its corporate life.
In recent years we have formalised this in response to the various codes and guidelines that have emerged.
We operate a dedicated committee of the Board to review corporate governance matters.
The various policies relevant to this are set out fully on pages 36 to 52.
It is difficult for those who review such information simply on the basis of checklists to understand the culture and ethics that go to the heart of any business.
The Board believes that its long-term shareholders will understand that RPS operates the highest governance standards.
The new Combined Code was published in 2003.
Our Corporate Governance Committee has reviewed RPSs performance against these new standards.
This is reported upon on pages 36 to 38.
This evaluation suggests RPS operates at a good level of compliance, although the costs of this are significant.
Future Prospects The Group remains well positioned to achieve long-term growth.
The quest for sustainability has moved from being a minority concern to being a significant yardstick for measuring both national and corporate performance.
As a result, the issues upon which we advise have moved further up the agenda for most Government Agencies, quoted companies and businesses which supply them.
Environmental risk management has also become increasingly important.
It is reasonable to believe that the pace of change in respect of these issues will increase rather than diminish as economies again begin to strengthen.
RPS is well positioned to take advantage of this trend, although our consolidated results continue to reflect movement in the value of the US Dollar and the Euro relative to Sterling.
The range of acquisition opportunities available remains substantial.
Each of our divisions is able to identify a range of companies that fit well with their activities.
Opportunities also exist to move into new areas with a strategic acquisition around which further new divisions might be created.
As a result, we believe the range of services we can offer clients has considerable scope for expansion.
Should suitable opportunities arise we may consider acquisitions in other countries in Europe and elsewhere.
RPS Group Plc 21 Report and accounts 2003 Organisation and prospects continued Our entry into the FTSE 250 in January 2003 coincided with significantly increased corporate governance, risk management and disclosure requirements.
We have, therefore, needed to develop a strategy for dealing with these issues as well as addressing a new mid-cap investor audience.
We have succeeded in all these tasks but, because we have always operated with a flat, efficient management structure, this repositioning has required an inevitable increase in our cost base.
In the first part of 2004 we are also investing in a number of our businesses in order to secure better market positioning in the future.
In addition, after extensive review we intend subject to shareholder approval in respect of share schemes to put in place new remuneration arrangements.
These are designed to ensure we will be able to recruit and retain high quality staff to maintain the expansion of the Group.
As a result of these investments we anticipate further growth in revenues in 2004, although the additional costs involved are likely to impact operating margins in the first half.
However, the strength of the Group and its long-term markets gives the Board confidence that strong organic growth will be achieved going forward and that this will continue to be supplemented with significant contributions from acquisitions, the pipeline for which is encouraging.
Net assets m 99: 25.9 00: 51.7 01: 98.9 02: 108.9 03: 122.3 RPS Groep Nederland RPS Groep BV has been streamlining its Keys facts organisational and management structure in tandem NETH Divisional Employees: 155 with a name change into three generically branded Office Locations: 3 business units: RPS Advies Consultancy : RPS Certificatie Certification and RPS Analyse Analytical Services.
The water management and infrastructural planning team has kept a separate market facing brand identity as RPS RIW specifically for public sector clients.
The programme of internal reorganisation was successfully completed by the end of the year in time for simultaneous rebranding announcements at the start of January 2004.
Section 01 Operating and Financial Review RPS Group Plc 22 Report and accounts 2003 Ethical Respon RPS Group Plc 23 Report and accounts 2003 Section 02 Management In this section: 24 The Board 24 Composition and Operations 26 Brook Land 27 Alan Hearne 28 Gary Young 29 Andrew Troup 30 Peter Dowen 31 Roger Devlin 32 Paul Martin 33 Rob Thielen 34 Company Secretary Retirement Committees 35 Strategy 36 Corporate governance 36 Committee Combined Code 39 Communication Audit and internal controls 40 Remuneration report 46 Audit Committee 48 Nomination Committee 50 Risk management 51 Quality management Financial management 52 Financial instruments Shareholders 53 Corporate social responsibility report 53 Responsibility Policy Standard of conduct Clients and customers Conflicts of interest 54 The Community 57 Staff professional memberships sible Section 02 Management
