RPS Group Plc 04 Report and accounts 2003 Performance Group Results Group turnover increased 18.9% to 124.6 million 2002: 104.8 million.
Profit before tax and goodwill amortisation increased 18.5% to 21.1 million 2002: 17.8 million.
Acquisitions accounted for 7.3 million of turnover and 0.3 million of profit before goodwill amortisation.
Operating profit increased by 18.9% to 15.9 million 2002: 13.3 million.
Undiluted earnings per share before goodwill amortisation increased 20.6% to 8.62p 2002: 7.15p.
Operating margins before goodwill amortisation remained high at 16.4% 2002: 16.1%.
Operating cash flow was strong and the Group had year end cash balances of 21.7 million 2002: 23.0 million with no significant debt.
Dividend In accordance with the Groups long-term policy of growing the dividend at 15% per annum, the Directors are recommending a final dividend of 0.94p per share payable on 21st May 2004 to shareholders on the register on 26th March 2004.
The total dividend for the full year will be 1.82p 2002: 1.58p.
This is covered 4.7 times by earnings before goodwill amortisation 2002: 4.5 times.
Strategy The strategy of the Group has been clear, consistent and successful for a number of years.
We are building market leading positions in high value segments of our expanding market in the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands through a combination of organic growth and the acquisition of high quality businesses.
The effective implementation of this strategy explains the strong growth RPS has achieved.
A particularly pleasing aspect of our trading in 2003 was an increased level of collaboration on projects between different parts of the Group.
Societys desire to secure greater levels of environmental protection means that the long-term prospects for RPS remain encouraging.
Our sector also remains highly fragmented giving rise to opportunities for RPS to make further acquisitions.
As a result of these factors the opportunity for RPS to keep growing remains good.
The Board, therefore, remains committed to the strategy and if the right opportunities arise it would consider both expanding into other countries and a more substantial acquisition.
Five Year Record In the five years ended 31st December 2003 Group turnover has increased from 26.3 million to 124.6 million and profit before tax and goodwill amortisation from 5.1 million to 21.1 million.
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation have grown from 2.73p to 8.62p, a compound annual growth rate of 26%.
During this period the breadth of our activities has increased significantly, thereby increasing the strength of the Groups market position.
This long term growth confirms that RPS operates in attractive markets and does so effectively.
Hydrosearch Our key acquisition in 2003 Company and consideration Expanding the Group RPS acquired Hydrosearch in September By 2050 the world will double its use of energy.
It will be a daunting challenge to satisfy this 2003.
In the year ended 31st December demand without damaging health, blighting local environments and threatening vital natural 2002 it had revenues of 19.4m and profit systems.
The creation of an Energy Services division is, therefore, a timely and important before tax of 2.0m.
Consideration, net of step for RPS.
To do this with a company as established in its markets as Hydrosearch cash in the balance sheet, was 11.4m of suggests we will be able to expand our presence in this sector significantly over the which 3.0m is payable in new RPS shares.
RPS Group Plc 05 Report and accounts 2003 Performance continued Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Net assets at the year end stood at 122.3 million 2002: 108.9 million.
Of this 21.7 million was represented by cash.
The net cash inflow from operating activities was 20.6 million, which represented 101% of operating profit before goodwill amortisation 2002: 90%.
During the course of 2003 9.3 million of cash was spent on acquisitions and 1.3 million new shares to the value of 2.1 million issued to the vendors of those companies.
Net cash acquired was 3.6 million.
Our acquisition model has a significant proportion of the consideration from each transaction deferred, normally over a two or three year period.
This helps to ensure that goodwill acquired is transferred effectively to RPS.
During the course of 2003, 7.9 million of deferred consideration was paid in cash and 0.4 million shares to the value of 0.5 million were issued to the vendors of businesses acquired in the previous three years.
At 31st December 2003 the total deferred consideration outstanding was 15.3 million, of which 13.7 million is payable in cash and loan notes and 1.6 million in new RPS shares.
Of the total due at the year end of 2003, 11.2 million is payable in 2004, of which 10.2 million is payable in cash and loan notes and 1.0 million in shares, with the balance payable in 2005.
The year end balance sheet shows intangible fixed assets goodwill of 87.9 million 2002: 76.4 million.
Since the introduction of FRS 10 in 1998, our acquisition strategy has given rise to increasing levels of goodwill on the balance sheet.
The Board has adopted the generally accepted policy of amortising goodwill over its useful economic life which is estimated to be up to 20 years.
Such a policy does not, however, reflect the Boards view that the overall value of the investments made has actually increased rather than diminished.
Market Leading Planning Consultancy in the UK Our Planning, Transport & Environment division advises clients in both the public and private sector who wish to achieve permission to develop land and buildings.
Planning magazine has recently reported that, in the year ended September 2003, our level of revenue was almost three times that of our nearest competitor in this sector in the UK.
It also recorded RPS as the top fee earner in the sub-sectors of commercial, residential, retail, leisure, water and drainage, energy, minerals and waste, telecommunications and public sector planning and second in transport planning.
The continuing success of this business demonstrates the advantages of having the leading position in a market place.
The acquisition, in December, of Woods Warren Limited, one of the UKs leading infrastructure engineering and planning consultancies, further develops this business.
Other acquisitions are now being considered.
The level of interest in development by the private sector and the desire to deliver infrastructure in the public sector shows no sign of slowing.
This is well illustrated by the recent Airports White Paper which sets the scene for major development in this and related sectors, and the continuing pressure to develop brownfield land, an area of expertise in which RPS has considerable strength.
Section 01 Operating and Financial Review RPS Group Plc 06 Report and accounts 2003 Performance continued Market Leader in Ireland The acquisition of M C OSullivan MCOS at the end of June 2002 enabled us to fulfil our objective of creating the leading planning, infrastructure and environmental consultancy in Ireland, serving both the public and private sectors.
The integration of MCOS with our existing Irish activities is virtually complete and so we have begun evaluating other acquisition opportunities.
Notable successes in winning new work on this combined basis have been secured.
Our other Irish businesses have performed well, particularly development planning and environmental assessment.
Although growth in the Irish economy has slowed, the government has ambitious plans for continued development across a range of sectors and many parts of the private sector are buoyant.
We remain positive about this market and expect that our prominent position will enable us to continue to progress.
Opportunities in Water Management Following the OFWAT regulatory review in late 1999, water supply companies in England and Wales substantially reduced the volume of work commissioned in 2000.
In response to that, we cut back our Water Services business in England and Wales and focused marketing activity in Scotland and Northern Ireland, where we were able to develop significant additional business.
In 2001 the market in England and Wales reverted to more normal levels of activity and we, therefore, experienced a much improved performance over 2000.
This continued in 2002 and the first part of 2003 and our Water Services business made further progress, helped by the acquisition of IDS, the waste water consultancy, in April 2002.
During the latter part of 2003 activity in England and Wales has begun to focus upon the regulatory review in 2005.
There are encouraging signs that the regulator will focus the water companies upon solving the problems of water supply and waste water disposal, both important areas of activity for RPS.
As anticipated at the interim stage, we are now experiencing pricing pressure from our clients as they seek to demonstrate their efficiency to the regulator.
In Scotland, we positioned ourselves well during the merger of the three regional authorities that created Scottish Water in 2002 and benefited accordingly.
Our involvement at that stage was largely founded upon continued successful delivery of work through existing framework agreements and providing additional support to Scottish Water in key areas of its strategic development.
For the Quality and Standards II period, 2002-2006, Scottish Water has formed a joint venture company, Scottish Water Solutions, with Thames Water and United Utilities to deliver its 1.8 billion capital programme.
We continue to provide strategic support to Scottish Water and indications are encouraging regarding the levels of work required from Scottish Water Solutions.
There have, however, been delays in the release of work from Scottish Water Solutions as the arrangements between them and Scottish Water have taken longer than envisaged to complete.
RPS Group Plc 07 Report and accounts 2003 Performance continued Health and Safety: helping to manage long-term risks RPS offers a broad range of Health and Safety consultancy services in the UK and the Netherlands.
The nuclear industry in the UK continues to be confronted with the major challenge of dealing safely with its waste and decommissioning its power stations.
We provide advice which enables our clients to deal with nuclear waste more safely and with greater regard for the environmental effects of their actions.
The Government published in 2003 proposals for the establishment, in 2005, of the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority NDA which will be responsible for a work programme worth many billions of pounds and lasting for decades.
For this programme to succeed, the NDA has to develop an extensive, qualified supply chain: RPS is well positioned to form part of this.
We are, therefore, confident this market presents an important long-term opportunity for RPS, although whilst the NDA is being established, the market will be more unpredictable.
We have concluded that in order to benefit fully in the future, we need to invest in further development of our client relationships and build the scale of this business substantially.
This process has begun and will continue throughout 2004, establishing the basis for long term success.
The health and safety at work market in the UK continued to grow in 2003, driven both by regulation and corporate governance pressures.
This was particularly the case in respect of asbestos investigations, following the introduction of important new regulations at the end of 2002.
We have taken steps to minimise the undesirable effects of price competition in this market by developing Building Health Interactive in order to enable our clients to have survey information delivered to them through the internet.
Initial signs are that this product is giving us a competitive edge and that the costs to competitors of developing such products could lead to some consolidation in this sector in the next year or so.
We would anticipate benefiting from this.
Netherlands With the acquisition, in December 2001, of Ascor we expanded our range of services in the Netherlands into the health and safety market.
During the course of 2003 we completed the integration of all our businesses in the Netherlands, which have, from the beginning of 2004, traded under the RPS name.
Following the events of September 2001 we decided to exit the international aid market in which BKH had a significant, but not particularly profitable, business.
This process continued throughout most of 2003, with the result that we have now focussed this part of our business on providing specialist advice to the Dutch Government and European Union on environmental management projects in Eastern Europe.
The remainder of the BKH business, along with BAK and Ascor, has been integrated into RPS Groep BV.
The Dutch economy was in a poor condition throughout 2003.
This was made worse by six months of political instability following national elections in January.
As a result investment in infrastructure and private sector development reduced significantly.
It is likely to be the case that both these markets will remain weak in 2004.
We have, therefore, adopted a plan which focuses on activity within the health and safety and certification markets, both of which are highly regulated, related to all sectors of the economy and in which we have a good profile and reputation.
The investments we are currently making should lead to a return to reasonable levels of growth in the second half of 2004.
Our Dutch acquisition strategy is also now focused primarily upon these market segments.
Section 01 Operating and Financial Review RPS Group Plc 08 Report and accounts 2003 Performance continued Creation of New Energy Services Division and Acquisition of Troy-Ikoda Ltd By 2050 the world is expected to double its use of energy.
It will be a daunting challenge to satisfy this demand without damaging health, blighting local environments and threatening vital natural systems.
RPS has, for almost a decade, provided a limited range and quantity of services to the oil and gas sector.
More recently we have become involved with the fast developing onshore wind energy market.
These experiences suggested that we should develop our energy sector activities substantially.
We set in place the structure to achieve this with the acquisition of Hydrosearch in September 2003.
Established in 1979 by former employees of BP, Hydrosearch has a core staff of 50 and draws extensively upon a team of specialist consultants in order to provide its clients with a broad range of services and geographical experience.
Headquartered in Woking, Surrey, Hydrosearch has subsidiaries with small offices based in Perth, Australia and Houston, USA, in order to provide access and services to those global oil industry service centres.
Hydrosearch has a blue chip client list and is currently working for numerous multinational oil companies providing technical advice and project management services in geographical locations as widely spread as South America, Middle East, West Africa and Eastern Russia.
In addition, Hydrosearch is also involved in the emerging offshore wind energy market.
We anticipate that, as part of RPS, Hydrosearch will be able to offer a broader range of services to its clients.
Consequently, after completion we took action to ensure that the combined expertise of the enlarged group in this sector is well enough understood internally to enable clients to be properly briefed.
The marketing phase of the integration has now begun and the early signs are encouraging.
As with other parts of our Group, Hydrosearch operates in a fragmented market and so there are significant opportunities for acquisition.
A combination of organic growth and acquisitions should enable us to increase the size of this division significantly over the next few years.
In this context we are pleased to announce the acquisition of Troy-Ikoda Ltd, a specialist geosciences and engineering business based in Windsor, with an office in Perth, Australia.
The Troy-Ikoda permanent staff of 40 is well respected in the sector for assisting in the identification and verification of oil and gas reserves.
They will supplement and be integrated with RPSs own staff in this field, who were instrumental in Cairn Energys recent major find in Rajastan, India.
Their office in Perth will be merged with our own office during 2004, creating a significant presence in this market.
In the year ended 31st December 2003 Troy-Ikoda had turnover of 2.9 million, adjusted profit before tax of 0.2 million excluding non-recurring items and net assets of 1.0 million.
We are confident that following integration, this business will materially strengthen our activities in the energy services market.
Consideration paid at completion was 0.5 million, all in cash.
Up to a further 0.7 million will be payable in cash before the end of 2004 in the event that certain balance sheet items are realised.
Corporate Governance We have undertaken a full review of our performance measured against the Combined Code and the new Combined Code, the results of which are on pages 24 to 59.
We believe this will demonstrate a high level of compliance.
Such compliance has, however, only been achieved by strengthening our management resources by, for example, putting in place a new tier of divisional Managing Directors.
This increases the cost of running the Group, but we anticipate will make us more efficient and better prepared for further growth.
Extra costs are also being incurred in respect of remuneration consultants, who have been engaged for the first time in order to ensure that proper and transparent policies are adopted by the Remuneration Committee and the Board for staff employed at all levels in the Group.
RPS Group Plc 09 Report and accounts 2003 Performance continued Staff Remuneration and Other Operating Costs The recruitment and retention of staff with appropriate skills and experience is required to achieve organic growth and the successful integration of acquired companies.
As we get larger these important issues become more complex to manage.
Following a review of Group-wide remuneration by consultants appointed by the Remuneration Committee, we intend subject to shareholder approval in respect of certain share schemes to put in place additional reward schemes to ensure we will be able to maintain the expansion of the Group.
These schemes will add to employment costs in 2004 and beyond, but should improve the effectiveness of our operations and eventually become, at least in part, self funding.
During 2003 the Group consolidated a number of UK money purchase defined contribution pension schemes into a single group personal pension plan in order to take advantage of a lower cost structure for our staff.
We also operate money purchase schemes in Ireland, although a limited number of staff in Ireland are members of a defined benefit scheme.
The Group balance sheet includes a provision to cover the possible shortfall in funding of this scheme which has been closed to new members.
In the Netherlands we operate a defined contribution scheme to which most of our staff there belong.
We will also have to bear a full year of increased National Insurance costs for employees in the UK as well as further increases in professional indemnity insurance.
We are addressing the requirements to adopt International Accounting Standards in terms of our accounting and systems requirement and anticipate some added cost during the implementation phase later this year.
Foreign Currency We have had operations in Ireland and Netherlands for a number of years and consequently have been exposed to exchange movements between Sterling and the Euro.
Hydrosearch, acquired in September 2003, prices much of its work in US Dollars and a small proportion in Australian Dollars.
The Euro strengthened relative to Sterling during much of the year with a beneficial effect on results whilst in the last quarter the US Dollar weakened which had the opposite effect.
The Group does not currently make use of forward currency contracts to manage profit and loss translation exposures, although this position is kept under close review.
The strong cash position of the Group currently precludes the use of loan structures to hedge against long-term capital investment exposures.
We do have in place various management and organisational systems to reduce the effect of currency movements.
Section 01 Operating and Financial Review
