RPS Group Plc 35 Report and accounts 2003 Strategy The Groups strategy is designed to ensure significant year on year improvement in the range and quality of our services and the Groups financial performance.
This is achieved by: operating in markets where we can add value to our clients activities: endeavouring to achieve market leadership in everything we do: employing highly skilled staff and helping them to build rewarding careers: developing attractive and innovative services: continuing to develop the culture and profile of RPS: making acquisitions of quality businesses in order to extend our expertise and geographical presence.
As a result of this strategy the Board has the responsibility to: 1 Ensure that the Group has in place at all times a strategy that is capable of delivering strong growth and good returns to shareholders.
2 Continue to organise and monitor the Groups operations through the Divisional structure.
3 Keep that structure under review and be prepared to change the number and nature of the Divisions in order both to take account of market opportunities and also to deal with management issues.
4Clarify any ambiguities in the authority, responsibilities and obligations of the Divisions both in terms of managing their businesses and reporting upon those businesses.
5 Keep under review the composition of Divisional Management teams and monitor their performance, being prepared to make changes in order to maintain or improve performance in terms of both delivery to clients and financial results.
6 Ensure the Group has in place Human Resources management systems capable of supporting the divisional boards establishment and implementation of policies designed to attract and retain high quality staff.
7Manage and promote the RPS brand vigorously and vigilantly, by ensuring it has an adequate profile amongst the client base and that it is respected and not corrupted internally.
8 Keep under review opportunities to extend the range of products RPS offers and the sectors in which it operates.
9 Keep under review opportunities to extend the geographic areas in which RPS operates in Europe, Australia and the USA.
10 Ensure that the Board has available an appropriate and effective advisory team including brokers, financial advisers, auditors, lawyers and financial public relations.
11 Maintain, in conjunction with brokers, an active Investor Relations programme designed to ensure full exposure of the RPS investment case to appropriate fund managers in the UK, Europe and USA.
12 Maintain contact with a wide range of analysts and brokers to ensure independent research is available to market.
13 Put in place and maintain systems of Corporate Governance compliant with the Combined Code and appropriate for a company of RPSs type and size.
Discuss these matters with major shareholders on a regular basis.
14 Ensure the Group operates appropriate risk management systems in respect of all aspects of its business.
15 Ensure the Group has in place IT systems appropriate for the proper operation of the business and its likely expansion.
16 Ensure the Group has in place both a web site and an intranet capable of communicating effectively with all those with an interest in RPS.
17 Ensure that the Group has sufficient and adequate funding in place in order to maintain its strategy.
