40 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 Corporate Accountability Review Corporate governance, transparency and accountability Accountability Review remain the bedrock upon which SABMillers ongoing Our accountability review is based on a detailed pursuit of broad-based business excellence lies.
While assessment of how each SABMiller operation is giving short-term economic performance must be balanced with practical effect to the business principles we espouse.
social responsibility commitments, our global environment Every quarter a range of their economic, environmental today demands that we consider a longer-term horizon and social impacts are reported and presented for for overall sustainable development taking into consideration by the board.
At year end a thorough consideration the needs of all our stakeholders.
review is conducted and published what follows is a summary of the full CAR for the financial year ended This review provides an outline of our approach to 31 March 2003. corporate accountability, covering systems and processes The continued growth in the business, notably the and our major economic, social and environmental acquisition of Miller Brewing Company, has greatly added impacts.
A comprehensive account of this triple bottom to the size and diversity of the non-financial performance line performance can be found in the accompanying 2003 and risk management issues which the CAR addresses.
Corporate Accountability Report CAR as well as on our So as to present the fullest possible picture, the website: www.
companys measures have been included ahead of the SABMiller has a proud tradition of quality management usual two-year transitional period the full accountability based on a solid foundation of core values, embedded in scope and reporting boundaries can be found on page 5 its understanding of legal and regulatory requirements, of the accompanying CAR.
stakeholder and societal expectations and current market practices.
Economic impacts To give meaning to this, the company formalised its This year, the enlarged business received over US$8 accountability function some six years ago and has billion excluding associates in sales from its customers.
sought continuous improvement through regular How that income is used in the business determines our evaluation and modication of its systems and processes.
More than half is spent with suppliers The companys governance structure, detailed on of raw materials, packaging and other goods and pages 34 to 39 of this report and pages 16 to 19 of the services, thereby sustaining many thousands of jobs in CAR reects a broad and integrated approach to the the wider economy.
Even though supplies are increasingly concept.
In particular, the corporate accountability and sourced globally, more than three quarters of our risk assurance committee CARAC chaired by the spending remains in the countries where our operations senior non-executive director, Lord Fellowes assists the are located.
In South Africa and the USA, we monitor and board in the discharge of its duties relating to corporate try to increase the business we do with commercial equity accountability and associated risk and opportunities in terms and minority enterprises respectively.
of the direction, assurance and reporting for the group.
The best measure of how stakeholders benefit from The committee utilised the services of the group the wealth generated by the business is cash added value corporate accountability department to progress its worth more than US$3.9 billion this year.
Governments activities, and co-opts management and technical gain the largest share of the value we create, some 40%, specialist input to align the accountability agenda with due to the high level of excise duties and other taxes those of the various strategic business functions and to levied on the group.
Our 42,402 employees are the next ensure full representation and participation of all the largest beneciaries, receiving a quarter.
Providers business units within the group.
of capital, both investors and borrowers, received 13% this year.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 41 Environmental impacts partners, our industry colleagues and other stakeholders We have again improved our environmental efficiency, a to progress our long term goal of sustainable trend reinforced by the inclusion of Millers performance.
Complete details of this years Measured against our outputs, we are using less water accountability performance and the environmental, and energy, and producing less liquid waste.
Recycling alcohol, social investment together with other policies that of other wastes has also increased, now exceeding 90%.
underpin it, are available in the CAR and also on-line at However, increased energy efficiency did not lead to www.
reduced relative emissions of carbon dioxide thought to be the main greenhouse gas because of changes in energy sources, mainly in the generation of electricity bought from national grids over which we have no control.
Corporate Accountability Review This year we have also extended our environmental In terms of the Association of British Insurers management systems and expanded our reporting, in Guidelines for the reporting of social, environmental particular to include biodiversity issues and our hops, and ethical matters, it is recorded here that: barley and sugar cane farms.
The board addresses accounting for these matters by reviewing them and reports thereupon by Social impacts assigning these issues to CARAC for development The scale and international reach of our operations is and policy recommendation alongside the such that many millions of people are affected by our examination of business and strategic risk through social impacts.
At the head of the list are our employees, the audit committees internal control process.
including 28,000 in associated companies not included SABMiller addresses social, environmental and in financial reporting but covered in our full accountability ethical matters in the training of its directors in review.
This year we have introduced a new grading terms of impacts of key risks such as reputation, system which ranks our operations in categories to and in the development of CARAC and the CAR.
assess progress being made in local businesses on Such training will become more specic in future critical human resource management issues.
We have, and is included in director induction.
for example, extended our commitment over a range of The remuneration committee is aware of emerging activities to address HIV AIDS and continue to make views that the effect of social, environmental and progress on diversity issues, principally in South Africa.
ethical performance should be included in the Group-wide investment in training was broadly constant design and implementation of its performanceoutside Africa, where reorganisation regrettably disrupted related remuneration schemes.
SABMillers reports include information about the In wider society, we continue to engage with local effect of social, environmental and ethical matters communities and a broad range of stakeholders and on the companys short and long-term value.
A new group policy on alcohol issues SABMillers Cash Value Added Statement refer to was adopted during the year, and this is being rolled-out pages 20 and 21 in the CAR has found an to ensure each operation gives effect to its innovative way to demonstrate in economic terms responsibilities, both for its own marketing practices and how shareholders and other stakeholders have in educating consumers about the dangers of misuse.
benefited from the companys activities.
We continue to maintain above-board relations with The accompanying CAR describes the companys governments and their various regulatory agencies and policies and procedures for managing risks to strictly enforce our ethical conduct policies.
During the SABMillers short and long-term value arising from year, no incidents of bribery were identied.
social, environmental and ethical matters and the Looking ahead, many challenges remain: as we extent of its compliance with these.
incrementally manage the impacts of our own operations, we will increasingly work with others our business
