44441 GRich GreenStock [q4] 1 27 04 10:48 AM Page 21 Directors Report The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended Creditor payment policy 30 September 2003.
Given the international nature of its operations, the Group does not operate a standard code in respect of payments to suppliers.
Subsidiary operating companies are responsible for Principal activities agreeing the terms and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers The Groups principal activities during the year continued to be the development, distribution are conducted, including the terms of payment.
It is the Groups policy that payments to and support of business management software and related products and services for suppliers are made promptly in accordance with these terms.
Creditor days for the Group medium-sized and smaller businesses.
have been calculated at 40 days 2002: 41 days.
Review of business Substantial shareholdings The Group achieved a profit on ordinary activities before taxation of 151,037,000 on a At 22 December 2003, the Company had been notified, in accordance with sections 198 turnover of 560,345,000.
A review of operations of the Group during the year and an to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following interests in the ordinary share capital of indication of future prospects are contained in the Chairmans and Chief Executives Review the Company: on pages 2 to 5.
Deutsche Bank AG 10.82% Results and dividends M & G Investment Management Limited 3.89% The trading results for the year, dividends paid and proposed, and the amount transferred to The Capital Group Companies Inc. 3.62% reserves are set out on page 34.
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.00% The Board proposes a final dividend of 1.095p per share 2002: 1.343p per share taking Corporate Social Responsibility the proposed full year dividend to 1.650p per share 2002: 1.500p per share.
The Group conducts its business with appropriate regard to the rights and interests of shareholders, employees and other stakeholders.
The Board recognises the significance of Research and development social, environmental and ethical issues to the business of the Group.
It receives reports at During the year, the Group invested 57,979,000 in research and development 2002: each Board meeting of relevant developments in these areas and of the policies adopted by 57,825,000.
This has resulted in a number of new products and features as referred to in the Group to meet those concerns.
The Risk Committee, discussed at page 25 below, the Chairmans and Chief Executives Review on pages 2 to 5. considers and identifies any risks to the business of the Group from these areas and reports Charitable contributions on such risks to the Board.
During the year, the Group made charitable contributions totalling 120,000.
No political The Group is committed to monitoring its corporate social responsibility policies in key donations were made in the year.
Reports are received on a quarterly basis from the Directors and their interests operating companies on key indicators, such as mix of the workforce by gender, ethnic A list of directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company and details of origin and disability and the level of waste product recycled.
Whilst specific targets in these their options over the ordinary share capital of the Company are given in the Remuneration areas have not yet been set, as monitoring develops the Board will, in conjunction with the Report on pages 28 to 33.
No director had a material interest in any significant contract, operating companies, consider the setting of specific targets.
other than a service contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during Whilst the Board considers that material risks to the Group from social, environmental and the year.
ethical issues are limited, given the nature of the business of the Group, it recognises the reputational risks that may arise from a failure to meet relevant concerns and, therefore, undertakes that policies are adopted in the key areas of employment, community and environmental matters to ensure that any such risk is limited.
Examples of policies in these areas are given below.
p 21 44441 GRich GreenStock [q4] 1 27 04 10:48 AM Page 22 Directors Report continued 1 Overview Employment Outside the UK, our businesses have also participated in a variety of community activities 2 Chairmans and Chief The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment made and made donations to local charities.
PC equipment which is no longer needed by the Executives Review by disabled persons, having regard to their respective aptitudes and abilities.
The policy Group is donated to charities and schools.
16 Directors and Advisers includes, where practicable, the continued employment of those who may become disabled 18 Financial Review The Group promotes small business through numerous award schemes and free education during their employment and the provision of training and career development and 21 Directors Report and awareness seminars.
During the year, our businesses won numerous awards for the promotion, where appropriate.
24 Corporate Governance quality of their customer service.
Promoting the use of the internet in business has been an Statement The Group recruits, employs and promotes employees purely on the basis of their area of emphasis, particularly its use in the electronic filing of a range of mandatory 28 Remuneration Report 34 Consolidated Profit qualifications and suitability for the work to be performed.
The Group is committed to government submissions.
The Groups awareness of the importance of prompt payment to and Loss Account providing a safe and healthy working environment, to establishing health at work schemes small business is demonstrated by its payment terms with customers and suppliers.
35 Consolidated and to applying employment practices which are sensitive to the needs of employees.
The Balance Sheet Environment Group is committed to the training and development of its workforce.
36 Company Balance Sheet Although the Groups operations have minimal environmental impact, it is committed to 37 Consolidated Cash The Group communicates openly with its employees by way of employee forums, corporate ensuring that its operations have as little impact as is consistent with its business needs.
Flow Statement 38 Consolidated Statement intranet facilities and satisfaction surveys and many employees are stakeholders in the The Group works to promote environmental care, to increase its understanding of of Total Recognised business through participation in share option schemes.
Because consulting and listening to environmental issues, and to spread environmental best practice throughout its business.
Its Gains and Losses our employees forms a key part of the creation of the Groups equal opportunities strategy, waste materials are recycled, where possible, and waste paper is minimised by promoting 38 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity the Group has undertaken an extensive culture survey with the support of external paperless processes and downloadable software products.
The Group has introduced Shareholders Funds consultants to understand better the views of its employees and the culture of the policies to reduce the number of car users.
39 Notes to the Accounts organisation.
61 Independent In the UK, the Group has developed a new environmental and waste management policy.
Auditors Report Community Detailed plans for the implementation of these policies are being adopted during the 62 Notice of Meeting The Group is an integral and committed part of the communities in which it is based and 2003 04 financial year.
As part of this policy it has undertaken a full environmental 63 Financial Calendar is committed to developing that relationship.
Close relationships with those communities assessment of the impact on the local ecosystem of the new UK facility at Newcastle have been fostered through participation in community initiatives and donations to Great Park.
Outside the UK, similar environmental and waste management practices are followed.
In the UK, during the year, the Group has worked with a number of charities and Our UK business has produced its first Corporate Citizenship report for the year 2002 2003. organisations including the Tyne and Wear Community Foundation and the Newcastle This will be made available at its website at www.
co. uk during the current year.
Employment Bond a scheme working with the local community to get the long-term Our other businesses have committed to develop similar reports during 2003 04. unemployed back into work.
The Group also runs an annual international soccer festival for young people.
p 22 44441 GRich GreenStock [q4] 1 27 04 10:48 AM Page 23 Annual General Meeting Notice of the sixteenth Annual General Meeting of The Sage Group plc to be held on 4 March 2004 is set out on page 62.
A form of proxy is enclosed for members who wish to use one.
It should be returned so as to be with the Companys registrars no later than 11.00am on Tuesday 2 March 2004.
Shareholders with internet access may register their voting instructions for the forthcoming Annual General Meeting via the internet.
They may register their vote electronically by going to www.
They will be required to key in the three security numbers printed on the form of proxy to access the voting site.
As well as the ordinary business of the meeting, resolutions will also be proposed to enable the directors to continue to use their existing power to allot unissued shares in the capital of the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,263,861 representing one third of the nominal value of the Companys issued share capital and to allot equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 639,579 representing 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
The directors do not have any present intention of exercising these authorities other than in connection with the Groups employee share schemes.
Resolution 8 set out in the Notice of Meeting is to approve the Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 33.
The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations require that a report, prepared in accordance with the Regulations, is put to a vote of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association Mr M E W Jackson, Mr P A Walker, Mr P S Harrison and Mr P L Stobart will be retiring at the Annual General Meeting, and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Mr P A Walker, Mr P S Harrison and Mr P L Stobart have service contracts with the Company terminable on 12 months notice.
Mr M E W Jackson has a contract for services with the Company for a fixed period of 2 years terminable by either the Company or Mr M E W Jackson within that two year period by 12 months or 1 months notice respectively.
Auditors The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and a resolution that they be re-appointed will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board M J Robinson Secretary 22 December 2003 p 23
