A29424 S&N accounts 16 7 03 12:47 pm Page 14 13 Scottish & Newcastle Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Russia and the Ukraine are some of the fastest growing markets in the world.
BBHs priorities have been to establish strong brand franchises and world class production and distribution.
For example in the Ukraine shown here, BBHs market position has strengthened to 20% market share and the company is competing strongly for second place in the market.
Slavutich is BBHs leading brand in the Ukraine.
HIGHGROWTH MARKETS S&N will use its market leading BBH is the market leader in local management, ownership beer market is growing at more than positions in Western Europe as a Russia, the Baltic countries and and brands and investment in the 10% pa. Market growth has been platform for selective developments Kazakhstan and third in the Ukraine.
Until now it has held back by restricted availability into high growth emerging markets.
The Baltika brand is the second reinvested its free cashflow in new of beer retailing licences and high largest in Europe.
facilities with dividends remitted taxation relative to spirits.
However, Eastern Europe Russia and the Ukraine are two from the subsidiaries up to BBH in the market is set to grow faster as In 2002 S&N acquired the Hartwall of the fastest growing markets in Stockholm for onward reinvestment the regulatory regime is liberalised.
Group which included a 50% the world with beer consumption in the business.
Small dividends A joint venture, Millennium investment in Baltic Beverages per capita rising quickly from half the have been paid by BBH to its Alcobev, was established in May Holding BBH giving S&N exposure Western European average in Russia shareholders.
The need for further 2003 which owns five breweries.
to the high growth markets of Russia, and a quarter in the Ukraine.
BBHs investment is forecast to slow as It has established cross-brewing the Ukraine and the Baltic countries.
priorities have been to establish the focus moves towards investing arrangements with United Breweries Since May 2002 BBH has also strong brand franchises and world in sales and distribution capability.
to overcome inter-state tariffs and announced investments in the class production and distribution There should be scope for BBH intends to take advantage of market Central Asian state of Kazakhstan.
BBH owns eighteen to remit larger dividends to its liberalisation.
Russia is now the second largest breweries, including two that were shareholders by 2005. beer market in Europe, consuming opened early in 2003.
The Ukraine brewery in the Ukraine at Kiev is due India and the Baltic countries are much to come on stream in 2004.
In 2002 S&N announced a smaller markets with volumes of BBHs success factors have been strategic partnership in India with 137 mhl and 50 mhl respectively the acquisition of majority stakes in United Breweries, the market leader.
in 2002. leading local breweries retaining Although currently small, the Indian A29424 S&N accounts 16 7 03 12:48 pm Page 15
