A29424 S&N accounts 16 7 03 12:48 pm Page 31 30 Scottish & Newcastle Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the Directors Group results Directors A detailed analysis of the results for the year is provided in note 2 to the The names of the current directors of the Company are set out on accounts.
Henry Fairweather, Sir Angus Grossart, John Nicolson and Sir Brian Dividends Stewart retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for reThe directors are recommending a final dividend of 200p per share to be appointment.
John Dunsmore and Tony Froggatt, who have been appointed paid on 1 September 2003 to ordinary shareholders on the register at close directors since the last AGM will, as required by the Companys Articles of business on 15 August 2003.
This would make a total ordinary dividend of Association, retire and offer themselves for re-appointment at the AGM.
for the year of 3018p per share.
Henry Fairweather, John Nicolson, Sir Brian Stewart and John Dunsmore have service contracts which are terminable on one years notice and Tony Business review and future developments Froggatt has a service contract terminable on an initial period of two years The Report of the Directors should be read in conjunction with the Operating notice.
Sir Angus Grossart does not have a service contract.
and Financial Review on pages 17 to 25, which contains details of the Franck Riboud is Chairman and Chief Executive of Groupe Danone, Groups trading during the year and an indication of likely future which is party to agreements entered into on 18 May 2000 combining developments.
the beer interests of the Group with those of Groupe Danone.
Erik Hartwall and Henrik Therman are former shareholders of Oyj Hartwall Abp, which the AGM special business Company acquired in May 2002 pursuant to agreements dated 14 February Details of the special business to be proposed at the AGM are contained 2002.
Otherwise, no director had, during or at the end of the year, any in the Circular Letter to shareholders accompanying the Companys Annual material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Groups Report and Accounts.
Special business comprises the renewal of the business.
directors allotment authority and permission to make non pre-emptive issues The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are of ordinary shares in limited circumstances and renewal of the authority for set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 38. the market purchase of Company shares.
Employee relations and involvement Share capital The Company is firmly committed to the principles of employee involvement.
Details of share movements during the year, including shares issued and A full range of briefing, consultation and bargaining arrangements have been options granted under the employee share schemes and shares and options developed in all parts of the Group and these are subject to continuous held by the Scottish & Newcastle employee share trusts are contained in review and improvement.
Disabled persons Payment of suppliers Full and fair consideration has been given to applications for employment The Company agrees terms and conditions with suppliers before business made by disabled persons and appropriate training, career development takes place.
The Companys policy and practice is to pay agreed invoices in and promotion have been provided in all cases.
accordance with the terms of payment.
At the year end the amount owed to trade creditors by the Company was equivalent to 13 days of purchases Political and charitable contributions from suppliers.
During the financial year the Group made charitable contributions totalling 536,000 2002 525,000.
The Group made no political contributions Notifiable interests during the year or in the previous financial year.
As at 1 July 2003, the Company has been notified of the following interests representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Auditors Company: A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors and AXA S. A.
35% to authorise the Board to set their remuneration will be put to the forthcoming Legal & General Group Plc 33% Annual General Meeting.
Anna Therman 31% Peter Hartwall 31% By Order of the Board Prudential Plc 31% Peter Kennerley T. Hemmings Family Interests 30% Secretary 1 July 2003
