A29424 S&N accounts 16 7 03 12:48 pm Page 17 16 Scottish & Newcastle Annual Report and Accounts 2003 The key value drivers in the brewing business are sales growth, brand development and operational excellence.
We will focus aggressively on all three in order to achieve our objective of sustained value creation.
VALUE CREATION S&Ns ultimate objective is Organisation within a reasonable time frame.
Financial capacity sustained value creation From July 2003, a new body, Within mature markets we would A robust balance sheet and financial We shall focus on driving value from the Executive Management Group expect this to happen within three flexibility are critical to the success our existing businesses, maximising EMG, became responsible for years of acquisition as a maximum, of the business.
Borrowings at the growth and operational efficiencies.
delivering the operational objectives and typically within two years.
year end are 36bn and balance We shall apply rigorous criteria to of the Group, and for recommending In higher growth, developing sheet ratios are at levels with which possible developments into carefully strategic developments to the Group markets we would allow a business we are not comfortable.
a longer period to meet its cost of Managed Retail will reduce The EMG is chaired by the of capital: the cost of capital will borrowings to a more modest figure Return on invested capital Chief Executive and brings together be higher and the price paid will and we intend through this and other In a business environment where key functional specialities and general take into account higher growth measures to restore the ratios to capital is rationed, the level of managers of the business.
more normal levels, thus enhancing return on invested capital is the The structure will enhance our financial flexibility.
S&N monitors accountability and speed of decision Performance targets and The Board has also reviewed its return on capital rigorously and making, ensuring that the business incentives its dividend policy and has evaluates all budget and capital responds with urgency to the Managers and employees have recommended a re-basing of the expenditure against its cost of fast moving markets in which performance targets aligned to dividend to an appropriate level capital with the aim of maximising it operates.
The remuneration for the requirements of the business economic profit.
of senior management is tied to in its new shape.
It is intended that Acquisition criteria a measure of economic profit.
The the total full year dividend will be Value drivers Expansion by acquisition is always remuneration of middle managers re-based to a level approximately The key value drivers in the an option.
However, we shall apply is tied to the constituent parts of the one third lower than the total full brewing industry are organic sales rigorous acquisition criteria and value chain that they can influence year dividend for the year ended growth, brand development and measurement of performance.
such as sales, costs and capital 27 April 2003. operational excellence in brewing Firstly, all acquisitions must fit our employed.
All employees with a The Board of S&N remains and distribution.
We will focus more strategic goals and make a genuine minimum of one years service committed to maintaining an aggressively on these in order to difference to the Group.
Secondly, participate in a profit share which is efficient capital structure and will create value through sales growth all acquisitions must create value paid in S&N shares.
At least half of take appropriate actions to maintain and improved margins.
by beating their cost of capital our employees hold S&N shares.
