A29424 S&N accounts 16 7 03 12:48 pm Page 29 28 Scottish & Newcastle Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Executive Management Group Chief Executive Tony Froggatt Operational Management Functional Specialisation John Dunsmore UK Beer Ian McHoul Finance John Nicolson International Beer Henry Fairweather Human Resources Didier Lefvre Brasseries Kronenbourg Peter Kennerley Secretariat, Legal Bob Ivell S&N Retail To be appointed Marketing To be appointed Operations To be appointed Information Systems From July 2003, a new body, the Executive To complement and enhance the existing team, Management Group EMG, became responsible three new appointments are being made: Group for delivering the operational objectives of the Marketing Director, Group Operations Director Group, and for recommending strategic and Group Information Systems Director.
developments to the Group Board.
The structure will enhance accountability The EMG is chaired by the Chief Executive and and speed of decision making, ensuring that brings together key functional specialities and the business responds with urgency to the general managers of the business.
fast moving markets in which it operates.
International Management Development Anne Morrow, Tobias Drogseth, Amy Howlett S&N has launched an International Graduate their home country.
The graduates will develop Programme with the objective of building a resource cross functional skills and capabilities to operate of 60 high calibre graduates over the next five years in different markets and cultures.
to undertake a variety of international assignments.
Three of the twelve graduates recruited in year In the first year an international project team worked one are photographed left to right, Anne Morrow together to recruit individuals from six European from the UK, Tobias Drogseth from Norway and countries.
Each participant in the programme Amy Howlett from Ireland.
All three will have their speaks at least two European languages fluently first placement with Brasseries Kronenbourg and their first assignment is in a country other than in France.
SHARING AND IMPLEMENTING INTERNATIONAL BEST PRACTICE
