| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 54 Board of Directors & Executive Team Executive Directors Chairman 2002.
Previously, he was with Shell Oil for Ian Russell 50 is Chief Executive, having Charles Miller Smith 63 joined the Board over 35 years, serving as President and been appointed to this position in April as Deputy Chairman in August 1999 and Chief Executive officer from 1993 to 1998.
He joined ScottishPower as Finance was appointed Chairman in April 2000.
He is an honorary life member of the Board Director in April 1994 and became Deputy Following a career with Unilever for some 30 of the American Petroleum Institute and Chief Executive in November 1998.
He is a years, during the last five of which he was holds various posts with the James A Baker member of the Institute of Chartered Director of Finance and latterly of the Food III Institute for Public Policy of Rice Accountants of Scotland, having trained with Executive, he was appointed Chief Executive University and the University of Houston.
His Thomson McLintock, and has held senior of ICI in 1995 and then served as Chairman current term of ofce will expire at the AGM finance positions with Tomkins plc and from 1999 to 2001.
He is an international in 2005.
adviser to Goldman Sachs, a member of the Board of the Indian company, ICICI One Sir Peter Gregson GCB 66 joined the Charles Berry 51 is Executive Director UK, Source plc, and a member of the Ministry of Board in December 1996 and is the responsible in this capacity for the UK Defence Management Board.
He is companys senior independent nonenergy businesses of Generation, Energy currently serving on the committee chaired executive director and Chairman of the Management and Supply.
He joined by Professor Laura Tyson of London Remuneration Committee.
He was formerly ScottishPower in November 1991 and was Business School which is considering, in the a career civil servant, having served latterly appointed to the Board in April 1999.
He is light of the recommendations of the Higgs as Permanent Secretary of the Department a member of the Board of the Energy Review, ways of broadening the pool of nonof Energy from 1985 to 1989 and Saving Trust.
Prior to joining ScottishPower, executive directors.
He is also a Governor of Permanent Secretary of the Department of he was Group Development Director of the Henley Management College.
Trade and Industry until his retirement in Norwest Holst, a subsidiary of Compagnie June 1996.
He was previously Deputy Gnrale des Eaux, and prior to that held Non-Executive Directors Chairman of the Board of Companions of management positions within subsidiaries Euan Baird 65 joined the Board in January the Chartered Institute of Management and of Pilkington plc.
He holds a BSc First Class 2001.
He served as Chairman and Chief a non-executive director of Woolwich plc.
His Hons in Electrical Engineering from the Executive officer of Schlumberger Limited current term of ofce has been extended by University of Glasgow and a Masters Degree from 1986 to February 2003.
He is now up to one year, such that it will expire not in Management from the Massachusetts non-executive Chairman of Rolls-Royce plc later than the AGM in 2004.
and a non-executive director of Socit Gnrale and Areva.
He is a trustee of Nolan Karras 58 joined the Board in David Nish 43 is Finance Director, having Tocqueville Alexis Trust and Carnegie November 1999.
He continues as a nonjoined ScottishPower in September 1997 as Institution of Washington, and a member of executive director of PaciCorp, having Deputy Finance Director and then being the Comit National fide Ia Science in France previously until the merger in November appointed to the Board as Finance Director and the Prime Ministers Council of Science 1999 served as Chairman of the PaciCorp in December 1999.
In this capacity, he also and Technology in the UK.
His current term Personnel Committee.
He is President of has responsibility at Board level for of ofce will expire at the AGM in 2004.
The Karras Company, Inc. and a Registered performance management and information Principal for Raymond James Financial technology.
He is a member of the Institute Mair Barnes 58 joined the Board in April Services.
He is Chief Executive officer of of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and 1998.
She is a non-executive director of Western Hay Company, Inc. and a nonits Qualications Board, a member of the GWR Group plc, Patientline plc and the executive director of beneficial Life Scottish Council of the CBI and a nonSouth African company, Woolworths Insurance Company.
He is Chairman of the executive director of The Royal Scottish Holdings Limited.
She is a member of the Utah State Higher Education Board of National Orchestra.
Prior to joining Department of Trade and Industrys Strategy Regents and a member of the board of ScottishPower, he was a partner with Price Board and Services Group Board.
She was Ogden-Weber Applied Technology College.
He has a BAcc from the previously Managing Director of Woolworths He also served as a member of the Utah University of Glasgow.
plc in the UK until 1994, and subsequently House of Representatives from 1981 to became Chairman of Vantios plc until 1998.
1990, and as Speaker of the Utah House of She was also formerly a non-executive Representatives from 1989 to 1990.
His director of Abbey National plc, Littlewoods current term of ofce will expire at the AGM plc and George Wimpey plc.
Her current in 2006. term of ofce will expire at the AGM in 2004.
Ewen Macpherson 61 joined the Board in Philip Carroll 65 joined the Board in September 1996 and is Chairman of the January 2002.
He was formerly Chairman Audit Committee.
He had a long career with and Chief Executive officer of Fluor 3i Group plc, leading to his appointment as Corporation, a California-based international Chief Executive from 1992 until his engineering, construction and services retirement in 1997.
He is Chairman of company, until his retirement in February Merrill Lynch New Energy Technology plc | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 55 and a non-executive director of Foreign & and Business in the Community.
Prior to Colonial Investment Trust plc and Pantheon educated at the Universit Paul Valry III in joining ScottishPower, he held a number of International Participations plc.
He is also Montpellier and the University of North company secretarial appointments, latterly Chairman of the Trustees of Carolina.
as Company Secretary of The Laird Group GlaxoSmithKline Pension Fund.
Previous plc and then Stakis plc, now part of the appointments include non-executive Terry Hudgens 48 was appointed Chief Hilton Group.
He is a graduate in law from directorships of M&G Group plc, Booker plc Executive officer of ScottishPowers the University of Edinburgh LLB Hons and and The Law Debenture Corporation plc.
He competitive US energy business, PPM, in the London School of Economics LLM and will retire from the Board after the AGM in May 2001 and joined the Executive Team in is a member of the Institute of Chartered 2003.
He joined PaciCorp as Secretaries and Administrators.
Senior Vice President of Power Supply in Nick Rose 45 joined the Board in February April 2000, having previously spent 25 years Michael Pittman 50 was appointed Group 2003: he is the Audit Committees financial with Texaco, Inc.
He was formerly President Director, Human Resources in November expert and will succeed Ewen Macpherson of Texaco Natural Gas and served as 2001.
He has groupwide responsibility for as Chairman of the Committee later in the Texacos senior representative and elected human resources, leading the focus on year.
He is Finance Director of Diageo plc, officer in the Natural Gas Supply talent management, one of the groups having been appointed to this position in Association.
He has a bachelors degree in main strategic thrusts.
Previously he held senior finance civil engineering from the University of in December 1979 and was appointed to positions with GrandMet and was latterly Houston.
the PaciCorp Board in May 2000.
He Finance Director of International Distillers & chairs the PaciCorp Foundation for Vintners in 1996 and then of United Judi Johansen 44 was appointed Learning Board and is involved in numerous Distillers & Vintners in 1997.
He is also a President and Chief Executive officer of civic activities.
He has held several positions director of Mot Hennessy.
His current term PaciCorp in June 2001 and joined the within PaciCorp, including safety and of ofce, subject to his election in 2003, will Executive Team in December 2001.
She is health, risk management and operations.
He expire at the AGM in 2006. responsible for all of PaciCorps operations.
holds an advanced degree in environmental She joined PaciCorp as Executive Vice health from the University of Washington.
Executive Team President of Regulation and External Affairs The Executive Team is constituted as a in December 2000, having held senior James Stanley 48 was appointed Group committee of the Board and includes not positions with the Bonneville Power Director, Commercial and Legal in March only the Executive Directors of the Board Administration and Washington Water 1996.
He is responsible in this role for the but also the following key Executives and Power.
She is involved in several civic and provision of all legal, commercial and Ofcers from the group: professional activities.
She has a bachelors associated services throughout the group degree in political science from Colorado and particularly the negotiation, structuring Julian Brown 53 was appointed Group State University and a law degree from and delivery of M&A projects such as the Director, Strategy in April 1997, having Northwestern School of Law at Lewis & sale of Southern Water plc.
In his early joined ScottishPower in 1993.
He began his Clark College in Portland, Oregon.
career he specialised in commercial commercial career with Exxon Chemical in litigation in private practice.
In 1986 he Australia and subsequently spent seven Ronnie Mercer 59 was appointed Group moved to the Trafalgar House Group and years with management consultants Director, Infrastructure in April 2001 and is subsequently became both Commercial McKinsey and Company.
He holds a BSc responsible in this role for the UK wires Director of John Brown plc and General from the Australian National University and business.
He is a member of the Board of Counsel to the Global Engineering Division a PhD in Chemistry from University College the Electricity Association.
He joined the of the Group.
He is a graduate in law from London.
With effect from 1 April 2003, he ScottishPower Generation Business in 1994 Nottingham University and the College of left the Executive Team to assume a new and was appointed Generation Director in Law in Chester where he qualied as a position within the group.
1996 and then Managing Director of solicitor in 1980.
Previous career Dominic Fry 43 joined ScottishPower in positions include Scottish Director and September 2000 as Group Director, Managing Director roles in British Steel.
He is was educated at Paisley College of responsible for investor and media relations, Technology.
communications with employees, corporate social responsibility and management of the Andrew Mitchell 51 was appointed Group groups overall reputation.
He has held Company Secretary in July 1993 and is appointments as Communications Director responsible in this role for corporate with J Sainsbury plc and Eurotunnel plc.
He governance and reporting, shareholder chairs the Trading Board of the Glasgow services, compliance and group security.
He Science Centre and is a communications also serves as Chairman of the trustees of adviser to the Royal Shakespeare Company the groups UK pension schemes and as the | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 56 Board of Directors & Executive Team continued Members of the Audit Committee Board & Executive Team changes Ewen Macpherson, Chairman Allan Leighton resigned from the Board on Philip Carroll 12 June 2002.
Nick Rose was appointed to Sir Peter Gregson the Board on 19 February 2003: in Nolan Karras accordance with the Articles of Association, Nick Rose he will retire from ofce at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offers Members of the Nomination Committee himself for election.
In addition, Charles Charles Miller Smith, Chairman Miller Smith, David Nish and Ewen Mair Barnes Macpherson retire by rotation at the Annual Sir Peter Gregson General Meeting.
Charles Miller Smith and Nolan Karras David Nish, being eligible, offer themselves lan Russell for re-election.
Ewen Macpherson will retire from the Board and accordingly does not Members of the Remuneration Committee seek re-election.
David Nish has a service Sir Peter Gregson, Chairman contract terminable by either party upon Euan Baird one years notice.
Mair Barnes Nolan Karras Julian Brown served as a member of the Ewen Macpherson Executive Team throughout the year but assumed a new position within the group with effect from 1 April 2003.
ForUSreporting purposes the members of the Executive Team are regarded as ofcers of the company.
