18 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Board of Directors Alan Perelman David Arculus Robert Walker Derek Osborn Eric Anstee Marisa Cassoni Brian Duckworth Clare Tritton John McAdam Martin Bettington Martin Flower John Banyard Board Committees Environmental and Corporate Social Remuneration Committee Senior independent non-executive Responsibility Advisory Committee Director Membership of Board Committees M C Flower Chairman is as detailed below: F A Osborn Chairman T D G Arculus M C Flower T D G Arculus J D G McAdam Audit Committee Group General Counsel and Company M J Bettington Secretary P P Davies Secretary E E Anstee Chairman R Brydon Jannetta Nominations Committee T D G Arculus B Duckworth P P Davies LL.
Solicitor M L Cassoni LF Graziano T D G Arculus Chairman F A Osborn J W Oatridge M C Flower Secretary P P Davies R M Walker J D G McAdam Secretary P P Davies Secretary P P Davies Charitable Contributions Committee Executive Committee Treasury Committee B Duckworth Chairman RMWalker R M Walker Chairman ML Cassoni Chairman Secretary P P Davies T D G Arculus E E Anstee J K Banyard T D G Arculus M J Bettington T E Jack P P Davies and Secretary A S Perelman B Duckworth R M Walker PJ Gavan M R Wilson JW Oatridge Secretary P P Davies A S Perelman PKTandon 19 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 David Arculus MA MSc Chairman 57 Martin Bettington BSc MechEng MBA 50 Derek Osborn CB 62 Mr Arculus joined the Board in May 1996 as Mr Bettington joined the Board in November Mr Osborn joined the Board on a non-executive Director and was appointed 1994.
He is the Managing Director of Severn 21 September 1998 and is a leading Chairman on 29 July 1998.
He is Chairman Trents waste management business, Biffa gure in the environmental world.
He of Earls Court & Olympia Group Ltd and is Waste Services.
Mr Bettington was previously was Chairman of the UK Round Table on a non-executive Director of Barclays PLC.
employed by BET Plc, Biffas former holding Sustainable Development from 1999 to He was recently appointed as a non-executive company.
He holds an MBA from Manchester 2000 and is now a member of the UK Director of Mm0.
From 1998 to October Business School.
2 2001 he was Chairman of IPC Group Ltd.
He has been Chairman of UNED UK since Until 1997 he was Group Managing Director Marisa Cassoni BSc ACA 51 1996 and was Chairman of the International of Emap Plc, the international media Ms Cassoni joined the Board on Institute for Environment and Development company, where he played a significant role 1 September 2001.
She is currently Group from 1998 to 2002.
He is Chairman of in the growth of that company.
Mr Arculus Finance Director of Royal Mail plc, having Jupiter Global Green Investment Trust was formerly a journalist and a producer at previously been Group Finance Director at and of the international advisory board of the BBC.
In April 2002, he was appointed by Britannic Assurance plc from 1998 to 2001.
Mr Osborn was Director General the Government to chair its Better Regulation Ms Cassoni qualied as an accountant with of Environment Protection in the Department Task Force.
Deloittes where she rose to be Corporate of the Environment from 1990 to 1995 and Finance Manager.
She later moved to the Chairman of the Management Board of the Robert Walker MA 58 Prudential Corporation, becoming Group European Environment Agency from 1995 Mr Walker joined the Board in May 1996 as Finance Director of the Prudentials UK to 1999. a non-executive Director.
He was appointed Division in 1994.
Deputy Chief Executive in July 1999 and Alan Perelman MA MSc 55 became Group Chief Executive in August Brian Duckworth BA FCCA FCIWEM Mr Perelman joined the Board in October 2000.
He has previously worked for Procter FIWO 54 2001 and was appointed Group Finance & Gamble, McKinsey & Company and Mr Duckworth joined the Board in Director in December 2001.
Prior to this PepsiCo Inc. where he was a Division November 1994.
He has worked in various he was Group Finance Director at Whitbread President.
Mr Walker is also a non-executive roles since joining Severn Trent in 1974 from 1990 to 2001.
Previous positions held Director of Wolseley Plc.
and was appointed Managing Director of were Group Finance Director at The Gateway Severn Trent Water Limited on 1 April 1995.
Corporation and various positions at Rio Eric Anstee FCA 52 Mr Duckworth was appointed as a nonTinto both in the UK and overseas.
Mr Anstee joined the Board in July 1999.
He is executive Director of Avon Rubber plc Chairman of Mansell plc and a non-executive and Redrow Plc in 2002.
He has served Clare Tritton BA QC 67 Director of SSL International plc.
He was as the President of the Institution of Water Mrs Tritton joined the Board in November appointed Chairman of D P Communications Ofcers and Chairman of Water UK, the 1991.
She is also a Trustee Director of UK plc in May 2002.
Until August 2001 water industrys trade association.
certain of the Severn Trent pension schemes.
he was Chief Executive Financial Services Mrs Tritton has wide legal experience with of Old Mutual Group, having been Group Martin Flower BA 56 emphasis on European Community law and Finance Director from November 1998 to Mr Flower joined the Board in June 1996 particularly on competition law.
Prior to that, he was Group and is the senior independent non-executive on the Monopolies and Mergers Commission Finance Director of The Energy Group PLC, Director.
He is Group Chief Executive of Coats and on FIMBRA until May 1998.
Mrs Tritton which was acquired by Texas Utilities in plc and, during his career at Coats, has been is Chief Executive of Throckmorton Estates 1998, and Group Finance Director of Eastern based in different parts of Europe, Asia Pacic and was, until recently, a non-executive Group plc between 1993 and 1995 prior to and South America.
He has a particular Director of the Birmingham Royal Ballet its acquisition by Hanson plc.
Before joining interest in and knowledge of European and Trust Company.
She is also Chair of the Eastern, he was a senior partner with Ernst EU affairs.
Primary Immunodeciency Association and & Young and a member of the Management serves on the Country Land and Business Board of the Management Consultancy arm.
John McAdam BSc PhD 55 Association.
He is a member of the Accounting Standards Dr McAdam joined the Board on Boards Urgent Issues Task Force and a 18 September 2000.
He is Chief Executive Non-executive Director member of the Senate of the Institute of and a member of the Board of ICI PLC.
He Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
joined ICI in 1997 following the acquisition of the Specialty Chemical Businesses from John Banyard BScEng FREng FICE Unilever where he held a number of senior FCIWEM 58 positions in Birds Eye Walls Ltd, Unichema Mr Banyard joined the Board in January International and Quest International.
He is an executive Director of Severn He was appointed Executive Vice President Trent Water Limited with responsibility for Coatings and Chief Executive of ICI Paints in asset management.
He is also a Director 1998, and joined the Board of ICI PLC soon of UK Water Industry Research Limited, a after when he also became responsible for member of the Court of Craneld University Corporate Research & Technology.
He took and the Royal Academy of Engineering over as Chief Executive of ICI PLC in April Visiting Professor of Water Engineering at 2003.
He is a member of the University of Loughborough University.
Mr Banyard is Surrey Business Advisory Group.
a Chartered Civil Engineer and has worked in a number of engineering roles within the group since joining Severn Trent in 1974.
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering in 1997.
He is currently President of the Pipeline Industries Guild.
