20 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors report The Directors present their report, together prevent shareholders from participating in a Contributions for political and charitable with the audited financial statements of the rights issue and the resolution will allow the purposes group for the year ended 31 March 2003.
Directors to make alternative arrangements Donations to charitable organisations for those shareholders.
during the year amounted to 275,868 Principal activities 2002: 311,627.
No political donations The principal activities of the group Renewal of authority to purchase own shares were made during the year.
continued to be the supply of water and Last years Annual General Meeting authorised sewerage services, waste management the Directors to purchase in the market the It is the companys policy not to make any and the provision of environmental services.
companys own ordinary shares and a special donations to political parties and the Board These are described in more detail, together resolution will be proposed at this years does not intend to change that policy.
The with a review of the groups business and Annual General Meeting to renew the authority Political Parties, Elections and Referendums future developments, on pages 8 to 14 which on the same terms as outlined below.
The Act 2000, however, defines political donations should be read in conjunction with this Directors have no present intention that the and expenditure very broadly which, in report.
Details of the principal joint venture, company should purchase its own ordinary the continued absence of guidelines from associated and subsidiary undertakings of shares but they would, nevertheless, wish to the government, may cover some business the group at 31 March 2003 appear in notes be able to act quickly if circumstances arise activities not normally thought of as political 12 and 25 to the financial statements on in which they consider such purchases to be donations, for example, involvement in pages 46, 47, 61 and 62. in the interests of shareholders generally.
The seminars or functions that may be attended proposed authority is set out in Resolution 14. by politicians or job exchanges between Dividend and reserves The authority will be limited to approximately industry and government.
Details of dividends paid, payable and 10% of the companys issued ordinary share proposed are set out in note 8 to the financial capital as at 31 March 2003.
The minimum Without such guidelines, the Board considers statements on page 43.
Subject to approval at price per ordinary share payable by the it prudent to obtain approval to incur the Annual General Meeting, the recommended company exclusive of expenses will be expenditure on such activities and special 5 final dividend of 28.56p 2002: 28.56p 65 p, the nominal value of each ordinary resolutions to that effect Resolutions 7 to 11 19 net for each ordinary share will be paid on share.
The maximum to be paid per ordinary covering the company and certain of its 1 October 2003 to shareholders on the register share on any exercise of such authority subsidiaries, will be proposed at the Annual at the close of business on 20 June 2003, exclusive of expenses will be an amount General Meeting.
The Board will not use this bringing the total for the year to 45.90p not more than 5% above the average of the authority to make any political donations, 2002: 45.90p.
Proposed transfers to from middle market quotations for ordinary shares in the generally accepted sense.
reserves are set out in note 20 to the financial of the company as derived from the London statements on page 53.
Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five Employees business days immediately preceding the The group employed 14,890 people as at Share capital date of each purchase.
Of these Details of movements in share capital are be made on the London Stock Exchange 4,904 33% were employed in the water shown in note 19 to the financial statements and only in circumstances where the Board business, 4,232 28% in the Biffa waste on pages 51 and 52.
A special resolution believes that they are in the interests of business and 4,761 32% in the Severn Resolution 13 will be put to shareholders shareholders generally.
Approximately at the Annual General Meeting which, if purchases of ordinary shares will only be 30% of employees are based outside the passed, will renew the Directors authority made if the Board believes that they would UK, mainly in the USA, Belgium and Italy.
to issue equity securities for cash without result in an increase in earnings per share.
The proportions of employees in each of first having to offer these securities to Any purchases will be nanced out of profits the major business units continue to reect existing shareholders, as is required by available for distribution.
This authority will the diversity of the groups activities.
Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985. be valid until the earlier of the conclusion The authority allows the Directors to allot of the next Annual General Meeting or Group companies continue to encourage equity securities in connection with a rights 29 October 2004. communication with and between employees.
It also permits the Directors to allot Each of the major business units has its own equity securities up to a maximum amount Supplier payment policy in-house magazine, uses employee surveys, equal to 5% of the issued ordinary shares Individual operating companies within team briengs and tool box talks, and has an of the company.
For these purposes, equity the group are responsible for establishing intranet facility covering all main locations.
securities are ordinary shares in the company, appropriate policies with regard to the payment but they do not include shares which are of their suppliers.
The companies agree Intranets are increasingly used as the allotted under employee share schemes.
By terms and conditions under which business basis for open forum discussions and for exempting the company from the requirements transactions with suppliers are conducted.
of Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985, It is group policy that, provided a supplier the Directors will have greater exibility is complying with the relevant terms and The group-wide intranet is now established to raise finance.
The authority will be valid conditions, including the prompt and complete as the principal communication mechanism until the earlier of the conclusion of the next submission of all specified documentation, for senior managers across the group in the Annual General Meeting or 29 October 2004. payment will be made in accordance with UK, Europe and the USA.
The focus over the agreed terms.
It is also group policy to ensure past year has been to develop intra-business A rights issue would involve the company that suppliers know the terms on which collaboration and consultation, for example, offering existing shareholders the opportunity payment will take place when business is between sales and marketing teams and to buy new ordinary shares.
Trade creditors at the year-end are technology experts.
In addition, the extranet ordinary shares that a shareholder can buy in estimated as representing no greater than capability has been developed so that a rights issue depends on the number he she 30 days purchases 2002: no greater than external contractors and suppliers working already owns.
Regulations in some countries 30 days.
with an internal project team are able to 21 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 access the on-line team room: for example veried either by processes such as Investors auditing systems in addition to existing the consultants and contractors supporting in People or by the achievement of a wide group protocols.
the Biffa project team on the Leicester City range of accredited qualications.
Regrettably, however, we have to report The groups Lifestyle exible benets an employee fatality in April 2002.
Such Group companies continue to maintain scheme is now available to around 5,000 UK accidents are investigated rigorously and good relationships with the recognised employees, with further increases envisaged.
the results used as lessons to promote trade unions and their directly elected improvement.
Group companies continue to meet the minimum requirements of the employment We will continue with our efforts to create After a series of discussions with the legislation in each of the countries in which a culture where proactive health and safety recognised trade unions, a revised collective we operate and we also seek to operate at management is an integral part of the way agreement has been negotiated which local best practice levels.
in which we manage our business and a harmonises terms and conditions of number of programmes are currently being employment between the former UK Waste Diversity introduced that will assist us towards this goal.
and Biffa Waste Services commercial, landll Group companies continue to review their and special waste divisions, and settled a pay diversity policies and practices to ensure that Substantial shareholdings award for two years: around 1,600 employees they comply with the legislative requirements As at 10 June 2003 the company had are covered by this collective agreement.
of each location in which we operate and been notied of the following substantial also meet the companys Code of Business shareholding: Severn Trent Water have successfully Principles and Conduct.
Number of ordinary 5 implemented a new Partnership Agreement shares of 65 19p each % with its recognised trade unions and this We have reviewed processes to ensure the Legal & General has received recognition from the TUC accuracy of the data on the composition of Investment Management and Government ministers.
our current workforce and during the last Limited 10,376,057 3.02 year many business units, including Severn The annual meeting of the groups European Trent Services in the USA, have undertaken Consultative Council took place in October training programmes to emphasise the Accounts of Severn Trent Water Limited 2002.
These meetings are developing a importance of diversity and equality.
Separate accounts for Severn Trent Water dialogue and a better understanding of the This and similar initiatives will ensure Limited are prepared and sent to the issues facing our European businesses.
that we continue to attract and retain the Director General of Water Services.
A copy best possible workforce that reects the of these accounts is available from the The Board endorsed Code of Business diversity of manpower resources available.
website of Severn Trent Water Limited Principles and Conduct defines the values www.
co. uk or on written request and vision of the group and underpins the The company continues to actively to the Company Secretary at the address strategies that guide business activities.
The participate in the Employers Forum on given on the back cover.
There is no charge groups business goals are long term and Disability, embracing its approaches for for this publication.
the Code has been developed to provide both employees and customers.
appropriate ethical direction to sustain their Research and development achievement.
The Code is available at the Further information on the groups diversity Research and development expenditure, group website www.
position is detailed in the companys including the amounts that have been Stewardship report.
capitalised, amounted to 4.9 million Further details of the companys achievements 2002: 5.2 million vis--vis our stated sustainable development Health and safety targets are detailed in the companys Once again, the effort to improve health and Severn Trent Water has aligned its research Stewardship report.
safety management has been undertaken and development activities to the likely during a period of further growth both in requirements of AMP4 and in particular Whistle blowing procedures are in place in the UK and abroad and in an atmosphere to the forthcoming standards for nutrient every group company to deal with allegations of increased regulation.
removal from sewage efuents, the control of harassment, bullying etc.
and any other of odour at sewage treatment works and the breaches of the companys codes and values.
The group has responded to these efficiency of the anaerobic digestion process.
challenges and has rened its already Each business unit has ongoing training maturing health and safety management Sustainability remains a key theme, not and development and succession planning system by introducing a comprehensive set least through participation in the DTIs mechanisms to ensure that there are sufficient of performance standards and technical Sustainable Water Management programme.
technically and managerially competent guidelines designed to produce quantiable Participation also continues in grant-aided employees available to meet current and benets in the coming years.
consortia projects and with academic and future business needs and customer research organisations.
At the highest level, this is The Group Health and Safety Committee, managed across the group by a Leadership chaired by the Chief Executive, continued Biffa has continued with its support into Development programme, based on agreed to monitor the performance and progress of research to improve the understanding of competencies, covering the top 120 managers.
safety programmes within group companies sectoral resource ows in the economy.
This throughout the year including initiatives mass balance resource ow programme is All group companies continue to invest in covering occupational road risk and supported by both the Environmental Agency the development of their employees at all behavioural safety.
Group companies have and by DEFRA in their efforts to develop levels.
Much of this development is externally continued to develop their own internal better information reporting systems relating 22 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors report continued to the ow of municipal solid waste.
In addition, Directors and seven non-executive Directors.
objectives and address matters relating to Biffa are chairing a DTI programme targeted The Board has reviewed the status of the corporate social responsibility.
Additional at innovative waste treatment processes.
non-executive Directors and has confirmed details of the companys environmental that it regards them as being independent.
objectives may be found on page 24.
Severn Trent Laboratories have continued However, Mrs Trittons appointment has to develop new and improved analytical been reviewed during the year in light of her The Charitable Contributions Committee methods that improve efficiency or meet length of service and she will retire from the meets regularly throughout the year to emerging client needs.
New methods have Board on 30 July 2003. award donations to charities.
been introduced to analyse volatile organic compounds in wastewater and improve the The Board meets ten times each year and Finally, the Severn Trent Executive Committee levels of detection of mercury analysis as convenes additional meetings to deal with has delegated authority to approve capital well as improvements to the level of arsenic major matters as and when these arise.
The and other expenditure within dened limits detection that can be achieved in water, Board has established a formal schedule which have been reviewed during the year sediment and soil samples.
of matters which are specifically reserved by the Board.
Proposals involving major to it for decision thereby ensuring that it undertakings or matters of strategic Severn Trent Services research and maintains control over strategies and financial signicance are subject to the detailed development expenditure has focused and key operational issues.
It has also put review and approval of the Board.
The on expanding the scope of its existing in place an organisational structure with Executive Committee is responsible for product range.
This has included technical clearly dened lines of responsibility and reviewing the financial and operational developments to the ClorTec hypochlorite delegations of authority, which are reviewed performance of all companies within the dosing system, which has led to a 20% from time to time.
group and in establishing, or supporting reduction in the amount of raw material the Board in establishing policies covering used per pound of hypochlorite produced.
In Board committees organisational and employment matters.
the UK instrumentation development has led The Board has delegated certain powers to the introduction of a bufferless chlorine and duties to the Board committees all of Directors analyser which is now on trial with a number which operate within clearly dened terms Details of current Directors are shown on of customers and a lower cost water meter, of reference and in accordance with the Code, pages 18 and 19. designed for the global market.
The terms of reference are currently undergoing a periodic review.
All Mr E E Anstee, Mr T D G Arculus and Corporate governance the committees meet regularly throughout Mr R M Walker retire from the Board by The company attaches great signicance the year except for the Nominations rotation in accordance with the Articles to the maintenance of good corporate Committee which meets when required.
of Association of the company and, being governance procedures and adherence The membership of the committees is set eligible, offer themselves for reappointment to best practice recognising that they play out on page 18. at this years Annual General Meeting.
their part in creating a framework which can provide increased benets for shareholders.
The Nominations Committee makes Mrs C Tritton will retire from the Board at The company regards the Combined Code recommendations to the Board on the the conclusion of this years Annual General on Corporate Governance the Code appointment to the Board of both executive Meeting but will not be seeking reappointment.
as a valuable development of previous and non-executive Directors, considers corporate governance arrangements and succession planning and related issues.
Mr Walker has a service contract which recommendations which it has embraced in provides for not less than 12 months written recent years.
Following the recommendations The Remuneration Committees principal notice of termination by the company and in the reports on the Role and Effectiveness terms of reference are set out in the not less than 12 months written notice by of non-executive Directors the Higgs Report Remuneration report on pages 25 to 30. him, expiring at any time.
and Audit Committees the Smith Report the company is reviewing its corporate governance The main responsibilities of the Audit Mr Anstee and Mr Arculus, being nonarrangements and will consider making Committee are referred to later under executive Directors, do not have service changes as necessary and appropriate once Internal control.
the Financial Services Authority has nalised the amendments to the Code later in the The Treasury Committee determines matters The Directors of the company at 31 March year.
Throughout the year ended 31 March of treasury policy and its approval is required 2003 and their interests in the shares of the 2003 the company has been in compliance for certain treasury transactions.
The groups company can be found on pages 29 and 30. with the provisions set out in Section 1 of treasury affairs are managed centrally and No Director had an interest in the shares the Code.
in accordance with its Treasury Procedures of any subsidiary undertaking.
No contract Manual and Policy statement.
Compliance significant to the companys business in Statements by the Directors covering with these policies and procedures is which a Director had a material interest their responsibilities in relation to the monitored by management, by the groups was entered into during the year.
groups system of internal control and the internal auditors and, to the extent necessary adoption of the going concern basis for the to support their audit report, by the external Auditors preparation of the financial statements are auditors.
As of 1 April 2003 the Board has instituted set out on pages 23 and 24 respectively.
formal policies and procedures so as to The Environmental and Corporate Social minimise the risk of the independence and The Board Responsibility Advisory Committees objectivity of the groups external auditors A list of Directors and their background principal terms of reference are to help the Auditors being compromised.
The details appear on pages 18 and 19.
The to develop further both the companys primary policies in place include the Board currently consists of five executive environmental leadership, strategy and following safeguards: 23 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 1 In their assessment of the independence no such services should be provided by The executive Directors and senior of the Auditors, the Audit Committee the Auditors, except on rare occasions management teams of each of the principal receives annually in writing details of in relation to standalone projects, where subsidiary companies have identied the relationships between the Auditors specialist skills are required and then risks facing their businesses and have and the group, which may bear on the only with the express, prior authorisation made an assessment of the impact of Auditors independence and receives of the Audit Committee Chairman.
The controls that are in place conrmation that they are independent to manage each of the more significant of the group as required by auditing Transaction related services risks in each unit have been identied standard SAS 610.
Historically the Auditors have generally within a comprehensive control framework been used for such work.
However, and an assessment has been made of the 2 The Audit Committee meets with the it has been decided to commence a effectiveness of these controls.
Auditors three times a year, with executive competitive process to decide who management in attendance by invitation.
should undertake transaction related The Directors of each of the principal The Audit Committee and the Auditors services for the group.
The Auditors have subsidiary companies regularly consider new also hold separate meetings on these been invited to participate in this process risks and threats and control weaknesses occasions without the attendance of and will continue to undertake such work that may have become apparent and report executive management and at any other pending the outcome of this process.
at six-monthly intervals to the Group Chief time at the sole discretion of either the Executive.
They also conduct an annual Audit Committee or the Auditors.
Other advisory services excludes services review of the risks facing their businesses in the above four categories and report on this review in one of the six- 3 The Audit Committee annually reviews Each project is assessed on a case by case monthly reports.
the level of the Auditors fees in respect basis, depending on who is best suited to of the audit of the financial statements of perform the work.
Any material project for The Board reviews risk management and the the group and its subsidiaries at the same other advisory services fees in excess of effectiveness of the system of internal control time as considering the adequacy of the 100,000 where the Auditors were being through the Audit Committee.
The Audit Auditors proposed audit plan.
considered for the provision of the service Committee meets three times a year and would be the subject of a competitive both the internal and external auditors 4 In addition to the annual appointment process.
Further, any projects for other have direct access to the Chairman of the of Auditors by the shareholders, the advisory services where the fees payable Committee.
The Audit Committee receives Audit Committee reviews the Auditors to the Auditors exceed 500,000 must be reports on a six-monthly frequency from the performance on an ongoing basis.
approved by the Audit Committee.
Group Chief Executive on the significant risks faced by the group, an assessment of the 5 The Board has instituted the following effectiveness of controls over each of those The level of non audit-related services policies in relation to the performance risks and an action plan to improve controls provided by the Auditors and the associated by the Auditors of services for the group: where this has been assessed as necessary.
fees will be considered annually by the Any significant control weaknesses that Audit Committee in the context of the Audit-related services including reporting have been identied are also reported to Auditors independence, as part of the on regulatory accounts, covenant and the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee Audit Committees review of the adequacy other borrowing related matters and also receives reports from internal audit and and objectivity of the audit process.
An Stock Exchange circulars from management on specic control issues, analysis of fees payable to the Auditors Subject to conict of interest or other agrees audit strategies and reviews reports in respect of audit and non audit-related pertinent issues impacting delivery from management on the financial results of services is provided on page 41. of the services, the Auditors are used the group.
In addition, the external auditors to perform such work on behalf of the present their audit strategy to the Audit 6 It is the groups policy to seek rotation group.
The Audit Committee has recently Committee and report on significant control of the Auditors principal engagement specifically addressed the longevity of issues upon completion of their audit.
The partner as a matter of course every five appointment of the Auditors but has Chairman of the Audit Committee reports years and, where deemed appropriate decided not to take any action for the to the Board as do the external auditors.
by the Audit Committee, of other key time being.
members of the audit team.
The Directors confirm that there is an Tax compliance and tax advisory services ongoing process for the identication, Internal control Given their knowledge of the group, evaluation and management of the The Board has overall responsibility for subject to conict of interest or other significant risks faced by the group.
This the groups system of internal control and pertinent issues impacting delivery of process has been in place throughout the for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board the services, the Auditors are used to year ended 31 March 2003 and up to the has formally established policies and undertake tax compliance and general date of approval of the Annual Report and processes for identifying and evaluating the tax advisory services.
It accords with the guidance in significant risks faced by the group.
There are assessed on a case by case basis, the report on Internal Control Guidance for are established procedures for managing depending on who is best suited to Directors on the Combined Code.
A sound these risks, of which the key elements are: perform the work.
system of internal control is designed to an organisation structure with clear lines manage risks but cannot eliminate them of accountability: regular, structured reviews Internal audit services and therefore provides reasonable but not of business risk by senior management: a The group has its own internally resourced absolute assurance against a company scheme of delegated authority: pre-approval Internal Audit Department with a direct failing to meet its business objectives or of plans, budgets and significant investments: and independent reporting line to the against material errors, losses or fraud or and monthly reporting of financial results Audit Committee.
It is the intention that breaches of laws or regulations.
and other key business monitors.
24 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors report continued On 20 January 2003, the group established to the Annual General Meeting, private by the Financial Reporting Council FRC investors are given the opportunity to meet and chaired by Sir Robert Smith published the Board and also to question them during its report on the roles and responsibilities of the meeting itself.
They are encouraged to audit committees and recommendations on participate in the meeting.
Photographic the development of the existing Combined displays and literature are available to Code guidance.
The Audit Committee has shareholders at the Annual General Meeting given preliminary consideration to, and will to demonstrate the nature and extent of continue to assess its compliance with, the the groups environmental services.
The provisions of the report.
The Audit Committees company also responds to enquiries from terms of reference have been periodically shareholders as they arise throughout the reviewed in recent years in order to ensure year.
The company will, on request, provide that they comply with good practice.
a summary of the proceedings of the Annual General Meeting.
Environment, corporate social responsibility and sustainable development Regular communication is maintained The companys corporate vision is to with institutional shareholders and be at the forefront of the environmental fund managers through meetings and services industry.
The company has a policy presentations.
Such communications statement that defines how the vision is are sensitive to the need not to disclose incorporated into the companys activities in potentially price-sensitive information.
relation to the environment, corporate social responsibility and sustainable development.
Going concern The Board has a reasonable expectation that The Board has established an Environmental the group and the company have adequate and Corporate Social Responsibility Advisory resources to continue in operational existence Committee to provide advice on the companys for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the activities and programmes in relation to the financial statements set out on pages 32 environment and aspects of corporate social to 62 have been prepared on the going responsibility and a Charitable Contributions concern basis.
Committee, which is responsible for allocating the charitable contributions budget as Auditors approved by the Board each year.
Following  conversion to a Limited Liability Partnership on 1 January The company reports on its environmental 2003,  resigned as and corporate social responsibility performance auditors and  LLP and its contribution to sustainable was appointed by the Board to ll the casual development in the annual Stewardship vacancy.
The Companies Act 1985 requires report.
The most recent edition of the that special notice be given of the resolution report may be obtained from our website to reappoint  LLP as www.
com or by sending a auditors at the forthcoming Annual General request for a free copy to the address Meeting.
The appropriate special notice has given on the back cover.
been served on the company and, accordingly, a resolution proposing the reappointment of The company complies with the guidelines  LLP will be put to issued by the Association of British Insurers on the Annual General Meeting.
socially responsible investment and reporting on social, ethical and environmental matters.
By order of the Board P P Davies LL.
Solicitor Economic and Monetary Union Group General Counsel and Company The group started preparations for the Secretary introduction of the euro in mid-1997.
The experience gained from the conversion of our 10 June 2003 subsidiary and associated companies located in the euro area countries has been a useful input into the conversion planning.
The group has developed an internal changeover plan that seeks to prepare for the significant system changes that would be necessary if the UK enters the EMU.
Communications with shareholders and the Annual General Meeting The company attaches considerable importance to the effectiveness of its communications with shareholders.
