Non Executive Directors Ian Clubb, CA Age 62 Chairman Ian Clubb was appointed Chairman in April 2002 and joined the Board in 1994.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Trustees of the Companys Pension Scheme.
He is also Chairman of First Choice Holidays PLC and is also a Nonexecutive director of Expro International Group plc and Marconi Corporation plc.
Richard Biffa, MinstWM Age 63 Deputy Chairman Richard Biffa joined the Board in 1991 following the merger with Rechem Environmental Services PLC of which he was previously Chairman.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He has had a long lasting association with, and a wide experience of, the waste management industry.
Philippe Delaunois, Ir, IC Age 61 Philippe Delaunois, a Belgian national, was appointed to the Board in May 2001.
He holds a degree in engineering from the States University at Mons.
He was Chief Executive of Cockerill Sambre, a Belgian steel producing company with a turnover in excess of 5bn until 1999.
He is currently a Non-executive director of a number of companies in Belgium.
Barry Pointon, BSc Age 56 Senior Independent Director Barry Pointon was appointed to the Board in 1999.
He is the Senior Independent Director and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is an engineer with over thirty years experience in industry.
He is an Executive Director of IMI plc with responsibility for business development.
Executive Directors Michael Averill, BSc, MBA, ARSM, MinstWM Age 52 Group Chief Executive Michael Averill holds an MBA from Cranfield Management School and a degree from Imperial College of Science and Technology.
He joined the Group in 1989 as a Business Development Director for Rechem International Limited.
He became Managing Director of Rechem in 1992.
He was appointed Group Chief Executive in 1994.
He is a Non-executive director of TDG plc.
David Downes, BSc, MBA, FCMA, FCT Age 57 Group Finance Director David Downes is a qualified accountant and holds an MBA from Stanford Business School and a degree in civil engineering from Kings College, University of London.
He was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director in 1993.
He was previously Deputy Chief Executive of Hunter Saphir PLC and Group Finance Director of MBS plc.
He is a Trustee of the Companys Pension Scheme.
Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees 16 shanks.
