5766 shire SFS artwork 11. qxd 22 6 04 4:10 pm Page 10 10 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Board of Directors Board of Directors 1.
Mr Angus Russell 48 Chairman and Non-executive Director Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer Joined the Board of Shire on 24 March Joined Shire as Chief Executive officer Joined Shire in 1999 as Group Finance 1997 and was appointed as non-executive and member of the Board of Shire on Director.
Mr Russell previously worked for Chairman with effect from 11 May 1999.
Mr Emmens began his ICI, Zeneca and AstraZeneca.
His last Dr Cavanaugh is President of HealthCare career in international pharmaceuticals position was Vice President Corporate Ventures LLC.
Formerly he was President with Merck & Co, Inc. in 1974.
He held Finance at AstraZeneca plc.
Prior to this, of SmithKline & French Laboratories, the a wide range of sales, marketing and he held a number of positions within the US pharmaceutical division of SmithKline administrative positions before volunteering Zeneca Group from 1993 until 1999 Beecham Corporation.
Prior to that, to help establish Astra Merck, the joint including Group Treasurer, and before that he was President of SmithKline Beecham venture between Merck and Astra AB in ICI from 1980 until 1992.
Mr Russell is Corporations clinical laboratory business of Sweden.
He later became President a chartered accountant, having qualied and, before that, President of Allergan and Chief Executive officer.
In 1999 with Coopers & Lybrand, and is a fellow International.
Prior to his industry experience, he joined Merck KGaA and established of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Dr Cavanaugh served as Deputy Assistant EMD Pharmaceuticals, the companys Mr Russell is a member of the Executive to the President of the US for Health Affairs US prescription pharmaceutical business Committee.
He is also a non-executive on the White House Staff in Washington, and was later promoted to President director of the City of London Investment DC.
He is non-executive Chairman of of the global prescription business and Trust plc.
Diversa Corporation and Vicuron, Inc. and moved to Germany to run the prescription a non-executive director of MedImmune Inc. division of that company.
Dr Wilson Totten 48 and Advancis Pharmaceutical Corporation.
graduate of Fairleigh Dickenson University Group R&D Director Dr Cavanaugh was a member of the New Jersey, US with a BS in Business Joined Shire on 17 January 1998 as R&D Remuneration Committee and the Audit Management.
Mr Emmens is the chairman Director.
Dr Totten is a medical doctor and Committee and chairman of the of the Executive Committee and Portfolio has wide experience in the pharmaceutical Nomination Committee in 2003. Review Committee.
industry covering all phases of drug development.
He has substantial experience in the eld of worldwide drug development.
He was Vice President of Clinical R&D with Astra Charnwood from 1995 to 1997, having previously worked for Fisons Pharmaceuticals from 1989 to 1995, and prior to that with 3M Health Care and Eli Lilly.
Dr Totten is a member of the Executive Committee.
5766 shire SFS artwork 11. qxd 22 6 04 4:10 pm Page 11 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Board of Directors 11 5.
Mr Robin Buchanan 51 Senior Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Joined the Board of Shire on 16 January Joined the Board of Shire on 23 December Joined the Board of Shire on 30 July 2003.
1996 having spent 28 years with Glaxo 1999 having previously served as a He is the Senior Partner of the London holding a succession of executive positions non-executive director of Roberts ofce of business consultants Bain & with Glaxo Group Research.
He is Chairman Pharmaceutical Corporation since May Company and a member of the rms of Antisoma plc and Biowisdom Ltd. 1999.
Mr Nordmann has been a financial worldwide management committee.
He is also on the board of directors of analyst in healthcare equities since 1971.
Prior to his career with Bain & Company, Pharmagene plc.
Dr Price was Chairman From September 1994 to January 2000 Mr Buchanan worked for American Express of the Remuneration Committee and he was an analyst and partner at Deereld International Banking Corporation in New a member of both the Audit Committee Management.
He is currently Co-President York, McKinsey & Company and Deloitte and the Nomination Committee in 2003. of Global Health Associates and has & Touche where he qualied as a Chartered held senior positions with PaineWebber, Accountant.
The Hon James Grant 66 Oppenheimer & Co. F Eberstadt & Co. as a non-executive director of Liberty Non-executive Director and Warner-Chilcott Laboratories, a division International plc.
Mr Buchanan has an Joined the Board of Shire on 11 May 2001 of Warner-Lambert.
Mr Nordmann received MBA with Distinction Baker Scholar from as a non-executive Director.
Prior to its his undergraduate degree from The Johns Harvard Business School.
Mr Buchanan merger with Shire, Mr Grant had been a Hopkins University and an MBA from was a member of the Remuneration director of BioChem Pharma Inc. since Fairleigh Dickinson University.
He is a partner with the law rm Nordmann is also a director of Guilford Stikeman Elliot in Montreal.
Mr Grant sits Pharmaceuticals Inc. Neurochem Inc. on the boards of two Canadian public and Pharmaceutical Resources Inc. corporations, in addition to other private Mr Nordmann was Chairman of the corporations and foundations and councils Audit Committee and a member of that are not for profit organisations.
He attended McGill University receiving a BA in Arts in 1958 and a BCL in Law in 1961.
Mr Grant was a member of the Nomination Committee in 2003.
