Our breadth of offering Ingredients continued and technical expertise has driven a significant increase this year in our sales of these speciality products.
Our ingredients group focuses on high technology ingredients been charged to operating profit.
These changes are expected for both food and non-food applications.
It has established to yield a profit improvement next year.
significant positions supplying leaders in the pharmaceutical and personal care sectors as well as in its more traditional SPIs pharmaceutical operation broadened its antacid ingredient bakery ingredients business.
It also has significant interests offering through the acquisition in 2002 of a smaller competitor.
in enzymes technology and antacid ingredients.
Sales increased This provided access to new customers in new markets.
Also 8% to 314m and profit was up 7% to 32m.
A new chief during the year the first customer application of our unique executive has recently been appointed to manage this group quick-dissolve drug delivery system, Pharmaburst, was of businesses.
This is an area of high potential and further customer launches are anticipated in 2004.
Our US polyols business, SPI, benefited from the steep growth in demand for low calorie food products.
SPI is Our enzymes business saw strong sales growth during the uniquely positioned to capitalise on the trend towards low year.
There was profit growth with strong performances from carbohydrate versions of manufacturers current products as textile and animal feed enzymes which offset the effects of its proprietary products, based on maltitol, function and taste adverse currency movements and strong competitor activity like sugar.
Working closely with food manufacturers we in bakery enzymes.
offer a broad range of low calorie sweeteners for specific applications and it is our breadth of offering and technical Abitec in the US achieved record sales and profit with the expertise that has driven a significant increase this year in personal care sector being particularly buoyant.
It is a clear our sales of these speciality products.
The outsourcing of the leader in the supply of medium chain triglycerides in the US liquid sorbitol production at Atlas Point was completed this and number two worldwide.
The technology that has delivered year and the associated rationalisation costs of 2m have this success is now employed in the UK and substantial progress has been made in European markets.
This now enables Abitec to bid for global contracts by offering strong US and European manufacturing and technical support.
The integration of Cereform, our UK and US bakery ingredients businesses, as has been previously reported, did not go well.
However, good progress was made in the second half of the year in the UK where production costs have been substantially reduced, raw material cost increases have been recovered and volumes have stabilised following the operational problems.
In the US, a new management team has focused on controlling manufacturing costs and developing profitable new business.
Our speciality ingredients business in the US which produces crisp rice, extruded grain particulates, soy protein crisp rice and specialised functional grain-based ingredients benefited from strong growth in the US nutritional bar market.
Enzymes in everyday life Jeans to juice, bread to paper all production processes that are enhanced by our enzyme technology.
20 Associated British Foods plc What are polyols?
Unlike high potency sweeteners such as aspartame which is used in very small amounts, polyols are used in the same quantity as sucrose.
Polyols are derived from sugars, but they are not processed by the body like sugars.
Polyols have many advantages, they are tooth friendly, and do not brown in bakery applications.
Polyols are used in confectionery, food, oral care, pharmaceutical and industrial applications.
Characteristics of polyols are fewer calories, pleasant sweetness, ability to hold moisture and improved processing ability.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 21 look good pay less Look good pay less Primarks offer to its customers is value for money, high quality merchandise backed by a service promise.
Primark prides itself on a loyal customer base.
22 Associated British Foods plc Retail Primark has a winning formula for providing quality merchandise at affordable prices.
Highlights of the year Primark sales grew 15% and profit up 21%.
New store openings in Birmingham and East Kilbride plus a number of rets and extensions.
116 stores and 2.1 million square feet of selling space.
Women Atmosphere, Secret Possessions and Denim Co target style-conscious women who want the latest fashions at affordable prices.
Babies and toddlers Our Early Days range provides fantastic clothes for the tiniest tots.
Kids Rebel and Young Retail at a glance Dimension produce quality hard-wearing clothes for the 2003 2002 trendiest teens.
Sales m 752 654 Operating profit m 87 72 Men Brands such as Cedarwood State and profit margin % 11.6 11.0 Denim Co provide quality, Return on capital employed % 29.7 24.2 stylish garments for men.
