Directors report The directors submit to the members their sixty-eighth Tangible fixed assets annual report together with the financial statements of the The groups tangible fixed assets are included in the financial company for the 52 weeks ended 13 September 2003. statements at cost.
The properties are employed in the business and many of them were acquired when market The corporate citizenship, corporate governance and values were substantially lower than at present.
The directors remuneration reports on pages 28 to 31 and 36 to 45 consider that a surplus over book value exists, but are unable form part of this directors report.
Profits and dividends Substantial shareholdings The group profit and loss account is on page 48.
Profit for Details of a controlling interest in the shares of the company the financial year amounted to 332m and the dividends to are given in note 30 on page 75.
Dividends are detailed in note 8 on page 62.
Other than as noted above, so far as is known, no other person Review of activities holds or is beneficially interested in a disclosable interest in The activities of the group principally concern the processing the company.
and manufacture of food in Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Asia and the US, and textile retailing in the UK and the Power to issue shares Republic of Ireland.
Comments on the development of the At the last annual general meeting, held on 5 December 2002, business during the period under review and on the future authority was given to the directors to allot unissued relevant outlook are contained within the Chairmans statement, the securities in the company up to a maximum of an amount Chief Executives review and the Finance Directors report equivalent to one third of the shares in issue at any time on pages 2 to 27. up to 4 December 2007.
No such shares have been issued.
The directors propose to renew this authority at the annual Research and development general meeting to be held on 5 December 2003 for a further Innovative use of existing and emerging technologies will period of five years.
continue to be crucial to the successful development of new products and processes for the group.
A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the directors to allot equity securities in the company We have major technical centres in the UK at the Allied for cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Technical Centre and the animal feed Central Laboratories.
This authority expires on the date of Facilities also exist at ACH Food Companies in the US, Weston the annual general meeting to be held on 5 December 2003 Technologies in Australia and AB Enzymes in Germany.
These and the directors will seek to renew this authority for the centres support the technical resources of the trading divisions following year.
in the search for new technology and in monitoring and maintaining high standards of quality and food safety.
Associated British Foods plc 1994 Share Option Scheme the Scheme Charitable and political donations The Scheme was established by the company in 1994.
Contributions to charitable organisations by the group during Under the terms of the Scheme, options to purchase the year totalled 0.2m 2002 0.2m.
Political donations ordinary shares in the company may be granted to selected were made during the year by Food Investments Pty in qualifying employees over the ten years from November 1994.
Australia to the Liberal Party of Australia of 59,623 The exercise of options is not subject to specified 2002 54,900 and to the Australian Labour Party performance criteria.
Associated British Foods plc Executive Share Option Scheme Payments to suppliers the Executive Scheme Associated British Foods plc has no trade creditors but the This scheme was approved and adopted by the company group policy on payment of suppliers is detailed on page 30. at the annual general meeting held on 15 December 2000.
34 Associated British Foods plc Under the terms of the Executive Scheme options to purchase Subsequent changes ordinary shares in the company may be granted to selected The interests shown above remained the same at employees over the ten years from 15 December 2000.
The 4 November 2003. exercise of an option under this scheme will, in accordance with institutional shareholder guidelines, be conditional on the achievement of performance criteria which are based By order of the board on growth in the group and subsidiary company profits.
Paul Lister Secretary Associated British Foods plc Executive Share Incentive 4 November 2003 Plan 2003 This scheme is to be introduced, subject to the approval of shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Details of the scheme can be found on pages 82 and 83 in a note to the Resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting.
Auditors In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company is to be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Directors The names of the persons who were directors of the company as at 4 November 2003 appear on pages 32 and 33.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, PJ Jackson and Lord MacGregor retire from the board by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, JF Harris, having been appointed since the date of the last annual general meeting, retires and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
Controlling interest The ultimate holding company of Associated British Foods plc is Wittington Investments Limited, which together with its subsidiary undertaking, Howard Investments Limited, held 54.5% of the total issued ordinary share capital.
Non-beneficial interests The directors of the company at the end of the year had the following non-beneficial interests: WG Galen Weston and George G Weston are trustees of a trust, in which they have no beneficial interest, which at 13 September 2003 held 683,073 ordinary shares of 50p 2002 683,073 in Wittington Investments Limited.
