Great value lingerie and nightwear Good quality hard wearing clothes for the trendiest teens Stylish denim and casualwear Sizes range from newborn to toddlers Affordable fashion for stylish men A major point of Retail continued differentiation between Primark and its rivals is its creation and development of own brands with major appeal to the key groups amongst its consumers.
traded very successfully since opening.
The programme Exclusive products at great prices of rets to existing stores continued during the year.
We are Primark is celebrating taking the opportunity to extend selling space wherever the launch of its new home possible during this programme and an additional 33,000 furnishing range, bringing square feet has been added through extensions to the even more exceptional quality Stevenage, Hamilton and Middlesbrough stores this year.
and value with a wider range We now trade from 116 stores and the retail selling space of fabulous soft furnishings.
The new range carries a great choice of styles A major extension to Mary Street in Dublin, substantially offering superb quality at unbeatable prices.
increasing its retail space to 70,000 square feet, is virtually complete and Newport is being extended and refitted.
Completion of both stores is planned before the important Christmas trading season.
We continue to negotiate to acquire Primark had another excellent year with sales up 15% to more stores and expect to announce further openings during 752m and profit up 21% to 87m.
This business is totally the coming year.
In addition, the programme of extensions dedicated to providing customers with the best possible identied for the new financial year will increase selling value products which are sold under its own brand labels.
The sales increase of 15% reects a like-for-like uplift of 7% A major point of differentiation between Primark and its and increased retail selling space from new stores and rivals at the value end of the fashion market is its creation extensions to existing stores.
A combination of the strong and development of own brands with major appeal to the sales improvement and the weakness of the US dollar, the key groups amongst its consumers.
Early Days is a major currency in which many goods are sourced, resulted high street brand for mothers with small babies and toddlers, in an improvement in the operating profit margin.
and Secret Possessions has secured a significant share in ladies lingerie.
Following its introduction later in the year, New stores were opened in East Kilbride and Birmingham there are early indications of strong consumer interest in during the year.
The Birmingham store is 46,000 square a new range of home furnishings which includes bed linen, feet, occupies a city centre location and both stores have towels and cushions.
24 Associated British Foods plc Bringing catwalk style to the High Street Buying and merchandising teams travel internationally to source and buy up-to-the-minute fashion that best reects each seasons key fashion trends.
At Primark you can buy the very latest style for you, for your family and for your home at unbelievably low prices.
You will nd the combination of up-to-the-minute style, superb quality and value for money a refreshing surprise.
Look good, pay less A strong consumer proposition has been developed for the Primark brand.
Look Good Pay Less communicates Primarks value-based offering to its core target audience.
