Providing reassurance for retailers Consumers and supermarkets are becoming ever more demanding particularly in areas concerning food safety and choice.
ABNA, our agriculture group, has the exibility and feed assurance systems to enable supermarket suppliers to offer products like poultry meat and eggs that are guaranteed to have been produced using safe and fully traceable feed.
Sales increased 4% to 1,611m and profit increased 5% to 176m.
British Sugar in the UK benefited from a larger crop, up 210,000 tonnes to 1.43 million tonnes and from a record crop purity which, through excellent processing efficiencies, saw several production records set.
This, combined with the British Sugar in the UK strength of the euro against sterling, resulted in an increase in profit.
This performance was all the more creditable given benefited from a record that the crop was processed at only six factories following the closure last year of the Kidderminster factory.
The largest crop purity which, through factory, at Wissington, had an excellent season with the elimination of the processing difficulties experienced during excellent processing the previous campaign following capital investment.
The resin separation plant installed here prior to the processing efficiencies, saw several season had its first full year of operation and exceeded expectation.
During the sugar production process, production records set.
combined heat and power plants are used to generate electricity, substantial quantities of which are exported The resin separation into the national network when the economics are favourable.
The efficiency of these environmentally friendly generating plant installed prior to the plants has resulted in the grant of a substantial exemption from the UK Government Climate Change Levy.
processing season had its Our sugar operations in China and Poland also benefited first full year of operation from increased sugar production but oversupply in both markets led to a fall in domestic prices and signicantly and exceeded expectation.
However, with Polands accession to the EU in 16 Associated British Foods plc Primary food & agriculture continued May next year, the Polish sugar industry will join the European sugar regime.
This will bring about the restructuring necessary to balance consumption with production resulting in less volatile market dynamics and an environment more conducive to forward planning and investment.
In Poland we have successfully established a retail business with a brand modelled on Silver Spoon in the UK.
We continued the process of rationalisation with the merging of production from two of our factories into our largest factory in Glinojeck.
Sugar production from Glinojeck was a record at over 100,000 tonnes.
Germains Technology Group, our international seed treatment and coatings operation, benefited from a rapid expansion of sales of the new primed sugar beet seed in the UK and US.
However, profit was impacted by the continuing decline in EU beet seed volumes and a mixed performance in horticulture seed treatment.
In agriculture, ABNA achieved its growth targets despite facing challenging market conditions in the UK.
The development of supply chain partnerships, particularly in the pig and poultry sectors, is based on our procurement and nutritional expertise.
The major retailers increasingly require produce from an auditable supply chain.
In response to their demands, processors rely on our feed with its systems of quality assurance.
ABNA will focus on market sectors where such partnerships can lead to significant positions.
The integration last year of the arable and animal feed businesses continued to deliver benefits particularly in respect of supply chain efficiencies.
A new approach to seed traceability Germains Technology Group has developed a novel approach to seed identity protection.
It has patented a seed coating called ProTag which responds to a distinctive ngerprint signature, read via a handheld scanning device.
This technology is totally inert, environmentally safe and allows complete traceability and counterfeiting protection.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 17 creative solutions Providing vital ingredients for our customers products In the US in particular, the demand for nutritional bars and reduced sugar products has provided strong growth opportunities for Maltisweet.
SPI is a leading supplier of polyols, such as sorbitol and mannitol, in the US.
18 Associated British Foods plc Ingredients We develop and produce functional ingredients from natural products for use in a diverse range of applications.
Highlights of the year SPI leads the US market for low calorie natural sweeteners as demand for reduced carbohydrate foods increases.
Pharmaburst, our unique quick-dissolve drug delivery system, launched in first customer application.
Strong growth in enzymes particularly to textile and animal feed customers.
Speciality ingredients in the US benefited from strong growth in demand for nutritional bars.
Polyols & antacid ingredients We are a leading producer of sugar-free sweeteners in the US supplying the confectionery, food and pharmaceutical sectors.
Baking & confectionery ingredients & yeasts Enzymes Our enzymes We are a leading supplier are used in a wide range of innovative bakery products of applications such as in the UK and US, and a Ingredients at a glance bread, beverages, textiles leading producer of yeast and paper production.
2003 2002 Sales m 314 291 Emulsiers, sterols & esters Speciality chemicals Operating profit m 32 30 We produce essential In Australia, Jasol is a ingredients for the food, household name synonymous profit margin % 10.2 10.3 pharmaceutical and personal with high performance Return on capital employed % 23.9 22.9 care markets.
