The roof of any building is the most critical part it protects the whole of the building and its contents from Roofing the elements and is subject to the full forces of the rain, wind, snow, ice and sun.
These forces mean that repairs, maintenance and improvement of existing buildings is a significant part of SIGs activity in this area.
delivering a local presence, with national strength 08 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2 3 1 SIG is the largest supplier of roofing products in the UK and a leading specialist in the Republic of Ireland.
It also has a small, but developing, operation in the supply of specialist roofing materials in France.
The demands of this market are for a local supply of materials, which the Group supports with a national supply network.
Loading an SIG Roofing lorry, UK.
SIG supplies products from the leading manufacturers into the 1 Mechanical on-load and off-load helps flat, pitched, industrial and agricultural sectors of the roofing meet the customer's need for timely and efficient delivery.
SIG has one of the biggest market.
As well as the core roofing products, it supplies a wide fleets of 26 tonne lorries in the UK - ensuring variety of accessories ranging from nails to tools.
A growing part the branches have the right tools for the job.
of the service is the supply of reclaimed materials, which allow Re-roofing a private dwelling, UK.
2 existing properties to be re-roofed or repaired sympathetically, The supply of products for repair, maintenance and improvement of existing or new roofs to assume a more established look.
buildings is a significant part of SIG Roofing's activity.
This particular roof is The ongoing needs for the refurbishment or replacement of existing roofs, whether as a being completely replaced using natural result of natural wear and tear, or as a result of storm damage, creates a resilient market slate, which can be supplied either new or for roofing materials.
The emergency nature of some of these repairs requires that reclaimed to suit customer requirements materials are available immediately, ex-stock.
SIGs roofing operations respond to and planning regulations.
this demand by stocking a wide range of products which can be made available Bank of Ireland building, Dublin, immediately, either by collection or delivery.
Specialist off-load equipment on delivery 3 Ireland.
This new building illustrates vehicles means that roofing materials can be delivered to site without the need for the Group's ability to work with main external assistance, giving speed, efficiency and safe handling.
contractors, supplying a whole range of products: roof slates, ceiling tiles, partitions SIG operates its roofing operation in the UK from over 100 locations, and continues to and office desking were all supplied by deliver the local service demanded by roofing contractors through a number of brand SIGs operations in Ireland.
Its operation in the Republic of Ireland is well established in a number of major cities and towns, and SIG has started to develop a specialist presence in roofing in the East of France.
The demand for roofing products is driven in part by essential repairs and maintenance.
This requires that SIGs roofing operations have a wide range of products in stock, to match existing roofs, as close as possible to the clients premises.
The Group continues to develop its geographic coverage of the markets in which it operates.
For further information visit: www.
co. uk roofing SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 09
