The market for commercial interiors has become more demanding and more sophisticated in recent Commercial years.
The emphasis is on achieving the optimum balance between the efficient utilisation of space and the quality and comfort provided for people who use interiors that space as a working environment.
The added requirement for a flexible and adaptable interior, to change with the usage of the building, is increasingly important.
delivering flexible customer and client support 10 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 1 2 3 SIG is the largest supplier of commercial interior products in the UK and Republic of Ireland, as well as having very significant market presence in France, Germany, The Netherlands and Poland.
The Group supplies interior solutions to a whole range of buildings and is able to tailor products to meet the clients requirements.
Understanding these requirements and providing a specialist response to them is key to SIGs success in this area.
Lorry mounted forklift, CP Supplies, The Group supplies a wide range of products, backed by high 1 UK.
SIG is the largest user of this type levels of technical expertise and service, to contractors working of forklift in Europe.
Operated by the driver, they can be unloaded and ready for action on both new and refurbishment projects.
The buildings worked in minutes, avoiding costly and time on range across the spectrum from office and retail, through consuming delays at site.
manufacturing and pharmaceutical, to educational and public Cleanroom walling system, 2 sector.
The product range is similarly broad, covering the full Manchester, UK, SIG's operation, Komfort Office Environments, has recently spectrum of requirements from budget system to top-end developed a cleanroom partitioning system boardroom systems.
using pre-coated steel from Corus, which helps deliver a controlled environment for pharmaceutical, medical, hospital and sterile Effective distribution of commercial interiors products is vital and the Group achieves applications.
this using a highly specialised fleet of vehicles, with mechanical offload facilities.
These range from lorry mounted forklifts to high level cranes, able to deliver product straight Swiss Re building, London, UK.
3 from the vehicle into the building several floors up.
This dedication to delivery is one SIG worked closely with the main contractor on this demanding project, of the aspects of service that sets SIG apart when it comes to meeting the needs of where having the right products available contracting customers.
for contractors at the right time was of critical importance.
Materials were supplied for As well as distributing ceiling and wall products, lighting and storage solutions, the heating & ventilation, fire protection and Group also designs and produces demountable partitioning systems and internal specialist board applications.
These offer the designer the flexibility to tailor the internal environment to their clients needs, while maintaining a tight control over the performance of the systems.
Recent development work has also brought a range of steel partitioning to the market, including cleanroom products, which offer superior, microbe-free performance to the end-user.
Commercial Interiors is not just about design, appearance and function this sector is also affected by fire and acoustic performance regulations.
SIG has the knowledge and expertise to offer guidance to clients in these critical areas ensuring that the finished layout combines technical performance with aesthetic values.
For further information visit: www.
co. uk interiors SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 11
