Report of the Directors The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings the Group, together with the Group accounts and the Independent Auditors Report for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Principal activities and business review The principal activity of the Group is the distribution of building materials to the construction sector.
The main products distributed are insulation, roofing and commercial interior products.
A review of the business during the year and comments on the future outlook are contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Chief Executives Review of Operations on pages 14 to 17.
Results The results for the year are shown on page 34.
The movement on the Group reserves during the year is shown in note 18 on page 52.
Details of dividends are shown in note 7 on page 43.
Directors and their interests The directors who served during the year were: B Cottingham Non-Executive Chairman L O Tench Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director appointed 1 March 2003 D Williams Chief Executive G W Davies Finance Director M J Chivers Managing Director, SIG Roofing Supplies P H Blackburn Non-Executive D A Haxby Non-Executive appointed 1 March 2003 N C Paul Non-Executive resigned 1 March 2003 Mr M J C Borlenghi age 60 will join the Board as a non-executive director on 2 April 2004.
Mr Williams age 53 joined the Group in 1983 having gained UK and overseas sales and marketing experience in several diverse industries.
He was appointed Managing Director of Sheffield Insulations and to the main Board in June 1993.
He became Chief Executive on 1 January 2002.
He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Mr Davies age 40 joined the Group in November 1993 as Group Financial Controller, having previously been a senior manager with Arthur Andersen.
He was appointed to the main Board on 1 August 2002 as Finance Director.
Mr Chivers age 51 joined the Group in July 1975 and was appointed a director of Sheffield Insulations in April 1989.
He became Managing Director of SIG Roofing Supplies in July 1997 and was appointed to the main Board on 1 September 2001.
Mr Cottingham age 70 became a non-executive director in August 1993 and non-executive chairman in April 1996.
He is chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
He was chairman of the Audit Committee until 1 March 2003.
He is a former senior partner of Coopers & Lybrand, chartered accountants.
He is non-executive chairman of Cattles plc, a non-executive director of Vp plc and non-executive deputy chairman of Dew Pitchmastic plc.
Mr Blackburn age 63 became a non-executive director on 1 July 2001.
He is chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
He is non-executive chairman of Northern Foods plc and a non-executive director of Compass Group PLC.
From November 1997 to June 2001 he was chairman and chief executive of Nestl UK.
He is a past president of the Food and Drink Federation.
Mr Haxby 62 became a non-executive director on 1 March 2003.
He is chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He is currently a non-executive director of Cattles plc and Cyberes plc, positions he has held since 1999 and 2000 respectively.
From 1991 until his retirement in 1995 he was the London Office managing partner of Arthur Andersen and since then has served on the board of a number of public and private companies.
Mr Tench 58 became a non-executive director on 1 March 2003 and was appointed Deputy Chairman on 1 November 2003.
He has taken on the role of senior independent director and is a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
He joined CRH plc in 1992, and since 1998 until his retirement in December 2002 was managing director of CRH Europe Building Products.
He is a non-executive director of the privately owned Shepherd Building Group Limited, a position he has held since 1994.
Mr Borlenghi 60 will be appointed a non-executive director on 2 April 2004 and will become a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He is presently chairman of Eliza Tinsley Group plc and has held a number of non-executive board positions since retiring in March 1991 from the GKN plc board.
Whilst at GKN he was involved in a number of senior management roles both in the UK and overseas in a career spanning 25 years.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Mr M J C Borlenghi retires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Messrs. B Cottingham, M J Chivers and D Williams retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
Messrs. M J Chivers and D Williams, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr B Cottingham has indicated his intention to retire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and Mr L O Tench will succeed him as Chairman.
22 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors interests in the shares of SIG plc The beneficial shareholdings of the Directors who held office at 31 December 2003 were as follows: Ordinary shares of 10p 31 December 2003 31 December 2002 or date of appointment B Cottingham 64,100 64,100 L O Tench 10,000 D Williams 60,765 52,463 M J Chivers 32,227 32,227 G W Davies 7,940 7,940 P H Blackburn 8,000 8,000 Subsequent changes The interests shown above remained the same at 8 March 2004.
Share capital and substantial shareholdings Details of the share capital of the Company are set out in note 17 to the accounts on page 51.
As at 8 March 2004 the Company has been notified of the following interests, held directly or indirectly, in 3% or more of the Companys issued ordinary share capital: Number of shares % of issued share capital Fidelity Investments 11,962,940 9.94% Standard Life Investments 3,721,051 3.09% Payments to suppliers It is Group policy to agree terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers.
Payment is made on those terms subject to the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
The Company does not trade and therefore its average number of days outstanding in respect of trade creditors at 31 December 2003 was nil.
The Groups average number of days outstanding in respect of trade creditors was 34 2002: 31.
Charitable contributions The Group contributed 47,000 2002: 45,000 to local charities during the year.
Employees It is the Groups policy that employees should be kept as fully informed as is practicable about the performance and prospects of the Group.
The Group gives every consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the job may be adequately covered by a handicapped or disabled person.
Where employees become disabled, the Group endeavours to continue to employ them provided there are duties which they can perform, bearing in mind the handicap or disability.
As far as possible, training, career development and promotion are available to handicapped and disabled persons where this is in their own as well as the Groups best interests.
Employee share ownership is encouraged through savings related and other employee share schemes.
At 31 December 2003 there were 1,145 employees saving under the savings related schemes.
Auditors On 1 August 2003, Deloitte & Touche transferred its business to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnerships Acts 2000.
The Company has given its consent to treating the appointment of Deloitte & Touche as extending to Deloitte & Touche LLP with effect from 1 August 2003 under the provisions of Section 26 5 of the Companies Act 1989.
A resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The notice of the meeting has been sent to shareholders separately with the Report and Accounts, together with the Chairmans letter to shareholders which gives an explanation of the items of special business to be considered at the meeting.
Corporate Governance Statements These corporate governance statements, including the Internal Control section of this report and the Directors Remuneration Report, on pages 26 to 31, set out how the Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice encompassed in the Code and principles prepared by the Committee on Corporate Governance chaired by Sir Ronald Hampel and published in June 1998 the Hampel Code, annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
In addition, it is addressing actively any issues where it does not fully meet the further governance provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council the 2003 FRC Code, which is appended to the Listing Rules and which will formally apply for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
Details are set out below, under the Accountability and Audit Committee section, where progress has been made towards full compliance.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 23 Report of the Directors continued Throughout the year the Company has complied with the Hampel Code provisions, except as detailed below with regard to the appointment of a senior independent non-executive director Hampel Code provision A.
With effect from 1 March 2003, on the appointment of Mr L O Tench as senior independent non-executive director, the Company has complied with this Code provision.
Directors The Board meets regularly throughout the year, normally ten times a year, monitoring the executive management.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda of matters specifically reserved for decision and approval of the Board, ensuring that full control of appropriate financial, strategic, organisational and compliance matters is maintained.
All directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties and have access to the services of the Company Secretary.
Mr B Cottingham, a non-executive director, chairs the Board, and Mr D Williams, the Chief Executive, is responsible for running the Groups operations.
On the retirement of Mr B Cottingham at the conclusion of the 2004 Annual General Meeting, Mr L O Tench will chair the Board.
Previously, in view of the small size of the Board, it had not been felt necessary to nominate a senior independent non-executive director.
However, with effect from 1 March 2003, Mr L O Tench was appointed to this position.
Until 1 March 2003, the Board consisted of six directors, of whom three were non-executive directors.
On 1 March 2003, Mr N C Paul resigned and Messrs. D A Haxby and L O Tench were appointed non-executive directors.
Details of the Board as at 31 December 2003, together with short biographies and their membership of Board Committees, are set out on page 20.
The non-executive directors bring considerable knowledge and external experience to the Board's discussions.
In respect of the year ended 31 December 2003, the Board considers all of the non-executive directors to be independent.
The Board receives reports and financial information prior to meetings, together with other relevant information on business, corporate and strategic issues.
The Companys Articles of Association require one third of the Board to submit themselves for re-election, on a rotational basis, every year.
No director is exempt from seeking re-election.
Non-executive directors are normally appointed for an initial term of three years.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprised Mr B Cottingham Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Mr L O Tench, Mr P H Blackburn, Mr D A Haxby and Mr D Williams.
Mr L O Tench will chair the committee when Mr B Cottingham retires.
Remuneration Committee and Directors remuneration report The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the directors remuneration principles of the Hampel Code, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 31.
Relations with shareholders During the year directors have met with most of the Companys larger institutional investors to whom presentations were made after the announcement of the Groups preliminary and interim results.
Care is taken to ensure that any price sensitive information is released to all shareholders, institutional or private, at the same time in accordance with the Financial Services Authority requirements.
All directors, including the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, attended the Annual General Meeting and were available to answer questions from those shareholders present.
The Chairman, after the show of hands on each resolution, indicated the number of proxy votes for and against each resolution.
Accountability and Audit Committee The Chairmans Statement and the Chief Executives Review of Operations on pages 14 to 17, together with the Finance Directors Review on pages 18 and 19, give an assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities for preparing the accounts is set out on page 32.
Until 1 March 2003, the Audit Committee, which meets at least twice a year, comprised the three non-executive directors, Mr B Cottingham Chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr P H Blackburn and Mr N C Paul.
From 1 March 2003, the Audit Committee comprised Mr D A Haxby Chairman, Mr B Cottingham, Mr P H Blackburn and Mr L O Tench.
Mr D A Haxby is considered by the Board to have significant recent and relevant experience.
The Audit Committee monitors the accounting policies and reviews the effectiveness of internal controls of the Group.
It also reviews the Groups interim and annual financial statements before submission to the Board for approval.
The external auditors are invited to attend all the meetings and have direct access to the Committee Chairman.
The Board is aware of the need to maintain an appropriate degree of independence and objectivity on the part of the Group external auditors when engaged in non-audit assignments.
Both the Audit Committee and the external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid such independence and objectivity being compromised.
The Group policy on the provision by the external auditors of audit and non-audit services categorises such services between: Auditor preferred services Those services which are acceptable for the auditors to provide and the provision of which has been pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
Auditor prohibited services Those engagements which the Audit Committee and the Board do not consider appropriate for the auditors to undertake.
Auditor authorised services Those services for which the specific approval of the Audit Committee is required before the auditors are permitted to provide the service.
24 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 The policy defines the types of services falling under each category and sets out the criteria to be met and the internal approvals required prior to the commencement of any assignment.
The Audit Committee at each meeting reviews an analysis of all services provided by the external auditors.
The policy is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee and approved by the Board.
The disclosure of the fees payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP and two other accountancy firms performing audit services during the year are set out in note 4 to the financial statements on page 42.
Following a recent review, the Audit Committee is entirely satisfied with the level of fees, independence, objectivity and effectiveness of Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Accordingly a resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee not only reviews the procedures under which employees may in confidence notify the Company of any concerns, inter alia matters involving financial reporting, but also the procedures for investigating and resolving any such concerns.
Internal Control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It is the role of management to implement the Boards policies on risk and control through the design and operation of appropriate internal control systems.
For the whole of the year under review, the Board has had formal procedures in place to ensure that it is in a position to consider all significant aspects of internal control.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
This review has covered all controls including operational, compliance and risk management, as well as financial.
The formal process followed, and reviewed by the Board, to assess the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control accords with the guidance issued by the Turnbull working party: Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and is part of the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is summarised as follows: Operating management is charged with the ongoing responsibility for identifying risks facing each of the operating units and for putting in place procedures to mitigate and monitor risks.
Operating units formally review all business risks and set out the significant risks to the operations, the controls in place and additional controls which could be implemented.
These proposals are approved by each operating units management and submitted in the form of risk action plans to Group executive management for review and approval.
Any significant matters arising from this review are formally reported to the Board by the Finance Director.
The risk and control identification and management process is monitored and periodically reviewed by Group executive management.
Following a review during the year the process has been refreshed to ensure that the risk management process is fully embedded across the Group.
The key elements of the controls framework within which the Group operates are: - an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility, delegation of authority and reporting requirements.
- an embedded culture of openness of communication between operating business unit management and the Group executive management on matters relating to risk and control.
- operating reviews covering all aspects of each operating unit are conducted by Group executive management each quarter.
- a comprehensive system of financial reporting.
An annual budget for each operating unit is prepared in detail and approved by the Chief Executive.
The Board approves the overall Groups budget and plans.
Monthly actual results are reported against budget and prior year and the forecast for the year is revised where necessary.
Any significant changes and adverse variances are questioned by the Board and remedial action is taken where appropriate.
There is weekly cash and treasury reporting to the Finance Director and periodic reporting to the Board on the Groups tax and treasury position.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group does not have an internal audit function.
However, the Board annually reviews the need for such a function and has done so during the year.
Bearing in mind that, during the year, there were no adverse trends evident from the monitoring of internal controls or unexpected or unacceptable results of a material nature, at present the Board considers that an internal audit function is not necessary.
Going concern The directors report that, after making enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By order of the Board: J R Swynnerton, Secretary 8 March 2004 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 25
