Insulation is used in three key areas, in preventing or resisting the transfer of heat, noise or fire.
Each of these Insulation applications is itself a critical requirement in all buildings and in a vast range of industries and processes.
SIG is an acknowledged leader in all of these fields.
delivering technical and specialist knowledge 06 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 1 2 3 SIG is the largest supplier of insulation materials in Europe and the leading supplier to industry in those specific states of North America where it has trading operations.
SIG continues to satisfy the demands of construction and industry for increasing levels of thermal and acoustic insulation, together with ongoing demands for passive fire protection.
Delivering in Karkonosze Mountain The Groups distribution network, and the size and strength of 1 National Park, Poland.
SIG operates its operations ensure that all major product lines are available a specialist fleet of insulation delivery vehicles in the UK & Republic of Ireland, to meet every application.
Working closely with suppliers, Mainland Europe and the USA.
This the Group performs a key role in the supply chain for both dedication to having the right transport available at the right time is an essential construction and industry.
An ongoing focus on having the right service for customers and gives a significant tools to do the job means that most delivery vehicles are fitted commercial advantage.
with mechanical offload equipment to deliver the product direct Loading cavity wall insulation, to the contractors place of work.
In the UK, SIG has a fleet of 600 forklift trucks, many of which are mounted on delivery vehicles.
These are SIGs ability to deliver is matched by the high levels of technical support available for combined with specifically designed storage the products it distributes.
Whether the information is from the trade counter or the and warehousing to that specialist insulation technical helpline, SIGs operations work closely with both the specifiers and is stocked, handled and delivered to meet contractors on the job to ensure that the correct products are being used in the the customers exacting specification.
best way to achieve the required performance.
Queen Mary 2, St. Nazaire, France.
3 Insulation products are used in a wide range of applications from residential, to SIGs French insulation operation worked closely with the ships designers and commercial to industrial.
As well as supplying the full range of insulants into these specialist contractors to supply the insulation markets, SIG also supplies the widest choice of associated products for fixing, sealing, and passive fire protection to the many applying and retaining the insulation.
As the market continues to grow, with the metres of heating and ventilation ductwork increasing costs of energy and the tightening of regulations, SIG is at the forefront within the liner.
The demanding build programme wasnt a problem to the of providing a wide range of solutions that allow its customers to meet the demands business, which is used to providing of the market with a mix of new and existing products.
specialist technical solutions to a wide range of clients.
The tightening of regulations within the UK and the Republic of Ireland, together with new European requirements, has increased the complexity of the market for thermal and acoustic insulation, which has increased the need for a diverse range of products.
SIGs ability to stock these, and support them with appropriate technical advice and timely delivery, continues to underpin its market-leading position.
For further information visit: www.
co. uk insulation SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 07
