Import vehicles at the Port of Grimsby, our 2003 import export ratio was 51 49.
We love a challenge Our roll-on roll-off customers need facilities for bigger ships, more berths for extra sailings, additional space for vehicles, faster turnarounds and some added value too ABPs ROLL-ON ROLL-OFF PORTS: 9 LOCATIONS: Fleetwood, Grimsby, Hull, Immingham, Ipswich, Plymouth, Southampton, Swansea and Troon.
THE OPPORTUNITY Roll-on roll-off vessels carry everything from cars, buses, lorries, motorcycles and motor mobile homes to agricultural and earth-moving equipment and cranes.
Many have 12 decks and capacity for up to 6,600 cars or several hundred freight trucks.
Roll-on roll-off is one of the faster-growing trades handled by the ports industry.
Total volumes are expected to increase by 45 per cent between 2000 and 2010.
Factors driving this growth include the centralisation and rationalisation of production by motor manufacturers, the increasing requirement for the UK to import finished goods, and roll-on roll-offs status in Europe as the transport method of choice for finished goods.
NEW TERMINAL, Immingham, UK ports roll-on roll-off ROLL-ON ROLL-OFF Around 57 per cent of our 2003 roll-on roll-off volumes related to 2.0m investment, August 2003 volumes 1996-2002 FACILITIES, Southampton, 1.2m investment, February 2004 import export vehicles.
Grimsby & Immingham and Southampton provide some of the best port-side facilities for import export vehicles in the UK.
ABP is the UKs number-one port operator for the handling of import export vehicles and our volumes for this important part of the roll-on roll-off market 35% have increased by over 47 per cent during the past four years.
16 Roll-on roll-off traffic at the added services to help reduce groups ports grew by 7.2 per costs.
cent to 2.5 million units during 2003.
Our volumes have now Our ports are meeting the increased by 54 per cent challenge by partnering with during the past six years.
customers to develop stateof-the-art facilities and The rapid expansion of the services backed by long-term market means that customers agreements.
are increasingly looking for facilities that can accommodate New marine works at Plymouth larger ships and open up new will accommodate Brittany routes or additional services.
Ferries new superferry from Competitive pressures mean March: at Ipswich, we are that they also want faster increasing berthing capacity turnaround times and valueso that Ferryways can increase the frequency of its services to and from Ostend: improved terminal facilities at Immingham enable SeaCargo to operate larger and faster vessels to and from Norway: and Southamptons commitment enables Channel Freight Ferries to launch a daily serviceto and from Radicatel in France in February 2004.
ENHANCEMENT OF ROLLON ROLL-OFF FACILITY, Plymouth, 4.3m investment, July 2004 ROLL-ON ROLL-OFF ABPs 2002 UK roll-on roll-off BERTH, Ipswich, 6.1m market share investment, December 2004 22% Associated British Ports Holdings PLC 17 ABPs operational management The key to success is to recruit and keep the best in the business Paul Allen Andrew Kent Stephen Walsh Richard Adam David Twidle Phillip Williams Budha Majumdar Ian Schofield Managing Director, ABP Port Director, Southampton General Counsel Group Finance Director Assistant to Group Chief Group Property Director Port Director, South Wales Engineering Director Connect Executive Ports The teams depth of experience is detailed on pages 24 and 25 18
