The little things still count They might be diverse, but smaller projects all add to the bottom line ABPs SMALLER PROJECT PORTS: 21 LOCATIONS: all UK ports.
THE OPPORTUNITY In addition to developing its ports to support continued growth in major cargoes, the group invests in smaller projects to facilitate a range of activities on its port estates.
Although they are not necessarily linked to the groups major trades, these projects provide an important area of growth.
Recent projects have included the development of a yacht marina, a glass-recycling facility, a pallet-production facility and capital infrastructure works to support a scrap-metal facility.
During 2003, the group invested in 17 new revenue-earning smaller projects with total investment of approximately 24 million.
14 The worlds largest singleLeading metals-recycling site fridge recycling plant.
company Sims Group set up a fridge-recycling facility at the Port of Newport in July 2002.
It was already a customer of the port in its processing and exporting of scrap metal.
Encouraged by the rapid success of this environmentenhancing development, Sims doubled the capacity of this facility to 400,000 units per annum during 2003.
Also in 2003, supported by a Welsh Assembly Freight Facilities Grant, Sims decided to invest 8.0 million in an extended metal-shredding facility and to expand the Around two million fridges come to the end of their useful lives in the UK each year.
scope of all of its activities at Sims Groups recycling facility located at the Port of Newport operates to the highest the port.
The expanded environmental standards in Europe and is designed to maximise Ozone Depleting Substance recovery during the recycling process.
operation will be one of Sims flagshipfacilities.
ABP is investing 3.5 million in major capital infrastructure Percentage of capital works to support this expansion investment relating to small projects on the back of a 20-year agreement.
50% SAL T STORAGE AND YACHT MARINA, Lowestoft, PALLET-PRODUCTION DISTRIBUTION WAREHOUSE, 1.0minvestment, FACILITY, Barry, 0.8m Ayr, 1.0m investment, June 2003 December 2003 investment, December 2003 Associated British Ports Holdings PLC 15
