Richard Adam Aubrey Adams Tim Bowdler Group Finance Director, 46 Non-executive, 54 Non-executive, 56 Board of directors Our board is made up of people who will both inspire and challenge the business Since joining the company in 1999, Aubrey has been a member of the Tim joined the board in 2001.
He is a Richard has pioneered the groups board since 1996 and is a member member of the Audit, Nomination proactive communications with of the Audit, Nomination and and Remuneration Committees.
In investors and stakeholders, Remuneration Committees.
His advising the board, Tim draws on his strengthened its financial management extensive, first-hand knowledge of experience of running an expanding and overseen the successful disposal property matters has contributed and successful public company.
He is chairman of greatly to the success of the groups has more than doubled the size of the risk management working group, estate management activities and Johnston Press, one of the UKs CSR management committee and non-core property disposal major regional newspaper the main defined benefit pension programme.
Aubrey has spent the publishers, since becoming Chief scheme.
Richard qualified as a majority of his career within the Executive in 1997.
He joined chartered accountant with KPMG in property sector and is Group Chief Johnston Press plc as Group 1982 before gaining broad experience Executive of Savills, the international Managing Director in 1994 from in a variety of senior financial posts, property consultants.
He was Cape plcs building and architectural predominantly within the media sector.
previously Managing Director and products companies, where he was By the age of 30, he was Group Finance Finance Director of the company.
Director of TVS Entertainment plc, Prior to joining Savills, Aubrey was Tims career began in which, at the time, held the ITV Financial Director at Peachey manufacturing: he trained as a franchise for the South and south-east Property Corp plc: he was production engineer before rising of England: he raised 300 million for instrumental in reorganising the through a variety of managerial the acquisition of new businesses.
In group and increasing its market positions to general management.
1993, he was Chief Financial Officer capitalisation from 20 million to Beginning as a graduate at International Family Entertainment 300 million by 1988.
He joined management trainee at GKN UK and a key figure in the launch of Peachey from Price Waterhouse.
Sankey Ltd, he went on to work for its Family Channel on satellite A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Tyzack & Partners Ltd, Chloride television.
Between 1996 and 1999, Accountants, Aubrey is also Group plc, Sandvik Ltd and RHP he was Group Finance Director of Chairman of the Accounting Bearings Ltd. Tim is a Fellow of the Hodder Headline plc, the book Committee, a non-executive RSA, a past president of the publishing business now owned by director of Wigmore Hall and sits on Newspaper Society and a member WH Smith.
Pre-tax profits grew by 64 the General Council of the British of its Council, a director of the Press per cent during his time at Hodder Property Federation.
Standards Board of Finance and a and he is credited with improving the non-executive director of The Press groups financial controls.
Richard is Association Ltd. a non-executive director of SSL International plc.
68 Stuart Chambers Bo Lerenius Derek Sach Ross Sayers Andrew Simon, OBE Non-executive, 47 Group Chief Executive, 57 Non-executive, 55 Chairman, 62 Non-executive, 58 Stuart became a member of the Since becoming Group Chief Executive Derek has been a member of the Ross joined the board as a nonAndrew became a member of the board in 2002 and is a member of in May 1999, Bo has developed the board since 1998.
He is Chairman executive director in October 2001 board in 1994.
He is a member of the the Nomination and Remuneration management team, refocused the of the Remuneration Committee and and became Chairman after the Audit, Nomination and Committees.
He shares his group on its core ports and transport a member of the Audit and 2002 AGM: he is a member of the Remuneration Committees.
The expertise as a highly experienced business and instigated a programme Nomination Committees.
Derek is Nomination and Remuneration considerable international chief executive of a public company to dispose of non-essential assets.
suitably equipped to advise the board Committees.
Ross has a wealth of experience that he contributes to with the board on many business He is a member of the Nomination on strategic financial matters due to experience in the transport industry the board is bolstered by his matters.
He has been Group Chief Committee.
Although he had not his career in investment management following a long and distinguished significant experience in strategy Executive of Pilkington plc, one of worked in the ports industry directly, Bo and banking.
He is the managing career.
As executive Chairman of process and development.
Andrew the worlds leading glass had a comprehensive understanding director of Specialised Lending State Rail Authority of New South has been involved in over 20 manufacturers, since 2002.
Stuart of ports and port users requirements Services SLS and a board member Wales, he was responsible for businesses as chairman or nonjoined Pilkington in 1996 as the when he joined the group due to his of Corporate Banking and Financial introducing a major change executive director during his career.
group vice-president responsible for experience as Vice-Chairman and Markets at the Royal Bank of programme that enhanced customer He spent 23 years at Evode Group marketing and business Chief Executive of Stena Line.
He joined RBS in service standards, reduced operating as managing director, Chief development of Building Products: was responsible for Stenas strategic 1992 to establish SLS, which costs and led to the upgrading of the Executive Officer and Chairman: he in 1998, he was promoted to investments and managed the merger provides businesses in trouble or railway infrastructure and rolling developed the groups adhesives managing director of Primary of the cross-Channel ferry operations showing signs of difficulty with stock.
Prior to this, he was executive and sealants business from a 10 Products Europe, and then to with P&O in 1998.
Previously, Bo was strategic advice.
He has since held Chairman of New Zealand Railways.
million to a 300 million international president of Building Products Group President of building materials a number of posts.
As director of Ross then moved into the utility speciality chemicals and materials Worldwide.
Stuart began his career group Ernstromgruppen and a director group risk, Derek was responsible for industry to become Chief Executive group and achieved a number of by using his academic background of Tarkett and Nordjs Frg.
He has the effective control and monitoring of and Managing Director of China Light market-leadership positions.
Since in applied physics as a chemical also held a number of non-executive risk within the group including market and Power Limited CLP, Hong its takeover, Andrew has engineer and market analyst for directorships in Swedish listed and and operational risk management.
He worked in a number of private companies.
Bo is president He was also seconded to T esco He refocused CLP on improving of non-executive and chairman Shells divisions, including Shell Oil of the government-funded Sea and Personal Finance as Chief Executive customer service and performance positions in UK, European and North UK and Deutsche Shell AG, before Water Advisory Board, an executive for a year in 1997 as part of a joint standards and reducing operating American companies across many becoming Shell Oil UKs regional committee member of the Swedish venture.
In 2000, Ross was appointed sectors.
He is Chairman of Kaffee manager for retail in 1986.
He joined Chamber of Commerce for the UK, a director of 3i Group plc, where he Chairman of Innogy, a position he Partner, Deputy Chairman of Dalkia Mars as a national account manager director of International Association was UK managing director and held until RWE acquired the plc, a non-executive director of in 1988, becoming European sales of Ports and Harbors and a member chairman of its property companies company in 2002.
Ross is a Fellow Brake Bros and Finning International director four years later and the of the UK Trade & Investment Ports and investment committee.
He is Chartered Accountant NZ, a nonand sits on the supervisory board of vice-president for sales and and Logistics Advisory Group and President and Chairman of the executive director of Intertek Group SGL Carbon.
marketing of Mars Electronics the CBI London Council.
London Chamber of Commerce plc and Network Rail, and chairman International in 1995. and Industry.
of the advisory panel, for Macquarie European Infrastructure Fund.
Associated British Ports Holdings PLC 69
