How we keep them Business doesnt just cruise into our ports, we compete for it by offering customers major capital investment in exchange for long-term commitment ABPs CRUISE PORTS: 6 LOCATIONS: Ayr, Barrow, Hull, Plymouth, Southampton and Swansea.
THE OPPORTUNITY Cruise continues to be one of the major growth areas of the tourism industry.
The UK is the number-two source market for cruise passengers behind North America: between 1990 and 2002, the UK cruise market more than trebled in size to over 500,000 passengers per year.
The global market is projected to exceed 16 million passengers by 2009 2000: 10 million.
Growth factors include operator investment of more than US$12 billion in new ships, growing numbers of younger passengers, greater demand for short cruises and a booming Mediterranean market.
The European market is expected to grow faster than the global average.
Recent investments combined with their unique locations and history mean that the groups UK ports are well equipped to benefit from the increased demand.
12 Braemar, operated by Fred ABPs Port of Southampton Olsen Cruise Lines, is a regular visitor to the new City Cruise is the UKs number-one cruise Terminal.
Cruise-ship calls increased by 15 per cent in 2003 and the number of calls handled by the port has more than doubled during the past six years.
With facilities capable of handling at least five cruise ships simultaneously, Southampton is home to the UK cruise fleets of Cunard and P&O, and the port of choice for cruise lines promoting new vessels and holding naming ceremonies.
It is also the home port of Queen Mary 2, the worlds largest cruise liner.
As a result of ABPs 2003 investments, the Port of Southampton has further upgraded its award-winning cruise facilities and services.
Improvements introduced during 2003 include To support our customers and improved embarkation lounges, extended waiting halls, covered set-down areas and automated airbridges and baggage-handling systems.
the anticipated growth in their requirements, we have recently improved and expanded our facilities at the Port of Southampton at a total cost in ABP 2002 UK cruise MAYFLOWER CRUISE excess of 10 million.
In return, market share TERMINAL, Southampton, 6.5m investment, May 2003 key cruise customers have extended and strengthened their commitments to the port.
61% CITY CRUISE TERMINAL, Estimated worldwide cruise QUEEN ELIZABETH II Increase in cruise-ship calls at Southampton, 1.5m growth 2000 2009 TERMINAL, Southampton, Southampton during the past investment, August 2003 2.0m investment, June 2003 six years 60% 122% Associated British Ports Holdings PLC 13
