Directors report Principal activities and business review Andrew Simon, who has been a non-executive Payment of suppliers Its commitment to employees is based on three The principal activities of the group comprise the director for nine years, became the Senior The groups policy is to establish a fair and principles: provision of port facilities and related services to Independent Director following the retirement of transparent relationship with suppliers based on shipowners and other users of seaports in the UK George Duncan at the 2003 AGM.
This includes agreeing reasonable Creating a level playing field through the and USA.
The group owns and operates 21 ports continue in this role for at least one more year, terms and conditions before business takes development and implementation of policies within the UK and provides vehicle-processing subject to the passing of an ordinary resolution at place.
The groups policy and practice is to settle and practices which provide equal services at five port locations in the USA.
invoices on the terms agreed.
opportunities for all existing and potential provides value-added transport-related services employees in the UK, and generates income from the The board considers that Andrew Simon, Derek At year end, the group owed the equivalent of Ensuring employees have access to ownership and development of properties at port Sach and Tim Bowdler are independent of 38 days of purchases 2002: 30 days to trade information that enables them to contribute to locations within the UK and USA.
management, free from any business or other creditors based on the average daily amount and participate in the groups success relationship that could interfere materially with invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Providing employees with clear and fair terms The progress of business during the year and their independent judgment, and bring wide and of employment and access to a wide range of anticipated future developments are discussed in varied commercial experience to its deliberations.
Purchase of own shares benefits.
the Group Chief Executives review on pages 22 During 2003, the company purchased and and 23 and the operating and financial review on None of the directors offering themselves for resubsequently cancelled 850,000 shares with a The company uses share schemes to give pages 26 to 35. election has a service agreement with the nominal value of 0.2 million, or 0.3 per cent of the employees a direct stake in the business and company.
Details of directors service contracts, share capital as at 31 December 2002.
The total align their interests with those of other Results and dividends remuneration, interests in the shares of the cost was 3.7 million, which has been charged to shareholders.
During 2003, the company made Group pre-tax profit on ordinary activities for the company and options over shares are disclosed the profit and loss account reserve.
The company an offer under the Share Incentive Plan SIP and year was 145.5 million 2002: 139.1 million.
in the remuneration report on pages 78 to 84. purchased these shares to offset most of the new granted options under both the Savings-Related See the consolidated profit and loss account on shares issued during the second half of the Share Option Scheme SRSOS and the page 38 for further information.
No director has, or had at any time during the financial year following the exercise of options by Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS.
In year, held a material interest in any contract or employees under its various share schemes.
2004, the company intends to grant options The company paid an interim dividend of arrangement of significance to which any group under the SRSOS and make further offers under 6.75 pence per share on 1 November 2003. undertaking was or is a party.
Substantial shareholdings the SIP and ESOS, the latter being at the full, The directors recommend a final dividend of An analysis of substantial holdings in the undiscounted market price of the shares at the 8.5 pence per share, making a total for the year Further details on the backgrounds and abilities of companys shares at the year end is provided on date of the grant.
The company also made offers of 15.25 pence per share.
This is an increase of the directors are set out in their biographies on page 85. to employees under the US and Californian Stock 3.4 per cent on the 2002 dividend of 14.75 pence pages 68 to 69.
For details of the independence Purchase Plans in 2003: further offers are per share.
If approved at the forthcoming Annual of non-executive directors, see the report on Charitable and political donations scheduled for 2004.
General Meeting AGM, the company will pay the corporate governance on pages 74 to 77.
The group donated 78,000 2002: 74,000 to final dividend on 30 April 2004 to ordinary charities during the year.
It did not make any The group is committed to giving full and fair shareholders on the register at close of business Investment property contributions for political purposes 2002: consideration to applicants for employment who on 26 March 2004.
The groups tangible property assets as at 2,000. are disabled.
If an employee becomes disabled 31 December 2003 were valued at 570.3 million during their employment, the group makes every Directors and their interests 2002: 568.8 million on an open market basis.
Employees and employment policies effort to ensure that, wherever possible, the Derek Sach and Tim Bowdler retire by rotation as As a result, the group increased its revaluation The company strives for excellence in treating its person can either continue in their present role or independent non-executive directors at the reserve by 7.8 million.
It provides opportunities retrain for a different role.
Further details of the forthcoming AGM.
As they continue to be eligible for active participation and personal development groups management of its employees are under the company's Articles of Association, they with the twin goals of motivating individuals and provided in the annual corporate social offer themselves for re-election.
helping them to enhance their skills.
72 Special business at the Annual General Meeting The authority would again expire at the AGM in Shareholders approval will be sought at the AGM to formally amended, the amendments relating to The approval of the remuneration report set out 2005.
Before buying any shares, the directors make a change to the employee share schemes treasury shares pursuant to Resolution 14 are on pages 78 to 84 will be put to the AGM as an commit to take into account the company's cash that the company operates for the benefit of the being made in order to make the Articles of ordinary resolution.
resources, capital requirements and the effect of group s employees.
The change, following recent Association consistent with the Regulations.
any purchase on earnings per share.
The purpose changes in the guidelines of the Association of The Regulations came into force on 1 December At the AGM of 15 April 2003, shareholders of the authority is to mitigate the market impact of British Insurers, will be to simplify the equity 2003 and made certain amendments to the UK approved an ordinary resolution to permit the share issues from employee share schemes.
dilution limits so that they are as follows: Companies Act 1985 in relation to treasury shares.
directors to allot shares to the value of the lesser The amendments allow companies to retain any of of i the unissued ordinary share capital of the It is the groups policy not to make donations i on any date, the aggregate nominal amount of their own shares they have purchased as treasury company and ii one-third of the issued equity to political parties.
The Political Parties, Elections shares which may be allocated under a stock with a view to possible re-issue at a future share capital of the company, for one year ending and Referendums Act 2000 PPER Act, which scheme may not, when added to the nominal date, rather than cancelling them as had previously on the date of the AGM in 2004.
At the came into force in 2001 and covers activities amount of shares allocated in the previous 10 been required by legislation.
If the company were forthcoming AGM, the directors wish to renew throughout the European Union, provides very years under all employee share schemes of the to purchase any of its own shares pursuant to the that permission for a further year in respect of an broad definitions of political donations and EU group, exceed 10 per cent of the equity share authorities sought in Resolution 13 it would amount equivalent to one-third of the issued political expenditure.
The broadness of these capital of the company: and consider holding them as treasury stock, provided equity share capital.
The authorised share capital definitions may well allow for the inclusion of a that the number did not at any one time exceed 10 of the company is 125,000,000 divided into number of normal business activities that might ii on any date, the aggregate nominal amount of per cent of the companys issued share capital.
500,000,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
not be thought of as political expenditure in the shares which may be allocated under a scheme This would give the company the ability to re-issue As at 18 February 2004, one-third of the issued conventional sense.
These could include for the benefit of selected senior employees of treasury shares quickly and cost effectively, and equity share capital equalled 27,498,996 or sponsorship of industry forums, involvement in the group may not, when added to the nominal would provide the company with additional 109,995,987 ordinary shares.
The directors have marketing activity, seminars and functions to amount of shares allocated in the previous 10 flexibility in the management of its capital base.
no present intention of exercising such authority which politicians might be invited and granting years under all such schemes, exceed 5 per other than to issue shares pursuant to the employees time off to campaign for and hold cent of the equity share capital of the company.
Auditors company's employee share schemes.
public office or take part in union activities.
It is  LLP have expressed unfortunate that the PPER Acts definition of For these purposes, shares are allocated when rights their willingness to continue in office as auditors of The directors also request power to allot shares these matters involves a number of areas of to acquire or obtain them are granted and otherwise the company.
Resolutions will be put to the AGM worth up to 4,124,849 16,499,396 ordinary uncertainty and ambiguity that require guidance when they are issued or transferred.
Rights which proposing their reappointment as auditors and shares, representing approximately five per cent and clarification by government or the courts.
lapse, by reason of non-exercise or otherwise, cease authorising the directors to set their remuneration.
of the issued equity share capital of the company As a precaution and to avoid contravening the to count.
No account is taken of shares which are as at 18 February 2004, without offering them first legislation, we and other companies have been acquired by purchase rather than by subscription By order of the board to existing shareholders.
The authority would advised that it would be prudent to obtain except where such shares were first issued to an expire at the AGM in 2005.
The directors believe it approval from shareholders to incur a reasonable employee trust for the purpose of satisfying a is in the best interests of the company that, as level of expenditure in the course of these participants rights.
No account is taken of shares permitted by the Companies Act 1985, they should normal business activities.
Resolution 9 seeks which an employee purchases at market value be in possession of a relatively small number of the authority to incur total expenditure of up to using his own funds.
shares to enable them to take advantage of any 50,000 in total over a period of four years appropriate opportunities that may arise.
The board of directors It is proposed that the company s Articles of Association emphasises that it will not use this authority to which were last updated in 2002 be amended to The directors further request permission for the make any political donations as that expression take account of the Companies Acquisition of company to buy up to 32.9 million of its own would have been understood before the PPER Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 Hywel Rees shares, equivalent to approximately 10 per cent of Act was introduced.
The Regulations are effective Company Secretary the issued equity share capital, in the open market.
whether or not the Articles of Association are 18 February 2004 Associated British Ports Holdings PLC 73
