04 05 market overview The effectiveness of any new drug, no matter how Leading therapeutic categories 2003 promising, will always be limited by one major 8.3 Cephalosporins 3% factor: how well it can be delivered and absorbed into the human body.
New ways are constantly Oral antidiabetics 10% 9.0 being sought of administering medicines in Anti-epileptics 22% 9.4 a controlled way to achieve a predetermined therapeutic outcome: ensuring that the right Erythropoietins 16% 10.1 amount of drug is delivered, at the right time, Calcium antagonists 2% 10.8 to the right place in the body, with the minimum of side-effects.
This process is known as drug Antipsychotics 20% 12.2 delivery, and over the last 30 years a whole new Non-steroidal 12.4 industry segment has emerged.
According to antirheumatics 6% a recent report, products incorporating delivery Antidepressants 10% 19.5 systems generated $14 billion in market Anti-ulcerants 9% 24.3 revenues in 2002.
This sector is expected to grow Cholesterol and at 14% per annum and by 2012 will account for 26.1 triglyceride reducers 14% $45-50 billion, 7% of all pharmaceutical sales.
05 10 15 20 25 30 Global sales US$bn Since 1983 SkyePharma has been working at theforefront of current research into drug Source: IMS Global Review 2004 Annual growth rates are in constant currency terms delivery.
During the course of the last few years, the Company has assembled what we believe is the largest number of drug delivery technologies Top 10 prescription products 2003 compared with any other drug delivery company.
This allows cross-fertilisation of ideas among Zoloft 11% 3.4 our scientists as they strive to solve drug delivery Seretide 40% 3.7 problems and helps to bring more effective products to the market.
Our technology portfolio Plavix 40% 3.7 covers over 90% of all the drug delivery needs Nexium 62% 3.8 of the pharmaceutical industry.
Ogastro Prevacid unch 4.0 By far the most popular method of dosing is by 4.0 Erypo 13% mouth, as a tablet, capsule, lozenge or sachet.
More than 50% of all medicines are administered Norvasc 7% 4.5 in this way.
However, many drugs must be taken 4.8 Zyprexa 13% several times a day and this inconvenience often results in patients not complying with prescription 6.1 Zocor -4% instructions and so failing to take full benefit from Lipitor 14% 10.3 0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 Global sales US$bn Source: IMS Global Review 2004 Annual growth rates are in constant currency terms US prevalence of some conditions relevant to SkyePharma In-patient surgical procedures 1996 41 Benign prostatic hypertrophy 29 Asthma 17 Depression 19 05 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 Patient population millions Source: US National Center for Health Statistics, American Urological Association, National Institutes of Health, National Institute for Mental Health SkyePharma annual report 2003 medication.
In the United States alone, it is repeated dosing.
This challenge has led to the propellants, protecting the environment and estimated that poor patient compliance results development of sustained-release injectable providing patients with convenient and effective in a financial burden to healthcare providers of products such as DepoFoam and Biosphere, symptom control.
This is illustrated in SkyePharmas depot technologies.
These allow the chart below containing the results of a recent a drug to be administered as a weekly or monthly We are also working on a range of topical delivery US survey of how patients take prescription injection in place of daily injections or the need for systems, whereby drugs are absorbed through the medications.
Nearly one in three patients took continuous infusion.
An example is Solaraze, an easy-to-use drugs less frequently than prescribed and one injectables prolong the effects of the drug as well as gel for the treatment of a common pre-cancerous in seven took less than the prescribed dose.
providing greater levels of comfort and convenience skin condition.
Significant benefits will also be While drug delivery technology cannot get the realised by health providers through savings in One major problem facing all drug companies is patient to go to the pharmacy, it can address many nursing costs and improvements in compliance.
In order to be properly absorbed by the of these shortcomings.
We are all more likely to body, nearly all drugs need to dissolve in water, take our medicines if we have to do so less often.
Drug delivery is playing an increasingly important no matter how they are delivered.
Many drugs, Reformulating a drug so that it only needs to be role within the pharmaceutical industry.
particularly those emerging from the newer taken once a day is a simple and effective way of We believe many exciting new developments lie discovery technologies, are either not soluble benefiting patient, prescriber and the healthcare just around the corner because of the growing at all, or are not sufficiently soluble to be properly system as a whole.
In addition to prolonging challenges faced by the whole pharmaceutical absorbed and thus effective.
We address this the duration of action of a drug, drug delivery industry.
Patients are becoming increasingly problem by transforming raw drugs into nanotechnology is also capable of improving a drugs influential in the prescribing process and are particles less than one millionth of a metre in efficacy by minimising undesirable fluctuations demanding safer drugs that are easier and more diameter.
This often has remarkable effects on in drug levels in the bloodstream and by reducing convenient to use.
Governments and insurance drug solubility and rates of absorption, enabling dose-related side-effects.
companies are under growing pressure to bring many otherwise ineffective therapeutics to be down the costs of drugs.
At the same time, developed into successful medicines.
A number of very promising new biological the pharmaceutical industry is faced by more drugs are being developed, in particular by the technically challenging drug substances as Finally, for the pharmaceutical company itself, biotechnology industry, but these must normally a result of the increasing complexity of new the application of drug delivery technology can be delivered by injection.
If taken by mouth, protein drug discovery science, in a marketplace that is be useful in extending a successful products drugs are rapidly destroyed by the digestive system, becoming more competitive and heavily regulated.
By reformulating an existing marketed becoming inactive.
Often these drugs have a very Scrip Drug Delivery Companies Fact File 2002, PJB product, it can be possible to receive patent short duration of action, requiring repeated Publications Ltd, Copyright 2002. extensions and thus prolong the protected life injections or infusions, which may take hours of the product.
Moreover, such reformulated to deliver.
Despite improvements in injection Inhaled pharmaceuticals are used almost products will be differentiated from their equipment, such as finer, sharper needles, most exclusively to treat the more than 150 million competitors, often by expanded therapeutic patients still find injections traumatic and painful.
patients in the industrialised world who suffer use, targeting different or additional patients New injection systems go some way to addressing from asthma or bronchitis.
SkyePharma has and expanding the market.
A win-win formula these issues but their use is limited to only a very developed inhalation technologies that are for patients, for the pharmaceutical industry few compounds, many of which still require either breath-actuated or powered by non-CFC and for SkyePharma.
In the past 12 months, have you...
Global Prescription Drug Market 2003 $466 bn 9% stopped taking a prescription North America 11% 21% medication sooner than prescribed?
Europe EU 8% taken a prescription medication Other Europe 14% 30% less often than prescribed?
Japan 3% taken a prescription drug in Asia, Africa & Australia 12% 14% smaller doses than prescribed?
Latin America 6% delayed filling a prescription?
18% 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% % of respondents Source: Harris Interactive 10,000 Patients Survey 2002 Source: IMS Global Review 2004 Annual growth rates are in constant currency terms SkyePharma annual report 2003
