10 11 products on the market SkyePharma uses drug delivery technologies FDA in October 2003 also provides strong to improve the characteristics of pharmaceutical endorsement of our respiratory delivery products.
Normally we work with medicines that technology.
Our fifth technology, solubilisation, have already been shown to be safe and effective is designed to overcome the growing problem for but which have disadvantages in terms of dosing the pharmaceutical industry of low bioavailability frequency.
By reformulation, we can often improve of many promising drug leads.
Products based the therapeutic effect, minimise side-effects and on our solubilisation technologies are in latemake dosing more convenient for the patient.
Our delivery technologies cover four routes The four marketed products highlighted below of administration: oral, inhaled, injectable and exemplify the proven potential of our approach.
Together these four routes account for GlaxoSmithKlines Paxil is an oral tablet about 90% of all drugs now on the market.
Paxil is an SSRI Regulatory approval of products incorporating antidepressant and with this class of drug gastric our oral, injectable and topical delivery systems side-effects cause many patients to discontinue has now validated these proprietary technologies.
therapy before the drug can be effective.
In our The issue of an approvable letter for Foradil controlled-release version Paxil CR, the active Certihaler by the US Food & Drug Administration ingredient passes through the stomach Xatral OD UroXatral DepoCyt A once-daily oral version of Sanofi-Synthlabos An injectable treatment for lymphomatous alfuzosin, a selective alpha-blocker for treating meningitis, a complication of late-stage cancer, the urinary symptoms of benign prostatic featuring our sustained-release technology hypertrophy.
Xatral OD has been marketed in is marketed in the DepoFoam.
DepoCyt Europe and many other territories since 2000.
It has recently It was launched in the USA as UroXatral in been launched in Europe as DepoCyte November 2003. by Mundipharma.
SkyePharma annual report 2003 unchanged and is absorbed from the lower Finally, a complication of late-stage lymphoma, intestine.
This reduces the incidence of nausea lymphomatous meningitis, can be controlled and results in a significant reduction in the dropwith cytarabine.
However, the drugs short out rate due to adverse events.
half-life means a spinal injection is needed every few days, distressing for the patient and Sanofi-Synthlabos Xatral is an effective incurring a high nursing cost.
DepoCyt, using treatment for the urinary symptoms of benign our DepoFoam sustained-release injectable prostatic hypertrophy.
However it must be taken technology, cuts the injection frequency to every three times a day, not only inconvenient for the second week.
patient but also placing Xatral at a competitive disadvantage.
We developed a new version that only needs to be taken once a day.
Xatral OD has revitalised sales in Europe and was launched in the US as UroXatral in November 2003.
Solaraze is a topical treatment for a common dermatological condition.
Our proprietary hyaluronic acid gel technology maximises and prolongs the concentration of the active drug ingredient in the upper layers of the skin, thereby improving efficacy and minimising systemic side-effects.
Solaraze now offers a cosmetically acceptable alternative to conventional treatments that are painful or disfiguring.
Solaraze Paxil CR A topical treatment for actinic keratosis, An improved oral formulation of GlaxoSmithKlines, a leading SSRI antidepressant.
Paxil CR a common pre-cancerous skin condition caused Paxil, based on uses our Geomatrix technology to reduce by overexposure to sunlight.
Solaraze our hyaluronic acid gel formulation, is licensed to gastrointestinal side-effects, an issue with all Quintiles Transnational in the USA and to Shire drugs of this class.
Since its launch in April 2002, Pharmaceuticals in Europe and Australasia.
Paxil CR has captured 8% of the US prescription market for SSRI antidepressants.
This share has been largely unaffected by the commencement of generic competition for Paxil in September 2003.
