12 13 upcoming products We expect the four products featured below levels of morphine for 48 hours the period to come to the market over the next few years.
of peak post-operative pain from a single Two of these products Foradil Certihaler epidural injection given before or during the and Requip are being developed for partners.
Epidural analgesia has many However, for the other two, DepoMorphine theoretical advantages but is only used in about and Propofol IDD-D, we decided to undertake 50% of procedures today because of some development ourselves with the expectation practical issues.
Conventional morphine is of out-licensing on more favourable terms relatively short-acting so an epidural catheter from the availability of late-stage clinical data.
has to be left in place for repeat administration.
The attractive terms of our licensing deals with This not only impairs patient mobility but also Endo for North America and Medeus Pharma can cause complications such as dislodgement, for Europe support this strategy.
infections and bleeding within the spinal column which can lead to paralysis.
DepoMorphine There is widespread recognition that relief of postavoids the need for an indwelling catheter.
In DepoMorphine Clinical trials in several different post-operative our DepoFoam sustained-release injectable indications have confirmed that the product technology maintains therapeutically effective is safe and at least as effective as conventional Parkinsons disease UK prevalence with age Over 80 70-79 60-69 50-59 40-49 30-39 0-29 0 300 600 900 1,200 1,500 1,800 Prevalence per 100,000 Source: BMJ July 2000 Requip Propofol IDD-D SkyePharma is developing a new once-daily A novel formulation of a widely-used injectable oral version of GlaxoSmithKlines Requip anaesthetic and sedative.
In contrast with currentlyfor Parkinsons disease.
The long-acting marketed versions of propofol, our formulation formulation should bring therapeutic benefits is designed to be not susceptible to bacterial as well as being more convenient.
Phase III contamination and so to be suitable for long-term trials commenced in 2003. use in the intensive care setting.
Propofol IDD-D is expected to commence Phase III development in mid-2004.
DepoMorphine was filed with Propofol IDD-D is a new emulsion formulation the FDA in July 2003 and with the European of the injectable anaesthetic and sedative regulatory agencies in November and should propofol.
We believe our version to be the first begin to reach the market in the second half of that cannot support bacterial growth and is 2004.
DepoMorphine will be marketed in North designed for long-term sedation, with no need America by Endo Pharmaceuticals Endo and for a preservative.
We completed a Phase II trial in Europe we have recently appointed Medeus last year and will initiate a Phase III trial shortly.
The product will also be marketed by Endo in North America and we expect to appoint Foradil Certihaler is a multi-dose dry-powder a European licensee later this year.
inhaler version of the long-acting bronchodilator formoterol.
We developed not only the inhalation Requip is GlaxoSmithKIines drug for Parkinsons device but also the dry-powder formulation disease.
Requip is a dopamine agonist, a class technology that successfully achieves repeat dose of drug now recommended as first-line therapy.
consistency of this low-dose product.
After our Our new once-daily version is more convenient partner Novartis filed for approval in the USA for the patient than the current three times a day and Europe in December 2002, the October 2003 version and should provide additional therapeutic issue of an approvable letter by the FDA implies benefits by reducing fluctuations in drug levels likely approval in the latter part of this year.
This product commenced Phase III We have already received the first European trials in mid-2003 and should be filed for approval approval in Switzerland and expect others later this year.
to follow during the year.
In the US, the Foradil franchise has been licensed by Novartis to Schering-Plough, a recognised leader in the asthma market.
During the year we also entered a new agreement to work with Novartis on a dry-powder inhaler version of QAB149, an experimental drug that could be the first once-daily bronchodilator.
Foradil Certihaler DepoMorphine A new version of Novartis long-acting A sustained-release injectable formulation of bronchodilator formoterol for asthma.
Given as a single epidural injection SkyePharma developed not only the multi-dose before an operation, it provides effective relief dry-powder inhaler device but also the unique of pain for the first 48 hours after major surgery.
In November 2003 DepoMorphine was filed for regulatory approval the FDA issued an approvable letter for this in the US and Europe in 2003 and should begin product and it received its first European to reach the market later this year.
