28 29 directors and officers 01 Ian Gowrie-Smith aged 55 05 R Stephen Harris aged 61 08 Donald Nicholson aged 46 Executive Chairman, appointed in January 1995.
Non-executive Director, appointed in November Finance Director, appointed in March 1997, joined Mr Gowrie-Smith has more than 17 years of 1995.
He has 40 years commercial experience SkyePharma in February 1996.
He is a member of management experience in the pharmaceutical in the pharmaceutical industry, having worked the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
industry and was responsible for the founding for ICI Pharmaceuticals, Merck, Eli Lilly, Boots, He began his professional career with Deloitte and subsequent flotation of Medeva plc.
He is Reckitt & Colman and Gensia: and was director Haskins & Sells and has spent over 18 years non-executive chairman of Triple Plate Junction of Development and Licensing with Medeva plc.
in healthcare including Wellcome plc and PLC and Micap PLC.
He is non-executive chairman of Proteome Corange Ltd, the holding company of Boehringer Sciences plc, Sinclair Pharma plc and Conve Ltd Mannheim and DePuy, where he was corporate 02 Michael Ashton aged 58 and non-executive director of Advanced Medical strategy & finance director.
Became Chief Executive Officer in November 1998, Solutions Group plc, Microscience Ltd, appointed to the Board in March 1997.
He has over Prophilian plc and GeneMedix plc.
09 Torao Yamamoto aged 61 31 years of experience in the pharmaceutical Non-executive Director, appointed in October industry having worked for Merck Inc. Pfizer Inc. 06 Dr Jerry Karabelas aged 51 2002.
Mr. Yamamoto is the senior managing Purepac Inc. and prior to this appointment, Non-executive Director, appointed in November director of the Pharmaceutical Division of Kowa Faulding Inc. where Mr Ashton was chairman, 2000.
Dr Karabelas has more than 21 years Company Limited in Japan.
Mr. Yamamoto has president and CEO.
He is a non-executive director experience in the pharmaceutical industry having been with Kowa, a Japanese conglomerate with of Transition Therapeutics Inc. Astralis Limited spent the majority of his career with SmithKline interests in pharmaceuticals, textiles, electronics, and Vital Living Inc. Beecham.
Dr Karabelas is a partner at Care optics and chemicals, since 1965.
He was previously the CEO of management positions in Japan and the US, 03 Air Chief Marshal Sir Michael Beavis aged 74 Novartis Pharma AG where he had responsibility where he was general manager of all Kowas Non-executive Director, appointed in May 1989 for pharmaceuticals, R&D, consumer products, operations for four years until June 1998. and was appointed Senior Independent Nonand the generics business.
He is also an external He currently serves on the board of directors of executive Director in May 2001.
Sir Michael director of Human Genome Sciences, Fox Chase Kowa Company Limited, Kowa Pharmaceutical entered the Royal Air Force in 1947 and retired Cancer Center and the International Partnership Europe, Ltd. and Kowa Research Europe, Ltd. in 1987, his last appointment being Deputy for Microbicides.
He is also a director of Commander-in-Chief Allied Forces Central NitroMed Inc. Halsey Pharmaceuticals, Inotek, 10 Douglas Parkhill aged 52 Europe, NATO.
He is a defence consultant with Anadys, Renovo and a member of the scientific Company Secretary, appointed in September Burdeshaw Associates, USA, a Companion of advisory board of Epigenesis.
Mr Parkhill is a graduate of Glasgow the Chartered Management Institute, a Freeman University and a member of the Institute of of the City of London and a Liveryman in the 07 Dr Keith Mansford aged 72 Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Guild of Air Pilots and Navigators.
Non-executive Director, appointed in March 1996.
He has over 45 years' experience in Member of Executive Committee 04 Dr David Ebsworth aged 49 the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors Non-executive Director, appointed in April 2002. principally with Beecham Group and SmithKline Dr Ebsworth has over 20 years of pharmaceutical Beecham.
From 1984 to 1992 Dr Mansford was industry experience.
He provides consultancy chairman of Research and Development at services to a variety of clients including venture Beecham Group and subsequently SmithKline capital companies.
He was chief executive officer Beecham plc.
He is an external director of of Oxford GlycoSciences PLC until May 2003.
Sepracor Inc, chairman of Mansford Associates, Prior to this he held the position of president an international healthcare consultancy, chairman and general manager of the Pharmaceutical of Protemix Inc, a biotech company based in Business Group for Bayer AG in Leverkusen, New Zealand, and professor of Metabolic Germany, and has also worked for Bayer AG in Biochemistry at the University of Buckingham.
a series of global positions in Canada, Europe and the United States.
Dr Ebsworth is non-executive chairman of Wilex AG and a non-executive director of Intercell AG, Betapharm GmbH and CuraGen Corporation and held the same office, until 1998, with Schein Pharmaceutical, Inc. now known as Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. SkyePharma annual report 2003 01 05 08 02 06 09 03 07 10 04 SkyePharma annual report 2003
