34 35 report of the directors The Directors present their report on the affairs of the Group, together with the consolidated financial statements and auditors report for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Principal activities and business review A review of the Operating and Financial business and future developments of the Group is set out in the Chairmans statement, Review of operations and Financial review on pages 6, 14 to 23 and 30 to 33.
The principal activities of the Group are the research and development, manufacture and sale of prescription pharmaceutical products.
Results and dividends The Group made a loss for the year to 31 December 2003 of 43.2 million 2002: profit 1.1 million.
The Directors do not propose to pay a dividend.
Research and development The Group incurred research and development costs of 30.5 million 2002: 29.3 million during the year which have been written off to the profit and loss account in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
Environmental policy The Company is conscious of its responsibilities in respect of the environment and has produced a group wide environmental policy.
Payment of creditors The Groups policy is to pay its suppliers within 30 days from receipt of invoice unless otherwise agreed with suppliers prior to goods or services being ordered.
Suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and it is the Companys policy to abide by the agreed terms, subject to the terms and conditions being fulfilled by the supplier.
At 31 December 2003, creditor days outstanding in respect of the Company amounted to 26 days 2002: 23 days.
Directors The membership of the Board on 5 May 2004 was as follows: Ian Gowrie-Smith Michael Ashton Air Chief Marshal Sir Michael Beavis Dr David Ebsworth Stephen Harris Dr Argeris Jerry Karabelas Dr Keith Mansford Donald Nicholson Torao Yamamoto Company Secretary : Douglas Parkhill Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee The Directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting are Messrs Gowrie-Smith, Nicholson and Ebsworth who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
As announced in December 2003, Mr Gowrie-Smith will step down as Executive Chairman and seek reappointment as Non-executive Chairman.
In accordance with the Companies Act 1985, Sir Michael Beavis and Dr Keith Mansford, having respectively reached the ages of 74 and 72, will offer themselves for re-election to be appointed under a resolution of which special notice has been given.
Subject to the overriding approval of the shareholders, Non-executive Directors hold their appointments for a period of three years except for those aged over 70.
In the opinion of the Board Sir Michael Beavis and Dr Keith Mansford have been key in the successful development of the Company and continue to provide a worthwhile contribution to its future growth.
Details of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company together with details of the share options granted to them are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 48 of this Report and Accounts.
As at the date of this report, the Directors of the Company had an interest, beneficially and non-beneficially, in an aggregate of 9,625,539 Ordinary Shares, representing 1.6% of the Companys issued share capital.
Directors and officers liability insurance During the period under review, the Company and the Group maintained an insurance policy for its Directors and officers in respect of liabilities which could arise in the discharge of their duties in the ordinary course of business.
SkyePharma annual report 2003 Substantial shareholdings In addition to Directors interests as disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 48 the Company has been advised or is aware of the following individual interests which at 29 April 2004 exceeded 3% of the Companys issued share capital:- Fidelity Investments 14.2% Dr J Gonella 6.8% Standard Life Investments 5.1% Kowa Company Limited 4.8% Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.5% Employees and disabled persons The Group is committed to a policy of promoting employees awareness of its activities, encouraging employees participation in the growth of the Group and welcomes staff input at all levels.
It is recognised that by far the most important form of involvement and information regarding the progress, performance and plans of the Group take place during informal daily discussions between management and other employees.
Consultations occur to allow employee opinions to be heard when making decisions affecting their interests.
It is Group policy to offer the same opportunity to disabled people as to all others in matters of recruitment and career advancement, provided they have the ability to perform the tasks required, with training where appropriate, and to institute retraining where practical in cases where disability is incurred during employment with the Group.
All employees may have the opportunity to participate in the Companys relevant share option schemes and the SkyePharma International Share Purchase Plan described on pages 41 and 42.
Employee remuneration is determined on an annual basis by the Remuneration Committee and Executive Committee as appropriate.
The Group attracts and retains employees of the highest calibre by offering remuneration that is in line with that offered by industry competitors and local practice in the countries in which it operates.
Charitable and political donations No contributions were made to charities 2002: Nil.
No contributions were made to political organisations 2002: Nil.
Close company provisions The company is not a close company within the meaning of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, and there have been no changes since the end of the year.
Annual General Meeting At the Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 23rd June 2004, the Company proposes to seek the usual authority to issue shares, and limited disapplication of the statutory pre-emption rights on the issue of new shares.
It also proposes to seek authority to purchase shares in the market subject to compliance with relevant statutory and regulatory requirements.
The Company also proposes to ask Members to approve the Remuneration Report of the Company together with the new proposals for the executive remuneration policy for 2004.
Further information on these proposals and on the Annual General Meeting is set out in the separate letter from the Chairman, which explains the reasons for these resolutions, and also contains the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Douglas Parkhill Company Secretary 5 May 2004 SkyePharma annual report 2003 36 37 statement of directors responsibility in relation to the accounts The Directors are required by law to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates as necessary: applicable accounting standards have been followed, and the financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group at any time and from which accounts can be prepared to comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for ensuring the operation of systems of internal control for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial statements are set out in the auditors report on page 49.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2003 are included in the Annual Report 2003, which is published by the Company in hard-copy printed form and on the Companys website on the Internet.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on the website in accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
This may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
Ian Gowrie-Smith Executive Chairman 5 May 2004 corporate governance The Board The Board of SkyePharma PLC is responsible for the Groups system of corporate governance and internal control and is accountable for its activities throughout the world.
The Board comprises three Executive and six Non-executive Directors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and are held by different people.
The role of Non-executive Directors is to bring independent judgement to Board deliberations and decisions.
The Executive and Non-executive Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and re-election by shareholders in accordance with the Articles of Association whereby one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and are able, if necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Directors receive induction and on-going training as appropriate.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision but otherwise delegates specific responsibilities to committees, as described below.
The Non-executive Directors hold regular meetings without the executives present.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they request a meeting, or have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or is inappropriate.
The Board is instituting a formal and rigorous process for the annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual Directors.
The Board considers all of the Companys Non-executive Directors to be independent with the exception of Mr Yamamoto by reason of the business relationship between Kowa Company Limited, of which he is a director, and the Group.
The Board considers that the remaining Non-executive Directors are independent both in judgement and character and that they carry out their duties in an independent manner and provide constructive challenge to decisions.
The Board has considered the length of time which Sir Michael Beavis has served as a Non-executive Director.
He has been on the Board of the Company that formed SkyePharma since 1995 although he was first appointed to the Board in 1989.
In the opinion of the Board he is considered to be independent and, as the Senior Non-executive Director of the Company, continues to bring an impartiality of mind to the Boards decision making processes.
Management and Board Committees The Group Executive Committee is responsible for the day to day management of the Group.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and comprises the Executive Directors and other Senior Managers.
The Committee generally meets monthly and informs the Board of key issues via the Chief Executive Officer.
SkyePharma annual report 2003 The Audit Committee reviews the half year and full year results and the Interim and Annual Report and Accounts prior to their submission to the Board and considers any matters raised by the external auditors.
The Committee reviews the cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors, pre-approves all permitted non-audit expenditure incurred with them and reviews the companys internal financial controls.
Dr Jerry Karabelas chairs the Committee.
It meets formally at least three times a year with the external auditors in attendance.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice a year.
It considers and reviews the Groups policy on executive remuneration and establishes and approves the remuneration of the Executive Directors and Senior Executives and is responsible for the policy and operation of the SkyePharma Share Option Schemes.
The Committee is chaired by Sir Michael Beavis.
The Remuneration Report is presented on pages 38 to 48 of the Report and Accounts.
The Nomination Committee considers and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and recommends which Non-executive Directors should be invited to retire, having regard to the changing needs of the Board as a whole.
Mr Ian GowrieSmith chairs the Committee.
The Committee meets as required.
The members of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee are detailed on page 34.
Accountability and control SkyePharma operates, and attaches importance to, clear principles and procedures designed to achieve the accountability and control appropriate to a science-based business operating internationally in a highly regulated business sector.
SkyePharma has established an organisational structure with clearly drawn lines of accountability and delegation of authority.
All Group employees are required to adhere to specified codes of conduct, policies and procedures.
The identification and appraisal of risks is carried out through the annual process of preparing business plans and budgets and through the close monitoring of operations.
Financial results and key operational and financial performance indicators are reported regularly throughout the year and variances from plans and budgets are investigated and reported.
The Group has a system of high-level financial control procedures which are supplemented by detailed procedures at each operating entity.
Compliance with these procedures is monitored by the corporate office supplemented by external audit.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management as they operated during the year.
The Board receives regular reports on areas of significant risk to the Company, and on related internal controls.
In addition to its consideration of these reports the Board reviews annually the overall framework and effectiveness of controls.
Such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate cash resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Relations with shareholders The Company is committed to ongoing communication across the shareholder base, whether to institutional investors, private or employee shareholders.
This is achieved through annual and interim reports, other trading statements and the Annual General Meeting.
com contains corporate and customer information which is updated on a regular basis.
The Combined Code In June 1998 the London Stock Exchange issued the final version of the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice the Code.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
During 2003 the Board considers that the Company complied with all relevant principles and provisions of the Code covered by the annual report and accounts.
Following publication in 2003 of the Higgs Review on non-executive directors and the Smith Report on audit committees, the Code has been amended and the revised provisions are effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 November 2003 the new Code.
During 2003 the Board reviewed its policies in the area of corporate governance and is implementing a number of changes.
The Board will continue to review its policies and procedures and take whatever steps it considers appropriate in respect of the new Code for the current financial year when it reports to shareholders in 2005.
Dr Jerry Karabelas Chairman, Audit Committee 5 May 2004 SkyePharma annual report 2003
