DIRECTORS REPORT PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT of Aerospace.
At the same time, the The principal activities of the company 251m was spent on research and Sealings Solutions and Industrial divisions and its subsidiaries are the development, development during the year, of which were merged to form the new Specialty manufacture, sale and support of: 130m was funded by the company and Engineering division.
integrated aerospace systems, including the balance by customers.
Each business electronic and actuation systems and carries out research and development On 29 August 2003, the sale of Matzen & precision components, for civil and programmes to suit its own particular Timm to Masterflex AG was completed for military aircraft: market and product needs.
advanced security equipment, using of technology and technical information the power of trace detection and x-ray between Smiths manufacturing On 22 September 2003, the sale of the imaging, to detect and identify explosives, businesses is centrally coordinated.
Polymer Sealing Solutions business to chemical and biological agents, weapons Trelleborg AB for 495m in cash became and contraband: CHANGES IN THE COMPANY AND ITS unconditional, with completion expected medical devices and critical care INTERESTS DURING THE YEAR by the end of September.
equipment aligned to specific therapies, On 18 October 2002 the business and principally airway, pain and temperature assets of Precision Handling Systems were FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS management and infusion.
Also needle sold to Parkburn Engineering Limited for The company will pursue its existing protection, critical care monitoring, 2.3m in cash.
international activities and continue to womens healthcare and vascular seek business opportunities in both the access: and On 4 November 2002 the business and United Kingdom and overseas.
mechanical seals used in industries assets of Lodge Ignition were sold to ranging from petrochemical processing Meggitt PLC for 33m in cash.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS to aerospace: interconnect products During the year the company made donations to connect and protect safety-critical On 29 November 2002 the company of 708,000 for charitable purposes including electrical and electronic equipment: acquired all the issued share capital of payments totalling 300,000 for the Portex navigational radar, marine electronics Heimann Systems GmbH Germany for Chair of Paediatric Anaesthesia.
No political and charts: and rigid tubular and flexible a cash consideration of 236m.
On 3 December 2002 the business and DIRECTORS The main manufacturing operations assets of the Air Movement and Cable The directors at the end of the financial year are in the United Kingdom, the Americas Management businesses were sold to are shown on page 22 of the accompanying and Continental Europe.
A review of HSBC Private Equity for 125m in cash.
Mr J M Hignett retired the development of the company and at the Annual General Meeting in November its subsidiary undertakings during the On 29 January 2003 the company 2002.
Lord Robertson of Port 2002-2003 financial year is on pages completed the private placement of Ellen has been appointed as a non-executive 5 to 19 of the Annual Review 2003 that US$250m in senior notes with 11 leading director with effect from 15 February 2004. accompanies this Directors Report and North American institutional investors.
The notes have a 10-year term and a REAPPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS coupon of 5.45%, priced at 140 basis Mr K O Butler-Wheelhouse, Dr J Ferrie and RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS points over the 10-year US Treasury Bill.
Mr J M Horn-Smith will retire in accordance The results for the year to 31 July 2003 with Article 57 and, being eligible, will seek are set out in the Consolidated Profit On 1 April 2003 the issued share reappointment at the Annual General Meeting.
Sales for capital of C & F Millier Limited was the year amounted to 3,056m, against sold to a management buy-out for a DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 3,223m last year.
The profit for the year cash consideration of 0.3m.
The directors remuneration report is on after taxation, minority interests and pages 5 to 11.
An ordinary resolution to goodwill amortisation amounted to On 8 May 2003 John Crane Chile S. A. approve the report will be put to shareholders 112m 2002 185m.
acquired the business and assets of at the Annual General Meeting.
General Seals S. A. Chile for a cash An interim dividend of 8.75p per ordinary consideration of 1.7m.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS share of 25p was paid on 17 April 2003.
Details of the executive directors The directors recommend for payment on POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS service contracts are as disclosed in the 14 November 2003 a final cash dividend On 1 August 2003 a new division was service contracts section of the directors on each ordinary share of 17.25p, making created to include Smiths Detection and remuneration report on page 9.
Details a total dividend of 26p for the year.
The move reflected the of the interests of the executive directors recent acquisition of Heimann and the in the companys share option schemes The retained loss of 34m was transferred potential for growth of these two marketare shown in the remuneration report on from Reserves.
leading businesses, both previously part pages 10 and 11.
SMITHS GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 01 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Apart from the exceptions referred to There is an agreed procedure for All directors are subject to retirement above, no director had an interest in any all directors to take independent under Article 57 and submit themselves contract to which the company or its professional advice at the companys for re-election at intervals of no more than subsidiaries was a party during the year.
expense in connection with their duties.
three years: any director who attains the They also have access to the advice and age of 70 is subject to annual re-election.
INTERESTS IN SHARES assistance of the Company Secretary The initial appointment of non-executive As at 23 September 2003 the company had whose appointment is in accordance directors is for three years: they do not been notified, pursuant to the Companies with the Code.
Arrangements are in place participate in company bonus, share Act 1985, of the following material or notifiable for all directors to receive appropriate option or pension schemes.
interests in its issued share capital: training, whether on their appointment or periodically, as necessary.
The Nominations and Remuneration Percentage Committee meets at least three times of issued No.
of shares share capital Mr Orrell-Jones is the Chairman and also a year.
The Chief Executive and the chairs the Nominations and Remuneration General Counsel attend meetings of The Capital Group Committee.
Sir Colin Chandler is the Deputy the Committee by invitation but do not Companies, Inc 68.6m 12.3% Chairman and chairman of the Audit participate in discussions of their own Franklin Resources, Inc. 50.5m 9.0% Committee.
The Committee monitors the Legal & General Group plc 19.3m 3.4% has been appointed as a recognised senior performance of the Chief Executive and includes the interests of Capital Guardian Trust Company in independent member for the purposes other executive directors and has access 9.9% of the issued share capital percentage of share capital in issue on 23 September 2003 of A.
2.1 of the Code because matters to all information required for that purpose.
of concern can readily be brought to The report of the Board on remuneration The company has not acquired or disposed the attention of either Mr Orrell-Jones is set out on pages 5 to 11. of any interests in its own shares.
Sir Colin has accepted the companys nomination as Chairman The company maintains a dialogue The interests of the directors, their families of TI Automotive Limited.
There are with institutional shareholders through and any connected persons in the issued three other independent non-executive regular meetings and presentations.
At share capital of the company are shown directors of the company.
Lord Robertsons the Annual General Meeting shareholders on page 8. appointment as an additional independent are encouraged to ask questions and after non-executive director will take effect on the meeting have access to directors and CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 15 February 2004.
Mr Butler-Wheelhouse other senior executives.
The company has The company complies with the Combined is the Chief Executive and there are six complied with the Code provisions related Code, as appended to the April 2002 other executive directors.
See page 22 of to principles C. 1 and C. 2. edition of the Listing Rules of the UK the accompanying Annual Review 2003.
Listing Authority the Code, except that no The Board believes that the full Reports senior independent director is recognised The Board is provided with detailed and Accounts present a balanced and as required by A.
Subject to information on matters to be considered understandable assessment of the that exception, the company has complied at its meetings and non-executive companys position and prospects: with the Code throughout the accounting directors have ready access to the the Board has complied with the Code period covered by this report.
Regular site visits provisions D. 1.1 to D. 1.3.
are arranged and non-executive directors by the auditors appears on page 12. are encouraged to visit sites independently.
The Board of Directors normally meets During site visits, briefings are arranged The Audit Committees terms of reference formally eight times a year to make and and the Board is free to discuss aspects of accord with the Code.
The Committee review major business decisions and the business with employees at all levels.
comprises the Chairman and all the monitor current trading against budgets non-executive directors and meets at which it has approved.
It additionally There is a formal procedure for least three times a year with the Chief exercises control by determining matters appointment of all new directors.
Executive, Financial Director, General specifically reserved to it in a formal The Nominations and Remuneration Counsel, Director of Internal Audit and schedule which only the Board may Committee, of which all the non-executive the Auditors normally attending meetings.
change: these matters include the directors are members and which is acquisition of companies and major chaired by Mr Orrell-Jones, makes Apart from work in relation to acquisitions capital expenditure.
Once a year the recommendations to the Board on and disposals, all material work not related Board meets in conference to consider appointments.
Appointments made to the audit for which the company might long-term strategy and industrial by the Board are subject to approval consider engaging the Auditors, is put out developments affecting the company.
by the shareholders at the next Annual to tender.
The Board is kept fully informed Additional meetings are arranged as General Meeting.
of all non-audit work awarded to the Auditors.
necessary to deal with urgent items.
02 SMITHS GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 Internal control.
Internal control is based meetings.
In addition to financial and director has responsibility for safety, health on assessment of risk and a framework of business reports, the Board has reviewed and environmental matters.
The corporate control procedures to manage risks and to medium and longer-term strategic plans: and social responsibility review appears monitor compliance with procedures.
The capital expenditure and development on pages 20 and 21 of the accompanying procedures of accountability and control, programmes: management and product Annual Review 2003. which accord with the guidance on internal development programmes: reports on control issued by the Turnbull Committee, key operational issues: tax: treasury: risk EMPLOYMENT POLICIES are outlined below.
management: insurance: legal matters: It is the company's policy to provide equal and Audit Committee reports, including opportunities for employment and to give The Board accepts its responsibility for internal and external auditor reports.
the fullest consideration to employment maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness prospects for the disabled.
The company of the companys internal control systems.
The Boards review of continues to be actively involved in all These are designed to meet the companys the accounts, budgets and forward plans, aspects of the training and development particular needs and the risks to which it together with the internal control system, of young persons, including government is exposed and, by their nature, can provide lead the directors to believe that the sponsored schemes and unit initiatives only reasonable, not absolute, assurance company has ample resources to continue designed to ease the transition from against material loss to the company or in operation for the foreseeable future.
material misstatement in the financial accounts are therefore prepared on a going accounts.
Share option schemes enable employees to acquire an interest in the companys The group has an embedded process Auditors.
 LLP shares and to align their interests more for the identification, evaluation and have reviewed the companys statements closely with those of the shareholders.
management of significant business as to compliance with the Code to the risks.
The process is reviewed through extent required by the Listing Rules of Employees are regularly provided with a the Audit Committee and monitored by the UK Listing Authority.
wide range of information concerning the the Group Internal Audit Department.
performance and prospects of the business The four operating divisions and Corporate New Combined Code.
On 23 July 2003 in which they are involved by means of HQ have, during the year, identified and the Financial Reporting Council issued a Employee Councils, Works Councils and evaluated the key risks under three new Combined Code which will come into other consultative bodies that allow the categories strategic: operational: effect for listed companies for reporting views of personnel to be taken into account.
and information and have ensured years beginning on or after 1 November that effective controls and procedures 2003.
It is anticipated that the new Code All matters concerning the environment, are in place to manage these risks.
will replace the existing version of the health and safety continue to be regulated by Code and that some changes to the Listing preventative, investigatory and consultative In the highly regulated environment Rules will follow therefrom.
The company systems: issues relevant to the company of the aerospace, medical and detection is currently reviewing the new Code and pension scheme are covered by means industries, procedures are codified in will address what steps need to be taken of structured committees, including detailed operating procedures manuals to comply with its provisions.
representation from recognised trade and are reinforced by regular educational unions.
A more detailed statement appears programmes.
These are designed to POLICY ON PAYMENT OF CREDITORS on pages 20 and 21 of the accompanying ensure not only compliance with the The companys policy and practice is to Annual Review 2003. regulatory requirements but also with the pay creditors promptly in accordance with general principles of business integrity.
The average AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SHARES time taken to pay an invoice was 37 days At the Annual General Meeting A key element in any system is 2002: 37 days for the parent company shareholders will be asked to renew the communication and a number of and 50 days 2002: 51 days for the group authority, given to the directors at the last committees enable the executive as a whole calculated in compliance Annual General Meeting, to allot relevant directors and senior corporate staff to with the Companies Act 1985 Directors securities for the purposes of section 80 address financial, human resource, risk Report Statement of Payment Practice of the Companies Act 1985, so as to reflect management and other control issues.
Regulations 1997. the increase in the company's issued Experience is shared by subsidiaries share capital since the last Annual General through company-wide seminars.
The authority proposed will expire The company seeks to minimise, as far as on the fifth anniversary of the Meeting Throughout the year the Board has reviewed is reasonably practicable, any detrimental unless otherwise renewed.
The amount of the effectiveness of internal control and the effects to the environment of its operations relevant securities to which this authority management of risks at its regular Board and products.
A senior corporate staff relates 46,629,434 nominal of share SMITHS GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 03 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED capital represents one third of the share prior to any purchase.
On 23 September AUDITORS capital in issue on 23 September 2003.
2003 options over approximately 26m shares  resigned as auditors The directors have no present intention were outstanding under the companys during the year, following a restructuring of exercising this authority except for share option schemes, representing as a limited liability partnership.
The Board allotments of shares pursuant to the approximately 4.6% of the then issued appointed  LLP companys share option schemes.
If the authority to purchase as auditors to fill the vacancy.
Special ordinary resolution is set out in the Notice shares being sought at the Annual General notice having been received by the of Annual General Meeting.
Meeting were to be used in full, then company, resolutions will be proposed the outstanding options would represent at the Annual General Meeting to reappoint Also in the Notice is the special resolution approximately 5.2% of the reduced issued  LLP as auditors to renew the power granted to directors share capital.
and to authorise the directors to determine under section 95 of the Companies Act the auditors remuneration.
The new authority sought will be The directors will exercise the authority on substantially similar terms to those only if they are satisfied that any purchase SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT attaching to the existing authority and will increase the earnings per share of the The company has produced the Annual will expire on the fifth anniversary of ordinary share capital in issue and will be Review 2003 a Summary Financial the Meeting, unless otherwise renewed.
in the interests of the shareholders.
The Statement which, together with this It will permit the directors to allot equity directors will also give careful consideration Directors Report and Financial Statements securities for cash: to the gearing levels of the company and its 2003, forms the statutory Reports and in connection with a rights issue pro rata general financial position.
Shareholders will to the rights of the existing shareholders: be automatically sent Annual Reviews pursuant to the terms of any share No shares have ever been purchased or alone each year unless they elect in scheme approved by the shareholders contracted for or the subject of any option writing to receive the statutory Reports in General Meeting: and under the expiring or any prior authority.
Shareholders who wish to for any other purpose provided that receive the statutory Reports and Accounts the aggregate nominal value of such The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares free of charge in future years should write allotments does not exceed 6,994,415 Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the to Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, approximately 5% of the issued share Regulations, will come into force on Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, quoting capital on 23 September 2003.
They will enable certain Reference 0282.
The publication of Annual listed companies to hold shares in treasury, Reviews results in significant savings in the The directors intend seeking renewal of as an alternative to cancelling them, following cost of producing the accounts each year.
a purchase of own shares by the company in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
COM During the year ended 31 July 2003 the Shares held in treasury in this manner will Electronic copies of the Annual Review following ordinary shares in Smiths Group plc be available for resale by the company 2003, the Directors Report and Financial were issued: rather than, as is currently the case, being Statements 2003 and the Notice of Annual 753,369 shares pursuant to the terms immediately cancelled.
General Meeting will be posted on the of the companys shareholder-approved companys website, www.
share option schemes: and Accordingly, if the authority is renewed The companys announcements to the 186,794 shares pursuant to the terms at the Annual General Meeting and the Stock Exchange and press releases are of TI Group share option schemes.
directors were to exercise it after the available on-line through the website.
Regulations have come into force, the Shareholding details and practical help AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE SHARES company would have the option of holding on share transfers and changes of address At the Annual General Meeting the those shares in treasury, rather than can be found at www.
company will seek to renew the authority, cancelling them.
granted at the last Annual General Meeting By Order of the Board to the directors, to purchase the companys The Board will have regard to any guidelines DAVID P LILLYCROP shares in the market.
The authority will be issued by investor groups which may be DIRECTOR AND SECRETARY limited to 10% of the share capital in issue published at the time of any such purchase, on 23 September 2003 and will be renewed holding or resale of treasury shares.
The maximum price that may be London NW11 8DS paid under the authority will be limited to The Financial Services Authority is currently 24 September 2003 105% of the average of the middle market consulting on the changes required to the quotations of the company's shares, as Listing Rules to reflect the amendments derived from the London Stock Exchange to the Companies Act 1985 to be made by Daily Official List, for the five business days the Regulations.
04 SMITHS GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003
