Report of the Directors The directors present their report and the consolidated financial statements of Somerfield plc Somerfield or the Company and its subsidiaries the Group for the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2003.
Principal activity and business review The Groups principal activity is food retailing in the United Kingdom.
Its principal operating subsidiary is Somerfield Stores Limited.
A detailed review of the Groups activities and of future developments is contained within the Chairmans Statement and Somerfield and Kwik Save Operating Reviews on pages 2 to 11 which are, accordingly, to be read as part of this report.
Results and dividends The Group profit attributable to the members of Somerfield for the year amounted to 39.8 million 2001 2002 28.2 million.
A final dividend of 1.25p per share is proposed, making a total dividend for the year of 1.65p 2001 2002 1p.
Share capital Details of movements in the Companys issued share capital during 2002 03 are shown in note 20 to the financial statements.
As at 1 July 2003, 495,713,194 ordinary 10p shares were in issue and fully paid with an aggregate nominal value of 49,571,319.40.
Substantial interests At the date of this report, the following substantial interests 3% or more in the Companys share capital had been notified to the Company: Shareholder Ordinary shares % holdings Discretionary clients of AMVESCAP PLC 85,307,565 17.21 FMR Corp. and Fidelity International Limited 47,895,731 9.66 Schroder Investment Management Limited 39,760,822 8.02 Prudential plc 32,387,483 6.53 Baugur Group h. f. 17,925,000 3.62 Legal and General Investment Management Limited 17,401,438 3.51 not a notifiable interest under the Companies Act Directors and directors interests The current directors of the Company are listed on pages 40 and 41, with brief biographies.
Steve Back was appointed to the Board on 4 November 2002, Martin Oakes on 13 November 2002.
All other current directors listed on pages 40 and 41 served throughout the year.
Stephen Barnett resigned as a director on 12 July 2002, Alan Smith on 18 October 2002 and Graham Maguire on 27 November 2002.
Martin Gatto resigned as a director on 14 October 2002 although his service agreement did not terminate until 31 December 2002.
Gareth Jones and Derek Williams, non-executive directors, retired from the Board on 31 August 2002 and 5 September 2002 respectively.
The directors interests in the Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 53.
Corporate governance statement The Company has, throughout the year, complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Combined Code.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive have been combined since the departure of Alan Smith in October 2002 but the Board and, in particular, the non-executive directors, are satisfied that this arrangement remains appropriate in the short term.
The Company confirms that it has had procedures in place throughout the year which accord with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published by The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales in September 1999.
Many of the provisions of the new Combined Code proposed in Derek Higgs report Review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors to incorporate the recommendations in both that report and Sir Robert Smiths report Audit Committees Combined Code Guidance are already reflected in the Groups approach to corporate governance.
The Financial Reporting Council has set up a working group to produce a revised draft of the Combined Code to reflect points made in response to the FRCs consultation: the Board will review the Groups compliance with the new Combined Code, once finalised, and report fully against the new provisions in next years Corporate Governance statement.
The Board The Board comprises an Executive Chairman, five other executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
The wide range of experience of both executive and non-executive directors means that the Board can call not just on food and general retailing expertise but on general business experience and strong personal skills.
The non-executive directors add independence of thought and perspective.
42 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 There were ten formal Board meetings during the year and two separate strategy review meetings.
All directors are provided with full information to enable the Board to discharge its function of leading and controlling the Company and non-executive directors spend time with individual executive directors and their teams to ensure proper understanding of the key business functions.
Although all directors are equally accountable for the business performance, the non-executive directors recognise their particular role in ensuring that strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully discussed and examined.
The Board recognises and supports the need for high standards of corporate governance to ensure that its principal goal of driving shareholder value is balanced against broader stakeholder interests.
There is a schedule of matters reserved to the full Board for decision and all directors have access to the Company Secretary for advice as well as to other independent professional advice provided at the Companys expense.
Every director receives a full briefing pack on appointment.
All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board as well as to the five principal Board Committees.
Principal Board Committees Group Executive Committee John von Spreckelsen chairs the Executive Committee, which consists of all Executive Directors, the Human Resources and Business Development Directors and the Company Secretary.
This Committee is responsible for developing the Groups strategy and, once approved by the Board, for overseeing its implementation.
The Committee meets every two weeks to review current trading performance and to consider medium and long term business developments and reviews detailed management accounts for the Group and its three Business Units every four weeks.
The Committee also prepares annual operating and capital expenditure plans and budgets before their submission to the Board for final approval.
Group Capital Expenditure Committee Steve Back chairs this Committee, which is the focal point of control over capital expenditure within the Group and meets every 4-6 weeks.
Whilst the Group Executive Committee is responsible for ensuring that capital expenditure proposals are consistent with the Groups broad strategic objectives, it is the Group Capital Expenditure Committee which sets hurdle rates for investment proposals and monitors returns from investments against those hurdle rates.
The Committee also sets the policy and procedures for ensuring that capital expenditure remains within budget and is only committed to approved projects and in accordance with prescribed authority limits.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is chaired by Peter Wilson.
Its other members are Alan Giles, Louise Patten and John von Spreckelsen.
The Committee meets as and when required there were three formal meetings during the year.
The Committee is responsible for putting forward candidates for the approval of the Board to fill both executive and non-executive vacancies.
Candidates can be suggested by any director or through external recruitment consultants.
The Committee is also responsible for succession planning and for making such recommendations to the Board as it sees fit on the Boards composition and balance.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by the senior independent non-executive director, Louise Patten, and is composed entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The other members of the Committee are Mike Firth, Alan Giles and Peter Wilson.
The Committee met 12 times during the year.
Further details on the Committees responsibilities are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report at pages 47 to 53.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Mike Firth.
Its other members are Alan Giles, Louise Patten and Peter Wilson.
The Executive Chairman, Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and other senior managers attend meetings by invitation.
The Committee met four times during the year and part of one of those meetings was set aside for a discussion with the external auditors at which no member of the executive management team was present.
The Committee is responsible for considering any matters relating to the financial affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries and matters relating to the Companys internal and external audit.
Its responsibilities include the specific duty to review both management procedures for monitoring the effectiveness of the systems of accounting and internal control and the Companys statement on internal control systems before endorsement by the Board.
It prepares an annual report on its activities for the Board as part of the process of reviewing the annual report and accounts.
As part of its remit the Audit Committee keeps the nature and extent of non-audit services provided to the Group by the auditors under review, seeking to maintain the auditors objectivity and independence whilst achieving value for shareholders.
To reinforce the confidence of investors in the independence of the auditors, the Committee has introduced a policy adopted by the Board at its meeting on 25 June 2003 which governs the scope of services provided by the auditors.
The policy may need to be revised during 2003 2004 to reflect changes to the Combined Code.
In essence, services offered by the auditors are classified as: audit: work undertaken to provide an audit or review opinion on the Groups financial statements.
audit related: work of an assurance nature, including reviews required by regulatory bodies, reviews of public documents and the audit of pension and share schemes.
non-audit: includes tax advice and consultancy services.
prohibited: any work involving an evident threat to independence including, in particular, advice on any business decision or on changes in infrastructure.
Executive management has the discretion to use the auditors for audit and audit related work without prior reference to the Audit Committee.
Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 43 Report of the Directors Continued The Committee must be informed of the nature of the work and of all fees.
Any contract for non-audit services involving a fee exceeding 100,000 requires the Committees prior approval.
A full statement of the audit fees payable in 2002 03 is set out below.
2002 03 2001 02 000 000 Audit 300 277 Audit Related 64 44 Non-audit 87 129 Total 451 450 Internal control and risk management The directors recognise that the Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for ensuring that the system in place is designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
No system of control can eliminate risk entirely the goal is to identify and manage it.
The principal processes for managing risk in the Group are: An annual budget is prepared, and adopted by the Board, to facilitate monitoring of the Companys financial performance.
Forecasts are regularly updated during the year to measure progress against the budget.
The four-weekly management accounts are issued both to the Group Executive Committee and to the Board.
Significant variances from budgets and forecasts are investigated and explained.
There is a comprehensive system of reporting financial performance to all levels of management.
The Board regularly reviews the Companys strategic direction as well as key financial indicators of performance against both budget and forecast.
The Group Executive Committee meets every two weeks to review key business issues and initiatives.
It reviews detailed management accounts for the Group and its three Business Units every four weeks.
The managing directors of the Somerfield and Kwik Save Business Units Bill Williams Somerfield: Robin Whitbread Kwik Save also chair their own weekly reviews of business performance at which all of the principal central support departments Buying, Logistics and IT are represented.
The activities of the Business Development Business Unit are reviewed by the Group Executive Committee as a whole every four weeks.
The Company has an internal audit department whose programme is focused on areas considered highest risk.
The departments programme of work is reviewed annually in advance by the Audit Committee, which also reviews major findings of investigations and managements response.
The Company has prepared detailed Business Continuity and Incident Management Plans covering major systems failures as well as incidents such as fire, flood or explosion.
IT systems are supported by an agreement with a third party specialist disaster recovery company providing offsite facilities in case of emergency.
The Companys Corporate Governance Working Group leads a process of review and certification by executive directors and other senior executives of key business risks and controls.
This process has now been in place for six years and is accepted as an integral part of the Groups system of internal control.
With their managers and the internal audit department, the executive directors and other senior executives identify the business risks most important to their sector of the business, consider the financial and other business critical implications and assess the effectiveness of the control processes in place to mitigate those risks.
The results of that process are considered in detail by the Audit Committee in reviewing the interim and full year results.
In addition, the Corporate Governance Working Group compiles a quarterly report to the Board on overriding risks material to the business as a whole.
Those quarterly reports cover key risks in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility.
These processes have been in place for the whole of the accounting period under review and for the period since then to the date of this report.
Their effectiveness in managing risk is underpinned by the Groups policy to recruit and develop management and staff of high calibre and integrity and with appropriate skills.
High standards of business ethics and compliance with laws, regulations and internal policies are demanded from staff at all levels.
Corporate Social Responsibility A summary of key initiatives in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is set out in the review on pages 12 to 15.
The Board regards CSR as an integral part of the total corporate governance framework which is fully integrated into existing risk management structures and systems.
The Corporate Governance Working Group, in particular, includes an assessment of the management of social, ethical and environmental risks within its brief.
The Company had not, until its meeting in June 2003, appointed any director with general responsibility for coordinating its response to the growing CSR challenge.
That responsibility has now been allocated to the Company Secretary who will both develop an overarching policy and report annually to the Board on progress against the policy objectives.
44 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 The formal processes for managing CSR within the Group are: a Customers: the three Business Unit Directors, Bill Williams Somerfield, Robin Whitbread Kwik Save and Keith Jackson Business Development are the customer champions whose role it is to ensure that the needs of the customer take priority in all business decisions.
b Employees: Katie Peters, Human Resources Director and a member of the Group Executive Committee, is responsible for managing the Groups equal opportunities policy and for leading the Groups training and development programme.
c Health & Safety: Gordon Wotherspoon, Group Property Director, is the director responsible for Health and Safety.
Gordon and John von Spreckelsen, Executive Chairman, are joint signatories of the new Health & Safety Policy issued in February 2003 and available on the Group website at www.
Gordon chairs the Health and Safety Forum which is charged with overseeing the effectiveness of the Groups approach to managing health and safety.
The Forum identifies key problem areas, sets targets for improvement and monitors progress against those targets.
It also has the objective of ensuring that management of health and safety is given equal prominence to other areas of business performance.
It reports quarterly to the Group Executive Committee and to the Board.
d Suppliers: Robin Whitbread, Group Buying Director, is responsible for that element of the Groups social responsibility programme which arises from its relations with suppliers.
One aspect of that programme concerns the fair treatment of suppliers, the Groups policy on which is set out on its website.
In essence, the Group is committed to principles of fair dealing which reflect those in the OFTs formal Code of Practice for the major multiples.
The broader human rights aspects of the supply chain are covered in the Ethical Trading Initiative Report for 2002 which, again, is available on the Group website at www.
e Environment: Martin Oakes, Group Logistics IT Business Development Director, is the director responsible for the environment.
The existing policy statement available on the Group website at www.
uk is currently undergoing review.
The Group recognises the need to establish externally validated benchmarks against which to measure progress on key measures including CO 2 emissions, energy consumption, waste re-cycling, water consumption and noise.
Consultants have been appointed to help with that process.
f Ethics: The Group has issued detailed policies on whistleblowing and the receipt and provision of gifts, services and entertainment.
It has also issued policies on compliance with competition and data protection laws.
The new CSR policy to be developed during the year will provide a framework for all ethics based policies in the future.
Relations with shareholders There is a regular programme of meetings with major institutional shareholders to consider the Groups performance and prospects as well as general presentations after the interim and full year results are announced.
Individual shareholders are given the opportunity to question the Chairman and other directors at the annual general meeting and all directors make themselves available for informal discussion with shareholders after the meeting.
Presentation of the interim and full year results to analysts are made available by webcast transmission to all those with access to the web.
Proxy voting details are given at each annual general meeting and are published on the Group website, where we also summarise the principal issues arising from the question and answer session.
We publish our results and all important announcements on the website immediately after their release to the Stock Exchange.
The site also contains general information for shareholders, including details on electronic communication and the low cost dealing service established with Stocktrade.
Employee involvement There is a continuing commitment throughout the Group to provide employees with information and to consult on matters of concern with a view to ensuring an awareness of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Regular meetings are held involving directors, managers and supervisors to convey information about the business.
The Group regularly organises presentations and distributes newsletters to keep employees informed.
The important new Viewpoint Survey is covered on page 12.
The Group provides pension and other retirement benefits through two pension schemes: the Somerfield Kwik Save Pension Scheme and the Kwik Save Group plc Lump Sum Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme.
The Somerfield Kwik Save Pension Scheme has a defined benefits section now closed to new members and a defined contribution section open to all employees immediately on starting employment.
The Kwik Save Group plc Lump Sum Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme is a defined benefits scheme which is now closed to new members.
The assets of each scheme are managed separately from those of the Group by their respective trustees.
The Company operates a savings related share option scheme SRSO which is approved by the Inland Revenue under which all employees of the Group with six months service are eligible.
1,474 employees were awarded a total of 3,612,756 SRSO scheme options following the invitation in September 2002.
This year, for the first time, the Company also offered a buy as you earn scheme BAYE following approval of the scheme by shareholders at the annual general meeting in September 2002.
The scheme has currently attracted 249 participants.
The combined SRSO and BAYE invitation to employees won a Proshare award for the most improved plan in 2002.
Equal opportunities The Group is committed to an active equal opportunities policy in all matters affecting recruitment, development, training and promotion.
The objective of the policy is to ensure that all decisions relating to employment practices will be objective, free from bias and based solely upon work criteria and individual merit irrespective of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, marital status, sexual orientation or religion.
Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 45 Report of the Directors Continued Disabled employees The Group gives every consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons.
Disabled employees and those who become disabled during their employment are employed under normal terms and conditions wherever possible and are provided with training and career development opportunities.
Past performance In relation to any reference in this annual report and accounts to the price at which the Companys shares have been bought or sold, it should be noted that past performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
Political and charitable contributions No political contributions were made by the Group during the year 2001 2002 nil.
The Group made various charitable contributions totalling 6,350 2001 2002 7,000.
The Group assisted in raising a total of 119,116 in the year 2001 2002 1,772,744 for charitable causes.
Supplier payments The Groups policy is to agree payment terms during initial discussions with prospective suppliers to the business.
The Group endeavours to keep within those payment terms at all times.
Somerfield plc, the Company, has no trade creditors in its balance sheet.
The average number of days credit taken by the Group for trade purchases at 26 April 2003 was 37 days 27 April 2002 39 days.
Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the financial year.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements on pages 18 to 38 the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied on a going concern basis and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Group keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that, after making appropriate enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group Accounts.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the Company will be put to the annual general meeting on 3 September 2003.
By Order of the Board Stephen Grant Secretary 1 July 2003 46 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003
