Directors report The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended 2002: 8.85p.
With the interim dividend, this makes a total for 31 December 2003. the year of 13.35p 2002: 12.75p.
The final dividend will be paid on 11 June 2004 to shareholders on the register on 21 May 2004. Review 2003 Review 2003 Principal activities The Spectris businesses are engaged in the development and The terms of the Spectris plc Qualifying Employee Share pr previous evious next next marketing of precision instrumentation and controls.
For 2003 Ownership Trust and the Spectris plc Employee Benefit Trust reporting purposes, the businesses were grouped into three provide that dividends payable on shares held within the Trusts sectors: electronic controls, in-line instrumentation and process are waived to 0.0001p and 0.01p respectively.
Further details of the trading companies can be found in the Chief Executives review.
Developments in the Research and development groups business activities are discussed in the Chairmans Expenditure committed to research and development is focused Contents statement, Chief Executives review and financial review.
on new product development and, to a lesser extent, applications 3Financial highlights engineering and process integration.
Costs are expensed as 4Focusing on niche applications Acquisitions incurred except to the extent funded by customers and totalled 6Helping customers to meet During the year, a number of small, bolt-on acquisitions were global challenges 34.1m in the year to 31 December 2003 2002: 29.6m.
made for which the total consideration was 10.8m.
8 Building customer advantages 10 Chairmans statement Fixed assets 12 Chief Executives review Disposals 16 Board of directors Whilst the market values of some properties differ from book There were no disposals during the year.
18 Financial review values, the directors believe that the differences are not material.
20 Directors report 23 Directors responsibilities Share capital 24 Directors remuneration report Payment of suppliers The issued share capital at the year end consisted of 124,091,466 30 Corporate social responsibility The groups policy on payment of suppliers is to ensure that 5p ordinary shares.
34 A better environment terms of payment accord with contractual and legal obligations.
35 Directory of companies At the 2004 Annual General Meeting resolutions will be proposed The company had no trade creditors at the year end.
for the renewal of the authorities granted to the directors to allot shares, to allot shares on a non pre-emptive basis for cash and to Directors purchase the companys own shares either to be cancelled or to The directors at 31 December 2003 are named here.
Peter be held in treasury, all within specified limits.
Watson retired from the Board at the AGM on 7 May 2003.
Leo Murray was appointed to the Board on 8 January 2003 and At 15 March 2004 interests notified to the company in Stephen Harris was appointed to the Board on 2 June 2003. accordance with Part VI of the Companies Act 1985 comprised: Anthony Reading was appointed to the Board subsequent to the year end on 10 March 2004.
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 6,253,015 shares 5.04% material interest John Poulter, Martin Lamb and Jim Webster retire from the Board by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association and, Aegon Asset Management UK being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Stephen Harris and 5,234,182 shares 4.22% material interest Anthony Reading, having been appointed since the last AGM, retire from the Board under the terms of the Articles of Standard Life Investments Limited Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.
4,986,571 shares 4.02% material interest The directors total remuneration for the year and their interests Liberty Wanger Asset Management LP in the shares of the company and its subsidiaries at 31 December 4,910,500 shares 3.96% material interest 2003 are disclosed in the directors remuneration report.
Prudential plc Auditors 4,733,701 shares 3.81% material interest A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Morley Fund Management Limited 4,564,444 shares 3.68% material interest Annual General Meeting The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be held at the HBOS plc companys offices on Wednesday 12 May 2004 at 11.30 a. m. is 4,552,294 shares 3.67% material interest contained in a separate letter from the Chairman.
Dividends Corporate governance Results for the group are set out in the profit and loss account Corporate governance has been and remains the responsibility of and in the supporting notes.
A final dividend of 9.3p per ordinary the whole Board.
The Combined Code - Principles of Good share is proposed for the year to 31 December 2003 Governance and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code was published in June 1998.
This statement describes how the had senior experience in other organisations and offer company applied the principles and complied with the provisions independent judgement on Board matters.
The Chairmans other of the Combined Code during 2003. significant interests are as a non-executive director of RAC plc, Review 2003 Kidde plc, Macquarie European Infrastructure plc, Smaller The Board considers that it was throughout the year and Companies Value Trust plc and certain private companies.
previous next continues to be in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, save that the remuneration There are procedures for individual Board members to receive committee did not consist exclusively of independent noninduction and training as appropriate and to solicit independent executive directors.
However, the Chairman, John Poulter, ceased professional advice at the groups expense where specific to be a member of the committee as from December 2003, expertise is required in the course of exercising their duties.
All Board directors have access to the company secretary, who Contents is responsible for ensuring compliance with appropriate statutes 3Financial highlights A revised version of the Combined Code was published on and regulations.
4Focusing on niche applications 23 July 2003 and is to be applicable to the 2004 financial year 6Helping customers to meet and thereafter.
The Board has taken the necessary steps to All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first global challenges achieve compliance during 2004 with the provisions set out in opportunity after their appointment and thereafter at intervals of 8 Building customer advantages 10 Chairmans statement Section 1 of this revised version, save that: no more than three years, with one third of directors being 12 Chief Executives review required to submit for re-election by rotation each year.
16 Board of directors at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, will not 18 Financial review comprise independent non-executive directors.
Compliance with The Board delegates specific responsibilities to Board committees, 20 Directors report 23 Directors responsibilities this provision A3.2 required at 1 January 2004 recruitment notably the nomination, remuneration and audit committees.
24 Directors remuneration report of an additional two non-executive directors, taking the total The terms of reference of these committees are published on the 30 Corporate social responsibility to five.
Whilst Anthony Reading was appointed as an additional companys website and the following additional documents are 34 A better environment non-executive director in March 2004, the Board takes the view available to shareholders on application to the company secretary: 35 Directory of companies that securing the appropriate mix of skills and experience amongst its non-executive directors is more relevant than schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: numerical balance: responsibilities of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the a majority of the members of the nomination committee are non-executive directors: not independent non-executive directors, as required by provision A4.1.
The committee consists of the Chairman, the relations with shareholders: senior independent director and the Chief Executive and the Board considers this to be the most appropriate composition performance evaluation: for the sensitive issues addressed by the committee: and procedure for taking independent professional advice.
the audit committee does not consist exclusively of independent non-executive directors, as required by provision C3.1.
The Board and committee meeting attendance 2003 Chairman, John Poulter, continues to serve as a member of the Remuneration Audit Nomination committee and the Board believes this to be essential both to Board Committee Committee Committee enable the Chairman to properly discharge his responsibilities Total meetings during year 9 3 3 1 and to assist the work of the committee given the Chairmans extensive knowledge of the groups operations.
J W Poulter Chairman 9 3 3 1 A F Given 7 3 3 1 Board composition and procedures Senior independent director The Board meets formally nine times each year to consider M J Lamb 8 2 2 1 developments in relation to the companys strategy and long-term L G Murray 9 3 3 1 objectives and to review trading results and operational and P Watson 4 2 2 1 business issues.
In particular it deals with those matters reserved to it for decision, including the acquisition and disposal of businesses and major capital expenditure.
All directors receive H D Nilsson Chief Executive 9 N A N A 1 detailed progress reports one week prior to each Board meeting.
P V Boughton 9 N A N A N A S C Harris 4 N A N A N A The Board currently comprises the Chairman, five executive J C Webster 9 N A N A N A directors and four non-executive directors, all of whom are J G Zacharias 9 N A N A N A considered by the Board to be independent.
The positions of P Watson and S C Harris held office for part of the year only.
P Watson Chairman, Chief Executive and senior independent director are attended 4 of the 5 Board meetings which he was eligible to attend and held by separate individuals and the Board has adopted written S C Harris attended all meetings which he was eligible to attend.
profiles for each of the positions of Chairman, Chief Executive A J Reading was appointed to the Board in March 2004. and non-executive director.
The non-executive directors have all Directors report continued Board appointments and performance evaluation replace, the regular meetings with the Chief Executive and group The nomination committee consists of the Chairman, the senior finance director.
independent director and the Chief Executive and is chaired by Review 2003 the Chairman, John Poulter, save in the event of discussions Audit Committee relating to his succession when the senior independent director The audit committee comprises the non-executive directors and previous next would take the chair.
It is chaired by Andrew Given and meets at least three times each year to consider the effectiveness of the groups Following a decision of the Board that the appointment of a new internal controls, policies and procedures, the process of internal director is appropriate, the duty of the committee is to present for audit and the outcome of the external audit.
Its meetings are Board consideration suitably qualified candidate s. In making normally attended by the Chief Executive, the group finance such recommendations, the committee evaluates the balance of director, the company secretary and the external auditor.
The Contents skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and develops a committee regularly confers with the auditor without the 3Financial highlights description of the role and required capabilities.
Candidates are attendance of executive directors.
Its terms of reference can be 4Focusing on niche applications then identified for interview through the appointment of an found on the companys website.
6Helping customers to meet external search consultant.
The committee also makes global challenges recommendations to the Board regarding the re-election and or The committee is responsible for making recommendations to the 8 Building customer advantages 10 Chairmans statement reappointment of any director.
Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and 12 Chief Executives review then for approving the external auditors remuneration, terms of 16 Board of directors The nomination committee meets as the need arises.
Its terms of engagement and scope of work.
18 Financial review reference can be found on the companys website.
20 Directors report 23 Directors responsibilities The committee has also adopted procedures governing and 24 Directors remuneration report The operation of the Board and its committees is evaluated by the restricting the appointment of the external auditor for non-audit 30 Corporate social responsibility Board as a whole annually.
The executive directors and company services.
The following services are precluded: 34 A better environment secretarys performances are appraised annually against objectives 35 Directory of companies established for the prior year.
The contributions of the Chairman Book keeping or other services related to the accounting and non-executive directors are reviewed, by the senior records or financial statements of Spectris plc.
independent director and the Chairman respectively, each three years prior to their being proposed to shareholders for re-election.
Financial information systems design and implementation.
Additionally, the Chairman holds periodic meetings with the nonexecutive directors only and, commencing in 2004, the nonAppraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or contribution executives will meet at least annually without the Chairman in kind reports.
Shareholder relations Spectris conducts regular dialogue with institutional shareholders Internal audit outsourcing services.
and divulges such information as is permitted within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
The content of presentations made Management functions or human resources.
after results announcements may be accessed by individual investors on the group website, www.
Broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking services.
All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General Meeting, where the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit.
chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will be available to answer questions.
The results of proxy votes A cumulative annual cap of 200,000 is established for all other are declared at the Annual General Meeting after each resolution non-audit services save for acquisition due diligence and taxation has been dealt with on a show of hands.
services above which all engagements are subject to prior approval by the audit committee.
The Board is kept informed of the views of major shareholders through periodic reports from the Chief Executive, the companys The audit committee concluded in 2002 that the groups growing broker Merrill Lynch and the companys shareholder relations size justified the appointment of an internal controls and risk adviser Makinson Cowell.
Additionally, the Chairman and nonmanager and the position was filled in February 2003.
A rolling executive directors have the opportunity to attend the bi-annual programme of audit of all group subsidiaries has been agreed by analyst presentations.
the audit committee and reports, including an overall assessment of risk and required corrective actions, are produced after each Shareholders representing in excess of 3% of the companys such audit.
issued share capital receive a standing invitation to meet with the Chairman, the senior independent director or new non-executive Internal controls directors.
Such meetings would supplement if necessary, but not The Board is ultimately responsible for the groups system of
