Focusing on niche applications which deliver performance Review 2003 improvements for end-user customers previous next Manufacturers compete in an environment where they need to bring new products to market quickly yet at the lowest possible unit cost.
Our process-critical equipment helps customers to improve their design, quality control and manufacturing processes, reducing costs and speeding Contents up time to market.
3Financial highlights 4Focusing on niche applications 6Helping customers to meet global challenges 8 Building customer advantages 10 Chairmans statement 12 Chief Executives review 16 Board of directors 18 Financial review 20 Directors report 23 Directors responsibilities 24 Directors remuneration report 30 Corporate social responsibility 34 A better environment 35 Directory of companies Water-tight results Lafarge Roofing manufactures the renowned Rosemary clay roofing tile.
Moisture measurement is essential for producing clay tiles: if the clay is too wet it will not hold its shape, too dry and the forming process is slowed down.
NDCs near-infrared gauge system enables accurate on-line measurement of moisture, and has resulted in improved process control, efficiency and product quality as well as reduced product wastage and downtime.
The on-line measurement system allows the operator to take decisions almost immediately, making process control more responsive and reducing wastageDavid Tinsley, Lafarge Roofing, UK Sustainable demand drivers Improving efficiency, reducing wastage and complying with regulatory requirements are just Review 2003 some of the factors which will continue to drive demand for Spectris instrumentation.
previous next Time to market Just-in-time manufacturing Speed Cycle time Contents 3Financial highlights Yield 4Focusing on niche applications Customer 6Helping customers to meet Waste Unit cost performance global challenges Optimum materials mix 8 Building customer advantages 10 Chairmans statement 12 Chief Executives review Material science 16 Board of directors Product Miniaturisation 18 Financial review innovation 20 Directors report Performance 23 Directors responsibilities Sustainable 24 Directors remuneration report demand drivers 30 Corporate social responsibility Noise 34 A better environment 35 Directory of companies Emissions Environment Recycling Expanding Geographic Industrial manufacturing expansion drivers economies Stability Industrial output Growth Information at your fingertips Stand-alone kiosks are becoming widespread, particularly in retail outlets and public buildings for self-service functions from ticketing to lottery cards and retail promotions.
Touchscreen displays enable users to access a wealth of information quickly.
Designed specifically for this type of application, Arcoms processor boards include a full range of multimedia features, touchscreen support and network connectivity for remote updating of kiosk applications and promotions.
Driving progress Modern plastics technology enables complex interior components to be designed and also helps to reduce the vehicles overall weight.
A variety of plastics can be manufactured by using additives and stabilisers based on elements such as copper, zinc, iron and titanium.
Using PANalyticals X-ray analysis, manufacturers can achieve fast, precise and repeatable measurements of the concentrations of these additives.
