Board of directors The broad business experience of the non-executive directors strengthens Review 2003 the expertise of the Spectris Board previous next Contents 3Financial highlights 4Focusing on niche applications 6Helping customers to meet global challenges 8 Building customer advantages 10 Chairmans statement 12 Chief Executives review 16 Board of directors 18 Financial review 20 Directors report 23 Directors responsibilities John Poulter Hans Nilsson Graham Zacharias 24 Directors remuneration report Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director 30 Corporate social responsibility John Poulter joined Spectris in 1988 and Hans Nilsson joined Spectris in 1997.
Graham Zacharias, a modern languages 34 A better environment was Chief Executive from 1992 until he Previously Chief Operating Officer, he graduate and chartered accountant, 35 Directory of companies became non-executive Chairman in 2001. was appointed Chief Executive in 2001. joined Spectris in 1995 as Group Finance He is a non-executive director of Kidde He has a masters degree in electrical Director.
He was previously with BTR plc plc, RAC plc, Smaller Companies Value engineering and an MBA from Stanford where he was finance director of the Trust plc and The London Metal University.
He was previously the Aerospace Group.
Prior to that he Exchange.
European managing director of worked with Bousteadco and Flextronics, prior to which he held Schlumberger.
Chairman of the nomination committee positions at Hewlett Packard and ABB.
Andrew Given Martin Lamb Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Andrew Given was appointed to the Martin Lamb was appointed to the Board in 2001.
An engineer, he has was with Logica plc, initially as group considerable business and technical finance director and latterly as deputy experience both in the UK and North chief executive.
Prior to that he held America.
Much of his career has been senior financial positions with Plessey spent with IMI plc, where he is Chief Company plc and with Northern Telecom Executive.
Limited, mainly in North America.
He is a non-executive director of Spirent plc and Chairman of the remuneration committee VT Group plc.
Chairman of the audit committee Senior independent director Review 2003 previous next Contents 3Financial highlights 4Focusing on niche applications 6Helping customers to meet global challenges 8 Building customer advantages 10 Chairmans statement 12 Chief Executives review 16 Board of directors 18 Financial review 20 Directors report 23 Directors responsibilities Paul Boughton Stephen Harris Jim Webster 24 Directors remuneration report Business Development Director Business Group Director Business Group Director 30 Corporate social responsibility Paul Boughton, a business economics Stephen Harris joined Spectris in 2003.
Jim Webster, a metallurgy graduate, 34 A better environment graduate and chartered accountant, He is responsible for the operational joined Spectris in 1993.
He is responsible 35 Directory of companies joined Spectris in 1991.
He is responsible supervision of a number of the groups for the operational supervision of a for acquisition and business development trading companies.
Prior to joining number of the groups trading activities.
Previously financial director of a Spectris he was executive director at companies.
He was previously general private company, he was before that Powell Duffryn responsible for a number manager of the European Wire and Cable involved in acquisition work for Thermal of subsidiaries and, before that, held Division of Raychem.
He is a non-executive several positions within APV in North director of London Bridge Software America.
He has a degree in engineering Holdings plc.
Age 48. from Cambridge and an MBA from the University of Chicago.
Professor Leo Murray Anthony Reading Roger Stephens Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Head of Commercial & Company Secretary Professor Murray was appointed to Anthony Reading was appointed to the Roger Stephens is an economics the Board in 2003.
He is a graduate of Board in March 2004.
He was a director graduate and chartered company Glasgow University and was for 17 years of Tomkins plc and chairman of Tomkins secretary.
Prior to joining Spectris in Director of the Cranfield School of Corporation for 11 years until he retired 1997, he worked in engineering Management.
Before joining Cranfield, at the end of 2003.
Prior to that he held project management, specialising in he had a successful international business senior positions with a number of commercial negotiations and claims career including management positions international companies including group resolution and then as director of with BP, Courtaulds, AT Kearney chief executive of the manufacturing and administration in a commercial law Management Consultants and Rothmans engineering division of BTR plc.
He is now Chair of the National Centre for Languages and a board member of, and consultant to, a number of organisations.
