Review 2003 previous next Contents 3Financial highlights 4Focusing on niche applications 6Helping customers to meet global challenges 8 Building customer advantages 10 Chairmans statement 12 Chief Executives review Generating results 16 Board of directors Researchers at ALSTOM Power Service 18 Financial review in Switzerland used Malverns Spraytec 20 Directors report particle size analyser to improve the 23 Directors responsibilities efficiency and reduce the cost of 24 Directors remuneration report high-fogging, a novel method of 30 Corporate social responsibility increasing power output in gas 34 A better environment turbines.
The laser-diffraction based 35 Directory of companies system can be used directly on a turbine, rather than in the laboratory, to determine the effect of different droplet size distributions on the power of the turbine, something not previously possible.
Thanks to our close co-operation with Malvern we were able to analyse droplet size distributions in detail... we now know what other research labs can only estimateSasha Savic, ALSTOM Power Service, Switzerland Building customer advantages through the application of science Review 2003 We work closely with customers, applying our core technologies to previous next create specific solutions tailored to the customers exact requirements.
This enables them to develop new products which they would not otherwise be able to bring to market.
Contents 3Financial highlights 4Focusing on niche applications 6Helping customers to meet global challenges 8 Building customer advantages 10 Chairmans statement 12 Chief Executives review Getting ahead in testing 16 Board of directors With the latest generation of mobile 18 Financial review phones featuring high-speed 20 Directors report multimedia, mobile internet and 23 Directors responsibilities audio and video streaming, higher 24 Directors remuneration report quality acoustics are important to users.
30 Corporate social responsibility Brel & Kjrs sound analyser features 34 A better environment a microphone with a mouth or head 35 Directory of companies and torso simulator to provide realistic measurements of phone performance.
Putting the brakes on cost The ability to identify specific vehicles with a faulty part rather than all vehicles of that model greatly reduces the impact of a recall for automotive suppliers.
Microscans smart camera is being used by Delphi Automotive Systems to read 2D bar codes on its parts for a new anti-lock braking system manufactured in Mexico, enabling the components to be tracked through their entire lifecycle.
Well organised Manufacturers of communications devices such as personal organisers and mobile phones want their finished products to stay looking good, despite the possibility of accidental scratching.
Fusions ultraviolet UV systems are used to cure UV scratch-resistant coatings, applied to the touch pad keys, displays and external cases to improve the products durability.
