16 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 Report of the Directors The directors present their Report and the audited consolidated accounts Directors for the year to 31 December 2003.
The names and brief biographical details of the current directors are shown on pages 14 and 15.
All held ofce throughout the year and up Principal Activities, Business Review and Results to the date of this Report with the exception of Andrew Given who was The principal activities, review and results for the year inclusive of appointed as a non-executive director on 9 October 2003 and Frederick financial performance, likely future developments and prospects are DAlessio who was appointed as a non-executive director on 26 January set out on pages 1 to 11.
Principal divisions, subsidiaries and associates 2004.
Paul Cheng retired as a non-executive director on 31 December are listed on pages 74 and 75.
Nicholas Brookes intends to retire as Chief Executive and as a director of the Company at the end of June 2004.
Dividends No interim dividend was paid during the year 2002 1.35 pence and the Retirement and Election of Directors directors do not recommend the payment of a final dividend 2002 nil.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association and the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance see the Directors Statement Research and Development on Corporate Governance on pages 18 to 20, Nicholas Brookes, Gran Product development and innovation are considered key strategies to Ennerfelt and James Wyness will retire by rotation at the Annual General maintain and improve the Groups competitive position and therefore Meeting AGM on 11 May 2004 and, being eligible, offer themselves for continue to receive high priority.
This commitment is highlighted by re-election.
As each director must stand for re-election at intervals of the 66.0 million research and development spend during the year, no more than every three years, Mr Brookes, having last been re-elected equivalent to 14 per cent of turnover 2002 77.7 million and 14 per in 2001, must stand for re-election notwithstanding his forthcoming cent.
The Company will continue to commit resources as appropriate retirement.
Mr Wyness, having served more than nine years on the Board, to research and development.
also offers himself for re-election.
Having been appointed since the last AGM, Andrew Given and Frederick DAlessio will also retire at the Major Transactions forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.
On 4 April 2003, the Company completed the divestment of its 51 per Mr Brookes is the only director subject to election or re-election who cent interests in WAGO, an interconnection joint venture, to the joint has a service contract with the Company.
venture partners the Hohorst family for a cash consideration, net of expenses, of 58.8 million.
Directors Interests Gran Ennerfelt is President and Chief Executive of Axel Johnson AB, On 30 June 2003, the Company sold its Aviation Information Solutions a member of the Axel Johnson Group, which is owned by his spouse, businesses from within the Systems group to Teledyne Technologies Antonia Ax:son Johnson.
Mr Ennerfelt has a connected notiable interest Incorporated for a cash consideration, net of expenses, of 3.2 million.
in the following: Further details of the above transactions are set out in note 34 to the Stock Purchase Agreement and ancillary agreements dated the Accounts.
16 November 2000 and made between Lexa BV an Axel Johnson Group company, Antonia Ax:son Johnson, the Company and Spirent Share Capital Holdings Corporation, which relates to the Companys acquisition Changes in the Companys share capital during the period are given of Hekimian Laboratories, Inc. which is now part of the Companys in note 32 to the Accounts.
Service Assurance division : and Substantial Shareholdings the Company through the 12.61 per cent shareholding of Lexa BV, At the date of this Report, the Company had been notied of the the registered holder of the Ordinary shares see also Substantial following interests in 3 per cent or more of its issued share capital: Shareholdings on this page.
% held The directors interests including those of their immediate families and any connected persons in the share capital of the Company are set out Lexa BV 12.61 in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 21 to 28.
Barclays plc 10.07 Legal & General Group plc 3.21 Save as disclosed, no contracts or arrangements have been entered into during the year or subsisted at the year end in which any director had, Additional shareholder information, including a prole of shareholdings, directly or indirectly, a material interest which was significant in relation appears on pages 79 and 80. to the Groups business.
Share Listings Employees The primary listing for the Companys Ordinary shares is on the London The Groups employment policies regarding disabled persons and Stock Exchange.
The Companys Ordinary shares are also traded on the further information on employee training, development and involvement New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares and is explained in the Corporate Social Responsibility Statement on pages these are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs, each one 12 and 13. of which represents four Ordinary shares.
The Bank of New York is the authorised Depositary bank for the Companys ADR programme.
