18 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 Directors Statement on Corporate Governance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate expected and in 2003 all directors attended except Marcus Beresford and governance, the process by which the Group is directed and managed, Paul Cheng who were absent for one meeting each and Gran Ennerfelt risks are identied and controlled and effective accountability assured.
who was absent for two meetings.
The reasons for the absences were The Board considers that it has complied throughout the year under due to either unavoidable changes in the Board meeting calendar at short review with the requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate notice or due to the relevant director being ill. Where the director was Governance the Code issued in 1998 which is applicable to the absent, full documentation for the meeting was issued and post meeting Company for the year under review.
briengs were provided as appropriate.
This statement describes how the principles and provisions of corporate A schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Boards decision has governance set out in the Code have been applied within the Group.
The been adopted whilst certain other responsibilities have been delegated Board has also reviewed the requirements under the revised Code issued to four standing Committees with clearly dened terms of reference in July 2003 which will come into effect for Spirents reporting year which, together with the composition of each Committee, are reviewed beginning 1 January 2004.
Additional disclosure has been provided below annually.
Each Committee is provided with sufficient resources so that in respect of the Companys commitment towards the revised Code.
it may undertake its duties.
Copies of the terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available upon The Board request to the Company Secretary and are also available on the The Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, six further non-executive Companys website.
directors and three executive directors, details of whom are given on pages 14 and 15.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate To ensure good communication between the Board and each with a clear division of responsibility between them which is set out Committee, the Company Secretary is the appointed Secretary in writing and agreed by the Board.
to all standing Board Committees.
The Board requires that all non-executive directors are independent All directors receive appropriate training and induction upon in character and judgement and the independence of each director is appointment and subsequently as necessary.
Non-executives enhance reviewed at least annually.
As Gran Ennerfelt has a material notiable their understanding of the Group through regular business sector interest in the share capital of the Company see the Report of the presentations, the receipt of monthly reports from the Chief Executive Directors on pages 16 and 17, the Board has concluded that he is not and site visits.
The Chairman and the executive directors are responsible to be considered as independent of the management of the Company.
for ensuring that the Board receives accurate and clear information In accordance with the revised Code, the Board has reviewed the in a timely manner for Board meetings and on other occasions.
independence of James Wyness, who has served on the Board in excess of nine years.
The review concluded, notwithstanding Mr Wyness length The Board has established a process to evaluate the performance of the of service, that he is independent in character and in the exercise of Board, its Committees and individual directors.
The evaluation process his judgement and for these reasons the Board continues to consider includes self-assessment by the Board together with the assistance of Mr Wyness as independent.
The Board and Mr Wyness have, however, an external advisor.
Key processes include assessments of the: agreed in accordance with the revised Code that Mr Wyness stands for annual re-election at each Annual General Meeting AGM commencing relevant contribution of the Board, each Committee and each with 2004.
Mr Wyness is also the senior independent director.
director: The non-executive directors each appointed for an initial three year effectiveness of the leadership of the Company Chairman: term have a wide range of skills and experience which helps to ensure that independent judgement is exercised on issues such as strategy and effectiveness of relationships and communications with key performance and also that a proper balance of power is maintained for management: and full and effective control.
The non-executive directors in particular the Chairman devote sufficient time and attention as necessary in order quality of information provided to the Board to enable it to perform to perform their duties.
Other professional commitments of the nonits duties.
executive directors are provided in their biographies on pages 14 and 15.
Key outputs of the process will be used to maintain areas which are The size, balance and composition of the Board supports the Boards role, working well and to address any weaknesses.
which is to determine the long term direction and strategy of the Group, monitor the achievement of business objectives, ensure that good In addition to the evaluation process, the Chairman holds regular corporate governance is practised and to ensure that the Group meets meetings with the other non-executives at which executive directors its responsibilities to its shareholders, customers and other stakeholders.
A process has also been established where the senior The Board is also responsible for ensuring that appropriate processes are independent director shall hold, at least annually starting in 2004, in place in respect of succession planning for appointments to the Board a meeting of the other non-executives at which the Chairman is not and to senior management positions.
present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
It is the policy of the Board to hold at least six Board meetings a year, The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect of legal action including a meeting to review and approve long term strategy.
There against its directors and certain other ofcers.
The directors also have were eight Board meetings during 2003.
Full attendance of the Board is access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, if 19 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 necessary, access to further independent advice, at the Companys is also given to costs, quality of service and efficiency.
The Audit expense, who advises the Board and its Committees in respect of their Committee also assesses the overall objectivity of the auditors services procedures, directors duties and responsibilities, corporate governance so that an independent professional relationship is maintained.
Details and all compliance matters.
The appointment and removal of the of the auditors remuneration for 2003 appear in note 5 to the Accounts.
Company Secretary is a matter reserved to the Board.
Nomination Committee Board Appointments Chairman, John Weston The Companys Articles of Association require that all directors seek The Nomination Committee comprises all the non-executive directors election by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment.
and the Chief Executive and meets at least once a year.
During 2003, They also require that all directors seek re-election at least every the Committee held two meetings at which there was full attendance three years.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition and structure of the Board and for identifying and Board Committees recommending candidates for executive and non-executive positions, Acquisitions and Divestments Committee based on the required role and capabilities which have been specified Chairman, Nicholas Brookes for the appointment.
Executive search consultants are used by the The Acquisitions and Divestments Committee comprises the executives Committee to assist this process as appropriate.
and any two non-executive directors.
The Committee is primarily concerned with the evaluation and approval of acquisitions and Remuneration Committee divestments as delegated to it by the Board.
Chairman, Marcus Beresford The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of independent Audit Committee non-executive directors.
During 2003, the Committee held four Chairman, James Wyness Andrew Given with effect from meetings and there was full attendance by Committee members 1 January 2004 with the exception of Marcus Beresford and Paul Cheng each of whom The Audit Committee currently comprises three independent nonwas absent for one meeting.
Other directors who are not members executive directors.
During the year, the composition of the Committee may attend at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
Further was changed so that the Company Chairman is not a member.
In details on the Committee are included in the Report on Directors addition, as the revised Code provides that an Audit Committee is solely Remuneration on pages 21 to 28. comprised of independent directors, Gran Ennerfelt resigned as a Committee member during the year.
The revised Code also requires that No director is involved in determining his own remuneration, the Audit Committee includes a member who has recent, significant and whether determined by the Committee or, in the case of non-executives, relevant financial experience and the Board believes that the addition by the Board.
of Andrew Given brings such additional experience.
Relations with Shareholders During 2003, the Committee held five meetings and there was full The Board attaches considerable importance to its relationships and attendance by Committee members with the exception of Marcus communication with shareholders.
Communication is facilitated by full Beresford and Gran Ennerfelt each of whom was absent for one year and interim reports issued to shareholders.
At all meetings the external auditors, the Chief Executive, the services available to shareholders are described on pages 79 and 80.
Finance Director, the Head of Internal Control and the Head of Financial Reporting are in attendance.
Other directors who are not members may A valuable dialogue has been established with principal institutional attend at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The Committee also investors through a programme of investor relations events throughout meets with the external auditors in private for part of each meeting.
The Company also discusses major remuneration and long term incentive proposals with principal investors prior to any required The Committee reviews all published accounts and post audit findings shareholder approval.
The views of major shareholders are reported before their presentation to the Board, focusing in particular on back to the Board as appropriate.
All contact with institutional investors, accounting policies, compliance, management judgement and estimates.
financial analysts, fund managers, brokers and the media is controlled It also monitors the Groups internal control and risk management by written guidelines to ensure the protection of price-sensitive regime including the effectiveness of the internal audit function and information during such dialogue.
Any significant findings or identied weaknesses are closely examined so that appropriate action can be taken, monitored It is the Companys practice to issue the Notice convening the AGM and reported to the Board.
at least 20 working days before the meeting and to propose separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue.
All directors are expected The Audit Committee also advises the Board on the appointment to attend the AGM to take any relevant questions.
A report showing the of external auditors and on the scope, results and cost effectiveness number of proxy votes cast for, against and withheld for each resolution of both audit and non-audit work.
The Committee has adopted a policy is available for shareholders attending the AGM in respect of resolutions which prohibits certain types of non-audit work that may be performed which have been voted on by a show of hands.
These results are also by the Companys auditors, particularly where auditor objectivity and posted on the Companys website.
independence would be at risk.
Other non-audit work which may be provided by the auditor is put to tender where considered appropriate.
Prior to any non-audit work being awarded to the auditors, consideration 20 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 Directors Statement on Corporate Governance continued Internal Control the Board believed that WAGO had appropriate internal controls Introduction in place although the review for this operation was historically less The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal comprehensive than that for the Groups subsidiary operations.
The control, which comprises a process for identifying, evaluating and WAGO businesses are therefore excluded from the above disclosures.
managing the risks faced by the Group and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness in accordance with the Guidance for Directors on Internal Review of Effectiveness Control Turnbull.
The Board confirms that this process was in place The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has reviewed the throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of these effectiveness of the system of internal control for the period under Accounts.
The primary aim is to operate a system which is appropriate review, taking account of material developments since that date using to the business and which can, over time, increase shareholder value the process set out above.
The Board confirms that the review revealed whilst safeguarding the Groups assets.
The system is designed to nothing which, in its opinion, indicated that the system was ineffective manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business or unsatisfactory.
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
US Corporate Governance Compliance As the Company has a secondary listing on the New York Stock Exchange Process NYSE, it is subject to certain US legislation.
Following the introduction The Groups Operational Excellence Programme ensures that internal of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 in the US, the NYSE introduced new control and risk management processes continue to become embedded corporate governance standards.
Companies which do not have their in the organisation.
Day-to-day responsibility for effective internal primary listing on the NYSE such as Spirent are permitted to follow control and risk monitoring rests with senior management at operating home country practice ie the UK Listing Rules and the Code in lieu group and business unit level.
Generally, NYSEs corporate governance standards do not vary signicantly from those adopted in the UK, however, NYSE The Groups system of internal control and risk management comprises an rules require any such significant variances to be disclosed.
Following integrated risk management strategy consisting of regular self-assessment a review of the NYSE corporate governance standards, the following are encompassing all operating units and preparation of a remedial action considered significant variances to home country practice: plan, as appropriate.
significant risks are also regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and by the Board.
NYSE rules provide that nomination committees should consist entirely of independent directors.
Spirents Nomination Committee In addition to this process, the following key elements are critical to the whose constitution is in accordance with the Code includes Nicholas overall internal control environment: Brookes and Gran Ennerfelt, neither of whom are independent: an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, dened NYSE rules provide that nomination corporate governance lines of responsibility and delegated levels of authority: committees are responsible for developing and recommending to the Board a set of corporate governance principles applicable an Ethics Policy, which sets standards of professionalism and to the Company.
Spirent, however, reserves these responsibilities integrity for all employees and operations.
The Ethics Policy also for the whole Board in accordance with the Code.
includes whistleblowing facilities whereby employees may report, in confidence, suspected wrongdoings: The NYSE corporate governance rules also contain requirements on the role and composition of audit committees.
Companies who do not a comprehensive strategic planning, financial control and budgeting have their primary listing on the NYSE will be required to comply with system which is properly documented and regularly reviewed: and the audit committee requirements by July 2005 and the Board is currently reviewing these requirements.
a disciplined acquisitions and divestments due diligence process and post acquisition integration programme.
Pensions Governance The Groups principal pension and retirement schemes exist in the Spirents corporate internal control and risk management functions UK and the US.
Scheme funds are held separately from those of the report into the Head of Internal Control, operate on a global basis and Group and are administered by Trustees which include employees and play a key role in providing an objective view and continuing assessment independent members.
The schemes do not lend money or lease any of the effectiveness of the internal control systems throughout the Group assets to the Group.
to operating management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
The work programme of these two functions is focused on the areas perceived to Reporting be of greatest risk to the Group and is agreed annually in advance by the The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of preparing Audit Committee.
the Accounts is set out on page 17.
A report by the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, which includes details of their responsibilities in respect In April 2003, the Group disposed of its 51 per cent joint venture of the Companys compliance with the Code, is set out on page 29. investment in the WAGO group of companies.
