Directors Report Principal Activities Authority to Allot Shares Scottish and Southern Energy plc is a holding company.
Its Resolution 13 proposes as a special resolution to continue the subsidiaries are organised into the main businesses of generation, Directors authority under section 89 of the Companies Act 1985, transmission, distribution, and supply of electricity, electrical and to allot shares for cash in certain circumstances otherwise than pro utility contracting, and gas marketing.
A review of the years rata to all the shareholders.
This authority, which was last renewed operations and future developments is contained in the Chief at the AGM in 2002, provides greater flexibility in respect of the Executives, Financial, Operating and Corporate Governance and companys financing arrangements.
Responsibility Statements on pages 2 to 18 which form part of this report.
This resolution deals with the allotment of shares for cash under a rights issue with power to make adjustments to deal with overseas Directors shareholders, fractions of shares and other such matters.
It also The Directors at the date of this report are: permits the Directors to make additional issues of shares for cash up to 21,452,330 nominal of share capital, representing five per cent Executive Non-Executive of the issued share capital.
This limit is within the guidelines issued Gregor Alexander Bruce Farmer Chairman by the Investment Committees of the Association of British Insurers Colin Hood Henry Casley and the National Association of Pension Funds.
There is no present Ian Marchant Ian Grant intention of exercising this authority.
Alistair Phillips-Davies Sir Graeme Odgers David Sigsworth David Payne Purchase of Own Shares Nick Timpson The Directors are authorised by the shareholders to purchase, in the market, the companys own shares as permitted by the Articles Jim Forbes retired as Chief Executive on 30 September 2002. of Association.
The Directors recommend that shareholders renew Gregor Alexander was appointed Finance Director on 1 October 2002. this authority in terms of Special Resolution 14.
Purchases will only be made if the Directors expect them to result in an increase On 1 May 2003 it was announced that Nick Timpson will retire as a in the Groups earnings per share and to be in the best interests non-Executive Director with effect from 26 June 2003, Ren Mdori of shareholders generally.
and Sir Robert Smith will be appointed as non-Executive Directors with effect from 26 June 2003, and Susan Rice will be appointed as During the year, the company purchased and cancelled 2,990,945 a non-Executive Director with effect from 24 July 2003. ordinary shares at 50p each, representing 0.3% of the called-up share capital of the company, at an aggregate consideration of In accordance with the Articles of Association, the new appointments 18.1m.
The Directors considered that the share purchases were to the Board continue until the forthcoming Annual General Meeting advantageous for the Group and would enhance earnings per share.
AGM, and therefore Gregor Alexander, Rne Mdori, Susan Rice and Sir Robert Smith are required to stand for election at the AGM.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 21 May 2003 the Company had received the following Colin Hood, David Payne and David Sigsworth retire by rotation at notifications of beneficial interests of three per cent or more in the the AGM and, being eligible and in accordance with the Articles of companys issued share capital.
Association, offer themselves for re-election.
Number of shares Percentage Biographical details for all Directors are set out on page 43 and Legal and General Group plc 27,299,985 3.18% details of Directors service contracts for Directors standing for Prudential plc 27,332,934 3.18% election or re-election are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 47.
The interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of Creditor Payment Policy the company are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 49.
The company complies with the CBI Prompt Payment Code.
The main features of the Code are that payment terms are agreed at the outset Results and Dividends of a transaction and are adhered to: that there is a clear and The Group profit for the financial year amounted to 446.2m.
consistent policy that bills are paid in accordance with the contract: The Directors recommend a final dividend of 24.5p per ordinary and that there are no alterations to payment terms without prior share which, subject to approval at the AGM, will be payable on agreement.
The numbers of suppliers days represented by trade 26 September 2003 to shareholders on the register at close of creditors was 30 at 31 March 2003. business on 5 September 2003.
With the interim dividend of 10.5p per ordinary share paid on 24 March 2003, this makes a total Auditors dividend of 35.0p per ordinary share.
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors, and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration, will be proposed Share Capital at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of the companys authorised and issued share capital at 31 March 2003, which includes shares re-purchased and subsequently Annual General Meeting cancelled, and of options granted under the Groups employee share The 14th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on option schemes, are detailed in note 21 to the Accounts.
24 July 2003 at 12 noon at the Dewars Centre, Glover Street, Perth.
The Notice of Meeting is set out on pages 51 and 52.
AGM Special Business Directors Fees Resolution 12 provides for an increase in the total annual fees By Order of the Board permitted to be paid to the Directors under the companys Articles Vincent Donnelly of Association from 250,000 to 400,000.
The Board believes Company Secretary this increase is required in order to allow for sufficient fees for 21 May 2003 non-Executive Directors in the future.
The existing limit was set in 1998.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2003
