Directors Biographies Bruce Farmer CBE 66 Chairman Sir Graeme Odgers 69 Non-Executive Director Bruce became Chairman of Scottish and Southern Energy in Sir Graeme joined the Board as a non-Executive Director of Southern November 2000.
He was previously Chairman of Southern Electric Electric in April 1998.
He was formerly Chairman of the Monopolies from April 1998 until the merger forming Scottish and Southern and Mergers Commission, Chief Executive of Alfred McAlpine Plc, Energy in December 1998.
He has also previously been Chairman and Group Managing Director of British Telecommunications PLC of Bodycote plc, Allied Colloids and Devro plc, and Chief Executive and of Tarmac Plc.
He is Chairman of Locate in Kent, the inward of The Morgan Crucible Company plc, Wellworthy and Brico investment agency for the county of Kent, and of the Kent and Engineering.
He is Chairman of The Morgan Crucible Company plc, Medway Economic Board.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
President of the Institute of Materials and a Council member of the CBI.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
David Payne 60 Non-Executive Director David joined the Board as a non-Executive Director of Scottish Ian Marchant 42 Chief Executive Hydro-Electric in June 1998.
He held a number of senior positions Ian was appointed Chief Executive in October 2002 having been with the BP Group, both in London and abroad, gaining experience Finance Director since 1998.
He joined Southern Electric in 1992 in refinery development, oil trading and retail investment as Head of Corporate Financial Planning and joined the Board as programmes.
David was Deputy Chief Executive of BP Oil.
Previously he worked for Coopers & Lybrand now PwC, including a two year secondment to the Alistair Phillips-Davies 35 Energy Supply Director Department of Energy working on electricity privatisation.
Alistair joined the Board in January 2002.
He was previously Director of Energy Supply Operations, overseeing the introduction Gregor Alexander 40 Finance Director of the New Electricity Trading Arrangements.
He joined Southern Gregor joined the Board of Scottish and Southern Energy as Finance Electric in February 1997 from the National Westminster Bank Director in October 2002.
He was appointed Group Treasurer and where he was Corporate Finance Development Manager.
Tax Manager in 1998 having held a number of senior positions within the Finance team.
He worked with accountants Arthur Andersen for Susan Rice 57 Non-Executive Director five years before joining Scottish Hydro-Electric in 1990, six months Susan will join the Board as a non-Executive Director on 24 July before privatisation.
She is Chief Executive of Lloyds TSB Scotland plc, having previously been Managing Director, Personal Banking, for the Henry Casley 65 Non-Executive Director Bank of Scotland.
Henry was previously a non-Executive Director of Southern Electric, after retiring as Chief Executive, the post he held from 1993 to David Sigsworth 56 Generation Director 1996.
He entered the electricity industry in 1961, moving to Eastern David is a director and Chairman of the Combined Heat and Power Electricity Board in 1966 where he held several senior management Association.
He was appointed as Commercial Director of Scottish positions before joining the Board of Southern Electric in 1986 as Hydro-Electric in January 1995, becoming Energy Trading Director Deputy Chairman.
He was also a member of the Advisory Committee in 1998, Energy Supply Director in April 2000 and Generation on Business and the Environment and was a non-Executive Director Director in January 2002.
He held several appointments in the of Guernsey Electricity.
Yorkshire Electricity Board before joining the North of Scotland Hydro-Electric Board in 1987.
Ian Grant CBE 59 Deputy Chairman Ian joined the Board of Scottish Hydro-Electric in May 1992 Sir Robert Smith 58 Non-Executive Director becoming Deputy Chairman of Scottish and Southern Energy in Sir Robert will join the Board as a non-Executive Director on 26 June November 2000.
He is Chairman of the Crown Estate and of the 2003.
He is Chairman of the Weir Group plc, a Governor of the BBC Scottish Exhibition Centre Ltd, and a non-Executive Director of and a British Council Board of Trustees Member.
the NFU Mutual Insurance Society.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Nick Timpson 62 Non-Executive Director Nick was previously a non-Executive Director of Southern Electric, Colin Hood 48 Chief Operating Officer having joined the Board in 1990.
He was Chairman and Managing Colin joined the Board of Scottish and Southern Energy as Power Director of Furnitureland Holdings PLC.
He is currently a Systems Director in January 2001, becoming Chief Operating Officer non-Executive Director of Baronsmead VCT2 plc and The Vestey in October 2002.
Previously he was Director of Distribution for Group Limited.
He will retire as a non-Executive Director on Southern Electric, having joined the industry with the North of 26 June 2003.
Audit Committee member Ren Mdori 45 Non-Executive Director Nomination Committee member Ren will join the Board as a non-Executive Director on 26 June Remuneration Committee member 2003.
He is Group Finance Director of BOC Group plc, having previously been Chief Financial Officer of BOC Gases, Americas.
Previously he worked for Accenture and Schlumberger Limited.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2003
