Financial Statement Scottish and Southern Energy has the means and the capability to deliver further growth in the dividend in the future.
Financial Risk Management facilities of 590m, with a weighted The Board reviews and agrees policies for average period, until maturity, of 2.3 years.
the main areas of financial risk the Group faces from its treasury activities, including There is relatively little exposure to foreign interest rates, liquidity and foreign currency risk as the United Kingdom is the exchange.
They were most recently reviewed Groups main area of operation.
If either by the Audit Committee in November 2002. fuel or plant are contracted in foreign currency, it is the Groups policy to hedge The Groups operations are financed by all material purchases through the use a combination of retained profits, bank of foreign currency swaps and forward borrowings, long-term debt issuance and rate contracts.
As a matter of policy, a minimum of 50% of the Groups Financial Summary interest rate exposure is kept at fixed rates To monitor financial performance, Scottish of interest.
and Southern Energy focuses on earnings per share before goodwill, the impact of Within this policy framework, the Group FRS 19 and net finance income from borrows as required, at both fixed and pension assets.
In the year to 31 March floating rates, with interest rate swaps 2003, it increased by 2.5% to 53.1p.
This and forward rate agreements being used to growth is combined with the maintenance achieve the desired profile.
All borrowings of one of the strongest balance sheets in the in foreign currencies are swapped back global utility sector.
As a result, SSE has into sterling.
the means and the capability to deliver further growth in the dividend in the future.
At 31 March 2003, 89.5% of the Groups borrowings were at fixed rates, after taking account of interest rate swaps.
Borrowings and Facilities The objective for the Group is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility, with a range of maturity dates.
The Groups average debt maturity profile as at 31 March 2003 was 14.1 years, the same as in the previous year.
This maturity profile reflects the medium to long-term nature of the underlying assets of the Group and means the Groups debt structure is in a strong position going forward, with around 1.1bn of borrowings in medium to long-term funding in the form of Sterling Eurobonds, European Investment Bank borrowings and the US Dollar Bond.
A total of 9% of the Groups total borrowings will mature in the 12 months to March 2004.
The Groups policy is to ensure it has committed borrowing facilities of at least 110% of forecast borrowings over a 12 month period.
This provides flexibility in the management of the Groups liquidity and a backstop for the commercial paper programme.
As at 31 March 2003, the Group had undrawn committed bank Scottish and Southern Energy plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2003
