SSL International plc 04 This is SSL International Annual Report 2003 SSL International specialises in premium branded healthcare products for consumer, community and hospital use.
Products are distributed all over the world via SSL operations in 35 countries.
Medical Division The Medical division includes Regent Biogel surgical gloves, Hibi, both global brands, and the UK wound management business.
Consumer Healthcare Durex and Scholl are the core New product development for global brands within the Consumer surgical gloves has focused on the healthcare division.
Both brands growing synthetic market segment.
enjoy strong market positions Healthcare workers now wear gloves and combined represent 48 per cent for prolonged periods and the risk Marigold Gloves of Group turnover in the year.
New for some users of allergic reaction The Marigold brand includes product development and innovative to natural rubber latex has been two distinct glove types, Marigold marketing have contributed to known for a number of years.
SSL industrial gloves which offers a the development of these brands, launched Biogel Skinsense PI in comprehensive product range which is covered in more detail in March of this year.
This new glove suitable for all types of requirements, the Operating Review.
is made from the synthetic material, and Marigold housegloves.
polyisoprene and addresses the risk The OTC portfolio consists of a wide of an allergic reaction by providing range of UK products, including oral a non-latex alternative to healthcare analgesics e. g. Syndol, headlice workers with a known or suspected treatment e. g. Full Marks Mousse, allergy to natural rubber latex with indigestion remedies e. g. Remegel the same characteristics of strength and cough and cold treatments and sensitivity.
In addition to this, the Sauber range of deodorants Manufacture of Hibi was transferred and hosiery and the Mister Baby to the pharmaceutical facility at range of baby products are sold Peterlee, England from AstraZeneca primarily in Italy.
during the course of the year.
New distinctive product packaging for Hibi has been launched and marketing initiatives to exploit new markets have commenced.
Customer service has been enhanced 04 01 03 with a new user website for advice on glove performance in industrial situations.
02 Turnover by business area Simplified Durex packaging worldwide The transfer of Hibi production 01 Consumer Healthcare 60% has ensured instant consumer recognition from AstraZeneca to SSLs flagship 02 Medical 29% across the globe.
pharmaceutical factory at Peterlee 03 Marigold 8% is now complete.
04 Other 3% This is SSL International continued SSL International plc 05 Annual Report 2003 Americas The divisional head office for the Americas division is located in Atlanta, USA and is led by Stuart Heap, Managing Director.
The division Europe represents 18 per cent of Group sales The European division represents and is the Groups largest market 71 per cent of Group sales and for surgical gloves.
In addition to is geographically diverse having the significant Medical business, operations in 22 countries.
Other the divisional team manages the than the UK, which is established Durex brand across the region and Asia Pacific within medical markets, the division the Silipos polymer gel manufacturing The Asia Pacific division, led by is predominantly focused on and commercial operations which Steve Eastwood, Managing Director, Consumer healthcare.
The are based in Niagara Falls, USA.
is primarily Consumer healthcare management of Europe has recently focused across a wide geographical been placed under the control of area including the key markets Garry Watts, Group Finance Director of Japan, South East Asia, Hong with a strategy to focus on brand Kong and Australasia.
Turnover contribution to maximise profitable of the division represents 11 per cent growth of the core consumer brands.
of Group sales and continues to show solid growth in the core Durex and Scholl brands.
SSL manufacturing Joint venture manufacturing In the European region, there are seven The Silipos manufacturing facility is The majority of latex based products, manufacturing facilities in the UK, based in Niagara Falls and produces being condoms, surgical gloves and including the new pharmaceutical plant a gel which is used within a wide range industrial gloves are manufactured in at Peterlee.
These facilities manufacture of products including footcare and this region at SSLs own facilities and a wide range of products from condoms prosthetic dressings.
at others with joint venture partners.
In addition, other manufacturing facilities are in Spain, which manufactures condoms and in Portugal, which manufactures industrial gloves.
04 04 01 01 01 03 03 03 02 02 02 Turnover by business area Turnover by business area Turnover by business area 01 Consumer Healthcare 67% 01 Consumer Healthcare 23% 01 Consumer Healthcare 82% 02 Medical 22% 02 Medical 70% 02 Medical 11% 03 Marigold 8% 03 Marigold 7% 03 Marigold 2% 04 Other 3% 04 Other 5%
