SSL International plc 24 Group Board Annual Report 2003 Non-Executive Directors Ian Martin Non-Executive Chairman Chairman since September 2001, Ian is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He is Chairman of HLF Insurance Holdings Garry Watts Ltd and has held a number of Group Finance Director and Chairmanships, including Baxi Managing Director Europe Group plc and Uniq plc and was Group Finance Director since joining Group Managing Director and the Company in February 2001, Deputy Chairman of Grand Garry also became Managing Metropolitan plc.
Director for Europe in April 2003.
Executive Directors He was previously an Executive Eric Anstee Director of Celltech plc and Finance Non-Executive Director Brian Buchan Director of Medeva plc.
Garry was Joined the Board in March 2002.
Chief Executive a member of the Ministerial Eric, a Chartered Accountant, Chief Executive since March 2001.
Advisory Board of the Medicines is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Previously an officer of Procter & Control Agency until March 2003 He is Chairman of Mansell plc and Gamble, and President of its and has subsequently been a Non-Executive Director of Severn Feminine Care global operations, appointed as a Non-Executive Trent plc.
He is a member of the Brian has worked extensively in Director of its successor body, ICAEW and a member of the UITF Europe, the Far East and North the Medicines and Healthcare of the Accounting Standards America.
Steven Eastwood Group Managing Director Asia Pacific Joined Scholl PLC in 1983, having held senior marketing positions in Cadburys Schweppes and Beechams.
Steven became an Executive Director of Scholl in 1995 and was appointed to the SSL Board in April 2000.
Group Board continued SSL International plc 25 Annual Report 2003 Timothy Howden Senior Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director of Scholl PLC in 1994 and of SSL in 1998, Tim is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Previously CEO of Albert Fisher Europe and MD of Rank Hovis McDougall plc.
He is currently a Non-Executive Director of Finning International Inc Canada, Hyperion Insurance Group Ltd and NonExecutive Chairman of Benchmark Dental Laboratories Ltd and Zwetsloots Ltd. Age 66.
Peter Read Non-Executive Director Appointed in March 2002, he is a member of the Board of the South East of England Development Agency and holds non-executive directorships in Celltech Group plc, Vernalis Group plc, and Innogenetics SA.
Formerly a senior executive with Hoechst, and past President of ABPI.
Jonathan Jowett Company Secretary Appointed in June 1999.
Qualified as a solicitor in 1989, and has previously worked for Avon Cosmetics and Alumasc Group plc.
Bernd Beetz Non-Executive Director Appointed in March 2001.
Bernd is Executive Director and CEO of Coty Inc based in New York prior to which he was President and CEO of Parfums Christian Dior and before that a Regional Vice-President of Procter & Gamble.
Note: All Non-Executive Directors sit on the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, chaired by Eric Anstee, Tim Howden and Ian Martin respectively.
