SSL International plc 28 Directors Report Annual Report 2003 Directors Report Board of Directors Employees and Employment Policies Creditor Payment Policy The Directors present their annual report The Directors are listed on pages 24 The Groups employment policies The Group does not follow any specific and audited financial statements for the and 25.
All of them served throughout reflect its belief in recruiting and external code or standard on payment year ended 31 March 2003. the year.
Rod Sellers and Andrew Slater developing high calibre employees.
Payments to suppliers are resigned as Directors on 16 July 2002 Diversity in the work place is valued made in accordance with agreed terms.
Alain and the Group strongly believes The Company itself had no trade The activities of the Group are Strasser resigned on 16 May 2003.
Brian in equality of opportunity for all creditors at 31 March 2003. the manufacture and distribution Buchan and Bernd Beetz will stand for employees.
This ensures that people of consumer healthcare products, re-election at the forthcoming Annual with disability are offered the same Charitable and Political Donations medical products, household and General Meeting.
None of the Nonopportunities for employment, training The Group made charitable donations industrial gloves.
Executive Directors has a service and career progression as others of 0.1 million 2002: 0.1million.
The Group would make No political donations were made The Chairmans Message, Chief Directors is given in the Remuneration every effort to continue to employ during the year 2002: nil.
Executives Review and Operating and Report on pages 29 to 34. staff who may become disabled while Financial Reviews on pages 2 to 23 employed, providing appropriate Auditors report in more detail on the Groups Share Capital training and adapting facilities to allow KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its activities during the year and likely Details of shares issued during the year them to continue working wherever willingness to remain in office as auditor future developments, notably and outstanding options are given in possible.
The Group has continued of the Company and a resolution the proposed disposals of the note 20 to the financial statements.
its programme of tailor-made courses proposing its re-appointment will be put medical products and industrial with INSEAD in Paris and Manchester to shareholders at the Annual General gloves businesses.
Annual General Meeting Business School in the UK.
After proper consideration, The Annual General Meeting the Audit Committee is satisfied that Results and Dividend will be held at the Insurance Hall, Policies introduced during the previous KPMG Plc continues to be objective The Group profit before tax was 20 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7HY financial year such as Freetalk, a and independent of the Group.
82 million before exceptional at 10.30am on 15 July 2003.
Group-wide communications channel items, 61.6 million after exceptional have encouraged a higher level of By order of the Board.
An interim dividend of 3.9p Purchase of own shares employee involvement.
per share was paid on 4 March 2003.
The Company is authorised to purchase Jonathan Jowett, Group Secretary The Directors recommend a final its own shares in the market.
Although Profit-related bonus schemes were in 4 June 2003 dividend of 8.4p per share, which, no such purchases have been made operation during the year for certain subject to approval by shareholders during the year, approval to renew employees and further offers were will be paid on 4 September 2003 this authority for a further year will made to eligible employees under to shareholders on the register on be sought from shareholders at the the Save As You Earn Share Option 8 August 2003.
held by the Seton Healthcare Group Employee Share Ownership Plan and Major Interests the Seton Healthcare Group Qualifying As at 30 May 2003 the Company had Employee Share Ownership Trust have been notified of the following interests been waived.
of three per cent or more in the issued share capital of the Company: Number of shares % of shares F M R Corp and its direct and indirect subsidiaries 27,125,553 14.33% HBOS plc 5,701,544 3.01% Legal & General Investment Management Limited 6,067,552 3.2%
