S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2003 R EVIEW OF O PERATIONS continued customers digital solutions for page make-up that will reduce cost and increase efficiency.
In south Florida, the installation of closed loop colour control on all web presses will soon enable us to meet industry-specic standards without the need for manual intervention, with resultant cost savings.
Avanti is well advanced in securing ISO certication which, when achieved, will result in the US division being the first multi-plant printing operation in the USA to have all its manufacturing sites certied.
In meeting our strategy to sell a broader range of services we now offer logistics management.
We have been successful in making significant savings for our customers by distributing their products for them through the services of St Ives Logistics.
Sales to our existing customers have increased: Neiman Marcus have awarded us their Bergdorf Goodman catalogues for the next three years and Avon Products, Federated Department Stores Bloomingdales and Burdines, Ford Motor Company, General Motors Corporation and the U. S. Postal Service.
We have secured for St Ives Creative a two-year extension from Saks Department Stores Proftts division and a one-year deal with a new customer, PETsMART.
We have also won a five-year contract with Americas Mart for the complete manufacture of their catalogues and directories, including creative services.
We remain under pricing pressure from a number of our customers in these very difficult economic times.
F INANCIAL The depressed state of global capital markets resulted in another tough year.
With only limited merger and acquisition activity and even fewer IPOs, financial printing volumes fell signicantly.
These low levels of demand necessitated further action to reduce the cost base, leading to a 15 per cent reduction in the work force.
Owing to market conditions, the resultant savings were largely passed on to our customers in lower prices.
In spite of these challenging conditions we were involved in a number of high prole deals.
In Europe these included the fide-merger of Six Continents, listing particulars for the InterContinental Hotels Group, the acquisition of Household International by HSBC and Cadbury Schweppes acquisition of Adams.
In the USA we completed an IPO for Integrated Alarms and the Sagicor Financial Corporation demutualisation.
Overall we have maintained our market share.
