S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2003 R EVIEW OF O PERATIONS continued We were also successful in renewing our contract for the weekly production of The Economist: contracts with Cond Nast Publications for GQ, The World of Interiors and Vogue: and with Dennis Publishing for a number of their titles, including Computer Shopper, Maxim, and PC Pro.
Since the year end we have seen an increase in pagination and overall volumes, which we expect to continue through to Christmas, although in general pricing remains subject to competitive pressures.
USA The US regional magazine market is experiencing similar economic pressures as in the UK.
The recent investments in additional bindery capacity, improvements to our mailing capabilities and the introduction of digital solutions for our customers have all helped us to offer an improved service.
During the year we won contracts for 18 regional titles, including the Spanish language versions of special feature titles for National Geographic.
M ULTIMEDIA The Multimedia division achieved significant sales growth in the year, despite subdued demand from its traditional music and multimedia customers.
This was due primarily to the steady growth in demand for DVD print products.
These ranged from simple inlays for lms, to more complex large pagination computer games manuals and one-off special packaging projects for multi-disc sets of lms and television series.
To meet the demand for special packaging projects we have installed additional carton nishing and ancillary equipment, both in the UK and Holland, and have also invested in CADCAM equipment to provide the necessary sales support in this new and increasingly key area of activity.
We also installed the divisions first 10-unit press that will allow multi-colour sheet printing at a single pass, thereby providing a significant improvement in efficiency.
This investment will ensure that we are able to compete and win new business at an acceptable level of return in what continues to be a highly competitive and price-driven market place.
Much effort in the year went into strengthening and focusing the sales teams to drive forward our efforts to identify and win new business that better complements the pattern of our traditional music and multimedia markets.
