S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Towards the end of the year we saw some moderate signs of improved activity, particularly in the USA and we are well placed to benefit from any upturn in these markets when it occurs.
We enjoyed another strong year in the printing of Annual Reports and remain the market leader in the UK, producing 32 Annual Reports for FTSE 100 companies.
New customers included Alliance UniChem, Associated British Foods, AstraZeneca, Barclays, GlaxoSmithKline, Kingsher, Shire Pharmaceuticals Group and Tomkins.
In the USA, Annual Reports were produced for Alcoa, DTE Energy, Delphi Automotive Systems Corporation, Florida Power and Light, Ford Motor Company, GMAC, J. P. Morgan Chase & Co. Xerox Corporation and Yum!
Although the number of Annual Reports produced for US companies during the year was comparable with the previous year, sales turnover fell due to the poor market conditions.
In addition to our annual report expertise we focused on producing other corporate and ne art work.
St Ives Westerham Press has sustained its UK market leadership of this sector.
In the mutual funds market we carried out new assignments for Deutsche Scudder and for Delaware.
The installation of the new 8-unit sheet fed press at Woolwich will aid our ambitions to grow our share of this market further.
Market conditions in the UK remained ercely competitive M AGAZINES throughout the year, particularly in the web offset sector, which is still UK oversupplied.
Advertising levels in many of the magazines we produce for our customers have been subdued, resulting in fewer pages and thus less volume to ll our available capacity.
Price pressure has been intense, particularly when contracts fall due for renewal.
To offset this we have continued to focus on ways to reduce the unit cost of production, by seeking greater exibility from our work force and introducing automation, particularly in the post-press part of our business.
All our factories are successfully running computer-to-plate systems, and continual developments have allowed us signicantly to reduce labour costs in this area.
During the year we renewed a number of key contracts, in particular with EMAP for whom we produce a large portfolio of titles including Car, Garden Answers, Kerrang!, NewWoman and Nursing Times.
