Board of directors 2003 1 Robert Speirs, Non-Executive Chairman 5 Ewan Brown CBE, Non-Executive Director A non-executive director of the Group since March 1995.
In Ewan Brown has been a non-executive director of the Group July 2002, he was appointed by the Board as Non-Executive since 1988.
He is an executive director of Noble Grossart Ltd and Chairman.
A former Group Finance Director of The Royal Bank of Chairman of Lloyds TSB Scotland plc.
His other non-executive Scotland plc, Robert Speirs is also Chairman of the Miller Group directorships include John Wood Group plc, Transport Initiatives Ltd and Bell Group plc.
His other non-executive directorships Edinburgh Limited and Lloyds TSB Group plc.
Aged 61. include Canary Wharf Group plc and Martin Currie Income and 6 Iain Duffin, Non-Executive Director Growth Trust.
Iain Duffin became a non-executive director of the Group in September 2001.
He was appointed Chairman of the 2 Brian Souter, Chief Executive Remuneration Committee on 1 May 2003.
He is non-executive A co-founder of Stagecoach, Brian Souter has extensive Chairman of Origo Services.
He has previously held executive knowledge of the ground transportation industry around the positions in the UK and the US with a number of organisations world.
Brian was Chairman of the Group throughout the year including Macfarlane Group plc, Hughes MicroElectronics, ITT ended 30 April 2002.
Following Keith Cochranes resignation, Canon and LucasVarity.
Aged 56. the Board appointed him Chief Executive on 21 July 2002.
He is now responsible for managing all of the Groups 7 Ann Gloag, Non-Executive Director operations.
He is also a board member of Road King Ann Gloag co-founded Stagecoach in 1980 and served as an Infrastructure.
Brian Souter is also Chairman of ScotAirways executive director until May 2000.
She is a past winner of the Group Ltd and was a director of Scottish Enterprise until Businesswoman of the Year Award and European Women in November 2002.
She is a trustee of the Princess Royal Trust for Carers and an international Board member of Mercy Ships.
3 Martin Griffiths, Finance Director Aged 60.
Appointed Finance Director in April 2000, Martin Griffiths is responsible for the Groups overall financial policy and treasury 8 Dr Janet Morgan, Non-Executive Director management.
He also has responsibility for the overall Dr Janet Morgan, Lady Balfour of Burleigh, became a nonmanagement of the Groups property portfolio.
He is a Chartered executive director in April 2001.
She is Chairman of the Health, Accountant.
She is also a non-executive director of Cable & Wireless plc, BPB plc, NMT Group plc and 4 Graham Eccles, Executive Director Rail other companies.
Dr Morgan is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Graham Eccles has over 35 years experience in the rail industry Edinburgh, a Trustee of the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of and has held a number of senior management posts.
He has Scotland and Chairman of the Scottish Cultural Resources Access been a member of the Board since September 2000 and prior Network.
She was a member of the Central Policy Review Staff to that was managing director of South West Trains from 1999. of the Cabinet Office.
He is responsible for the management of all the Groups rail operations and business development opportunities in the rail 9 Russell Walls, Non-Executive Director market.
He also has main board responsibility for Group safety Appointed as a non-executive director in June 2000, Russell Walls matters.
Graham Eccles is a director of Virgin Rail Group is the current Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Robert Speirs appointment as Chairman in July 2002, Russell Walls was appointed the senior independent non-executive director.
He is a non-executive director of Signet Group plc.
He was previously Group Finance Director of BAA plc and Wellcome PLC.
For many years he worked abroad with Coats Viyella plc Key to photograph where he was Group Finance Director from January 1990.
He is a fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants.
