Operating review 2003 the West Coast and CrossCountry franchises.
Both franchises Our share of trainlines operating losses has reduced from 4.4m are presently receiving SRA funding on the basis of a one-year to 4.3m.
budget set by the SRA for the period to February 2004.
We remain confident that new franchise terms can be agreed that Road King Infrastructure will secure shareholder value for Stagecoach.
Road King Infrastructure is one of the leading highway investors and developers in China.
Based in Hong Kong, it operates around Eighteen of the new tilting Pendolino trains, built by Alstom, 1,000 km of road tolls throughout China on over 20 toll roads have now been delivered and the first has gone into passenger and bridges in partnership with the Chinese Provincial Authorities.
service on the West Coast Main Line.
When the programme is Following the mandatory conversion of our preference shares on completed, a fleet of 53 state-of-the-art Pendolinos will be 12 June 2003, Stagecoach now has a 31.2% holding in Road regularly linking London Euston to Manchester, Liverpool, the King.
The Group results for the year ended 30 April 2003 include our Virgin CrossCountry, which links 110 towns and cities and carries share of Road Kings results for the year ended 31 December 16 million people a year, introduced a brand new clock-face 2002.
Our share of operating profits for the year was 10.5m timetable in September 2002 with a substantial increase in 2002 12.9m.
The fall in profitability reflects a reduction in services featuring new Voyager trains.
Reliability of the Voyager certain minimum income undertakings from joint ventures and and Super Voyager train fleets is far superior to the average movements in foreign exchange rates applied in translating high-speed train rolling stock and, despite a 40% year on year overseas profits to sterling.
increase in passenger numbers, overcrowding has been Road King is benefiting from Chinas positive economic outlook significantly reduced.
and the continuing improvement in living standards, both of which have resulted in a surge in car ownership.
Total traffic and The impact of the new investment and service improvements toll revenue on Road Kings highway projects in the year ended across the company was recognised earlier this year when Virgin 31 December 2002 increased by 9.7% and 14% respectively Trains won first prize for its Voyager and Pendolino trains in the compared to 2001.
Rail Network category of the prestigious national Business Travel World Awards 2003.
Among the areas highlighted were train Work on Anhui Bengbu Chaoyanglu Bridge, Road Kings only safety improvements, such as high visibility exterior doors and outstanding construction project, was completed in December safety instructions in Braille.
2002 and toll collection has commenced.
In line with the business development strategy, Road King has signed an agreement to dispose of its interest in Shanxi Provincial Highway INVESTMENTS Huanggu Route Xiaodian Fenhe Bridge project to its Peoples Republic of China PRC partner.
com is firmly established as the largest UK rail Road King expects to secure additional cash revenue and profit internet and call centre booking service.
A joint venture between from its investment in and operation of the Baoding-Tianjin the Stagecoach and Virgin Groups, it helps rail travellers plan Expressway project in Hebei Province.
The Hebei Provincial their journeys and buy train tickets to anywhere in the UK.
Government has agreed the investment and, subject to the fulfilment of conditions, Road King will sign an unconditional Now with over 7 million registered users, thetrainline.
scope for considerable growth going forward.
com is part of Stagecoachs commitment to devising transport solutions Performance of highway projects in the early months of 2003 and continues to benefit from technical support by Cap Gemini continued to be encouraging with double-digit revenue and Ernst and Young, which has made significant investment to traffic volume growth.
Road King has not experienced any support the business.
Stagecoachs share of the business is 49%.
notable adverse effects from the spread of SARS in the region.
