I passionately believe that our customers should always get the best service they have ever had not only when the service is running well but also in times of disruption.
John Downes Customer Care South West Trains Operating review 2003 Kong business but the Boards assessment of the disposal has 2002 31.0m, representing an operating margin of 9.2% 2002 been based on a long-term view of the profitability and capital 7.7%.
This includes liquidated damages of 8.5m in relation to requirements of the business and not the immediate trading late delivery and reliability of new Class 458 trains.
stated after the costs of bidding for new franchises.
Citybus has two franchise operations, one on Hong Kong Island Passenger volumes at South West Trains increased by 2.1%, or and the other operating to and from the international airport.
0.9% after excluding the periods affected by industrial action in These franchises expire in June 2006 and May 2013 respectively.
The business will require significant new investment in property and vehicles to ensure that the franchises are retained and Financial performance has benefited from significant operational renewed.
The purchaser already has a relationship with a improvements at South West Trains.
However, infrastructure significant franchised bus operation in Hong Kong and the performance in the UK remains a major concern as the backlog proposed combination can benefit from synergies and of maintenance work continues, costs continue to rise and economies of scale which will give a solid platform for any Network Rail has indicated that it is likely to be 2008-09 before further investment that is required in the Hong Kong franchised punctuality returns to the levels achieved before the incident at bus market.
A reliable, right-first-time railway is a top priority for us as a The Board therefore believes that the sales price represents fair major train operator and a key requirement for our customers.
value for Citybus and that the disposal is in the best interests of Despite the difficulties we face with network infrastructure, we Stagecoach shareholders.
are working very hard to mitigate the effects on our operation.
We have reviewed the resourcing and control of our services to The transaction will reduce Group consolidated net debt by improve their resilience.
An integrated control centre is planned HK$2,200m approximately 176m in the year ending 30 April at Waterloo where South West Trains and Network Rail 2004.
It will also reduce Group consolidated capital personnel will work together to ensure that real-time commitments by HK$239m approximately 19m.
management of the network is properly co-ordinated and disruption to passengers is minimised.
We believe this will The consideration is broadly in line with the anticipated book demonstrate the benefits of vertical integration on the railways.
value of the net assets at completion and accordingly, the South West Trains is also working in partnership with Network transaction will not result in a material gain or loss on disposal in Rail and infrastructure contractors Balfour Beatty to address the consolidated accounts of Stagecoach Group plc.
proceeds will initially be used to reduce the Groups outstanding debt.
The disposal will result in a small reduction in annual We are working closely with the SRA on the new strategic earnings per share.
Recent SRA announcements outlining the future direction of the industry, the focus on performance and the steps already taken to reduce congestion on the rail RAIL network, have been welcome.
The introduction of new timetable Stagecoach Group continues to hold a significant share of the changes from September 2003 will help considerably in further UK rail market, including South West Trains, which is one of the reducing the effect of disruption on the network.
largest UK rail franchises, Island Line and Sheffield Supertram.
In addition, our rail business includes our joint venture, Virgin Rail Performance initiatives at South West Trains have helped deliver Group, which operates the West Coast Main Line and a notable increase in train punctuality on suburban services over CrossCountry franchises.
the last year and the picture has also improved for the mainline Turnover for our wholly-owned rail subsidiaries in the year was up services.
Fleet reliability measures have also assisted in reducing 2.7% at 413.6m 2002 402.8m.
Operating profit was 38.2m the number of delays.
12 The safety of our trains is always my top priority.
Its my job to ensure that our drivers have everything they need to run a safe, reliable train service for our passengers.
Sharon Smith Head of Drivers South West Trains We expect further improvements in quality and performance as Marketing activity has focused on developing our off-peak leisure more new trains are delivered at South West Trains and Virgin market where we see a number of opportunities for increased Rail Group.
We have worked with the Mayor of London in promoting train travel to London and its nearby attractions.
Strong promotion of our most popular products has had a South West Trains significant impact and trials are also underway of new products, We have achieved a major step forward at South West Trains including a First Class off-peak saver ticket aimed at longerwith the completion of negotiations with the SRA and the distance travellers.
We also have a substantial new leisure agreement of financial and commercial terms for a new franchise.
database following our summer 2002 Million Ticket Giveaway.
This has allowed us to promote our products more directly and The new three-year franchise, which is awaiting Government effectively, as well bringing thousands of new and lapsed users approval, places responsibility for funding and delivering back to train travel.
The number of revenue protection staff has infrastructure projects with the SRA, leaving South West Trains been increased, particularly at Waterloo Station, as part of a to focus on delivering a better train service to passengers.
successful campaign to target ticketless travel and this is having We believe it is a pragmatic agreement that reflects the a positive impact on revenue.
organisational and operational reality of the rail industry.
It will bring certainty and stability to our rail portfolio and we believe it is an excellent deal for government, our passengers, our Island Line shareholders and our people.
Stagecoach Groups contract to operate the Island Line franchise on the Isle of Wight runs until September 2003.
We are currently We are now working hard to deliver on our promises to participating in single party negotiations with the SRA regarding improve the quality of service to our customers with the a new franchise that would run concurrently with the new South introduction of a 1 billion fleet of new Desiro trains and a West Trains franchise until February 2007. comprehensive refurbishment of our suburban Class 455 trains.
The new Desiro trains are on schedule to be delivered into Sheffield Supertram passenger service later in 2003 and driver training programmes Our Supertram operation in Sheffield which includes three are well advanced.
routes covering 29 kilometres across the city continues to generate increased patronage.
Total passenger numbers for the Safety remains South West Trains highest priority and our safety year ended 30 April 2003 were 11.5 million.
performance during the year was among the best in the rail industry.
However, we are not complacent and we continue to Since Stagecoach took over the operation over five years ago, monitor and improve our internal systems, as well as investing in performance has improved and passenger volumes have grown by the safety of our rolling stock.
We have now almost completed around 25%.
In April 2003, the Group took over responsibility for the fitting of the Train Protection Warning System TPWS to maintenance of both the Sheffield Supertram system and the all our trains, and we believe it offers enormous benefit and trams, making the light rail network a vertically integrated reassurance to passengers.
We remain committed to giving our customers the best service they have ever had and have invested in a new Customer Virgin Rail Group Communications and Security Centre at Wimbledon.
A new Our share of Virgin Rail Groups turnover for the year amounted customer information system, fully implemented across the to 276.1m 2002 261.2m and our share of operating profits network in partnership with Network Rail, provides audible and before exceptional items was 7.2m 2002 10.8m.
Passenger visual information to customers about trains at our 176 stations.
volumes for the year are 4.7% above the prior year.
The 24-hour control centre is the hub of our information and security links, monitoring the new customer information system, Virgin Rail Group is continuing to work with the SRA with a view CCTV cameras and Help Point calls.
to negotiating new long-term commercial arrangements for both 13
