A customers first impression of Stagecoach is down to the driver.
I try to give them the best and longest lasting impression possible, getting them to their destination on time.
Casey Meyer Driver Stagecoach New Zealand Operating review 2003 There are many synergies between the two operations and the trips for spectators attending the Americas Cup yachting regatta 1.4m acquisition provides Coach USA with a strong foothold in generated additional revenues.
Fullers is also working closely with the Jersey City and Bayonne markets.
a special purpose company owned by the city councils in Auckland to plan a major upgrade programme for ferry wharves and terminals.
OVERSEAS BUS Our Overseas Bus division continues to perform satisfactorily.
On 9 June 2003, we announced the sale of Citybus to Delta We remain the largest provider of scheduled bus services in Pearl Limited, a 100% indirect subsidiary of Chow Tai Fook New Zealand.
Strong public and government support for Enterprises Limited, the privately owned company of the Cheng passenger transport continues to underpin our New Zealand Yu Tung family and the major shareholder in New World bus business.
Development Company Limited which in turn has an interest in Turnover for the year in Overseas Bus was 183.7m, compared New World First Bus Services Limited, one of Hong Kongs major to 194.7m in the previous year.
Operating profit was 30.3m, bus operators.
The sale was completed on 23 June 2003. compared to 33.4m in the previous year.
This represents an The gross consideration for the disposal was HK$2,200m operating margin of 16.5% 2002 17.2%.
The net cash amount received by operating profit reflects the disposals of operations in Australia Stagecoach was HK$1,646m approximately 132m which and Portugal, movements in foreign exchange rates applied in represented the gross consideration less the amount of net third translating overseas profits to sterling and the impact of SARS party debt as at 30 April 2003, being HK$554m approximately and a sluggish economy on our Hong Kong operations.
The purchaser assumed all of the net third party debt of The results for Overseas Bus include turnover in respect of Citybus.
Citybus of 132.3m 2002 148.6m and operating profit of The purchaser will also assume capital commitments of 19.1m 2002 25.2m.
approximately HK$239m approximately 19m relating mainly Our bus operations in New Zealand are centred on the countrys to the completion of a new depot for Citybus at Chaiwan in two largest metropolitan areas, Auckland and Wellington.
closely involved with national and local government in assessing how best to organise and develop bus services.
The acquisition of Citybus has been successful for Stagecoach and has delivered good financial returns.
Under our ownership Stagecoach New Zealand continues to work closely with regional since 1999, the business has produced strong organic growth in and city councils to improve services and introduce new bus passenger volumes and a significant reduction in operating costs.
The successful Quality Partnership Agreement with Wellington Regional Council and Wellington City Council On receiving an initial approach about the possibility of disposal was renewed during the year for a further four years.
A similar the Board reviewed the strategic options for Stagecoach Group in agreement exists with Auckland City Council and informal the region in view of the limited opportunities to develop working parties operate in other areas.
significantly elsewhere in other Pacific Rim countries and the long-term prospects for the business in Hong Kong.
In Auckland, Stagecoach has continued to enhance bus service frequencies, using Kick Start pump-priming funding provided The Board believes that a combination of the uncertainties about by the Government and Auckland Regional Council.
Individual the economic climate in Hong Kong, the growing levels of service improvements this year have been concentrated on peak regulation to which the business is becoming subject and the period commuter services, including further enhancements to the inability to grow profit without very significant investment or key bus corridors that have seen passenger growth generated by critical mass synergies required it to take very seriously the previous Kick Start funding.
approach and to negotiate terms which were in the best interests of Stagecoach shareholders.
Stagecoach New Zealand also runs Fullers Ferries based in Auckland, which operates ferry services.
Ferry passenger volumes The outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome SARS grew by 6% over the year and a successful programme of special earlier this year continues to impact the profitability of the Hong 11
