My proudest moment was when we won the Bus Industry Marketing Project of the Year Award this year.
Our teams priority is to provide existing passengers with up-to-date, useful information and to stimulate passenger growth through innovative promotions.
Karen Best Marketing Manager UK Bus Operating review 2003 using the Internet to access information about our services and this year.
We have more Stagecoach-funded schemes planned for pay for specific tickets, particularly in the student market.
innovative Unirider campaign, targeted at the sizeable student Stagecoach is supporting Government moves to improve market, has resulted in further growth in Manchester this year, integration between rail and bus travel.
We have a growing with an encouraging shift towards annual ticket sales that network of bus links across our South West Trains operation, generate increased loyalty among our customers.
The campaign allowing passengers to buy a combined bus and rail ticket, and which picked up the UK Bus Industry Award for Marketing at the we fully support the Governments PlusBus through-ticketing end of 2002 is also being rolled out in other student centres, initiative.
We are also working with the Government and local such as Newcastle, Warwick, Lancaster and Aberdeen with further authorities to introduce the benefits of smartcard technology to areas to be targeted at a later date.
Around 15% of our total buses in areas such as Aberdeen, Nottinghamshire, South Wales student revenue in Manchester is achieved via our and Manchester.
A new improved Internet sales system is being introduced in the autumn of 2003.
We firmly believe the future of the bus industry and, ultimately, the long-term interests of passengers is best served Sophisticated research and marketing techniques pioneered by by operators, government, local authorities and customers the retail industry are being used by Stagecoach to attract more working together to improve our public transport system.
Lifestyle information from sources Passenger growth, improved reliability and reduced congestion in such as the census and economic trends data is being used to our towns and cities can all be achieved without the need for help understand more about our customers and how they make increased regulation.
We believe that improved partnerships with decisions.
Customers can now be profiled, segmented and local authorities and quicker progress on bus priority measures targeted on a geographical basis and the information used to are key in unlocking passenger growth and achieving the tailor direct marketing campaigns, including telemarketing.
In trial government objective of modal shift.
areas in Perth and Grimsby, between 7% and 9% of customers targeted have switched to the bus, well above the normal 2% conversion rate for these campaigns.
COACH USA Coach USA is clearly focused on delivering the 12 to 18-month Stagecoach is a frontrunner within the UK bus industry in strategy to restructure the business.
This strategy will produce a supporting and developing new approaches to bus provision to stronger business base, ensuring greater management and draw increasing numbers of passengers to public transport.
At national level, Stagecoach has taken an industry lead by The trading environment, however, continues to be challenging as presenting plans to the Government to help reinvigorate the UK the uncertain global economic climate continues.
We believe our Kick Start proposal for targeted turnover for the year was 603.0m, compared to 682.3m in the funding to support the growth of existing services can benefit previous year.
Operating profit was 14.0m, compared to 38.4m communities across the country, delivering more comprehensive in 2002, representing a reduction in operating margin from 5.6% bus services, reduced congestion and better value for the to 2.3%.
The reduction in operating margin reflects a fall of 0.4% taxpayer, with important environmental and social inclusion in like for like revenues in our coach and bus operations, benefits.
Our pilot project in Perth, Scotland, has seen substantial increased insurance costs and a significant fall in taxicab passenger growth in the first three years.
We estimate that utilisation and sales.
Action is continuing to maintain strict 140m of Government funding could deliver 2% passenger controls on our cost base and improve operating efficiency.
growth per annum across the whole UK bus network over a three-year period.
The Kick Start proposal has received In December 2002, we announced the way forward for Coach widespread support from politicians and from across the UK Bus USA, following a detailed six-month business review.
Both the Department for Transport and The Scottish of the review, in our interim results for the six months ended Executive are now working on the details of a Kick Start 31 October 2002, we wrote down the carrying value of Coach initiative and funding could be earmarked for pilot projects later USA by 575.0m, to 376.9m excluding net debt and tax.
After 9 We really value our customers in Chicago and I like to give them a friendly and reliable service.
Clint Malcome Driver Coach USA Operating review 2003 taking account of goodwill amortisation and exchange rate seeing passenger growth as a result of new commercial initiatives movements, the equivalent carrying value of Coach USA as of and partnerships with other stakeholders.
Our Shortline business is working in partnership with Rockland Key actions being taken at Coach USA are to: County, the New York State Department of Transportation and the New York Thruway Association to run minibuses on a special Concentrate on the North East and North Central regions of route that bypasses the toll barriers at the Tappanzee Bridge.
The the USA: initiative, which provides faster journeys for passengers and less Focus on large business units and predictable revenue streams congestion at toll barriers, has achieved passenger growth of including commuter line runs scheduled services and contract more than 24% since May 2002.
The contract has recently been services: extended, along with many others with Rockland County.
Focus on businesses which perform well and where Stagecoach has proven management experience: Further growth is being achieved with our popular New York Sightseeing product, which runs high-quality double decker Reduce exposure to charter and leisure-related businesses: vehicles on Manhattan.
In February 2003, we launched the Reduce corporate and regional overhead base in line with the Showbiz Insiders Tour, which takes in the major entertainment downsizing of the business: and locations in New York City.
In April, we added Philadelphia to the Retain and focus key management.
list of day-trip locations running from New York City, working in partnership with Amtrak, the Philadelphia Convention and We remain on target to complete the restructuring as planned Visitors Bureau and other organisations.
and are proceeding with discussions for the sale of various parts of Coach USA.
We have already announced the sale of twoDuring the last six months, we have re-branded our Olympia thirds of the businesses we planned to dispose of for a combined Trails fleet, which is the primary bus operator from Newark consideration of over US$220m.
International Airport to New York City.
As well as presenting a new, fresher image to customers, round trip fares were reduced Work to restructure the taxi division, where financial and a kids ride free programme was implemented to entice performance in the first six months of the year was particularly additional ridership.
In addition, in March 2003, Olympia disappointing, is well underway with a number of businesses re-instated its bus service to downtown New York for the first already sold.
The management team has been strengthened and time since September 11, 2001.
The return of this service ensures specific action plans for improvement are being implemented in essential airport connections for the communities of lower the two largest and poorest performing taxi companies.
We will Manhattan and contributes to the continuing regeneration of consider opportunities to exit the taxi market in the next the area.
As a result of these measures, we are confident we will In the North Central region, the Chicago sightseeing market has significantly reduce the level of our leisure-dependent operations.
returned to pre-September 11 levels following the introduction of Despite the continuing uncertain US economy, we believe that 75-seat double-deckers to complement our already strong Trolley these changes will result in a smaller but more predictable Tour service.
In addition, our Chicago-Airport Express scheduled business in North America with a sustainable earnings profile.
service operation saw continued ridership growth of 14% above pre-acquisition results, due to an enhanced schedule, improved We have many strong performing businesses in the residual equipment and a focused marketing strategy.
In the Wisconsin Coach USA portfolio and we are continuing to redeploy existing market, we will have further revenue growth from August 2003 assets to maximise asset utilisation and to eliminate unnecessary as a result of the renewal of an important contract with the capital expenditure.
Work is also ongoing to target opportunities Milwaukee Public School District.
arising out of consolidation in the fragmented US transport market or where there are potential complementary acquisitions.
In March 2003, Coach USA acquired Lafayette and Greenville Bus While trading conditions continue to be challenging, we are Company, a line run company located in Jersey City, New Jersey.
