THE LINE UP: DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 8 7 6 1Leonard Steinberg 66, Executive Chairman 6Len Cowburn 68 2Bob Wiper 48, Chief Executive 7 The Rt.
Lord Baker of Dorking C. H. 68 3 9 4 2 5 1 3 Michael Riddy ACA 47, Finance Director 8Robert Waddington 61 4 John Whittaker 52, Managing Director 5Paul Collis 50, Managing Director COMPANY SECRETARY 9 Sarah-Jane Goulbourne 38 12 Stanley Leisure plc Board of Directors 2003 Annual Report and Accounts 13 Board of Directors continued Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Leonard Steinberg 66, Executive Chairman Len Cowburn 68, Deputy Chairman and senior independent Single-handedly started the business from a one-shop Non-Executive Director, has been a Non-Executive Director of operation in the mid-1950s, and has been largely responsible the Group since May 1994.
He was formerly Deputy Chairman for its steady growth.
In 1997 and 1998 he received awards for of the William Hill Organisation.
He also served as Chairman North West Business Person of the Year.
In July 1999 he was of the Bookmakers Committee and as a member of the Levy awarded an Honorary Doctorate by the University of Salford.
He was a founder Director of SIS, a council member of He also sits on many charitable committees.
With so many the Betting Office Licensees Association and a Director of years experience in the gaming industry he is considered by Bookmakers Afternoon Greyhound Services Limited.
many to be a leading authority on gaming and related matters.
Lord Baker of Dorking C. H. 68, was appointed Bob Wiper 48, Chief Executive a Non-Executive Director in September 2001.
He was a Joined the Board in April 1999.
He was formerly divisional Conservative MP from 1968 to 1997.
His Cabinet posts Chief Executive of National Express Group plc for five years.
included Environment Secretary, Education Secretary and Bob previously held senior management positions within Home Secretary.
Lord Baker is currently the Chairman National Tyres and NFC plc.
of Business Serve plc, Monstermob Limited, Belmont Press London Limited and Northern Edge Limited.
He is a NonMichael Riddy ACA 47, Finance Director Executive Director of Hanson plc, Millennium Chemicals Inc Trained with Coopers & Lybrand and joined the Board in and Teather & Greenwood Limited.
He is also President of September 1998, having previously been Finance Director of the Royal London Society for the Blind and Chairman of the Hamleys plc from 1990.
Prior to joining Hamleys, Michael had Museum of British History.
experience with BAT Stores Limited, Hertz Europe Limited and the Burton Group plc.
Robert Waddington 61, was appointed a Non-Executive Director in December 1998.
He was a Director of Hambros John Whittaker 52, Managing Director betting division Bank Limited until 1997.
He is also a Non-Executive Director Became a Director in January 1997.
He joined the Group in of a number of other private companies.
1978 and has been responsible for the successful integration and operation of the many betting shop acquisitions made Company Secretary by the Group throughout the U. K. John is a council member Sarah-Jane Goulbourne 38, joined the Group in May 1999 of the Association of British Bookmakers and a member of from Trinity plc.
She was previously with Capital Bank plc and the Bookmakers Committee, a statutory body whose remit is is a Solicitor and Chartered Secretary.
to negotiate with the Levy Board.
Paul Collis 50, Managing Director gaming division Joined the Board in June 2000.
He was previously at BSkyB, where he was Managing Director of the Sky Services division.
Paul previously held senior management positions with Seeboard plc, British Telecom plc and a Netherlands based mobile telecoms operator.
Board Committees Audit Committee Nomination Committee R. Waddington Committee Chairman The Rt.
Lord Baker of Dorking C. H. Committee Chairman L. P. Cowburn L. Steinberg The Rt.
Lord Baker of Dorking C. H. R. Wiper L. P. Cowburn This Committee reviews the Groups internal control, accounting policies R. Waddington and financial reporting.
This Committee considers the appointment of the Groups Directors.
Lord Baker of Dorking C. H. Committee Chairman Banking and Finance Committee L. P. Cowburn R. Waddington Committee Chairman R. Waddington L. Steinberg A. M. Riddy This Committee sets the remuneration of the Groups Executive Directors and senior management.
This Committee oversees banking and treasury policy.
