Pharma and The longer-term strategy remains Fine Chemicals in place, with the portfolio of generic products in development deepening and widening.
Sales rose by 5% in the year, with a mix of The abrupt change to the US generic Turnover million factors contributing to this achievement.
omeprazole market obviously will alter Within the Pharma operations, substantially the short-term outlook for our Pharma increased sales were generated for operations.
However, sales of omeprazole omeprazole to all territories, but this was to other territories continue to grow well counterbalanced somewhat by a and opportunities in new applications may reduction in sales from our Italian facility, open up towards the end of 2004.
Overall, 2001 85.6 due to the decision to decontaminate the other products are performing reasonably, 2002 106.5 cephalosporin facility and release capacity but securing new contracts to fill the for future years.
Restructuring within released capacity in Italy may take longer 2003 112.0 the flavour industry held back sales, but than had been anticipated, due to the this was offset by improved turnover of weaker pharmaceutical ingredient market The above data has been extracted from note 1 fragrance products.
and the extended timescale of regulatory to the financial statements on page 42 approval currently prevailing.
The unusual circumstances surrounding Divisional operating profit million the launch of generic omeprazole in the The longer-term strategy remains in place, USA provided the opportunity of good with the portfolio of generic products in margins for the active ingredient development deepening and widening.
manufactured by Uquifa in Spain.
This, Progress is also being made in securing plus a reasonable stability of prices for ethical and early stage drug development other products, saw operating profit projects, as evidenced by the high 2001 11.1 advance by 13.5 million to 36.2 million: loadings on our pilot plants.
a new record for our Pharma and Fine 2002 22.7 Chemicals activities.
Pharma 2003 36.2 The Uquifa companies had a very strong In the third quarter of 2003, events year in 2003, assisted by the rapid growth The above data has been extracted from note 1 changed dramatically within the generic in sales of omeprazole and solid sales of to the financial statements on page 42 omeprazole market in the USA.
Our major other generic and ethical products.
The customer had achieved a unique and product development programme saw highly favourable position as the only a number of key contractual relationships generic supplier of omeprazole following strengthen in Europe and America.
It is a court decision in late 2002.
The product also pleasing to report the first sales to 59% was launched with Uquifa enjoying an the Japanese ethical market, following exclusive supply position for the active a number of years of intense effort.
The other litigants appealed increase in divisional the court decision but, whilst awaiting that hearing, other companies entered the operating profit US market.
Subsequently, the original decision was upheld and there is ongoing litigation involving the new entrants.
The effect of all this is that the unique position of our major customer has now altered significantly, with a substantial loss of market share and reduced sales by Uquifa.
10 11 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2003 Pharma and Fine Chemicals Pharma and Fine Chemicals continued Our Spanish operations benefited most A very positive picture has emerged in from the growth of sales of generic Mexico, with significant growth in products omeprazole in every market around the that offer good added value.
A number of world where patent protection has ended.
these are new ethical intermediates.
This In support of this, a new multi-purpose has placed pressure on the manufacturing plant has been commissioned at our facility, which is being addressed by second site in Sant Celoni.
Not only does stepping up investment and beginning the this provide security of supply to the process of moving products to Italy where omeprazole market, but creates additional possible.
The expiry of the ciprofloxacine capacity and flexibility for the introduction patent in the USA towards the end of of new products.
2004 should be beneficial to our Mexican operations.
It will inevitably be much more There has been considerable competitive modest than has been experienced with pressure directed towards our older other generic launches, due to the large generic products, cimetidine and number of entrants targeting the market.
ranitidine, a large part of this coming from the expiry of patents for other anti-ulcer With regard to early stage and new ethical drugs.
Investment in new cGMP particle products, the new pilot plant in Spain has size equipment has, however, opened been a notable success, running at full up opportunities for higher specification capacity in 2003 and highly loaded for volume sales that should commence 2004.
In order that our own development towards the end of 2004. programme is not compromised, a refit of the original pilot plant will be completed in In Italy we successfully completed a lengthy early 2004.
To maintain the focus on this decontamination of the cephalosporin important development area, we have facility, freeing this flexible 80,000 litre unit sanctioned investment in a u3 million pilot for other products.
Validation batches facility in Italy, with the intention of breaking have been produced for five products ground for the new unit in March 2004. which will progressively go towards filling this capacity as customer approvals are received.
Until this is achieved, we anticipate it will hold back the profit performance of this business.
a3million investment in pilot plant facility in Italy 01 01 Storage tanks at Llica fide Vall, Barcelona.
12 13 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2003 In terms of profitability, the coming year Flavours and Fragrances The business of PFW Aroma Chemicals will be less propitious than perhaps was Variable market conditions were seen as BV showed a strong recovery in 2003 envisaged prior to the unprecedented the world flavour and fragrance industry and sales advanced by 9%, accompanied entry of competition into the US generic digested the major restructuring of recent by good profitability as the hard work omeprazole market.
The largest negative influence of repositioning the company bore fruit.
pharmaceutical industry trades largely in was destocking by customers as they While the issue persists over the nonUS Dollars, providing a further challenge rationalised production sites.
On the other biodegradability of our principal product, for European based operations.
Looking hand, our specialised polycyclic musk further intensive European testing continues further forward, our strategy remains benefited as its dominant global market to support the safety of the product from concentrated on long-term goals directed position continued to strengthen.
This has resulted towards securing an ever-broadening in the product re-entering development range of products and customers, Oxford Chemicals Limited faced the programmes at a number of the larger supported by highly cost effective greatest impact from industry consolidation customers, providing real opportunities production facilities.
Towards for growth in volume.
Efforts to secure the end of the year there were signs of contract manufacturing business to exploit a more normal order pattern being PFWs technical expertise in high quality re-established.
To meet the challenges of fragrance manufacture are also making the market, product innovation remains good progress, adding further optimism a key focus.
The decrease in sales of larger for the future.
volume products has been addressed by a restructuring exercise reducing the operating cost base of the company.
03 9% increase in sales for PFW Aroma Chemicals BV 02 02 C1 facility at Oxford Chemicals, used to manufacture high impact aroma chemicals.
2003 03 Perfumery support, odour evaluation of aroma chemicals.
saw the new pilot plant in Spain running at full capacity
