Performance Chemicals Performance Good progress has been Chemicals achieved and benefits are accruing from the strategic review of the James Robinson businesses.
General market conditions showed little The substantial changes taking place in Turnover million sign of improvement for a number of our the copper business continued to be a companies, therefore the achievement of feature with the final migration of all printed overall sales at close to 2002 levels was circuit board manufacture to Asia ending pleasing.
Operating profits advanced by the supply of cost effective copper 9%, showing the benefits of considerable containing etchant in the UK.
New effort by managements in restructuring processes were introduced to make high 2001 147.5 their companies.
These changes resulted quality light copper carbonate, catalyst 2002 144.2 in a number of substantial restructuring precursors and copper amines which are costs.
providing growth and, in total, higher sales 2003 142.8 of copper products were achieved.
The improvement in profitability is all the The above data has been extracted from note 1 more commendable given that exports Tin products had another good year, as to the financial statements on page 42 from the UK and Europe are mainly in US did iodine, where margins were boosted Dollars which has placed margins under by toll manufacturing contracts.
The Divisional operating profit million pressure as the US currency has weakened.
timber treatment business is rapidly changing to more  Good progress has been achieved and products, creating both opportunities and benefits are accruing from the strategic challenges as customers review their review of the James Robinson businesses.
In France, however, the difficulties of 2001 15.3 Holliday Encres SA proved ever more Sales of sulphur dioxide derivatives fell intractable in a highly competitive inks back due to new competitive pressure 2002 10.8 market, exacerbated by weak economic from mainland European suppliers.
The decision has, therefore, Margins received some support from low reluctantly been taken to withdraw from caustic soda prices, but attention is now The above data has been extracted from note 1 the business.
directed towards increasing volumes to the financial statements on page 42 employing a carefully targeted sales drive.
Inorganic Chemicals Despite turnover holding up reasonably Dyes and Chemicals well, results from William Blythe Limited Production restrictions that persisted fell back due to a combination of factors.
due to the lack of a functioning flue gas 9% Additionally, changes in the senior desulphurisation FGD unit in France management team caused a temporary caused by a fire in 2002, was only one disruption.
of the difficulties experienced by the increase in divisional Holliday Pigments ultramarine business.
The weakness of the US currency meant operating profit much time was spent in the endeavour to raise prices and some market share was conceded.
Coupled with the restricted volume from France, this saw sales volumes reduce for the first time in many years.
14 15 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2003 Performance Chemicals continued The new FGD unit will be available by the The James Robinson activities have end of March 2004, creating production undergone a major review that has capacity well above historic levels.
A full resulted in the identification of a clear review of the structure of the business strategy which will better match the assets has also identified significant cost savings employed and the skills of our people, to and efficiency opportunities.
The first stages were introduction to new markets from the R&D implemented during the year and, despite programme continues to be well received absorbing sizeable restructuring costs, and in time these developments hold out a performance much in line with the the promise of substantial benefit.
Mixed results were recorded by the products within the portfolio.
Growth in hair dyes was more modest than had been anticipated, photographic chemicals saw weak sales of black and white developers, but good ongoing colour developer progress was made by our Indian joint venture.
Photochromic dyes saw a widening of the customer base and, assisted by new product launches, this brought good margin progression.
01 02 Stannic chloride, helping to achieve the European standard low emissivity in glass coatings.
2004 02 James Robinson are investing in novel reactor will see the opening technologies that bring advantages in capital costs, energy usage, product quality and of the new FGD unit waste-reduction.
01 16 17 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2003 03 04 03 A flamboyant finish can be achieved using ultramine TR on products such as bicycle helmets.
2003 04 A new flue gas desulphurisation plant saw another at Holliday Pigments in Comines.
excellent year for Brencliffe Limited Other Activities Another excellent year was recorded by The dispersions manufacturing business Brencliffe Limited whose houseware and of Holliday Dispersions Limited in the UK automotive business goes from strength saw a year of consolidation, but its French to strength.
New business has been sister company succeeded in reversing developed at key accounts through a trend of falling performance through a innovative marketing concepts and high level of sales activity and tight control carefully researched product sourcing.
Autoclenz Limited also turned in a fine performance, hitting new records of Our consumer chemicals operations failed profitability whilst expending considerable to make a similar major breakthrough, but effort on enhancing management systems an improved enquiry level for both private and procedures to offer even better and branded products is emerging.
the substantially reduced cost base that has been created, there is now the possibility of good profit growth with only modest gains in turnover.
