Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 directors report Principal Activities of the Group Details of substantial interests in Ferguson, who were appointed as The activities of Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle are given on page 72. directors since the last AGM, will also and its subsidiary and associated Apart from these holdings, the be retiring and offering themselves for undertakings the Group are directors have not been notified of re-election.
principally processing carbohydrates any material interest of 3% or more to provide a range of sweeteners, or any non-material interest of 10% In addition to the requirements of the starch products, food ingredients or more of the issued voting capital Articles of Association, the directors and industrial products.
have agreed to submit themselves for re-election where a director has Financial Year The Company was given authority served for more than three years The accounting period under review at the 2002 Annual General Meeting without re-election.
Keith Hopkins was is for the year ended 31 March 2003.
AGM to make market purchases of last re-elected at the 2000 AGM and, Comparative figures used in this up to 48,191,548 of its own ordinary accordingly, he will also retire and report are for the year ended shares.
This authority will expire at the seek re-election at the 2003 AGM.
2003 AGM and approval will be sought from shareholders at that Iain Ferguson, Stanley Musesengwa Business Review meeting for a similar authority and Stuart Strathdee are employed The Chairmans Statement on to be given for a further year.
The under service contracts, the details pages 4 and 5, the Chief Executives Company has not acquired any of of which are set out in the Directors Review on pages 12 and 13 and the its own shares during the year.
Operating and Financial Review on Keith Hopkins, Carole Piwnica and pages 14 to 20 report on the activities Directors Allen Yurko do not have service during the year, post balance sheet The current members of the Board, contracts.
Carole Piwnica has a events and likely future developments.
together with biographical details of consultancy agreement with the each director, are set out on pages Group, the details of which are given Dividend 26 and 27. in the Directors Remuneration Report A final dividend of 12.8p is on page 36. recommended for the year to Larry Pillard resigned as Chief 31 March 2003.
If approved, it will be Executive from 31 December 2002 At no time during the year has any due and payable on 6 August 2003 but continues to serve on the Board director had any material interest in to shareholders on the register on as a non-executive director.
Simon a contract with the Group, being a 11 July 2003.
This dividend amounts Gifford was appointed Acting Chief contract of significance in relation to to 61 million and makes a total Executive on 1 January 2003, in the Groups business.
A statement of for the year of 18.3p per share, addition to his responsibilities as directors interests in shares of the compared with 17.8p for the year Group Finance Director.
He held that Company is given on page 40. to 31 March 2002. position until 30 April 2003 when he reverted to the sole position of Group Annual General Meeting Share Capital Finance Director.
The AGM will be held at the Royal The Company issued 264,586 ordinary Lancaster Hotel, London W2 on shares during the year on the exercise Stanley Musesengwa joined the Thursday 31 July 2003 at 11.30 am.
The total Board as an executive director on Enclosed with this Report is a letter value of ordinary shares issued at the 2 April 2003 and was appointed Chief from the Chairman to shareholders.
Attached as an appendix to the letter Iain Ferguson was appointed as is the Notice convening the meeting Offers made under the Groups an executive director and Chief which includes four items of special executive share option scheme and Executive from 1 May 2003. business.
The letter includes an the UK sharesave scheme during the On 2 April 2003, John Walker, explanation of all the resolutions year together resulted in the grant of an executive director, retired from to be proposed at the AGM.
508 options to individuals to buy the Board.
84.6% of eligible Corporate Governance UK employees hold share options.
In accordance with its Articles of The report on Corporate Governance More information about options Association, one-third or the nearest is on pages 30 to 32.
The Directors granted under the schemes is given whole number below one-third of the Remuneration Report is on pages on page 71. directors of Tate & Lyle PLC are 33 to 40. required to retire at each AGM, Details of shares purchased by the Tate together with directors appointed by Research and Development & Lyle Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy the Board since the previous AGM.
The Group spent 18 million options granted under the Groups The directors retiring by rotation and 2002 17 million on research executive share option scheme are offering themselves for re-election at and development during the year.
given in the Directors Remuneration the 2003 AGM are Carole Piwnica, Report on page 40 and in note 16 to Stuart Strathdee and Allen Yurko.
the financial statements on page 59.
Stanley Musesengwa and Iain 28 tateandlyle.
com Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 Employment Contributions were only made Auditors The average number of employees in where allowed by state and federal Following the conversion of the Group during the year is given on law.
The total includes US$15,000  to a page 54.
10,000 contributed by the Staley Limited Liability Partnership LLP, Political Action Committee PAC.
effective from 1 January 2003, Group companies operate within The PAC is funded entirely by  resigned a framework of human resources employees.
Employee contributions as auditors on 24 February 2003 policies, practices and regulations are entirely voluntary and no pressure and the Board appointed appropriate to their own market sector is placed on employees to participate.
 LLP to fill and country of operation.
Policies and No funds are provided to the PAC the casual vacancy created by the procedures for recruitment, training by Staley but under US law, an resignation.
 and career development promote employee-funded PAC must bear LLP have signified their willingness equality of opportunity regardless the name of the employing company.
to continue in office and an ordinary of gender, sexual orientation, age, resolution, with special notice, marital status, disability, race, religion Payment to Suppliers reappointing them as auditors will or other beliefs and ethnic or national It is the Groups policy that UK be proposed at the 2003 AGM.
The aim is to encourage a operating companies should follow culture in which all employees have the CBI Prompt Payers Code.
the opportunity to develop as fully The Code requires the Company to On behalf of the Board as possible in accordance with their agree the terms of payment with its Robert Gibber, Company Secretary individual abilities and the needs suppliers, to ensure its suppliers are 4 June 2003 of the Group.
aware of those terms and to abide by them.
It is the Groups policy also to The Group is committed to effective apply the requirements of the Code to communication with employees, wholly owned companies around the including information on its world, wherever possible.
It follows appropriate Tate & Lyle PLC is a holding company consultation procedures and has an and had no amounts owing to trade established European Forum.
Training is concentrated on multiDirectors Responsibilities for skilling to encourage flexibility in the Accounts working practices.
The Group runs The directors have a specific a series of international management responsibility for reporting to programmes to develop management shareholders and for the assets of the skills and create valuable Group.
The directors are required by opportunities for the crossthe Companies Act 1985 to present fertilisation of management ideas for each period financial statements across the Group.
which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Donations of the Group as at the end of the Worldwide charitable donations accounting period and of the profit during the year totalled 667,000 or loss for that period.
In preparing 2002 831,000, of which 392,000 the financial statements, suitable 2002 396,000 was donated in accounting policies, framed by the UK.
More details of the Groups reference to reasonable and prudent involvement in the community can judgements and estimates, have to be found in the Corporate Social be used and applied consistently.
Responsibility Report on pages 21 Applicable accounting standards have to 25. been followed and the accounts have been prepared on a going concern During the year, in line with the basis.
The directors are responsible Groups policy, no political donations for the Groups system of internal were made in the European Union financial control, for ensuring that EU.
Outside the EU, Staley, the arrangements are made for the Groups US cereal sweetener and maintenance of adequate accounting starch business, made contributions records, for safeguarding the assets during the year totalling US$34,000 of the Group, and for ensuring that 22,000 to state and national steps are taken with a view to political party committees and to preventing and detecting fraud and the campaign committees of state other irregularities.
candidates affiliated to the major parties.
