Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 ingredients of quality Shake & Pour Tate & Lyle Shake & Pour offers convenience and quality, keeping granulated sugar dry and avoiding spillage.
Consumers have responded well helping to grow the brand.
Cardboard Mylbond 280, introduced by Amylum in May 2002, is a modified starch that improves glue application, increases board strength and accelerates production, helping cardboard manufacturers reduce their energy use.
Detergents Our citric acid and sodium citrate help detergents clean effectively by increasing solubility, raising enzyme stability and enhancing soil suspension.
Soup Campbell Soup Company Staley modified starches launched Campbells are important ingredients Soup at Hand across the in these new soups.
Campbell uses both cookThese new ready-to-eat up and instant starches to soups have been specially thicken and provide formulated for sipping texture to varieties ranging directly from their plastic from traditional Cream of containers.
With Soup Broccoli and Creamy at Hand, busy consumers Tomato to teen-friendly can more conveniently flavours like Pizza and enjoy soup, whether Mexican-Style Fiesta.
at work, at school or in the car.
com Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 Average US meal preparation time 60 30 5 MINUTES MINUTES MINUTES 1987 2002 2030 COOKING TIME AUTO MINUTE START Data from the University of Florida Institute of Food and Agricultural Services publication Major Trends Driving Change in the US Food System, by Allen F Wysocki.
convenience and efficiency We help our customers in the food, beverage, pharmaceutical, cosmetics, paper & board, and building industries improve their efficiency, cut manufacturing costs and compete commercially.
More than that, Tate & Lyle ingredients add value by helping our customers differentiate their consumer products and deliver convenience to millions of busy people.
Our global research and development stability.
To make sure consumers But we also help through group pioneers new products and get the quality food they deserve, understanding their processes.
applications that deliver efficiency we test meals with up to 12 cookFor example, when sugar syrup to customers and convenience to freeze cycles, checking on texture is delivered from our UK refinery consumers.
Dedicated technical and perfecting recipes.
to a well-known UK manufacturer, teams support our versatile product the temperature as well as the quality portfolio, improving solutions for We are built around meeting our of the product is carefully checked, existing products and helping customers requirements, and one of so that it reaches our customers plant launch new ones.
their greatest needs in todays market at the optimum temperature to enter is to improve efficiency.
We help them the manufacturing process reducing Tate & Lyle helps make life achieve this in many ways: primarily the amount of energy needed to convenient.
This is epitomised through a portfolio of ingredients make a perfect product.
by ready-made meals where our which improve their product ingredients ensure cook-freeze manufacturing efficiency.
Cereal Sweeteners and Starch The extraction process for wheat They can be converted into liquid The native starch slurry can be Amylum and Staley are our global involves grinding it and separating or crystallised cereal sweeteners modified to make speciality cereal sweeteners and starches out the wheat proteins gluten, such as high fructose syrup, starches.
Amylum, based in while corn is steeped in water glucose syrup, fructose, dextrose properties such as texture, sheen seven West European countries and before being ground and separated.
and maltodextrins used in soft and viscosity to our customers five Central and East European The native starches produced drinks: ready-made meals: baking: products in the food and beverage countries, processes wheat and from both cereals can be used in confectionery: brewing: fruit and industry, and the paper, packaging corn.
Staley has seven plants in the two ways: vegetable processing: and in the and building industries.
US and a joint venture in Mexico, dairy and pharmaceuticals sectors.
Cereal Sweeteners Starch Sugar and Syrup Sucralose Fermentation Products Polyols Wheat Protein tateandlyle.
com 7 About our products Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 ingredients of quality How we taste sweetness Taste intensity Fructose Sucrose Sucralose Dextrose Time to taste The time it takes to taste sweetness varies depending on which sweetener is used.
taste and texture We make things taste better and feel good.
Our ingredients create flavours and textures people like and expect, delivering refreshing drinks and delicious meals.
But we dont just work with food and beverages, our products also add pleasing texture to products such as paper and cardboard.
We go to great lengths to develop Besides flavour, we often evaluate When it comes to texture we offer a products that provide the taste and texture, mouth feel, eye appeal family of speciality starches that help texture that people enjoy.
At our clarity and opacity and odour.
our customers deliver the texture, Technology Centre in the US a team stability and smoothness that their of people assess how our ingredients Growing diversity and complexity consumers demand.
Our starches can help improve the taste of our in the food industry has increased are also central to paper production, customers products.
Everyone demand for the functionality our determining smoothness as well as on the panel has been trained to ingredients deliver.
Tate & Lyles absorbancy and strength.
speak the same vocabulary as they range of sweeteners is well known.
describe the taste of a huge range In addition, our acidulants offer of basic products and final foods.
tartness in desserts and sourness in confectionery and candies.
Sugar and Syrup business sources and sells both In the UK, Portugal and Canada, from sugar, tastes like sugar and Tate & Lyle Sugars is the largest raw and white sugar for our own Tate & Lyles leading consumer is 600 times sweeter than sugar.
cane sugar refiner in Europe and is refineries and third parties.
brands have strong market It is also both heatand shelf-stable.
Other positions and high recognition.
It will not lose its sweetness when leading sugar cane businesses in Natural sweetness, texture, Molasses produced during sugar foods are processed or stored for their respective markets are colour and flavour are delivered processing adds energy and prolonged periods, making it an Redpath in Canada and Alcntara to food and beverages through a palatability to animal feed and ideal sweetener for use in a wide in Portugal.
Occidente in Mexico comprehensive range of functional is a substrate for fermentation.
range of foods and beverages.
and Nghe An in Vietnam are cane sugars, syrups and treacles.
Sucralose is marketed by Splenda refiners, while Eastern Sugar in Further uses are as diverse as Sucralose Inc. a Tate & Lyle McNeil Central Europe processes beets.
pharmaceutical, fermentation, Sucralose is the no-calorie, high Nutritionals global alliance To support these, our sugar trading detergent and cement applications.
intensity sweetener that is made company.
Cereal Sweeteners Starch Sugar and Syrup Sucralose Fermentation Products Polyols Wheat Protein 8 tateandlyle.
com About our products Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 Cherry Pie The difference between a cherry pie that everyone wants to eat and the one left on the plate could be MIRA-THIK 606.
This starch is especially suited for fruit fillings, helping create appealing desserts.
Sweeteners Tate & Lyle offers a range of sweeteners to ensure our customers can create the beverages their consumers enjoy.
Sucralose Approved in over 50 countries, sucralose is used in a range of products, including soft drinks, confectionery and dairy desserts.
Lyles Golden Syrup Since August 2002, Lyles Golden Syrup Squeezy has made it easier to add the distinctive flavour to toast, pancakes or icecream.
The Lyles taste and texture may now be found in new McVities Lyles Golden Syrup Cream Biscuits and McVities Lyles Black Treacle Cream Biscuits.
Additionally, Hoppers has launched individual Traditional Flapjack and Sultana Flapjack made and cobranded with Lyles Golden Syrup.
com 9 Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 ingredients of quality Jam for Diabetics Diabetics are now able to take advantage of sucralose, launched in UK shops during 2002 by our global alliance partner McNeil Nutritionals.
Sucralose offers the taste of sugar without the calories, but also stability to heat in cooking.
So now home-made jam can be enjoyed by everyone in the family.
Sports Drinks Our carbohydrates provide the energy that active people need through sports drinks and other fitness products.
Calcium Fortification Tate & Lyle produces several speciality citrates including calcium potassium, sodium and zinc.
These products can be used to fortify and supplement products such as orange juice, milk and tablets.
Toothpaste The sorbitol we make is used to help make toothpaste creamy.
Our zinc citrate adds tartar control and helps oral hygiene.
com Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 Reduced calories in gravies and sauces CALORIES CALORIES Greater than 50% reduction in calorie content by using Tate & Lyle starches in low-fat products.
health and wellbeing The food we eat and the lifestyle we lead contribute to our health.
Tate & Lyle helps make reduced-calorie meals, offers fat-free energy for active people and provides ingredients for health-care products such as mineral supplements and toothpaste.
Tate & Lyle contributes in a variety such as toothpaste: in the balance intake with activity and of ways toward healthy lifestyles.
pharmaceutical industry, they are promotes healthy choices such as Our products include sweeteners that used in a variety of formulations the five fruit and vegetables a day vary in type and nutritional effect from including syrups that contain drugs campaign.
a range of calorific sweeteners to the and ointments.
non-calorific sweetener sucralose, On dental health, through its support offering people the chance to choose Tate & Lyle supports programmes of the UK Sugar Bureau, Tate & Lyle the sweetener best suited to their to help people make decisions that has helped to fund research and needs.
We also manufacture products foster active healthy lifestyles.
For promote regular brushing with fluoride that are used to replace fat, add fibre example, as members of the UK toothpaste, along with sensible eating and enhance mineral content.
Other Food & Drink Federation we support and drinking habits to ensure that products we make are used in the the Activaters programme that helps tooth decay is avoided.
manufacture of health-care products young people understand how to Fermentation Products alcohol are fermented at a number of Potable grain alcohol, of which it is a low calorie and tooth-friendly A Tate & Lyle core competency is plants in Europe and North America.
Tate & Lyle is the largest manufacturer sweetener, and helps to hold moisture to ferment sugar, cereal sweeteners in the European Union, is a major and provide plasticity in food, or molasses into citric acid, ethanol Citric acid plays an important role ingredient for alcoholic beverages.
pharmaceutical, cosmetic and and grain alcohol.
Our fermentation helping give virtually all carbonated In the US we produce fuel ethanol, chemical products.
expertise is also being applied to and non-carbonated beverages a which helps reduce greenhouse produce natural ingredients to pleasant and thirst-quenching taste.
Wheat Protein replace artificial ones.
The Group is a Its versatility also makes it ideal for Amylum is the world leader in wheat world-leading producer of citric acid, application across many other Polyols protein technology.
The protein or with plants in the US, UK, Brazil and sectors such as food, Sorbitol is produced by gluten is washed from wheat flour and Mexico, and a joint venture in pharmaceutical, detergent and hydrogenating cereal syrups at our sold as vital wheat gluten commonly Colombia.
Ethanol and potable grain industrial products.
A versatile ingredient, used in bread or for animal feed.
