Directors 12 3 Robert Kiernan 63 Non-executive Chairman Robert Kiernan joined the Board in 1998.
He was previously Chairman of Routledge Publishing Holdings Limited which was acquired by Taylor & Francis in 1998.
Prior to his position with Routledge, Robert was Chief Executive officer of Thomson Corporation Publishing.
Robert is also the Non-executive Chairman of the Discovery Group plc and has a number of other private business interests.
12 3 Don Cruickshank 62 Non-executive Chairman elect Don Cruickshank joined the Board as Non-executive Director on 14 January 2004 and replaced Robert Kiernan as Chairman on 1 March 2004.
Don was previously Chairman of the London Stock Exchange and is currently Chairman of SMG plc.
Prior to this he held a number of senior positions including Director General of the Ofce of Telecommunications OFTEL as well as Managing Director roles at both Pearson Longman plc and Virgin Group plc.
David Smith 54 Chief Executive David Smith was appointed Chief Executive in April 2002.
In the previous ten years he held senior management positions at Wolters Kluwer and was latterly Chief Executive of its European Education and Legal, Tax and Business divisions.
David is responsible for the overall business development of the Group.
Anthony Foye BA, ACA 41 Group Finance Director Anthony Foye joined Taylor & Francis in 1987 as Group Chief Accountant after qualifying as a Chartered Accountant with Haines Watts.
He was appointed Finance Director in 1994.
Anthony is responsible for the Groups finance function and is Managing Director of Taylor & Francis Publishing Services Limited.
Roger Horton 46 Group Books Director Roger Horton joined the Board in 1994 with over 15 years of previous publishing experience.
Roger is responsible for the Groups global book publishing activities and is Managing Director of Taylor & Francis Books Limited.
Jon Conibear 52 Group Journals Director Jon Conibear joined the Board in 2001 from the Blackwell publishing group, bringing with him over 25 years experience in academic publishing.
He is responsible for the Groups journal publishing activities and is Managing Director of Taylor & Francis Limited.
David Banister BA, PhD, CMILT, FRSA 53 Non-executive Director David Banister has been a non-executive Director of Taylor & Francis Group plc since 1990.
He is Professor of Transport Planning at University College London and has authored or edited 17 books and written more than 200 papers for refereed journals and books.
12 3 Derek Mapp 53 Non-executive Director Derek Mapp joined the Board as non-executive Director in 1998.
He is Executive Chairman of Leapfrog Day Nurseries Limited and Chairman of the East Midlands Development Agency, as well as having a number of other private business interests.
Derek was formerly Managing Director of Tom Cobleigh plc.
2 David Wallace CBE, FRS, FREng, FRSE, FinstP 58 Non-executive Director David Wallace was appointed as a non-executive Director in 2000.
He is Vice-Chancellor of Loughborough University and chairs the e-Science Steering Committee of the Ofce of Science and Technology.
David is also currently President of the Institute of Physics and a Vice President of the Royal Society.
13 Nicholas Berwin, MA Hons 46 Non-executive Director Nicholas Berwin joined the Board in 2001.
Nicholas has broad experience in strategic and financial consulting having held positions with Morgan Grenfell & Company Limited Deutsche Morgan Grenfell and more recently in his own consultancy business.
1 denotes member of Audit Committee 2 denotes member of Remuneration Committee 3 denotes member of Nominations Committee 10 - Taylor & Francis Group plc
