Directors Report The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Principal Activities The Groups principal activities are the publishing and distribution of scientific, technical and medical and social sciences and humanities journals and books.
The Groups main objective is to continue to develop these activities on a worldwide basis, in support of the academic, scientific and professional communities and for the benefit of the Groups shareholders.
Business Review The results for the year are summarised in the consolidated profit and loss account on page 30.
A review of the Groups business and future prospects is set out in the Operating and Financial Review.
Dividends The company continues to actively invest in acquiring businesses and reserves need to be built up to accommodate this investment.
Your Board intends to recommend a final dividend of 3.23p per share, making a total for the year of 4.83p per share, an increase of 10% on 2002.
The final dividend will be payable to shareholders registered as at the close of business on 12 March 2004 and will be paid on 11 June 2004.
If the proposed merger becomes effective prior to the AGM of if the Scheme has not become effective before 11 June, the directors will instead declare, prior to the effective date of the merger, a second interim dividend of an amount equal to the final dividend, payable to shareholders on the register at the record date for the final dividend unless such dividend is payable under the Scheme.
Directors Details of directors who held ofce during the year ended 31 December 2003 and their interests in the issued share capital of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 19 to 26.
Resolutions will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles of Association for the reappointment of three directors.
Mr D Cruickshank, who was offered and has accepted a position as non-executive Director with effect from 14 January 2004 and as Chairman with effect from 1 March 2004, retires under the provisions contained in the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offers himself for election by the shareholders.
Messrs R Horton and D Mapp retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Brief biographical details of those directors who are proposed for election or re-election appear on page 10.
Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting will be despatched at a later date, depending on the timing of the proposed merger.
Charitable and Political Contributions The Group made gifts during the year for charitable purposes of 4,155 2002: nil.
No political donations were made 2002: nil.
Auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
12 - Taylor & Francis Group plc Directors Report continued Substantial Shareholdings As at 1 March 2004 the Company has been notied of the following interests, other than those held by the directors, of 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company: Number of shares % held The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 6,235,308 7.26% Aviva PLC and its subsidiary Morley Fund Management Limited 4,600,413 5.36% Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3,436,634 4.00% Policy on Payment of Creditors It is the Groups normal practice to make payments to suppliers in accordance with agreed terms, provided that the supplier has performed in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
At 31 December 2003 and 2002 the Company had no trade creditors.
Corporate Social Responsibility Social, environmental and ethical SEE matters are referred to the Board as part of regular operational and strategic reports it receives from the business units, the executive directors and through the formalised process of Risk Assessment.
These issues are regularly discussed as part of the Boards review and reporting procedures and are given high prominence as having relevance to the image, reputation and ultimately valuation of the business.
Managers are specifically required to comment on SEE matters within the formalised Risk Assessment process.
These SEE matters are then referred to the Audit Committee as part of their review and, where appropriate, to the Environmental Policy Committee.
Board members have the opportunity to receive external training on SEE matters and during 2004 the Board will be formalising its ethical conduct policies.
It is the Groups policy not to make any political donations.
Environmental Policy The Board has an Environmental Policy Committee, consisting of Mr R Kiernan and Mr D Banister, who review policies and practices surrounding environmental issues throughout the Group.
The objective is to provide Group-wide targets for key areas of environmental impact and to encourage initiatives to make the business more environmentally friendly.
Products The primary issue for the Group in relation to the impact of the business on the environment relates to the use of paper for our books and journals, of which 100% are produced on acid chlorine free paper.
The Group works with its printers throughout the world to ensure that water based biodegradable inks are used wherever possible.
Targets have been set to improve the Groups environmental impact and we seek to reduce consumption of paper through, for example, electronic publishing, through reducing print runs and stock levels, through the replacement of colour wet-proong with colour digital proong and through converting backlist titles to electronic form.
Operations The preferred method of internal communication within the Group is through the intranet and email, which reduces the amount of paper used in the business.
All Group ofces have established recycling and waste recovery e. g. paper, toners, etc.
Energy use is subject to regular reviews with the objective of improving procedures to reduce energy consumption and to source energy efficient technology such as low energy computer display equipment.
This is part of a Group wide policy of monitoring and improvement to ensure the Group moves towards reaching a compliance plus position.
Taylor & Francis Group plc - 13 Directors Report continued Staff On transport, staff are encouraged to use public transport.
In the UK interest free loans are offered for annual season tickets for rail and bus travel.
There is a limitation of 15 car parking spaces in the Groups main London ofce none in New York or Philadelphia for more than 300 staff.
Additionally, the Group provides locked storage facilities and, where possible, facilities such as showers to encourage staff to cycle to work.
The Group also offer loans to UK staff to purchase bicycles.
Employee Policies The Groups employment policies are designed to provide equal opportunities irrespective of race, ethnic or national origin, gender, sexual orientation, religion or disabled status.
Full consideration is given to applications for employment, the continuing employment, training and career development of disabled persons.
During 2003 the Group again expanded the opportunities for staff to own shares in the Company through a number of share option schemes.
Shares have again been allocated to UK staff during the year under the Save As You Earn scheme and under an equivalent US scheme.
The Board intends to allocate further shares under both schemes during 2004.
Also during 2003 a number of employee incentive schemes were introduced which link bonuses to achievement of individual and Group objectives, both financial and non financial.
Every effort is made to keep staff as fully informed as possible about the operations and prospects of the Group.
Information on the activities of the Group and consultation with staff are provided regularly through various management communication channels, which include bulletins, notices, press releases and through meetings and presentations by senior management.
By order of the Board 11 New Fetter Lane London EC4P 4EE J Thomasson Secretary 2 March 2004 14 - Taylor & Francis Group plc
