What developments are shaping the market?
Mike Kirkham gives his view of the drivers for growth and the future direction of the industry Over the past 15 years we have seen an This reflects the pattern of consumer behaviour.
impressive record of growth in the market In 2003, Volkswagen reported that they sold information industry.
It is estimated that this more cars in China than in Germany.
By the end year, 2004, the worldwide value of turnover will of 2003, there were estimated to be over 250 be around $17.5 billion.
Back in 1990 the million mobile phone subscribers in China.
equivalent figure was about $6 billion.
Even in As the use of research in these sectors becomes the more troubled economic times of 20012003 more mature, we are also seeing a shift towards the market continued to grow, unlike the use of syndicated and continuous research advertising and other forms of marketing just as we have seen in Western Europe and services.
This growth has resulted from major North America.
structural shifts, which are now well documented the globalisation of the world At the same time research is moving away from economy, the impact of deregulation and so on.
being a purely descriptive service: describing what happened in the past yesterday, last As we examine likely future developments in the week, last year.
Now it is increasingly being market, they suggest that we will see further used to predict what is going to happen how growth.
These developments are occurring on consumers will respond to the launch of a new both the demand and supply sides of the industry.
product, to the impact of a new advertising First, we will continue to see a natural increase campaign, to a particular form of promotion.
in demand in the rapidly growing economies of This changing demand places two particular emerging markets in large countries such as requirements on market information China, Russia and India.
If we look at the companies: developed markets of Western Europe and to understand in depth the nature of North America, we find that the main early the clients market: users of market research were in the consumer to develop and maintain sophisticated packaged goods and media industries.
The same analysis and modelling techniques.
has been true in the emerging markets but we can already see that demand is rising quickly in other industries in automotive, telecoms, IT and healthcare.
18 the sixth sense of business The market is now being driven by these With changes to legislation and people features.
Companies are specialising in becoming less willing to respond to unsolicited knowledge and understanding of specific telephone calls, we believe that panels will industries, such as pharmaceuticals and become an increasingly widely used form of data telecoms.
Alongside, they are developing collection.
Linked to this is the effect of the proprietary techniques with expertise in internet.
Last year, 2003, saw a 50 per cent specialist areas such as advertising evaluation, increase in interactive work conducted by our market segmentation or customer satisfaction.
access panel business in the US.
The impact of this development is profound it is quicker, it is This, in turn, is helping to drive the market, cheaper and there are no geographical barriers.
through the development of closer relationships This is stimulating new types of demand for with major clients.
These customers are now very quick, tactical research, for work that outsourcing much of the analysis and previously may have been uneconomic, for large interpretation of information that was multi-country studies.
As yet the effect outside previously done in-house.
But as the use of the On the supply side we are experiencing dramatic internet develops in Europe and elsewhere, we changes.
In common with other businesses, the expect to see it driving demand in similar ways.
market information industry is now outsourcing In the past two years our industry has shown its a number of functions to India: these include resilience: with a general improvement in the data processing, information technology and global economy the future prospects are software development.
This is driven by encouraging.
considerations of both price and quality.
