Pedro Ros, Head of Southern Europe, Latin America, Middle East & Africa left with Jamie Hall, Head of Asia Pacific How did the merger with NFO transform TNS?
Recent market developments favour the major players and TNS is now uniquely positioned as an industry leader Since the acquisition of the Sofres group in 1997, This applies, in particular, to the US and TNS has delivered ongoing profitable growth Germany, two of the worlds largest markets, through the successful implementation of its where the group was previously understrategy.
This strategy was devised to respond represented.
to the drivers that have led the development of We have also added depth to our sector the market information industry and it coverage.
This gives us greatly improved access continues to be relevant in todays business to the worlds largest spenders on market environment.
The group has taken a number of information.
These key account clients seek important steps to maintain the momentum.
partners who can provide solutions to their In 2003, we took the most decisive step yet, by main marketing issues.
The new TNS team has combining our custom business with that of one the range of skills and industry knowledge to do of our most respected competitors.
They are supported by a portfolio of created what we believe to be an unrivalled force Business Solutions that has been considerably in our industry.
We combine the worlds largest strengthened by the merger.
custom research business with major syndicated businesses: Worldpanel, TV and Radio Panel capabilities extended Audience Measurement and Media Intelligence.
We have brought into the group one of the largest access panel operations in the US.
This Network reinforced not only transforms our custom business in Following the integration, our global network, North America, it also brings to us another skill which spans 70 countries, is stronger than ever.
set that we can leverage around the group.
We As well as extending to a number of new believe that the collection of information using countries, we have significantly reinforced our panels is the way forward for our industry and presence in others.
TNS is now an expert and innovator in running consumer, purchase, TV and access panels.
Finally, we have the scale that allows us to exploit web-based data collection, processing and delivery in the most effective way to meet TNS is expanding its future client needs.
data collection and This review section explores these themes in processing units in more detail.
India, where it is probably the largest custom business the sixth sense of business 9 Why has TNS extended its network into Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe?
Many of our major clients are looking to the worlds developing markets to fuel their future growth In building our network, our aim has been to Now the group is putting additional resource have a presence wherever our clients need our into this important area of its custom business.
We win additional business by We believe that we can achieve faster growth servicing local clients in those areas too.
with these clients than for the group as a whole The fast-growing Asia Pacific market is an and our experience with clients such as Master excellent example.
Worldpanel now provides Foods and McDonalds proves this is possible.
regional data through consumer panels in eight The key account focus has been strengthened countries.
This includes China, where we are following the integration, both in terms of client also the leader in TV audience measurement size and account management expertise.
& Gamble, one of the worlds major Expertise extended into developing markets multinationals, is benefiting from global The integration brought together two of Asia supplier partners, who can deliver business Pacifics main custom networks, which now solutions and insight.
This company is now a operate as one entity under the TNS brand.
This major account for TNS and one that the group business can build on the contacts, skills and will service through specialised regional teams, products available in the group.
A development headed up by a dedicated account director.
of great benefit in Asia Pacific is the groups Partnerships created Left to right, increased emphasis on working with global key As clients market their brands on an Mercy Abad, account clients.
Most major multinationals have Trevor Richards and international basis, they require marketing regional headquarters in Asia and TNS ensures Helen Passingham-Hughes information that is comparable across regions.
managers in the Asia that it locates the right people close by.
The Historically, they may have been working with Pacific region important buying decisions, however, are often hundreds of suppliers.
Now, however, they seek made elsewhere.
By strengthening its presence global partners, such as TNS, to provide them in the US and Europe and, especially, in not only with consistency of data but also a real consumer, TNS now has more opportunity to insight into how to address their key marketing influence those buying decisions.
Our operations issues: market segmentation, product in Asia Pacific are already seeing the benefit.
development and brand performance, Best practice in key accounts advertising and communications evaluation, For some time, key account management has stakeholder management.
Following the been a growing focus for TNS, particularly in the integration, TNS has advanced expertise in all global sectors such as Worldpanel and these areas, supported by probably the best Healthcare.
range of Business Solutions in the industry.
10 the sixth sense of business TNS Business Solutions, a strong growth driver in emerging markets, span the lifecycle of a product from early idea market testing to brand positioning and market tracking New to the group is the prestigious Conference Board survey of consumer confidence in the US, which NFO has conducted for 38 years How do clients benefit from the TNS sector structure?
To provide clients with the added-value services they seek, we must have detailed knowledge and understanding of their industry To achieve that depth of expertise, we organise market information despite its difficult our business into eight specialist sectors.
The merger greatly Within our custom business, these are IT, strengthened the groups position in Sweden Telecoms, Healthcare, Automotive and, most and this enabled the integrated team to win a recently, Polling & Social.
Nordic brand tracking contract from Telia Sonera, one of the regions major Telecoms companies.
Polling & Social sector created In Hong Kong, the TNS business to business We believe that TNS is the worlds largest Telecoms expertise was combined with TRI M, polling organisation.
Until recently it has the powerful customer satisfaction Business operated mostly at local level but now major Solution from NFO, to win a global contract issues, such as globalisation, environment and from REACH, Asias largest international carrier corporate ethics, transcend national barriers.
of combined voice and data services.
We have, therefore, put in place a structure that will allow the group increasingly to win the Managing change Members of polling associated, high profile contracts.
Projects such Teams working together effectively, peoples sector team, left to as our annual Government Online Study that expertise and motivation these have always right, Marita Carballo spans 31 countries in North America, Europe been fundamental to TNS success.
The Global Sector Head, Carine Marc, and Asia Pacific: or the study we have group has recently been through a period of Richard Hilmer, conducted for the past four years, in 11 countries significant change and strong leadership is vital Kirsty Henthorne, in Central and Eastern Europe, into attitudes to ensure that our people remain committed.
Luc Schulpen towards the EU.
In response to this challenge, we have A recent win is a Europe-wide study on working developed Leading Change: a programme time and work-life balance.
Already working designed to support and develop senior with TNS Infratest in Germany, the client was management in their awareness of change very impressed by the enlarged groups leadership needs and priorities for the new European network, in terms both of coverage TNS.
Piloted by board members and top and experience.
management, this programme will be rolled out to over 200 senior managers in the group.
Merger benefits realised Another sector to have seen early benefits from This is just one example of the companys the merger is Telecoms.
Over the past few years, innovative and flexible approach to training, TNS has developed a significant level of which supports the creation of a common set of expertise in this industry a growing user of values and behaviour across the enlarged group.
the sixth sense of business 13 Why does TNS invest in new technologies?
Technology, peoples behaviour and legislation are all affecting the way we collect and deliver data and analysis Online access panels give faster response rates, better accessibility to specialised sections of the population and are more effective in handling complex or sensitive subjects The use of access panels a pool of pre-recruited Traditionally access panels have been mainly respondents was pioneered in the US and is used in the US but this is changing, as evidenced now growing around the world.
Panels give by developments at TNS.
In the Netherlands, speedy and cost-efficient access to targeted TNS Nipo has transformed itself into an online segments of the population, response rates are access panel company, with improved margins, better and respondents can be re-contacted for and is winning business from competitors who follow up studies.
use more traditional data collection methods.
In Asia Pacific, the group has built a rapidly Benefiting from the US access panel growingonline panel in Australia and New With the integration, TNS has brought into Zealand and plans to roll out the model across the group probably the highest quality access the region.
As access panels become the panel in the US 500,000 households and preferred method of data collection, TNS has almost 3 million people online provide over the skills, resources and geographic reach to 18.5 million interviews each year.
constantly refreshed and extended to represent changing demographics.
Currently nine out of Efficient data delivery the top ten US clients are in the consumer sector Using the internet for data delivery is another Members of TNS but, as more TNS business migrates to the success story for TNS.
Our web portal delivery NFO access panel panel, we intend to widen this client base.
system, TNSInfo, supplies information, alerts team, left to right, and analysis to over 5,000 registered users in Steve Segur, Creating a technology company Efrain Ribeiro, 61 countries.
TNSInfo is now available to a Over the past few years, internet data collection Erin Newton, wider client base and has been an important Ryan Peterson, has moved to the fore in the US and the TNS component in a number of client wins.
An Stephanie Burger, NFO panel has been a leader in this change.
average of 390 people visit TNSInfo daily.
Deb Santus, Don Collier, If they chose to call us instead and spent just In 1999, 10 per cent of its turnover came from Jon Harding five minutes talking to their account executive, online work by 2003 that figure had risen to President, TNS NFO, TNS people would need an additional 8,500 almost 70 per cent.
Clients value the speed with Cassie Punches, hours each year to service them.
Todd Collier which information can be collected if they call at noon and want data the next day, the interactive panel can deliver.
It is cheaper for the client but delivers higher margins for TNS.
the sixth sense of business 15 TNS Worldpanel in France is extending its consumer panel from 8,000 to 12,000 households, giving clients increased insight into consumer purchasing habits Will TNS maintain its focus on continuous, syndicated services?
TNS has a strong heritage in the provision of these services with Worldpanel, TV and Radio Audience Measurement and Media Intelligence The development of these sectors, where TNS is measurement to be conducted openly and a world leader, is an important ongoing element independently, to the highest quality standards.
in the groups strategy for profitable growth.
TNS continues to invest in new products and services that support these requirements, while Taking panels round the world responding to industry changes.
We have The ability to provide global panel data and recently formalised our agreement with analysis is becoming increasingly important to Arbitron, which gives us exclusive use of their our clients and, with panels in 28 countries audio encoded technology and the Portable across Europe, Asia and Latin America, TNS People Meter for TV and radio audience Worldpanel is well positioned to meet this measurement in 28 countries in Europe and demand.
In TV too, the group is winning new The group has consistently extended this contracts that extend the market.
steadily growing market by introducing new Growing Media Intelligence panels and new forms of analysis, as clients seek Our Media Intelligence sector is responding to consumer insights and solutions.
Here again, the similar challenges.
It has increased the range of group benefits from its global presence, as a media covered and, in the US, we are extending project successfully piloted in one market can be our ability to cover the growing Hispanic taken across the network.
It positions us to market.
This initiative is one of a series of meet clients needs for global partnerships and investments aimed at reinforcing the groups TNS Worldpanel Unilever has named TNS as its preferred global leadership position in the US.
Other France, left to right consumer panel supplier.
Worldpanel uses its from back row, developments include a move to full motion experience in key account management to Maud Leonard, colour capture for all TV spots and a greater use Marc Thibault, develop new opportunities such as winning of web delivery.
The group has also extended its Ccile Furelaud, the UK contract to market data from the services in the US to provide political analysis.
Aude Ranchon, Sainsbury loyalty card.
Adeline Braud, As brand life cycles shorten and clients demand Georges Haffar, Responding to industry change more insight, we continually invest in Florent Antoine, The TV and radio industries have undergone developing high-quality analytical products.
At Frdric Lanfray, Judith Passingham huge change over the past few years, with the same time, the group is developing its global Managing Director proliferation of channels and new technologies.
services, such as TNS Sport and cinema tracking.
Worldpanel, What has not changed is the need for audience Pascal Avignon, Frdric Noir, Charlotte fide La Rivire, Sylvie Gueras, Laetitia Follin, Mlanie Lanez, Slim Classe the sixth sense of business 17
