TESCO PLC 5 TESCO PERSONAL FINANCE TPF TPF lending is Combined Liability has been transferred to a new captive predominantly to individuals through its credit card and insurance company, Valiant Insurance Company Limited, ROI.
Risk is managed by adopting industry best practices and drawing upon the PENSIONS Tesco policy is to base pension funding decisions expertise and systems of the Royal Bank of Scotland.
The latest full actuarial As a result TPF have developed a portfolio of credit valuation of the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme was carried out products with strong asset quality.
This formed the basis of our decision to increase funding levels.
The results of the valuation can INSURANCE We have taken the decision to purchase Assets, be seen in note 26 a.
Earnings and Combined Liability protection from the open In line with accounting standards, a separate FRS 17 insurance market at a catastrophe level only.
The risk not valuation has been performed as at the Group year end transferred to the insurance market is retained within the date.
The FRS 17 disclosures can be found in note 26 b. business up to various limits, with the balance self insured on a multinational basis by use of our captive insurance OTHER INFORMATION Additional financial and company, Tesco Insurance Limited, Guernsey Assets non-financial information, including Press Releases and year Earnings Combined Liability.
Subsequent to the year end end presentations can be accessed on our website, www.
com corporateinfo directors report The Directors present their annual report to shareholders taxation was 1,361m.
The amount allocated to the employee on the affairs of the Group, together with the audited profit-sharing scheme this year was 51m as against 48m consolidated financial statements of the Group for the last year.
After provision for tax of 415m, minority interests 52 weeks ended 22 February 2003. of nil and dividends, paid and proposed, of 443m, profit retained for the financial year amounted to 503m.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND BUSINESS REVIEW The principal activity of the Group is the operation of food stores and DIVIDENDS The Directors recommend the payment of a final associated activities in the UK, Republic of Ireland, France, dividend of 4.33p per ordinary share to be paid on 27 June Hungary, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Thailand, South 2003 to members on the Register at the close of business Korea, Taiwan and Malaysia.
A review of the business on 22 April 2003.
Together with the interim dividend of 1.87p is contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial per ordinary share paid in November 2002, the total for the Statement 2003 which is published separately and, together year will be 6.20p compared with 5.60p for the previous year, with this document, comprises the full Tesco PLC Annual an increase of 10.7%.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Capital expenditure amounted GROUP RESULTS Group sales including VAT rose by 2,959m to 2,134m compared with 2,027m the previous year.
to 28,613m, representing an increase of 11.5%.
Group In the Directors opinion, the properties of the Group have underlying profit on ordinary activities before taxation, net a market value in excess of the book value of 10,955m loss on disposal of xed assets, integration costs and goodwill included in these financial statements.
amortisation was 1,401m compared with 1,221m for the previous year, an increase of 14.7%.
Including net loss on SHARE CAPITAL The authorised and issued share capital of disposal of xed assets, integration costs and goodwill the company, together with details of the shares issued during amortisation, Group profit on ordinary activities before the period, are shown in note 23 to the financial statements.
6 TESCO PLC directors report continued COMPANYS SHAREHOLDERS The company is not aware POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS There were of any ordinary shareholders with interests of 3% or more.
During the year the Group made contributions of 31,282 in the form of sponsorship DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS The names and for political events and one politically afliated think-tank biographical details of the present Directors are set out in the Labour Party 9,400: Conservative Party 4,394: Liberal separately published Annual Review and Summary Financial Democrat Party 6,407: Scottish National Party 7,143: Statement 2003.
Mr R S Ager, Mr R F Chase appointed during the year, Mr J A Gardiner, Mr A T Higginson and Mr D E Reid retire SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY Tesco PLC is a signatory to from the Board by rotation and being eligible offer themselves the CBI Code of Prompt Payment.
Copies of the Code may for re-election.
be obtained from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford The service contracts of Mr R S Ager, Mr A T Higginson Street, London WC1A 1DU.
Payment terms and conditions and Mr D E Reid are terminable on two years notice from are agreed with suppliers in advance.
Mr R F Chase and Mr J A Gardiner do not Tesco PLC has no trade creditors in its balance sheet.
The Group pays its creditors on a timely basis which varies The interests of Directors and their immediate families according to the type of product and territory in which the in the shares of Tesco PLC, along with details of Directors suppliers operate.
share options, are contained in the report of the Directors on remuneration set out on pages 12 to 21.
GOING CONCERN The Directors consider that the Group At no time during the year did any of the Directors and the company have adequate resources to remain in have a material interest in any significant contract with the operation for the foreseeable future and have therefore company or any of its subsidiaries.
continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
As with all business forecasts, the EMPLOYMENT POLICIES The Group depends on the skills Directors statement cannot guarantee that the going concern and commitment of its employees in order to achieve its basis will remain appropriate given the inherent uncertainty objectives.
Staff at every level are encouraged to make about future events.
their fullest possible contribution to Tesco success.
A key business priority is to provide First Class Service AUDITORS Following the conversion of our auditors to the customer.
Ongoing training programmes seek to  to a Limited Liability Partnership ensure that employees understand the Groups customer LLP from 1 January 2003,  resigned service objectives and strive to achieve them.
on 23 February 2003 and the Directors appointed its successor, The Groups selection, training, development and  LLP, as auditors.
A resolution to promotion policies ensure equal opportunities for all re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the employees regardless of gender, marital status, race, company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
All decisions are based on merit.
Internal communications are designed to ensure that ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING A separate circular employees are well informed about the business of the accompanying the annual accounts explains the special Group.
These include a staff magazine called Tesco Today, business to be considered at the Annual General Meeting videos and staff brieng sessions.
Staff attitudes are frequently researched through surveys and store visits, and management seeks to respond positively By Order of the Board to the needs of employees.
Rowley Ager Secretary Employees are encouraged to become involved in the 7 April 2003 financial performance of the Group through a variety of schemes, principally the Tesco employee profit-sharing Tesco PLC scheme, the savings-related share option scheme Save-AsRegistered Number: 445790 You-Earn and the Partnership Share Plan Buy-As-You-Earn.
