Products - The Autonomy Approach Autonomy's products are built on IDOL technology.
Autonomy's products offer a completely scalable, modular solution that enable customers to select technology according to their needs.
Autonomy offers over 400 solutions, functionality modules, data types, connectors and interfaces.
Typical Autonomy sales include five to fifteen options.
At the same time, global customers such as Philips and AstraZeneca have recently upgraded their technology from divisional deployments focused on specific functionality and information repositories to enterprise-wide solutions encompassing thousands of users and millions of documents in multiple languages.
Autonomy enables an extensive number of information processes to be carried out both automatically and manually.
Although Autonomy is capable of performing all operations entirely automatically, Autonomy of course supports users when they require a traditional, manual approach.
"For example, Autonomy supports Boolean expressions used by legacy keyword systems allowing users to modify individual ""terms"" and ""weights"" as required."
Furthermore, Autonomy's legacy handling module seamlessly integrates manual processing thereby allowing results obtained manually to be captured and assimilated automatically.
IDOL Server is Autonomy's flagship product.
It acts as a platform for understanding the meaning and significance of information: additional functionality can be seamlessly integrated with IDOL Server in order to perform advanced operations on that data.
Using this off-the-shelf solution, organizations can quickly process digital information automatically and communicate with multiple applications without the need for manual processing or metadata.
IDOL is entirely data agnostic and scalable, thereby allowing large organizations to manage vast quantities of information regardless of format or storage location.
Delivering Video Content American Online Inc. AOL is the world's AOL turned to Virage to provide content processing for Video@AOL.
leading provider of interactive services.
AOL uses Virage's built-in capabilities to assemble content reels and Millions of subscribers throughout the world assign them to AOL channels.
Virage has indexed thousands of use AOL Broadband service for the Internet's best selection of videos on its hosted servers.
Every week Virage processes a wide multimedia content - such as CD-quality radio, and video clips variety of content feeds automatically and adds hundreds of new including movie trailers, sports highlights, and live news.
video assets to the index.
By using Virage, AOL producers can When AOL set out to deliver the industry's best broadband program more timely and relevant broadband content for AOL experience, the company saw that providing a premier, one-stop, onmembers.
For high-volume content such as breaking news, AOL demand video destination would be no easy task because content uses Virage software's auto-packaging feature to make third party constantly changes and the amount of content never stops growing.
content feeds immediately available on Video@AOL.
10 Products Products 11 Functionality Modules for IDOL Server H Hy yp pe er rlliin nk kiin ng g - Automatic hyperlinks connect users to a range of pertinent documents, services or products that are contextually linked to the original information A Ag ge en ntts s - IDOL Server can be configured to monitor information on Intranet and Internet sites, News Feeds, Chat Streams and internal repositories and alert users to information relevant to their specific interests S Su um mm ma ar riiz za attiio on n - IDOL Server accepts a piece of content and then automatically returns a summary of the information T Ta ax xo on no om my y G Ge en ne er ra attiio on n - IDOL Server's automatic taxonomy generation feature provides an 'information landscape' allowing users to see the spread and type of information C Ca atte eg go or riiz za attiio on n - IDOL Server automatically categorizes data without the need for manual intervention.
Categories can also be imported from existing XML files, legacy topics and Autonomy Agents R Re ettr riie ev va all - IDOL Server offers the widest range of retrieval methods, from simple legacy keyword search to highly sophisticated conceptual querying Automatic hyperlinking of audio, video & text Advanced conceptual retrieval Automatic taxonomy generation Autonomy's technology gives us the ability to e em mp po ow we er r t th he e e ex xp pe er rt ti is se e w wi it th hi in n o ou ur r w wo or rl ld dw wi id fide e o op pe er ra at ti io on ns s, as well as share information so that every employee in every department is kept fully informed of the developments which will impact on their business.
They can even have this information pushed to their hand-held digital devices whilst they are on the move.
Lars stlund, Ericsson 12 Products Autonomy is providing business with a 'o on ne e- -c cl li ic ck k a ac cc ce es ss s' to information on global developments in their precise areas of business interest.
It places the DTI at the forefront of e-government and e-commerce.
Christine Mitchell, Program Manager for The U. K. Department of Trade and Industry DTI C Ch ha an nn ne ells s - Relevant information is automatically fed into a set of hierarchical channels.
Channel hierarchies are customized and can be edited by the users C Cllu us stte er riin ng g - IDOL Server automatically clusters information based on an understanding of its content E Ed du uc cttiio on n - Phrases and numeric values in documents are automatically tagged P Pr ro offiilliin ng g - IDOL Server monitors the way in which users interact with information and automatically forms profiles of their interests.
These profiles are then used to alert users to existing material, and where appropriate deliver highly relevant new information C Co olllla ab bo or ra attiio on n - IDOL Server automatically analyzes users' explicit interest agents and implicit profile agents and then creates virtual groups of experts A Alle er rttiin ng g - Automatic alerting facilities allow users to be instantly alerted to new pertinent content.
Automatic clustering of communicat Personalization through automatic profiling Automatic expertise location to facilitate collaboration UK Houses of Parliament PIMS selected Autonomy to automate the retrieval, delivery, and Supporting the Democratic Process routing of content to users from a wide range of sources.
Information, in its broadest sense is at the heart of Members of the parliamentary community are now able to rely on a democratic society: access to information is fundamental to the the support of Autonomy's intelligent infrastructure technology success of both parliament and its people.
The Parliamentary which automatically tags, classifies and retrieves documents Information Management Service is responsible for supporting the ensuring that users have instant access to pertinent information.
business activities of the House of Commons and the House of PIMS' deployment of Autonomy represents a significant Lords.
PIMS recognized the need to develop a unified information commitment to their objective of making information which system easily accessible to all and able to meet the needs of supports the democratic process more accessible to both citizens various user communities.
Products 13 Applications In addition to our core IDOL Server infrastructure and functionality, Autonomy offers a range of out-of-the-box user applications enabling organizations to yield Autonomys benefits extremely rapidly.
Interfaces available include Autonomy's own products and applications developed by Autonomy's OEM partners.
P Po or rtta all--iin n--a a--B Bo ox x is a fully automated Information Portal Infrastructure for Internet and Intranet sites A Ac cttiiv five e W Wiin nd do ow ws s E Ex xtte en ns siio on n automatically analyzes operations a user is performing on the desktop and constructs automatic links to related documents or colleagues with relevant expertise A Au utto on no om my y A An ns sw we er r is an automated CRM system that automatically responds to common customer queries C Co olllla ab bo or ra attiio on n a an nd d E Ex xp pe er rttiis se e N Ne ettw wo or rk ks s C CE EN N enables organizations to foster a collaborative network.
Autonomy automatically profiles how users interact with information building a profile of their interests and areas of expertise R Re ettiin na a is an out-of-the-box Web interface application combining Autonomy's pattern matching technology with traditional Legacy methods to provide an extensive range of retrieval options IID DO OL L S Se er rv five er r C Co on nn ne ec ctto or rs s allow enterprises to automatically aggregate content from a wide range of sources.
Over 200 connectors allow instant access to multiple repositories such as relational database management systems, local file systems, Internet servers, email servers, document repositories, newsfeed servers and Legacy systems L Le eg ga ac cy y C Co om mp pa attiib biilliitty y M Mo od du ulle e L LC CM M enables rapid deployment of Autonomy's infrastructure by using and maintaining existing systems P Pr ro od du uc ctt O Or riie en ntta atte ed d D Dr ro op p--iin n S So ollu uttiio on ns s P PO OD Ds s facilitate use of Autonomy's software in third party applications with minimal need for configuration V Vo oiic ce e S Su uiitte e enables IDOL Server to understand and process multimedia content such as video news archives, broadcast content, audio archives and voicemails in the same way as textual documents.
Voice Suite works in conjunction with IDOL Server, enabling all IDOL Server functionalities to be applied to multimedia content.
The U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission - Pursuing Compliance The U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission SEC regulates documents, emails and files submitted to Commission and monitors corporate compliance under applicable U. S. laws investigators.
Autonomy's technology facilitates collaboration, and regulations.
The amount of documents and transactions provides advanced search capabilities and improves analytical that it must analyze for investigations is staggering.
capacities to insure that regulators, examiners and investigators The SEC selected Autonomys Aungate product to analyze and find relevant documents, evaluate trends and monitor information automatically discover relevant evidence among millions of as it comes in.
14 Products Where is Autonomy Used?
Autonomy's horizontal technology is able to intelligently manage information within virtually any software environment that relies on unstructured information, from CRM systems to portals and business intelligence applications.
A few examples include: E En ntte er rp pr riis se e IIn nffo or rm ma attiio on n P Po or rtta alls s:: Autonomy's technology automates content aggregation, integration and delivery within portals.
Customers such as the U. S. Army, NASA, and U. S. Navy use Autonomy's technology to power their portals.
NASA deployed Autonomy to automatically organize, manage and hyperlink the documents in its library - an immense repository of scientific literature.
C Cu us stto om me er r R Re ella attiio on ns sh hiip p M Ma an na ag ge em me en ntt A Ap pp plliic ca attiio on ns s:: Autonomy's technology increases the capabilities of CRM solutions such as Siebel and Epiphany, and offers companies many benefits through the automatic integration and delivery of information found in customer emails, voicemails, call center reports, product descriptions, PDF files and customer databases.
This allows companies to achieve resolution on the first call and handle more inbound calls with less staff.
For example, using Autonomy's infrastructure software, Omnitel Vodafone Italy has automated a customer call center that services a large customer operation, fielding help requests from millions of customers.
E E--L Le ea ar rn niin ng g:: Manufacturers such as Ford, General Motors, Ingersoll-Rand, Norsk Hydro, Philips and Volkswagen employ Autonomys technology to automatically discover expertise inside their organizations, power automated e-learning infrastructures and provide users with natural language retrieval.
B Bu us siin ne es ss s IIn ntte elllliig ge en nc ce e a an nd d C Co olllla ab bo or ra attiio on n:: Autonomy's technology automates the profiling of employees and drives automatic expertise location.
AstraZeneca uses Autonomys IDOL platform to supply an internal intelligent information service for all users working across multiple internal applications, information sources, as well as content from numerous external news sources.
Their decision followed an extensive strategic evaluation of available technologies.
As a world leading company spending in excess of $11m per day on research and development, it is vital for AstraZeneca that its employees have access to the most up to date and precisely relevant information available.
IIn nttr ra an ne ett R Ra attiio on na alliiz za attiio on n:: In response to the challenges posed by the explosion of Intranet content, organizations are now employing consolidation and integration strategies across their networks.
Autonomy's technology aggregates content regardless of format or source, and delivers it via virtually any application, device, or interface.
For example, BAE Systems' Virtual University deployed Autonomy to integrate the contents of their 50,000 people intranet.
Autonomy's products b br ri in ng g o or rd fide er r t to o i in nf fo or rm ma at ti io on n c ch ha ao os s, but in an economic and user responsive way.
The technology is sufficiently flexible to cope with users demands.
Kevin Phillips, Head of Information Systems, BAE Systems Products 15 Autonomy's unique infrastructure technology allows enterprises to understand what matters by automating the management, processing and delivery of dynamic data forms such as voice, email, video and text
