The Board Michael Lynch Ph.
D. Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Michael R. Lynch, Ph.
D, 38, co-founded Autonomy and has served as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer since our inception in March 1996.
Prior to founding Autonomy, Dr. Lynch founded Neurodynamics Limited in 1991.
Dr. Lynch is also a non-executive director of Neurodynamics Limited, Cambridge Neurodynamics Limited and Nholdings Limited, and a non-executive director of Avocet Capital Management.
Dr. Lynch holds an M. A. in electrical and information sciences, a Ph.
D in adaptive techniques in signal processing and connectionist models and held a research fellowship in adaptive pattern recognition from Cambridge University.
Dr. Lynch won the Achievement Medal from the Institute of Electrical Engineers in 1996.
Richard Gaunt, Technical Director and Chief Technology Officer Richard G. Gaunt, 36, co-founded Autonomy and has served as Technical Director and Chief Technology Officer of Autonomy since our inception in March 1996.
Prior to founding Autonomy, Mr. Gaunt served as Technical Director of Cambridge Neurodynamics Limited since 1991.
He also serves as a non-executive director of Neurodynamics Limited, Cambridge Neurodynamics Limited and Nholdings Limited.
Mr. Gaunt holds a BSc in electronic engineering and an MSc from the University of Natal in Durban.
Sushovan Hussain, Board Director and Chief Financial Officer Sushovan Hussain, 39, has served as our Chief Financial Officer since June 2001 and was appointed a Director in June 2003.
Prior to joining Autonomy, Mr. Hussain worked for LASMO plc, one of the world's largest independent oil and gas exploration companies which was acquired by Eni in early 2001, where he held a number of senior international financial positions, including three years in the Corporate Development department, charged with acquisitions and divestments.
Mr. Hussain received his BA in Economics from Cambridge University, England, and became a qualified Chartered Accountant while employed at Ernst & Young in London.
Barry Ariko, Board Director Barry M. Ariko, 57, has served as a non-executive director of Autonomy since January 2000.
From November 2003, Mr Ariko has served as CEO and President of Mirapoint, Inc, a leader in messaging networks.
From January 2000, until it was acquired by Peregrine Systems in May 2001, he was Chairman, CEO and President of Extricity, Inc. a provider of software for the management of inter-company transactions and workflow.
Prior to Extricity, he was Senior Vice President of AOL, which had acquired Netscape Communications Corp. where he was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer with primary responsibility for the enterprise software business since August 1998.
From April 1994 to August 1998, Mr. Ariko was Executive Vice President in charge of the Americas operations for Oracle Corp. Mr. Ariko also serves as a director of Incyte Genomics and Aspect Communications.
Mr. Ariko holds a B. S. in Management from Golden Gate University in San Francisco and in 1992 completed the Advanced Executive Program at Northwestern University's J. L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management.
John McMonigall, Board Director John P. McMonigall, 60, has served as a non-executive director of Autonomy since July 1998.
Since April 1990, Mr. McMonigall has worked for Apax Partners Worldwide LLP, a private equity firm, where he is responsible for Apax' investments in private companies in telecommunications, software and related fields.
From 1986 to 1990, Mr. McMonigall held a variety of positions at British Telecom where he served as a member of the Management Board.
He currently serves on the board of Dialog Semiconductor GmbH.
Mr. McMonigall also serves on the boards of several privately owned companies as a non-executive director, including Neurodynamics Limited and Nholdings Limited.
26 The Board Mark Opzoomer, Board Director Mark Opzoomer, 46, has served as a non-executive director of Autonomy since June 2003.
From July 2001 to December 2003 he served as European managing director and regional vice-president of Yahoo!.
Prior to joining Yahoo!, from 1994 through 1999, Mr. Opzoomer was deputy chief executive of Hodder Headline PLC, an international consumer and educational book publishing company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
From 1988 through 1993, Mr. Opzoomer served in various positions with the Virgin Group, including commercial director of Virgin Communications.
In 1991, Virgin Mastertronic Group was sold to Sega Enterprises, where Mr. Opzoomer was Commercial and Finance Director until 1994.
Mr. Opzoomer holds an MBA from IMD, Lausanne, Switzerland, and earned a Bachelor of Commerce, Honors, from Queen's University, Ontario, Canada.
Mr. Opzoomer also completed in 1995 the London and Wharton Business Schools Directors Forum, a program for public company directors.
Mr. Opzoomer qualified as a chartered accountant with PwC Coopers & Lybrand in 1981, where he spent 7 years in audit and then business investigation services.
Richard N. Perle, Board Director Richard N. Perle, 62, has served as a non-executive director of Autonomy since February 2000.
Mr. Perle has served as Resident Fellow of the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research since 1987.
Since January 1994, Mr. Perle has also served as a consultant on general business, markets and strategy to corporate clients.
He was the Assistant Secretary for the United States Department of Defense, International Security Policy from 1981 to 1988.
Mr Perle is a principal at Trireme Partners, a venture fund, and a director of NaPro Biotherapeutics, where he serves on the audit and compensation committees, Hollinger International, and DigitalNet.
Mr Perle holds an M. A. from Princeton University and an A.
B. from the University of Southern California.
Executive Officers Andrew M. Kanter, Chief Operating Officer Andrew M. Kanter, 34, joined Autonomy in August 2000 as Vice President, International Operations and Legal Affairs, and has served as our Chief Operating Officer since 2001.
Prior to joining Autonomy, from July 1999 through July 2000, Mr. Kanter was an associate attorney with Brobeck Hale and Dorr in London, England, primarily engaged in international mergers and acquisitions and corporate finance.
From May 1997 through June 1999, Mr. Kanter was an associate attorney in the Business & Technology group of Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison in San Francisco, CA, and prior to that was an associate attorney with Shearman & Sterling, San Francisco, CA.
From August 1995 to July 1996 Mr. Kanter was Clerk to Hon.
Christine Miller of the U. S. Court of Federal Claims, Washington, DC.
Mr. Kanter holds a juris doctor from the University of Southern California Law Center and a B.
A. from Johns Hopkins University, and also studied at Kansai University of Foreign Studies, Osaka, Japan.
Stouffer Egan, Chief Executive Officer - U. S. Stouffer Egan, 35, joined Autonomy in March 2001 as Director of Global Accounts, and has served as our Chief Executive Officer, U. S. since 2002.
Prior to joining Autonomy, from February 2000 through March 2001, Mr. Egan was Vice President of Corporate Development for LeadingSide Inc. From January 1995 through February 2000, Mr. Egan held various positions with Dataware Technologies, most recently as Vice President, Corporate Development.
A. in Economics from Trinity College, CT.
