The Autonomy Group Autonomy is focused on the continued development of its IDOL platform and extending its acknowledged market lead.
IDOL is also available pre-configured for vertical markets through specific applications developed and marketed through the Autonomy Group: Audentify was launched in 2003 to bring understanding to the contact center.
Using Autonomy's IDOL technology, Audentify offers 100% call recording and advanced call analytics by forming an understanding of call content.
Audentify is the only technology capable of understanding all customer interactions including telephone calls, email, SMS and the Internet.
Using Audentify, customers are able to increase first time call resolution, reduce call back incidents and improve agent performance thereby raising customer satisfaction.
Aungate is the only technology capable of automatically understanding the meaning and potential significance of all electronic communications.
Founded on Autonomy's IDOL technology, Aungate was launched in 2003 to offer a total communications management solution to help companies meet increasingly complex legal and regulatory requirements.
Aungate automatically understands and analyzes all types of electronic communications within an enterprise, such as email, SMS, instant messaging and telephone conversations and blocks non-compliant communications in order to protect the enterprise.
Aungate provides unprecedented visibility and enables the measurement and control of communications within the organization in order to minimize risk, protect against legal action and ensure a swift response to any breaches of compliance or regulatory requirements.
22 The Autonomy Group Until now, managing information has cost us a great deal of time and money in manual processes, but Autonomy's technology can a au ut to om ma at te e t th he e w wh ho ol le e p pr ro oc ce es ss s from start to finish.
John McCulloch, Novartis Virage is the leading vendor of video and rich media software.
With IDOL fully integrated inside of Virage's software products, Virage provides advanced automated handling of any video and rich media content.
Virage integrates and automates every process of rich media management by analyzing, encoding, synchronizing, indexing and delivering any piece of rich media in real-time.
Virage has more than 450 blue-chip customers including: Cisco Systems, CNN, Harvard University, NASCAR, Oracle, Pfizer, the United States Senate, Xerox and many more.
Softsound is recognized as a leading developer and vendor of speech recognition and processing technologies.
Sophisticated audio processing applications powered by Softsound enable live and recorded speech to be manipulated, edited, searched and hyperlinked as easily as text.
We Energies sought a solution to not only deliver agent assistance but track agents' calls for use in skill assessment and training purposes.
In addition, the utility wanted a solution to help solve compliance and risk issues to positively impact the company's Wisconsin Utility's Quest for Customer performance metrics and help achieve corporate objectives.
Service Excellence Ends With Audentify We Energies chose Autonomy's Audentify for its intelligent data We Energies takes pride in effectively serving its 2.4 million management capabilities and high-precision voice recognition.
However, with 400 call center agents and 30 Audentify monitors and records calls or emails between agents and supervisors handling more than 200,000 customer service calls customers, delivering agent assistance and identifying potential from two locations, troubleshooting and supporting the needs of problems.
We Energies uses Audentify to leverage its call database Wisconsin's energy customers 24 hours a day, seven days a week to effectively search for calls to be used for coaching staff and remained a key challenge.
gathering feedback on agents' performance.
