Directors Report The directors present their report and group financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2003.
Statement of directors' responsibilities in respect of the financial statements The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the company for that period, and that comply with the requirements of the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority.
"Such financial statements may be prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ""U. S. GAAP""."
Accordingly, the directors have decided to present U. S. GAAP financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2003, consistent with the information included in the company's Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the directors are also responsible for making a statement that the business is a going concern with supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In connection with the company's United Kingdom statutory accounts, the directors acknowledge a number of responsibilities, including keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group: applying the company's chosen accounting policies on a consistent basis: making judgements and estimates that are prudent and reasonable: and safeguarding the assets of the company and group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Review of Developments The CEO's letter and the Operating and Financial Review comment on the results for the year.
Principal activity The principal activity of the group during 2003 continued to be software development and distribution.
The group operates through Europe, North America and Asia, with significant activities in the U. S. France, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Spain, Italy, Scandinavia, China, Singapore and Australia.
Results and dividends Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $54.9 million, an increase of 7.7% from $51.0 million for 2002.
Net profit was $6.2 million for 2003 compared with net profit of $6.1 million for 2002.
A detailed review of the company's results and other developments is set forth beginning on page 28.
Research and development The group continues to develop new software products and expects further product launches during 2004.
The total amount incurred for research and development expenditure during 2003 was $11.9 million, as compared with $9.2 million in 2002.
Dividends and share repurchases The company to date has not paid or declared dividends on its shares, in common with most of its peer companies in the high technology sector.
The policy will be kept under review, and at this time the directors envisage making use of the group's cash resources to make strategic investments in the future in the development of the company and its shares.
Accordingly the directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend 2002 - $Nil.
During 2003 the company continued its share repurchase program returning capital to shareholders, purchasing for cancellation 12,332,084 shares at an average price of 1.62 per share approximately $2.60 per share, and purchased 180,465 shares held within its Employee Benefit Trust at an average price of 1.66 per share approximately $2.57 per share.
In total, the company has purchased for cancellation 17,312,370 of its own ordinary shares, nominal value 1 3p per share, representing approximately 15.7% of the company's total issued share capital at December 31, 2003, at an average price of 1.59 per share approximately $2.55 per share.
The aggregate consideration paid by the company for the shares was 27.6 million approximately $44.2 million.
As of December 31, 2003, the company had remaining authorization to purchase 13,515,907 shares.
Future developments The company's stated objective is to establish its technology as the infrastructure standard for automating operations on all forms of unstructured information.
The directors believe that to achieve this goal it is important to expand the number and range of potential customers for its technology.
To this end, the company intends to sign further licence agreements with new customers and to establish relationships with third-party value added resellers, services providers and OEMs to ensure that the company's products are distributed as widely as practicable.
The company also plans to develop new technology to license to existing customers.
As a result of its position as an emerging standard in its industry, the company is presented with opportunities from time to time to acquire complementary technology or resources.
Re-election of directors Messrs. Hussain and Opzoomer were appointed as directors in June 2003 to expand the scope of advice available to the board, and are subject to re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Dr. Lynch's office expires in July 2004 and he will also stand for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
The directors biographies appear on pages 26 and 27.
Directors Report 33 Indemnification of directors and other officers Under the Articles of Association of the company, subject to U. K. companies legislation, every director, secretary or other officer of the company is entitled to be indemnified by the company against all costs, charges, losses, expenses and liabilities incurred by him in the execution and discharge of his duties or in relation thereto, including any liability incurred by him in defending any civil or criminal proceedings which relate to anything done or omitted or alleged to have been done or omitted by him as an officer, director or employee of the company and in which judgement is given in his favour or in which the proceedings are otherwise disposed of without any finding or admission of any material breach of duty on his part or in which he is acquitted, or in connection with any application under any statute for relief from liability in respect of any such act or omission in which relief is granted to him by the court.
Under the Articles of Association of the company, subject to U. K. companies legislation and to the extent legally permitted, the directors may purchase, fund and or maintain insurance for or for the benefit of any persons who are or were at any time directors, officers or employees of the company, or of any subsidiary of the company or in any way allied to or associated with the company or any such subsidiary or of any predecessors of the business of the company or any such subsidiary or who are or were at any time trustees of any pension fund in which any employees of the company or any such other company are interested, including without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing insurance against any liability incurred by such persons in respect of any act or omission in the actual or purported execution and or discharge of their duties or powers and otherwise in relation to their duties, powers or offices in relation to the company or any such other company or pension fund.
Directors and their interests A list of the directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the company and details of any share options over the ordinary share capital of the company is set forth in the report of the Remuneration Committee on page 38.
Supplier payment policy The company's policy is whenever it is reasonable to do so, to settle payment terms with those suppliers when agreeing terms for each transaction and to ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the payment terms by their inclusion in the relevant contracts.
Generally the company pays suppliers at the end of the month following that in which the supplier's invoice is received.
The number of creditor days outstanding as at December 31, 2003 and as calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 for the company was 50 days 2002 - 61 days and for the principal U. K. subsidiary was 78 days 2002 - 101 days.
Charitable and political contributions The group made 25,000 in charitable donations during 2003 to The Princes Trust 2002 - 350.
The group did not make any political contributions during 2003 2002 - Nil.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the group's offices in Cambridge, UK, on May 26, 2004 at 1:00 pm.
The company will convey the results of proxy votes cast at the Annual General Meeting, and the results of the meeting will be announced through the regulatory news services.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is set out in the circular to shareholders accompanying this annual report.
The company is committed to the policy of one share one vote.
The directors will place a resolution before the Annual General Meeting to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors for the ensuing year.
On behalf of the Board, Dr. Michael R. Lynch Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge CB4 0WZ April 14, 2004 34 Directors Report
