Autonomy - Understanding What Matters Autonomy is the world's number one provider of automated infrastructure technology for the processing of unstructured information.
Autonomy's unique technology allows enterprises to understand what matters by automating the management, processing and delivery of information, both structured and unstructured, from disparate internal and external sources.
At the core of Autonomy's offering is the Intelligent Data Operating Layer IDOL, a platform which sits at the center of an enterprise's data and forms a conceptual and contextual understanding of that information.
This complete infrastructure layer automatically analyzes any piece of information, be it text, voice or video and, through Autonomy's extensive range of functionality, performs advanced operations on that information in real-time.
The way we work has changed dramatically as we face an increasing deluge of information.
Human friendly digital information such as text, emails, voice and video now represents 80% of the information held within organizations.
As this human friendly information sits outside the scope of the traditional database, in order to realize the potential of this wealth of information, enterprises must devote costly resources to process the information manually.
The result all too often is that many organizations are simply rich in data, but scant in knowledge.
By using Autonomy, enterprises are reaping a large return on investment by automating these manual processes.
Sybase, an OEM and VAR partner of Autonomy, selected Autonomy's IDOL Server as the enterprise standard for information retrieval and intelligent processing of unstructured information.
Autonomy's Strengthening Customer Service & Support technology replaced several legacy information retrieval solutions.
Sybase Customer Service and Support Group CS&S required a With Autonomy's IDOL Server, engineers are able to use natural solution to help its technical support engineers locate information language to describe exactly what they need and get back relevant within the CS&S knowledge base faster so that they could provide information from a variety of repositories including Lotus Notes, ODBC better support and improve case resolution times while at the same databases, CRM applications, case management systems, technical time reducing costs.
In addition, CS&S wanted a faster and more support tracking systems and Word documents, as well as automated solution for routing incoming technical support requests.
information from the Sybase Intranet.
