MANAGING FOR VALUE and is designed to improve strategic and operational decisions to ensure long-term creation of value for our shareholders.
The change has been subtle rather than major.
It has been about a change of mindset rather than reporting.
We have achieved this through some changes in our key processes.
We have ensured that our strategic planning processes direct resources into those areas where we believe we can create value.
We have improved our approach to appraisal of investments and potential acquisitions to ensure that they will be value-creating.
We have also modied our performance measurement so that in addition to MANAGING FOR VALUE standard accounting metrics, such as return on invested capital, we look at cash ow We focus our planning, reporting, control and performance management metrics, such as free cash ow from our framework on a managing for value approach.
businesses, and also economic metrics such as cash added value and economic return.
Strategic development of the business The intrinsic value of a business reects is an integral part of value creation.
The its ability to generate sustainable cash strategic initiatives described in this Annual ows over time.
This in turn is a function Report are important as we grow the value of the strategic positions we occupy.
The restructuring projects Strategic position depends on the help us to lower our cost base and be more attractiveness of the market, in terms cost competitive.
The focus on technology of size, growth and ability to earn a and development of new products sustainable economic return, and our enhance our competitive position.
Lean competitive position in the market place, manufacturing initiatives lead to more in terms of product offering, cost base, efficient manufacturing processes, also manufacturing capability and technology.
lowering cost and reducing working We focus our planning, reporting, capital.
control and performance management The progress of the managing for framework on a managing for value approach.
The framework focuses on value initiative is set out on the following value based decision-making at all levels time line.
Year to December 2003 Year to April 2001 Year to April 2002 Eight months to December 2002 New management incentive External strategic review Performance measurement Business performance Internal scheme introduced focusing Strategic process incorporates economic measurement incorporates on Bonusable profit framework developed profit cash added value economic profit cash added operating profit after tax Changes to core processes and economic return value and economic return and cost of capital charge for evaluating investments Free cash ow and acquisitions metric introduced Economic value models introduced to assess intrinsic value and perform value gap analysis External External presentation of Focus on return on invested Focus on return on invested Bonusable profit disclosure strategic position analysis capital at the Group level capital at the Divisional level for each business group Free cash ow identied at Divisional level Weighted average cost of capital disclosure 18 TOMKINS PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003
