BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 David Newlands 2 James Nicol 3 Ken Lever Non-executive Chairman.
Appointed to the Board in August 1999 and Appointed to the Board in February 2002.
Former Appointed to the Board in November 1999.
He became Chairman in June 2000.
He is nonPresident and Chief Operating officer of Magna is a non-executive director of Vega Group PLC.
executive Chairman of KESA Electricals plc, International Inc. the Canadian automotive parts He is a Chartered Accountant and a member Deputy Chairman of The Standard Life Assurance company.
He joined Magna in 1987 as Viceof the ICAEW Financial Reporting Committee.
Company and a director of a number of other President, Special Projects, following a successful He has held executive directorships at Albright companies.
He was formerly Finance Director of career as a commercial lawyer.
He left in 1992 to and Wilson plc, Alfred McAlpine PLC and Corton The General Electric Company, p. l. c. and nonset up TRIAM Automotive Inc. and returned to Beach plc and was a partner in Arthur Andersen.
executive Chairman of Britax International plc.
Magna as Vice-Chairman when Magna acquired TRIAM in 1998.
6 Ken Minton 4 Norman Broadhurst Independent Non-executive Director.
5 Jack Keenan Appointed to the Board in December 2000.
Appointed to the Board in December 2000.
He He is a non-executive director of Solvay SA.
Appointed to the Board in November 2001. is currently Chairman of Chloride Group PLC and He spent most of his career at Laporte plc He is presently a non-executive director of Freightliner Limited.
He is also a non-executive where he was Managing Director for five Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. General Mills Inc. director of Cattles plc, Old Mutual plc and years and then Chief Executive for ten years.
and The Body Shop International plc and is the United Utilities PLC.
He was Group Finance Subsequently he was Executive Chairman patron of the advisory board of the Cambridge Director of Railtrack PLC from 1994 to 2000. of Arjo Wiggins Appleton PLC.
He was also University Centre for International Business and non-executive Chairman of John Mowlem Management.
Previously he was Chairman of Kraft & Company PLC and SGB Group Plc.
7 Sir Brian Pitman International, Chief Executive of Guinness United Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
Distillers & Vintners Ltd and an executive director of Diageo plc until he retired in October 2001.
Appointed to the Board in June 2000.
He is a non-executive director of The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC and Singapore Airlines.
8 Marshall Wallach He has also been appointed as Interim Chairman Non-executive Director.
Aged 61. of ITV plc and is a senior advisor to Morgan Stanley.
He retired in April 2001 from Lloyds Appointed to the Board in August 1999.
He is TSB Group plc where he was Chief Executive President of Wallach Capital Advisors which is for 13 years and Chairman for 4 years.
He was based in Denver, Colorado and advises the Gates also non-executive Chairman of NEXT Group plc family on its interest in the Groups perpetual from 1998 until May 2002. preference shares.
