C. Sir Victor Blank 61 Board of directors Chairman Sir Victor joined the Board in 1999 having been Chairman of Mirror Group since July 1998.
Having originally qualified as a solicitor Sir Victor became a partner at Clifford Turner now A. Sly Bailey 42 Clifford Chance as Head of Corporate Finance.
In 1981 he Chief Executive joined the merchant bank Charterhouse as head of Corporate Sly joined the Board in February 2003.
She started her media Finance, subsequently becoming Chief Executive and career in advertising sales at the Guardian and then the Chairman.
He is currently the Chairman of GUS plc and has Independent.
She joined IPC Media Limited in 1989 as Head of previously held a number of non-executive board positions.
Classified Advertising Sales and joined their Board in 1994 as Advertising Director.
She was appointed Managing Director of He serves on the Council of Oxford University and is Chairman IPC tx, the TV Listings Division, in 1997.
She was appointed of the Industrial Development Advisory Board of the charity Chief Executive of IPC Media Limited in December 1999 and WellBeing.
He is a member of the Financial Reporting Council.
subsequently led the sale of the business to AOL Time Warner.
She was previously a non-executive director of Littlewoods Plc.
D. Sir Angus Grossart 66 Non-Executive Director Sir Angus joined the Board in September 1999 having previously B. Peter Birch CBE 66 been a director of Mirror Group since 1998.
Having qualified as Senior Independent Director both a chartered accountant and advocate, he practised for Peter joined the Board in March 1998 and was Chairman of some years at the Scottish bar.
He founded and now chairs the Trinity until September 1999.
He started his commercial career merchant bank Noble Grossart.
He is vice chairman of The at Nestle and then moved to Gillette, eventually becoming Royal Bank of Scotland Plc and a director of Scottish and Managing Director, Gillette UK.
He then joined the Abbey Newcastle Plc.
He is a former Chairman of the National Galleries National where he served as Chief Executive between 1984 and of Scotland and is a Trustee of the National Heritage Memorial 1998.
He is currently Chairman of Land Securities Plc and Fund.
He has been a director of a wide range of public Kensington Group Plc.
He is also a director of NM Rothschild & companies in the UK, Canada and the United States, involved in Sons Limited, Travelex Plc, Sainsburys Bank plc and Dah Sing investments, insurance, property, media and other sectors.
AB D CE Trinity Mirror plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2003 | Page 32 33 E. Penny Hughes 44 H Non-Executive Director Penny joined the Board in September 1999 having been a director of Mirror Group since 1997.
Penny started her career at Procter & Gamble and the Milk Marketing Board before joining Coca Cola where she rose to be President of Coca Cola Great Britain and Ireland.
She currently serves as a non-executive director on the Board of Vodafone Group and has an international career serving on both the Board of Skandiaviska Enskilda Banken and The Gap Inc. She was formerly the Chairman of web angel Plc and has served on the Board of Next Plc, Beresford Plc and The Body Shop International Plc.
Penny has particular expertise in marketing and has developed experience in many human resource areas including leadership development, motivation and retention.
FG I J F. David Marlow 68 H. Stephen Parker 51 Non-Executive Director Managing Director, Regional Newspapers David joined the Board in 1992.
Originally qualified as a chartered Stephen joined the Board in 1993.
He holds a PhD in organic accountant, he served with 3i between 1960 and 1992 and chemistry.
He first worked in newspapers in circulation and became Chief Executive.
He was previously a director of Brixton marketing for Thomson Regional Newspapers in 1982 and Plc, Brunner Mond Holdings Plc, and Chairman of Deutschland joined Trinity in 1985.
Subsequently he has held a number of Investment Corporation Inc.
He is a member of the Solicitors senior positions in the company including Managing Director of Disciplinary Tribunal and a former member of the South Bank the Newcastle Chronicle and Journal, Managing Director of the Board and of the council of King Edward VII Hospital, Midhurst.
Liverpool Daily Post & Echo and Executive Director Regional Newspapers.
He was appointed to his current position in September 2000.
G. David Ross 38 Non-Executive Director I. Vijay Vaghela 37 David joined the Board in February 2004.
He qualified as a Group Finance Director chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen & Co.
He Vijay qualified as a chartered accountant and worked in private co-founded and is currently Deputy Chairman of The Carphone practice with Deloitte.
He joined Mirror Group in 1994 as Internal Warehouse, Europes leading mobile communication retailer.
He was subsequently Group Treasurer and then Director took a lead role with The Carphone Warehouse IPO in July 2000 of Accounting and Treasury.
He was appointed Group Finance and has been responsible for developing that company in Europe Director in May 2003. through the organisation and restructure of a series of major acquisitions including the acquisition of Tandy in the UK.
He holds J. Paul Vickers 43 non-executive directorships at National Express Group Plc, Secretary and Group Legal Director Wembley National Stadium Limited and Big Yellow Self Storage Paul joined the Board in September 1999 having been a Plc and is a council member of Sports England.
director of Mirror Group since 1994.
He originally qualified as a barrister and was in private practice at the bar.
He was legal manager of the London Daily News which he left to join the breakfast television company TV-am where he eventually rose to become Assistant Managing Director.
He was previously a non-executive director of Virgin Radio.
