Nationals division The Nationals division, incorporating the UK and Scottish The combination of these changes and closer co-operation Nationals, has undergone significant changes in focus and between all operations in the UK and Scottish Nationals means direction in 2003. the division is better positioned to improve performance.
The Chief Executives Review highlighted the need for the This, coupled with benefits driven by the Groupwide division to focus on strengthening its core publishing skills, transformation programme Stabilise Revitalise Grow, will and develop a greater understanding of its customers, both ensure the titles are actively managed as a portfolio, delivering readers and advertisers.
strong cash flows through a sustained focus on innovation and effective cost management.
Clarity of publishing strategy across the portfolio, coupled with improvements to product content and quality, marketing, UK Nationals availability through the supply chain and advertising sales were During the year, the editorial proposition and strategic each identified as key levers to an improved performance of development of the three UK Nationals has been substantially both the top and bottom line.
Following the review, the Nationals senior management team The most significant changes were implemented on the Daily has been substantially restructured with a number of key Mirror, which had been pursuing a more serious news agenda and management changes: a strategy to increase frequency of purchase through cover price the Editors of the three UK Nationals now report directly to cuts.
The price cutting strategy for the Daily Mirror ceased on the Chief Executive 31 March 2003 and the full Monday to Friday cover price of 32p Ellis Watson has been appointed General Manager of the was reinstated.
In addition the editorial proposition of the title has Nationals division, directly overseeing the commercial areas moved to a focus on what matters to readers delivered through of the business circulation, advertising and marketing seriously good popular journalism.
a new Director of Advertising has been appointed for UK Nationals, reporting to the General Manager Numerous other changes have been made to improve new editors appointed at the Daily Record and The People.
performance through better publishing of core products and tighter management of the cost base: A Nationals portfolio strategy has now been developed, with a substantial revamp of the Daily Mirrors Saturday package.
clear consumer propositions and market positions for each title, Both The Look, an improved newsprint product, and the reflected in content, tone, marketing and pricing.
expensive glossy M magazine have been discontinued and replaced by glossy TV listings magazine We Love Telly!
The regular and disciplined use of consumer research has also and a new football-focused section FC.
In addition to better been introduced to inform publishing and editorial decisions serving our readers these changes contributed to significant and refine and evolve reader appeal.
cost savings A Nationals portfolio strategy has now been developed, with clear consumer propositions and market positions for each title.
Trinity Mirror plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2003 | Page 22 23 in January 2004, the Daily Mirror replaced its Saturday racing The paper has embarked on a period of change in terms of pullout The Winner with a Racing Post Extra pullout drawing design, content and tone of voice: upon the best-in-class Racing Post brand and expertise We love Telly!
content re-branded as TV Record and the Scottish edition of the Daily Mirror increased its Monday incorporated into the Daily Record Saturday package, to Friday cover price to 30p on 29 December 2003, the third highlighting the benefit of closer co-operation between cover price increase during 2003, with the Saturday price businesses.
Launched in September, TV Record provides increased by 5p to 40p.
This reflects our portfolio a more robust advertising platform management strategy in Scotland.
a regionalised sports section Sportsweek was launched in August, in order to capitalise on the growing consumer In the Sunday market a lack of focused portfolio management appetite for local sports coverage.
The 16-page colour had resulted in the Sunday Mirror and The People competing supplement covers a wide array of local sports across four against each other for readers.
During 2003, changes were geographic regions made to differentiate the titles to minimise competition between a new Entertainments section, The Razz has been them.
launched with the objective of lowering the age profile of since the appointment of a new editor at The People in the Daily Record.
In parallel five new columnists have joined March, the circulation of both the Sunday Mirror and The the paper and a new Business section has been launched People has remained at approximately 1.6m and 1.1m the implementation of the portfolio management strategy respectively also benefited the Daily Record, allowing it to piggyback in addition to 5p cover price increases made in 2003, cover several of the Daily Mirrors promotions in a more prices have been increased by 5p to 75p for The People creative way.
and by 10p to 80p for the Sunday Mirror in January 2004 these increases coincided with a new Homes and Holidays During the year, there has also been a detailed examination of supplement for the Sunday Mirror, and an improved glossy the economic contribution of each element of the publishing supplement for The People, Take it Easy, both launched in mix.
The conclusions led to the closure of the Vital supplement January 2004.
With distinct editorial content, both in the Daily Record, as well as the monthly entertainment and supplements are designed to improve reader value sports magazines in the Sunday Mail.
and advertiser appeal, as well as to minimise competition between the titles through clear differentiation.
Simultaneously, cost savings generated through cessation of non-contributing supplements in the Sunday Mail were Scottish Nationals reinvested in increasing the pagination of the Sunday Mails Seven Days magazine.
Our Scottish titles operate in an extremely competitive market.
During the year an end to price cutting by the UK Nationals As the Sunday Mail accelerates its differentiation from the rest coupled with an increased focus on Scottish editorial have of the market, we are confident that the 10p increase in cover started to stabilise the performance of the Record, which had price from January 2004, combined with further editorial been undoubtedly adversely affected by the lack of attention in improvements and upweighted marketing support, will produce these areas.
A new Editor, Bruce Waddell, joined the Daily Record from the Review of financial performance Scottish Sun in September 2003.
Making the title more contemporary and in tune with a modern Scotland has been The turnover and operating profit of the Groups Nationals his major editorial focus.
Since his appointment the circulation division is as follows: performance has shown signs of improvement.
Operating profit The Nationals division achieved operating The UK Nationals circulation revenue increased by 0.9% to profit growth of 8.2 million from 77.6 million to 85.8 million, 207.8 million 2002: 205.9 million.
An increase in cover despite difficult advertising conditions which contributed to total prices for the Daily Mirror to 32p same level as before the revenues falling by 1.8 million from 494.0 million to 492.2 price-cutting activity commenced reduced the cost of cover million.
Whilst the impact of difficult advertising conditions was price activity to 6.9 million from 21.8 million in 2002.
In partially offset by the restoration to full cover price for the Daily addition, as part of the proactive portfolio management agenda, Mirror in England and Wales, a competitive market driven by the cover price of the Monday to Friday Scottish Daily Mirror substantial promotional activity resulted in disappointing was increased in 5p steps from 10p in April 2002 to its full circulation performance which reduced the impact of the cover price of 30p on Monday 29 December 2003.
coupled with cover price increases for both Sunday titles, offset the impact of circulation volume declines for all three titles.
Tight management of the cost base and a reduction in newsprint prices contributed to the division improving operating The Daily Mirror circulation volume over the 12-month period fell margins by 1.7% from 15.7% to 17.4%.
Operating margins by 7.2% 3.4% fall in 2002.
Excluding sampling, which was for the UK Nationals improved by 2.2% to 15.7% and for the discontinued from May 2002, circulation fell by 6.8% 2.0% fall Scottish Nationals by 0.2% to 23.6%.
The disappointing circulation performance reflects the impact of a significant fall in circulation volumes following the reCirculation revenue increased by 0.5% from 260.7 million instatement of the Monday to Friday cover price from 20p to to 261.9 million.
The increase is after price-cutting activity at 32p on 31 March 2003 in the Southern regions.
a cost of 8.0 million 2002: 23.5 million, including 6.9 million 2002: 21.8 million for the Daily Mirror.
Whilst some of the In April 2003 the circulation of the Daily Mirror fell to 1,929,000 benefit of the increased revenue drove the operating profit of copies, which represented one of the worst month-on-month the division, a substantial element has been redirected to performances experienced by the title in recent history.
However, marketing spend, which was significantly reduced during the since April, circulation of the title has remained above 1.9 million.
This reflects the gradual change in editorial tone over the period towards seriously good popular journalism rather than one of serious news.
A combination of strong editorial exclusives Tony Martin, Paul Burrell, Buckingham Palace security, better marketing and a revamped Saturday package including the We Love Telly magazine have helped this performance.
Trinity Mirror plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2003 | Page 24 25 The Sunday Mirror and The People continued to operate in a Advertising revenue Volatile advertising conditions in the competitive and difficult market, the year-on-year circulation sales National newspaper market, coupled with strong growth in the performance being partially distorted by the annualised impact third quarter of 2002 and the closure in August 2003 of the of the Daily Star Sunday which launched in September 2002.
Daily Mirrors M magazine on Saturday, contributed to advertising revenues falling by 2.1% for the Nationals division.
The Sunday Mirror circulation volumes over the 12 month period fell by 7.4% 2002: 4.8% fall.
Excluding sampling from For the three UK titles flat advertising revenues for the first half the comparative year discontinued from May 2002 circulation have been offset by declines of 3.1% in the second half fell by 6.9% 3.2% fall in 2002.
Circulation since April 2003 has contributing to a decline of 1.5% for the year 2002: 4.4% fall.
remained an average of 1.6 million.
Adjusting for the impact of closing M magazine from August 2003 the underlying decline in advertising revenues for the UK The People circulation volumes over the 12 month period fell by Nationals was 0.6%.
A mixed performance in the second half 14.4% 2002: 7.8% fall.
Excluding sampling from the saw advertising revenues fall by 7.2% 6.2% adjusted for M comparative year discontinued from May 2002 circulation fell magazine in the third quarter and increase by 0.7% 3.3% by 13.8% 6.5% fall in 2002.
The circulation of The People has adjusted for M magazine in the final quarter.
remained at approximately 1.1 million since April 2003.
Core Display, our key area of advertising, achieved year-on-year The Scottish Nationals circulation revenue fell by 1.3% to growth of 3.4%, with the final quarter showing growth of 7.9%, 54.1 million 2002: 54.8million.
An increase in cover prices driven by Retail and Telecomms.
for the Sunday Mail of 5p in January 2003 and the Saturday edition of the Daily Record of 5p in March 2003 partially offset Despite an improving trend which emerged in the last quarter, the impact of reduced circulation volumes for both the Daily with strong growth in Retail, it is too early to determine a longer Record and the Sunday Mail.
term trend given the volatility experienced during 2003.
The Daily Record circulation volume over the 12 month period In Scotland, a significant fall in advertising revenues in the third fell by 7.9% 7.7% in 2002 with the underlying Scottish sale quarter of 9.8% contributed to full year revenues falling by falling by 6.4% 5.8% fall in 2002.
In line with the UK Nationals, an improving performance has been adversely impacted by the decision to reduce has emerged in the fourth quarter with advertising revenues sampling and foreign sales.
The circulation performance reflects improving by 1.0%.
Whilst national advertising finished the year the highly competitive price-driven market within which the Daily strongly, in particular Retail, Recruitment and Motors advertising Record operates.
During the year there was significant cover were the primary reasons for the volatility of advertising during price discounting by competitor titles including the Daily Mirror: the year.
the Daily Mirror has ceased discounting in the region.
The underlying performance of the Daily Record has seen a marked Other revenues for the Nationals division increased by 2.8% improvement during the last quarter with underlying ABC being from 39.1 million to 40.2 million, with an increase of 6.4% for 5.5% below 2002, reflecting the best year-on-year performance the UK Nationals partially offset by a 23.4% decline for the since the first quarter of 2002.
The most significant items of other revenue are contract printing and distribution services to other publishers, Although there was price activity in the Sunday market it did sponsorship, reader offers, telephone revenues and events.
not have a significant impact on the circulation of the Sunday The increase for the UK Nationals has been predominantly Mail.
As with the Daily Record, the headline ABC was affected driven by increases in contract print revenues of 15.7% and by reducing foreign and sampling sales.
In 2003 the underlying sponsorship of 18.5%.
The fall in other revenues for the Scottish Scottish sale of the Sunday Mail was down 4.6% 3.8% fall Nationals was driven by a change to the structure of some of in 2002. the events business to a management fee basis in 2003.
During 2003, the UK and Scottish Nationals achieved incremental cost savings of 4.6 million and 1.1 million respectively.
This includes cost savings as part of the Chief Executives Review of 2.2 million and 0.2 million respectively.
