The Executive Committee Steve Addley Tony Pusey Director of Human Resources Group Information Technology Director Steve became Director of Human Resources in January 2000.
Tony was appointed Group IT Director in December 2000.
Prior He was formerly Director of HR at Trinity and before that to joining Trinity Mirror he was Group ICO and Business Change Personnel Director at Thomson Regional Newspapers.
Director at Storehouse plc which incorporates BHS and Mothercare.
Sly Bailey Chief Executive Vijay Vaghela Sly joined the Board in February 2003.
She started her media Group Finance Director career in advertising sales at the Guardian and then the Vijay qualified as a chartered accountant and worked in private Independent.
She joined IPC Media Limited in 1989 as Head of practice with Deloitte.
He joined Mirror Group in 1994 as Classified Advertising Sales and joined their Board in 1994 as Internal Auditor.
He was subsequently Group Treasurer and then Advertising Director.
She was appointed Managing Director of Director of Accounting and Treasury.
He was appointed Group IPC tx, the TV Listings Division, in 1997.
She was appointed Finance Director in May 2003.
Chief Executive of IPC Media Limited in December 1999 and subsequently led the sale of the business to AOL Time Warner.
Paul Vickers She was previously a non-executive director of Littlewoods Plc.
Secretary and Group Legal Director Paul joined the Board in September 1999 having been a Humphrey Cobbold director of Mirror Group since 1994.
He originally qualified as a Director of Strategic Development barrister and was in private practice at the bar.
He was legal Humphrey joined Trinity Mirror as Director of Strategic manager of the London Daily News which he left to join the Development in July 2003.
He has responsibility for strategy breakfast television company TV-am where he eventually rose and manages three of the Groups specific businesses Sports, to become Assistant Managing Director.
He was previously a Arrow Interactive and Magazines & Exhibitions.
Prior to joining non-executive director of Virgin Radio.
Trinity Mirror, Humphrey had been a partner at management consulting firm McKinsey & Co. for six years.
Ellis Watson General Manager, National Division Nick Fullagar Ellis joined Trinity Mirror as General Manager of UK Nationals Director of Corporate Communications in May 2003.
Previously Ellis was Managing Director of Celador Nick joined Mirror Group as a reporter for the Daily Mirror in International.
Before this he spent 10 years with News 1980.
He is responsible for Group communications including International where, for the majority of the time, he was investor and public relations.
He was appointed to the Marketing Director for the tabloid newspapers.
Stephen Parker Managing Director, Regional Newspapers Stephen joined the Board in 1993.
He holds a PhD in organic chemistry.
He first worked in newspapers in circulation and marketing for Thomson Regional Newspapers in 1982 and joined Trinity in 1985.
Subsequently he has held a number of senior positions in the company including Managing Director of the Newcastle Chronicle and Journal, Managing Director of the Liverpool Daily Post & Echo and Executive Director Regional Newspapers.
He was appointed to his current position in September 2000.
Trinity Mirror plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2003 | Page 34 35 From L to R Tony Pusey Sly Bailey Nick Fullagar From L to R Humphrey Cobbold Stephen Parker Steve Addley From L to R Vijay Vaghela Paul Vickers Ellis Watson
