2 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Celebrating 40 years of We try harder.
Forty years ago, Avis launched a bold new advertising campaign, Were only No.
which has become one of the ten most famous advertising campaigns of all time.
is embedded as the true spirit of Avis.
Both staff and customers helped to celebrate the 40th anniversary with a range of challenges to identify how car rental and customer needs have changed since 1963 and what more can be done to ensure the way we serve our customers continues to be a major point of differentiation.
In 2003 Avis won a further 10 awards for service excellence and innovation.
embodies Avis commitment to customer satisfaction and also ensures continuous improvement in everything we do.
: To get it right To create a positive experience To exceed peoples needs Worldwide celebrations Avis China joined staff from around the world to celebrate the first annual We try harder.
Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 3 As part of our continuing investment office activities being consolidated administration in Avis European in technology, we are implementing into a new shared service centre, operations.
a major finance and IT restructuring which opened in Budapest in project to create a flexible platform January 2004.
Budapest was chosen as the location for the future growth and development because of the availability of strong of the Avis Group.
Country financial The new shared service centre is part financial, technical and language skills, systems in Avis European operations of an overall 78 million investment in addition to high quality infrastructure are being replaced with a PeopleSoft programme that provides essential and geographic proximity to our ERP platform, with a range of backsupport functions for finance, IT and European operations.
Istvan Cfillag, Hungarian Minister for the Economy Pictured far right, Gyula Bognar, proprietor of and Shared service centre employees support country and Transport, opened the centre in January 2004.
Managing Director for Avis Hungary is part of Avis finance teams across our European operations.
long and successful history in Eastern Europe.
Investment in technology To deliver operational efficiencies and margin improvement.
4 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Partnership with General Motors Strong growth in partnership activity In 2003 we strengthened our Our partnerships with over 70 airlines, longstanding relationship with General hotel groups and rail networks contributed Motors with the signing of a five-year to brand leadership and sales growth.
This agreement includes In 2003 we benefited from 13 new or strategic joint marketing initiatives enhanced partnerships including British and brand awareness programmes Airways, Eurostar, KLM and flybe.
throughout the Avis business in Europe.
It also provides for the supply of 350,000 vehicles, as well as over70 partnerships combined remarketing programmes and shared cost savings from fleet initiatives.
Brand leadership continues to be enhanced through extensive and innovative relationships with travel suppliers and partners.
Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 5 Budget acquisition predominately franchise businesses In the longer term the acquisition provides In March 2003 Avis completed the with corporate operations in Austria and opportunities for network expansion acquisition of certain assets of Budget Switzerland together with a small number particularly in Southern Europe, where including the rights to use the trademark of locations in France and the UK.
the brand currently has only a limited and name in Europe, Africa and the presence.
The business will also benefit During 2004 the Group will focus on Middle East.
from economies of scale as the existing strengthening and integrating the systems infrastructure is simplified existing Budget network and rebuilding Budget currently operates in 65 countries and joint fleet purchasing service and the rental systems.
These are support functions are implemented.
Growth opportunities for the Group were enhanced by the acquisition of the licence to the Budget brand in Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Serving customers through over800 locations in 65 countries
