14 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors Executive Directors Non-executive Directors Alun Cathcart 60 appointed 3 February 1997 Sir Bob Reid 69 appointed 3 February 1997 Interim Chief Executive since November 2003 and Chairman since May 2002 Deputy Chairman since May 2002.
He is Deputy Governor of the Bank of Scotland and Chairman Until 1 January 1999 he was Chairman and Chief Executive of the International Petroleum Exchange and IPE Holdings plc.
He spent 14 years in executive positions in He is a non-executive Director of Siemens plc and The Merchants the transportation industry before joining Avis Europe in 1980, Trust plc.
He is also Chancellor of the Robert Gordon University.
and became Chief Executive in 1983.
He is the non-executive He was formerly Chairman of British Rail, Shell UK, Sears plc and Chairman of The Rank Group, as well as Deputy Chairman of British Borneo Oil and Gas plc.
He is also a Director of Tikkun UK Limited.
Jean-Pierre Bizet 56 appointed 29 October 2002 Lesley Colyer 51 appointed 18 April 2002 He was appointed a non-executive Director of the Board in October Group Personnel & Corporate Affairs Director since April 2002 2002.
He is Group Executive Vice President of DIeteren s. a.
She joined Avis Europe in April 1977 and held a variety of positions before being appointed Director of Personnel in 1990.
Roland DIeteren 62 appointed 3 February 1997 She assumed her current responsibilities at flotation in 1997.
Prior He is President and Chief Executive Officer of s. a. DIeteren n. v. to joining Avis, she worked for the Jaeger Group and Harrods.
and was appointed to this position in 1975.
He joined s. a. DIeteren n. v. in 1971.
He is a non-executive Director of Belron s. a. Martyn Smith 48 appointed 11 September 2002 Group Finance Director since September 2002 Gilbert van Marcke fide Lummen 66 appointed 3 February 1997 He joined Avis Europe from John Menzies plc where he had held From November 1987 until the sale of the Groups leasing the position of Group Finance Director from 1999.
Prior to joining business he was Group Leasing Director.
He has been employed Menzies, he was Group Financial Controller for Inchcape plc, and by s. a. DIeteren n. v. since 1962, retired in 2002 and is a member previously held a number of financial roles with Inchcape plc and of the Board of s. a. DIeteren n. v. and Managing Director of Rothmans International.
He is a non-executive Director of Belron s. a. Dieter Woitscheck 51 appointed 8 January 2001 Malcolm Miller 48 appointed 2 December 2001 Group Director Business Development, Operations & Fleet He is Chief Executive Officer of Raymarine Group Limited.
He since November 2003 was Chief Executive of Pace Micro Technology plc from 1997 He joined Avis Group as Marketing and Sales Director in 1989 to 2002, and was formerly Chief Executive, Europe for Sega.
His and was appointed Managing Director of the German business earlier career was with Amstrad PLC, culminating in appointment in April 1993.
Prior to joining Avis, he held a number of Marketing as Managing Director.
and Sales positions including five years with Procter & Gamble and three years as International Marketing Director within the Axel von Ruedorffer 61 appointed 27 June 2001 Freudenberg Group.
He is a non-executive Director of Europlex BV.
From 1984 to 2002 he was a member of the Board of Managing Directors of Commerzbank AG, having joined the bank in 1967 and was responsible for Accounting and Taxes, Compliance, Financial Control and Internal Audit.
He is a non-executive Director of a number of companies, including Audi,  and Mediobanca.
Kevin M Sheehan 50 appointed 26 February 2004 He is Chairman and Chief Executive of the Vehicle Services Division of Cendant Corporation formerly HFS, Incorporated having previously served as Chief Financial Officer of Cendant.
Before joining Cendant, he was President of Avis Holdings, Inc. and prior to that was a senior Vice President of HFS, Incorporated.
He has over 20 years of financial experience encompassing financial management and strategy, and previously worked for STT Video Partners, Reliance Group and Deloitte & Touche.
Member of the Remuneration and Appointments Committee Member of the Audit Committee Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 15 Corporate Governance Code principles The other non-executive Directors comprise Kevin M Sheehan, Introduction a senior executive of Cendant Corporation, which licences the This report describes how the corporate governance principles Avis and Budget trademarks and operating systems to the set out in the Combined Code issued by the Hampel Committee Avis Group, and a former executive Director of the Company, on Corporate Governance are applied by the Company to Gilbert van Marcke fide Lummen.
Since 1998 the Board has provide leadership and set the strategic aims of the Company, adopted a policy that, notwithstanding the provisions of the and to ensure a framework of prudent and effective controls Articles of Association, all Directors should stand for re-election enabling the assessment and management of risk.
at the Annual General Meeting at least every three years.
The Board has carried out an initial review of the new The Company considers that the non-executive component of Combined Code which will apply from the next financial year, the Board, which includes Directors from organisations with and has taken a number of immediate steps to comply with which Avis Europe has clear commonality, provides an effective new Code requirements.
The Company plans to carry out a Board with a strong mix of industry-specific knowledge and detailed review of its Board and management committee general commercial experience.
This balance enables the structure and other governance mechanisms during 2004 Board collectively to provide clear and effective leadership of following the recently announced appointment of the new the Company, to bring informed and independent judgement Chief Executive, who will join the Company in March 2004. to all aspects of the Companys strategic development and performance and to set the highest values and standards Board of Directors within the Company.
Commencing in 2004, the Chairman and The Directors of the Company during the period 1 January the non-executive Directors meet alone at least once annually 2003 to 26 February 2004 are listed below: in order to facilitate the non-executive Directors contribution Jean-Pierre Bizet to the development of strategy and effective scrutiny of Alun Cathcart Interim Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman management performance.
The Company did not have a John Chidsey resigned 20 February 2003 nominated Senior Independent Director during the period Lesley Colyer to 26 February 2004 as it has regarded the Chairman as an Roland DIeteren independent non-executive Director.
This will be reviewed Stephen P Holmes resigned 26 February 2004 as part of the detailed review of governance to be carried Gilbert van Marcke fide Lummen out during 2004 referred to above.
Mark McCafferty resigned 1 November 2003 Malcolm Miller The Board meets a minimum of five times each year and Sir Bob Reid Chairman more frequently when business needs require.
In addition to Dr Axel von Ruedorffer the five scheduled Board meetings in 2003, there were four Kevin M Sheehan appointed 26 February 2004 ad hoc Board meetings.
All Directors attended all scheduled Martyn Smith Board meetings, except that Jean-Pierre Bizet and Stephen Dieter Woitscheck Holmes each missed one meeting.
The ad hoc meetings were all attended by all Directors, except that due to other Kevin M Sheehan was appointed as a non-executive Director commitments Alun Cathcart, John Chidsey, Dr Axel von on 26 February 2004.
Ruedorffer and Martyn Smith each had to miss one meeting and Stephen Holmes had to miss two meetings.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Kevin M Sheehan will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate being eligible, will stand for re-election.
Alun Cathcart, Gilbert and their respective roles are defined in writing and approved van Marcke fide Lummen and Dieter Woitscheck retire by by the Board.
The Chairmans responsibilities include the rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, effective leadership and running of the Board, facilitating being eligible, will stand for re-election.
the contribution of the non-executive Directors and ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
As at 26 February 2004 the Board of Directors comprises four executive Directors, the Chairman and a further six nonThe Company is also announcing a number of changes to executive Directors.
The Company has regarded the Chairman the Board which will take effect later this year.
Sir Bob Reid as independent although it is recognised that this will no longer will retire as Chairman at the conclusion of the forthcoming be the case in any circumstances under the new Combined Annual General Meeting when he will have attained the age Code.
The non-executive Directors include two Directors of 70.
The Board proposes the appointment of Alun Cathcart who have no other association with Avis Europe plc and are as non-executive Chairman following Sir Bob Reids therefore regarded as independent, being Malcolm Miller and retirement.
While it is recognised that this appointment is not Dr Axel von Ruedorffer.
A further two of the non-executive in line with the recommendation of the new Combined Code Directors, Roland DIeteren and Jean-Pierre Bizet in addition that the Chairman should be independent upon appointment, to one executive Director, currently Alun Cathcart, are the Board considers that Alun Cathcart is particularly well appointed by s. a. DIeteren n. v. which has a shareholding equipped for this role and that the appointment complements of 59.6% in the Company.
The obligations of the Directors the skills of the Board as a whole.
He has significant industry appointed by s. a. DIeteren n. v. and of s. a. DIeteren n. v. experience together with successful chairmanship of two as a shareholder, are set out in a Relationship Agreement major companies, Selfridges plc and The Rank Group.
entered into at flotation in 1997.
These include an obligation He stepped down from his appointment with Selfridges plc for the DIeteren appointed Directors to exercise their voting at the end of November 2003.
He has relinquished his rights so as to maintain the independence of the Board as executive role with s. a. DIeteren n. v. and upon taking up required by the Listing Rules, thus ensuring that all Directors the role of Chairman will no longer be a DIeteren appointee take decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
Jean-Pierre Bizet, 16 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Governance currently a non-executive Director of the Company, will 2003, whereupon Jean-Pierre Bizet was appointed to the be appointed executive Deputy Chairman in succession to Committee.
There were no other changes in the composition Alun Cathcart, and in line with the Relationship Agreement of the Committee during the year.
The Audit Committee met with s. a. DIeteren n. v. referred to above.
The Board will three times during 2003 and all members attended all meetings.
appoint an additional non-executive Director to enhance the balance of non-executive representation on the Board.
In accordance with the new Combined Code, the Audit Committee plans to introduce new processes in 2004 for To enable the Board to function effectively, full and timely access assessing the effectiveness of the internal audit function and is given to all relevant information.
The Board retains powers of the external auditors.
Similarly, the Board plans to implement decision on all matters of strategy, together with all significant a new process for assessing the effectiveness of the Audit commercial issues, including acquisitions and investments Committee itself.
subject to limited delegation of authority within specified criteria and all capital expenditure in excess of a specified level.
The Company has issued a code of conduct for UK employees All delegated authorities are clearly documented and widely to ensure compliance with the Public Interest Disclosure communicated via senior management.
The Company Secretary Act 1998 and will roll this out across the Group during 2004. is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, The code of conduct provides a secure framework in which and all Directors have access to the Company Secretary employees can raise concerns about possible issues in whenever they require.
In the event that any Director wishes financial reporting and other areas.
Arrangements are in to take independent professional advice on any point arising place for appropriate investigation and follow-up action.
in connection with the exercise of their duties, in accordance with written procedure the Company Secretary will arrange Updated terms of reference for the Audit Committee have this at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary may recently been approved by the Board to align the duties of only be removed by a resolution of the Board of Directors.
the Committee with the requirements of the new Combined Code.
The revised terms of reference are available on The Company is planning to review and enhance its existing www.
The structure of the Committee will procedures regarding the induction programme for newly be considered as part of the overall review of the Companys appointed Directors and ongoing update and training for all governance arrangements during 2004 referred to above.
members of the Board during 2004 in the light of the new Combined Code.
The Remuneration and Appointments Committee determines the Groups policy on remuneration of senior The Chairman has agreed with the Board an annual process executives, appointment of Directors and key executives to review the effectiveness of the Board, its constituent and major organisational changes, and is responsible for members and its Committees.
This process is based on all the structure and monitoring of the Groups bonus and Directors completing a structured questionnaire provided share incentive schemes.
Analysis of the responses will be used to develop process changes as appropriate and will be reported The members of the Remuneration and Appointments on in the next Annual Report.
Committee as at 1 January 2003 were Sir Bob Reid Chairman, Roland DIeteren, Malcolm Miller and Dr Axel von Ruedorffer.
Details of all Directors remuneration and service contracts There were no changes in the composition of the Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 19 to 25. during the year.
The Company recognises that Roland DIeteren is not regarded as an independent non-executive Director but Board Committees considers it essential that s. a. DIeteren n. v. as the majority The Board Committees in place during 2003 were the Audit shareholder of the Company, is represented on the Committee.
Committee and the Remuneration and Appointments Committee.
As President of s. a. DIeteren n. v. Roland DIeteren abstains from discussion and voting on the remuneration of any The Audit Committees primary tasks are to receive reports Directors appointed by s. a. DIeteren n. v. pursuant to the from and review the scope of external and internal audit.
The Remuneration and Appointments Committee reviews the preliminary results, interim information Committee met four times during 2003 and all Committee and annual financial statements before they are presented to members attended all meetings.
the Board, focusing in particular on accounting policies and compliance, and areas of judgement and the use of estimates.
The Remuneration Report to shareholders appears on The Audit Committee contributes to the Boards review of pages 19 to 25. the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems and processes.
The Committee also Following the introduction of the new Combined Code conducts a review of the remit of the internal audit function, two separate committees, the Remuneration Committee its authority and resources.
The Groups relationship with the and the Nominations Committee, have been established external auditors is monitored by the Committee and a policy to replace the Remuneration and Appointments Committee.
to help ensure audit independence has been adopted.
The terms of reference for each of the new Committees have been approved by the Board and are available on The members of the Audit Committee as at 1 January 2003 www.
At the date of this report, the were Sir Bob Reid Chairman, Alun Cathcart, Malcolm Miller membership of the two new Committees is the same as and Dr Axel von Ruedorffer.
Alun Cathcart remained on that of the Remuneration and Appointments Committee.
the Committee for the purposes of providing continuity The membership of both of the new Committees will be following his change of role to executive Deputy Chairman in considered as part of the planned review of the Companys May 2002 and resigned from the Committee on 28 February governance arrangements during 2004 referred to above.
Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 17 Directors interests The Chief Executive makes a presentation at the Annual Details of Directors interests in the share capital of the General Meeting highlighting key business developments Company are set out below and in the Remuneration Report.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the meeting or leave written questions, Roland DIeteren is President and Chief Executive Officer which will be answered in writing as soon as possible of s. a. DIeteren n. v. and Gilbert van Marcke fide Lummen is afterwards.
A copy of the Chief Executives presentation a non-executive Director of s. a. DIeteren n. v. which holds may be requested at the Annual General Meeting or from 63,609,360 Ordinary shares of 1 pence each in the capital the Corporate Affairs Department of Avis Europe plc.
Roland DIeteren and Gilbert van Marcke The Companys website at www.
com gives fide Lummen are Directors of DIeteren Invest s. a. a wholly access to current and historical information for the Group.
owned subsidiary of s. a. DIeteren n. v. which is the beneficial owner of 285,490,985 Ordinary shares of 1 pence each in Charitable and political donations the capital of the Company.
Details of significant contracts During the year ended 31 December 2003 the Group entered into with s. a. DIeteren n. v. are disclosed below.
The Group made no political Except as noted above, none of the Directors had any donations during the year 2002: nil.
interests in the shares of the Company or in any material contract or arrangement with the Company or any of its Payments to creditors subsidiary undertakings.
Given the number of countries in which the Group operates it is the Groups practice to agree the terms of payment at the Share capital start of business with each supplier, and to pay in accordance The last Annual General Meeting authorised the Company with contractual and other legal obligations.
The Company to purchase up to 58,578,003 of its own ordinary shares.
had no trade creditors at 31 December 2003 2002: nil.
This authority will expire, and is due to be renewed, at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Company has made no Auditors purchase of its own shares during 2003 pursuant to this A resolution to reappoint  LLP as authority.
Details of the share capital of the Company are auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual set out in Note 17 to the Financial Statements.
Substantial shareholdings During 2003  LLP were engaged At 26 February 2004 the Company had been advised of the by the Group for certain non-audit activites, the fees for following notifiable interests in its issued ordinary share capital: which are set out in Note 2 to the Financial Statements.
The nature and scale of this work has been reviewed by the Audit % of issued share capital Committee which is satisfied that there has been no conflict DIeteren Invest s. a.
48.74 with the need for audit independence and objectivity.
s. a. DIeteren n. v. 10.85 Internal control and risk management Franklin Resources, Inc 3.1379 There is an ongoing process in place for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group and this As noted above, an agreement governing the relationship has been in place throughout 2003 and up to the date of between s. a. DIeteren n. v. and the Company was entered into approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
in connection with the Companys flotation in 1997.
It includes restrictions on s. a. DIeteren n. v. s power to appoint Directors The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system and obligations on those Directors to ensure that the majority of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its of the Board is independent of s. a. DIeteren n. v. It also effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage provides that all transactions between the Company and s. a. and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve DIeteren n. v. will be on an arms-length basis.
The Agreement business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not also contains certain anti-dilution rights for s. a. DIeteren n. v. absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
provided that the DIeteren Group owns more than 30% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Internal control environment The system of internal controls includes but is not limited to: During the year, the Group has entered into transactions the clear definition of the organisation structure and the with the DIeteren Group on an arms-length basis with appropriate delegation of authorities to management: respect to the purchase and sale of vehicles and the strategic planning and the related annual budgeting and provision of finance.
Further details of these transactions quarterly review process: are set out in Note 27 to the Financial Statements.
monthly reporting and review of financial results and key performance statistics: Shareholder relations adoption of financial policies to help ensure the consistency, There is regular dialogue with individual institutional integrity and accuracy of the Groups accounting records: shareholders throughout the year and especially after the interim specific treasury policies and the regular reporting and and preliminary results.
Following the recommendations of the review of all significant treasury transactions and financing new Combined Code, and commencing in 2004, the Chairman activities: and will attend the Companys regular results presentations in order procedures for the authorisation of capital expenditure.
to ensure that a balanced understanding of shareholders views is developed and communicated to the Board as a whole.
18 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Governance The Group internal audit function works in partnership with only non-executive Directors, the requirement that a Senior an outsourced provider, KPMG, to provide assurance to the Independent Director be nominated and the recommendation Board that key control risks faced by the Group are identified that all Directors service contracts be for a period of one year and managed.
Its findings are reported to senior management or less.
and to the Audit Committee.
However, the Audit Committee comprised only non-executive By delegation to the Audit Committee, the Board has reviewed Directors from 28 February 2003 onwards.
Following the the effectiveness of the system of internal control through the resignation of Mark McCafferty on 1 November 2003, no following processes: Director has a service contract for a period in excess of one review of internal and external audit plans: year and it is the Companys policy that all new Directors review of any issues that arise from internal and external appointments are on service contracts of one year.
audits together with any additional matters reported by an internal audit review committee: The reasons for non-compliance in each of the relevant areas review of any significant Group risks reported by an internal are explained within the review of the Companys application risk management committee: and of the principles of the Combined Code set out above.
In the discussions with management on any risk areas identified areas of non-compliance the Directors believe that current by management and the internal and external audit processes.
policy is in the best interests of the Company.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of Going concern the Audit Committee meetings to the Board.
In satisfying itself Under company law the Companys Directors are required that sufficient and appropriate work has been performed, the to consider whether it is appropriate to prepare Financial Board as a whole considers the adequacy and scope of the Statements on the basis that the Company and the Group reports it has received from the Audit Committee along with are going concerns.
As part of its normal business practice corroborative evidence where necessary.
the Group prepares annual and longer term plans and in reviewing this information the Companys Directors see no Corporate governance statement reason why the Company and the Group should not remain The Board of Directors confirm that the Company has complied going concerns for the foreseeable future.
Therefore the throughout the financial year with the majority of the provisions Company and the Group continue to adopt the going set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued by the Hampel concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
The exceptions are: the requirement that the majority of non-executive Directors are independent within the terms of the Combined Code, Signed on behalf of the Board the requirement that all members of the Remuneration and Judith Nicholson Appointments Committee are independent non-executive Company Secretary Directors, the requirement that the Audit Committee comprises 26 February 2004 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to and which enable them to ensure that the Financial prepare Financial Statements for each financial period which Statements comply with the Companies Acts 1985. give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the The Directors have general responsibility for taking such profit or loss for the financial period.
steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and The Directors consider that in preparing the Financial other irregularities.
Statements on pages 27 to 55 the Company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and integrity of the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom estimates, and that all accounting standards which they governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial consider to be applicable have been followed.
Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the The Directors are required to prepare Financial Statements on Company keeps accounting records which disclose with the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company that the Company will continue in business.
