1423 VT accounts art 03 06 9 6 03 2:07 pm Page 16 16 VT Group Annual Report 2003 Report of the directors for the year ended 31 March 2003 The directors present their annual report and the audited financial Employment policies statements of the group for the year ended 31 March 2003.
The development of employee involvement in the groups business is kept under regular review and the directors are committed to a.
The business and its management encouraging greater involvement by all employees.
Formal and informal briefing of employees takes place as appropriate.
The Principal activities company has operated UK based savings related share option The principal activities of the group are: arrangements since 1988 and all eligible employees are encouraged to participate: a re-launch of the scheme took place Support services - provision of facilities management and in June 2002.
It is proposed, subject to shareholders approval, training services to Government and Industry to introduce a similar scheme for employees based in the USA: Shipbuilding - designing and building ships and the design and details are contained in a separate circular to shareholders and supply of electronic control systems and engineering products the matter appears as Item 10 in the Notice convening the Annual General Meeting.
Review of the business and future developments Although shipbuilding remains a major activity, other activities are The group takes all reasonable steps to ensure that employment of growing importance to the group and support services now conditions are equal in all respects for both men and women.
account for over 75% of turnover.
The directors are continuing to work to broaden the base of the groups activities by developing The group devotes significant resources to employee training and the existing businesses and through joint ventures, supplemented retraining and this year has spent 2,732,000 2002: 2,494,000 where appropriate by selective acquisitions.
This excludes the cost of on-the-job training which, affecting the group during the year and its prospects for the future whilst substantial, is impractical to quantify.
are evaluated in the Chairmans Statement and in the Chief Executives and Operational and Financial Reviews on pages 2 to 13.
Charitable and political contributions During the year the group contributed 67,000 2002: 69,000 to Directors charitable organisations.
Preference is normally given to charities The names of the current directors together with brief biographical which are local to the groups principal places of business and details are shown on pages 14 and 15. which relate to education, health, community and the arts.
There were no political donations.
At the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Lord Wakeham will retire from the board b. Statutory and other compliance Mr A F Given, Mr D A Thorpe and Mr D Barclay were appointed to Dividend the board on 5 September 2002, 31 January 2003 and 19 May The group profit for the year available to ordinary shareholders after 2003 respectively.
In accordance with the articles of association tax amounted to 2,742,000 2002: 19,323,000. each retires and offers himself for re-appointment.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 6.00p In accordance with the articles of association as amplified by the 2002: 5.55p per ordinary share, amounting to 10,274,000 Corporate Governance Statement set out below, Mr G W Cameron, 2002: 9,454,000 which together with the interim dividend of Mr C J Cundy and Sir Jock Slater retire by rotation.
Being eligible, 2.4p 2002: 2.25p makes a total of 8.4p or 14,367,000 each offers himself for re-appointment.
service contract under which the period of notice to be given by the company will reduce to eighteen months after 30 June 2003 If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 6 August 2003 to and to twelve months after 30 June 2004.
Mr Cameron will retire ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on in January 2004 on reaching normal retirement age.
Research and development Substantial interests in shares The group continued to maintain its levels of research and Details of substantial holdings in the issued ordinary share capital development relating to composite materials, shipbuilding, of the company notified as at 19 May 2003 were: electronic control systems and engineering products.
Number % of of shares total Fixed assets On 28 March 2003, the freehold of the shipyard at Woolston, Fidelity International Limited 17,723,794 10.37 Southampton, was sold for 15 million: details are contained in Deutsche Asset Management 16,229,971 9.50 Note 4.
Isis Asset Management Plc 11,948,889 6.99 Threadneedle Investment Management 11,656,830 6.82 In the opinion of the directors, the market value of the groups Schroder Investment Management Limited 10,990,228 6.43 properties at 31 March 2003 is not significantly different from the Merrill Lynch Investment Managers 8,593,628 5.03 book value shown in the financial statements.
Zurich Financial Services 6,884,867 4.03 Legal & General Investment Management 6,141,439 3.59 Employment of disabled persons Newton Investment Management 6,105,045 3.57 Full and fair consideration is given to employment applications from SLC Asset Management Limited 6,070,009 3.55 disabled persons having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
So far as is practical, arrangements are made to continue the employment of an individual who becomes disabled.
Disabled employees are given fair consideration for training, career development and promotion.
1423 VT accounts art 03 06 9 6 03 2:07 pm Page 17 VT Group Annual Report 2003 17 Change of name Subdivision of share capital Following shareholder approval, the name of the company was By shareholder resolution on 5 July 2002, each ordinary share of changed on 5 July 2002 from Vosper Thornycroft Holdings plc 25p each was subdivided into 5 new ordinary shares of 5p each.
Non-executive directors fees Environmental policy The total authorised annual amount payable in fees to nonThe group is committed to the protection of the natural environment executive directors was last reviewed in 1998 when it was fixed at by reducing discharges to air, land and water wherever possible 150,000.
Changes since then means this limit is no longer and by applying the principles of sustainable development whilst appropriate and it is therefore proposed to increase the authorised maintaining commercial and business effectiveness.
A resolution covering this appears as Item 8 in the Notice convening the Annual General Meeting.
To achieve these aims the group will work towards: applying the principles of integrated pollution prevention and Auditors control to discharges to air, land, and water arising from its In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1995, a resolution business activities for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company applying the best available techniques and where practicable is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the best practicable environmental option methodologies to its business processes through life cycle analysis c. Corporate governance reducing waste at source by preventing unnecessary use and minimising the amount generated.
Where this is not practicable Overview every endeavour will be made to ensure waste will be The board continues to embrace the Principles of Good recovered, reused or recycled Governance and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code managing the consumption of energy in an efficient manner issued by the Financial Services Authority.
The directors believe the through managers attaching particular regard to the board is soundly constituted, and with at least seven full meetings economical use of energy in order to reduce running costs and spread realistically throughout the year, it is well able to exercise emissions as an integral and essential part of their overall adequate control over the activities of the group.
There exists a management responsibilities clear distinction between the role of the non-executive chairman reducing the contribution to global warming by operating a in running the board and that of the chief executive in running the green transport policy companys business: the latter is obliged to adhere to a practical developing an environmental management system in order to schedule which is reviewed at least annually of matters requiring pursue continuous improvement in line with its ISO 9000 ideals, board approval before implementation.
The agenda for each in close connection with enforcing authorities, shareholders, regular board meeting is accompanied by substantial reports neighbours, customers, joint venture partners and all members covering all aspects of the groups business and ad hoc reports are of our supply chain circulated if specific decisions are required between such meetings.
promoting environmental awareness through effective education and training With advice and assistance from Spencer Stuart, three additional non-executive directors have been appointed.
The directors now Overall responsibility for environmental matters rests with the Chief consider that the balance of the board between executive and Executive.
However, the Group HR Director has authority to act on non-executive including independent non-executive directors is all general matters affecting environmental protection.
Each director submits himself for re-election at least once every three years.
All appointments to the board are Policy on payment of commercial debts considered by the nomination committee before being formally The companys policy, in relation to all of its suppliers, is to settle approved by the board and that committee, in its deliberations, has the terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction regard to maintaining a proper balance in the circumstances from provided always that it is satisfied the supplier has provided the time to time.
The committee comprises: Lord Wakeham chairman goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and until 5 September 2002, Mr M Jay chairman from 5 September conditions.
The company does not follow any code or standard on 2002, Mr P J Lester and Sir Jock Slater.
The company secretary payment practice but it is the companys policy, unless otherwise is secretary to this committee.
negotiated, to pay all its suppliers within 45 days of the end of the month in which it receives the goods or services.
Lord Wakeham has been designated as senior independent director: following his retirement, Mr A F Given will assume this position.
The number of days purchases outstanding for payment by the group at the year-end was 38 days.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
Authority to allot shares In accordance with current guidelines, the directors seek authority Directors remuneration is the subject of a separate report.
for a period of five years from the date of the annual general meeting to allot a maximum of 29,114,489 relevant securities.
This The company adopts a pro-active approach to its major represents the outstanding authorised but unissued ordinary shares institutional shareholders, both current and prospective.
Regular and is less than one third of the aggregate of the current issued visits are made to institutions offices within this country and ordinary share capital.
Further, in order to retain some flexibility, the elsewhere and there are frequent reciprocal visits to the companys directors seek the power to allot 8,544,275 equity securities wholly premises, especially at Southampton and Portsmouth.
Resulting for cash other than on a pre-emptive basis to current shareholders from the origins of the present listed company and certain pro rata to their existing holdings.
This amount represents 5% of acquisitions, many private shareholders are also employees.
The the issued ordinary share capital on the balance sheet at 31 March Annual General Meeting will this year be held in Southampton: this 2003.
Resolutions covering the above matters appear as Items 6 is convenient for a significant proportion of employees to attend and 7 in the Notice convening the Annual General Meeting.
and they are actively encouraged to do so.
1423 VT accounts art 03 06 9 6 03 2:07 pm Page 18 18 VT Group Annual Report 2003 Report of the directors Year ended 31 March 2003 The board audit committee comprises Lord Wakeham chairman major tenders are specifically approved by the board and until 5 September 2002, Mr A F Given appointed to the contract performance is regularly reviewed and compared committee and chairman from 5 September 2002, Sir Jock Slater, against estimates drawn up at the time of original tender: Mr D A Thorpe appointed 31 January 2003 and Mr D M Barclay review the external and internal audit work plans.
The finance director and a representative of the external auditors attend by invitation.
Mr P J Lester resigned The groups management operates a risk management process, on 30 June 2002 immediately prior to taking up his executive which identifies the key risks facing each business.
The process is appointment with the group.
The company secretary is secretary to based on each business unit producing a risk register which this committee which meets as required but on no less than two identifies their key risks occurring, their impact if they do occur and occasions each year.
the action being taken to manage those risks to the desired level.
Internal audit independently review the risk identification Compliance procedures and control process implemented by management, The directors consider that the board has complied with the and reports to the audit committee on a quarterly basis.
The audit provisions of good governance set out in Section 1 of the Code of committee review the assurance procedures, ensuring that an Best Practice.
appropriate mix of techniques is used to obtain the level of assurance required by the board.
The audit committee chairman Internal controls presents their findings to the board on a six monthly basis or earlier Following the publication of guidance for directors Internal Control: as appropriate.
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance, the board confirms that there is an ongoing process for Statement of directors responsibilities identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements the group.
The process has been embedded into the fabric of the for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of group and has been in place for the year under review and up to affairs of the company and group and of the profit or loss for that the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are This process is regularly reviewed by the board.
required to: The board is ultimately responsible for the groups system of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness whilst the role of consistently: management is to implement board policies on risk and control.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than prudent: eliminate the risk of failure to the achievement of the business state whether applicable accounting standards have been objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material explained in the financial statements: misstatement or loss.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will A process of control self-assessment and hierarchical reporting has continue in business.
been established which provides for a documented and auditable trail of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across the The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting group operations and provide for successive assurances to be records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure the board.
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are This process is facilitated by internal audit, which also provide a reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and degree of assurance as to the operation and validity of the system to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Internal audit ensure that corrective action is taken to rectify any weaknesses.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation The processes used by the board to review the effectiveness of the that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational system of internal control include the following: existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial annual budgets are prepared for each operating business and statements.
compared with monthly management reporting which focuses on actual performance against these budgets: considers reports from management, internal and external audit of the system of internal controls and any material control weaknesses: By order of the board discusses with management the actions taken on problem areas identified by board members or in the internal external audit reports: policies and procedures for such matters as delegation of authority, capital expenditure and treasury management are P G Dawes regularly updated.
Secretary 19 May 2003 throughout the group the directors ensure the placement of experienced and professional staff of the necessary calibre to discharge their delegated responsibilities:
