1423 VT front art 03 06 9 6 03 2:19 pm Page 12 10 VT Group Annual Report 2003 Operating review HR a wide range of further qualications, Commercial During the past twelve months our new including at degree level.
Additionally, The group commercial organisation comprises businesses have been integrated into the we are establishing a route for existing a small central team with responsibility for VT Group.
This has changed the content employees to gain recognition for their prior maintaining control of bid processes, and composition of VT with differing cultures learning experiences so that they too can conformity with legal and statutory requirements, entering and impacting the business.
We pursue an appropriate level of qualications.
including the appropriate OECD conventions, have commenced a programme to establish We believe the combination of formal and minimising contract risks.
common values and standards across all qualications and diverse work experience our operations.
across the group will provide a strong Each operating division is responsible for foundation for future employment either negotiating its own contracts in accordance As a response to the growth of the group within or outside VT. with group commercial guidelines.
we have also reviewed our management development programmes.
The forthcoming Group commercial has assisted in financial year will see a greater emphasis on negotiating and completing around 1 billion both succession planning and management of new contracts during the financial year.
Major contracts secured include education services, VTs share of the Type 45 destroyer We have invested in a new HR system, contract, fabrication work for a nuclear which will enable all our businesses to treatment plant, re-engining minehunters for operate and report using standard data, the Hellenic Navy, a new 11 year partnering timetables and performance criteria.
This agreement for Fleet Support Limited, will enable us to manage all divisional extensions won by Flagship Training Limited payrolls from our new head ofce site in for Royal Navy and facilities accommodation, Hedge End, Southampton.
The majority of facilities management services won by head ofce staff relocated to these new VT Grifn for the US Fort McCoy army base, ofces at the beginning of December 2002 a re ghting training school in South Wales and the move has been well received by all.
and the provision of new vessels and services for Associated British Ports.
At our annual management conference in March 2003 senior teams from all our Group commercials responsibility has also businesses met and worked on common been extended to include our group issues.
The resulting action plan will be purchasing initiative to improve cash ow regularly reviewed in both the individual and operating profits.
businesses and also at future management communications meetings.
We have conducted an independent health and safety audit across all businesses and as a result we have further improved our processes to reect best practice.
Our participation in the forthcoming CVF programme has provided VT with a unique opportunity to review both skill requirements and our training and development offerings.
Work has begun on our Skills for Life programme.
This will provide new recruits with the opportunity to gain, after first completing a new modern apprenticeship, John Brown HR Director Dick Taylor Group Commercial Director 1423 VT front art 03 06 9 6 03 2:19 pm Page 13 VT Group Annual Report 2003 11 Partnerships VT Partnerships fulls two functions within the group.
It provides the central support for group business development, including communications and marketing.
It also manages VTs shareholding in our two joint ventures with BAE Systems Flagship Training Limited and Fleet Support Limited.
The group business development function was centralised to provide core expertise on mergers and acquisitions, to be responsible for major PPP PFI bids, to co-ordinate group marketing and to lead the corporate strategic planning process.
Rationalisation of these activities has realised significant savings, improved quality and reduced risks.
A new group corporate identity was successfully launched in August 2002.
Both Flagship Training Limited and Fleet Support Limited continue to perform strongly and build upon their reputation for quality delivery.
