1423 VT front art 03 06 9 6 03 2:19 pm Page 8 06 VT Group Annual Report 2003 Operating review UK Defence Support services The UK defence market has remained - at over 40 per cent of turnover - the largest part of our Support services business.
The pattern of strong growth of our Support Flagship Training Limited, one of our two services business has been maintained over joint ventures with BAE Systems and now in its seventh year of operation, continues to the past year.
Turnover has increased by perform strongly.
It has completed the new Navigation Training School project for the 36 per cent to over 400m.
This growth has Royal Navy, a major turnkey project including been balanced across all the main areas of the design and construction of the building, and the provision of training simulators and our Support services activity.
During the year it has continued to grow its business.
It secured was 9 per cent, with the balance achieved three significant export contracts for Brunei, Kuwait and Romania and has built on its through acquisition.
VT Support Services is existing long term relationship with the Royal Navy by securing the right to be prime now focussed on four main areas of activity contractor for all construction projects across the RNs training estate through to 2011. servicing public sector clients.
These are UK In September VT and BAE Systems, bought defence, US defense, communications and out Johnson Controls 26 per cent shareholding in Flagship and now have a education and skills.
50:50 holding in the joint venture.
This will facilitate the use of Flagship as a vehicle for the two companies to expand their naval training activities.
Fleet Support Limited FSL, our second joint venture with BAE Systems, has been awarded a 10 year, 700m partnering contract by the Secretary of State for Defence.
This extends FSLs existing contract to manage the Fleet Maintenance and Repair Organisation at Portsmouth and signicantly increases FSLs capabilities for ship maintenance, facilities management and logistics.
It confirms FSL as a long-term strategic partner to the MoD.
FSLs reputation for timely delivery and competitiveness has been recognised with two significant contract wins.
In December FSL won the contract to repair HMS Nottingham, the Type 42 destroyer damaged off Australia.
In March, it was awarded a contract to ret two former Royal Navy Type 22 frigates - HMS Coventry and HMS London - that have been sold to the Romanian Navy.
Taken together these contracts are worth around 50m and will provide FSL with a Simon Tarrant MD Support services 1423 VT front art 03 06 9 6 03 2:19 pm Page 9 VT Group Annual Report 2003 07 core workload for at least the next year.
VT Merlin has successfully completed the VT Education has developed a significant The increased activities in Portsmouth Naval design and build of a new short and medium business, supplying specialist services in Base will require additional manpower over wave transmission station in Oman for the support of education - including schools the next 18 months reversing decades of BBC World Service.
Work on this contract inspection, training and consultancy, and decline.
There are substantial opportunities started in March 2000 and the station is now facilities, financial and personnel to achieve operational efficiencies between providing a 24 hours broadcast service.
management - to both central and local FSL and VTs shipbuilding activities as the government.
During the year it won a new new shipyard facility at Portsmouth VT Merlin is also a 20% shareholder in the schools inspection contract from OFSTED.
becomes fully operational later in 2003.
Alert JV that won the 30 year PFI contract The contract will commence in September with the Defence Communications Services 2003 and covers the inspection of 185 VT has completed the construction phase Agency DCSA for a new Submarine schools.
OFSTED has a policy of reducing of the Somerset Avon and Gloucester Fire Communications Facility.
VT Merlin is the number of suppliers with the intention Training School PFI on time and to budget.
responsible for the design and build of the that each of those selected undertakes a The school is now fully operational with the facility, and for its operation and maintenance.
Winning this first training courses commencing in April The project is running to programme and contract is therefore a critical step towards 2003.
The project is worth 50m over the budget, with the transmitter station built and VT Education increasing its market share in 25-year concession period.
This is successfully providing this area.
an interim service whilst the receivers, which Our growing involvement in re training with have been fully tested, are installed on the VT Education was also selected in April 2003 both the MoD and Fire Authorities was boosted submarines.
as preferred bidder to partner Surrey County by selection as preferred bidder for a Fire Council for the Surrey School Support Training School PFI to be built in South Wales.
In March VT Merlin was selected as preferred Service.
A final contract is expected to be bidder for the Defence High Frequency agreed in June and to become effective in VT Aerospace is a member of a consortium Communications Service contract, further September.
The initial contract for Surrey tendering for the Aireld Support Services strengthening its relationship with the DCSA.
schools is for a seven-year period and is PPP.
During the year this consortium which The 15 year Public Private Partnership valued at around 100m.
Under the includes LEX and Air BP was shortlisted contract is expected to be nalised in June contract the joint venture company will along with two other bidders.
This opportunity 2003 and will be worth 220m.
Under the provide a range of school improvement is worth over 1bn and covers the provision contract VT Merlin will operate, maintain services.
Success in Surrey provides VT of re ghting, vehicle driving and and enhance the MoDs High Frequency Education with the opportunity to develop a maintenance, and specialist vehicles for all Communications Facilities in the UK and stand-alone business providing quality of the RAF airelds worldwide.
The selection overseas that are used by all three armed services to other schools and local of preferred bidder for this contract is services.
education authorities around the country.
expected during the next financial year.
Education and skills VT Careers Management, our group of US Defense During the year VT has consolidated its companies that provides careers advice and VT Grifn has continued to grow strongly position as a significant player in the UK guidance for young people and adults, is under VT.
It secured a notable contract win education and skills market, an area that is an now fully operational as part of the during the year for the management of Fort important priority for government and which governments new Connexions service.
McCoy, a reservist base in Wisconsin.
The overall has seen substantial increases in funding.
This service is for 13 to 19 year-olds, and five-year contract worth $120m became brings together all the various support effective in January.
This represents the VT Plus Training is the UKs second largest services for young people, including careers largest contract ever let to the private sector private sector provider of vocational, workguidance.
Within local Connexions by the US Department of Defense for base based training with over ten years Partnerships VT Careers Management has maintenance and operation.
Through over 40 regional ofces secured contract renewal for careers now well-placed to exploit the increasing it has a national presence and is responsible services in all eight areas in which it has opportunities that will arise as the DoD for delivering modern apprenticeships for been operating to date.
seeks to extend its outsourcing programme.
It is growing strongly and has expanded its service Communications offering during the course of the year from VTs recent acquisition, VT Merlin, had a training in the hospitality and engineering good year, delivering on current contracts sectors into new vocational areas including and winning important new business.
sport and recreation and residential care.
Above HMS Nottingham undergoing repairs at FSL Portsmouth following damage off the coast of Australia.
Right The Somerset Avon and Gloucester Fire Training School is now fully operational.
