1423 VT front art 03 06 9 6 03 2:19 pm Page 10 08 VT Group Annual Report 2003 Operating review VT has to date spent 41m of its committed Shipbuilding 50m of investment to develop its new Portsmouth Shipbuilding Facility.
It is the first purpose-built shipyard constructed in The year has been one of change and transition Britain for many years and is Europes most advanced naval shipbuilding facility.
The for our Shipbuilding business, with our move new facility will provide two large covered construction halls for unit and ship assembly.
from Woolston to Portsmouth, existing It will also have the latest manufacturing plant and facilities for advanced outtting.
contracts nearing completion, preparation for Its opening this year will mark the start of the start of production on the Type 45 and the a new era for VTs Shipbuilding business.
restructuring of our Marine products business.
The construction programme has proceeded on time and to budget.
At the end of April 2003, the new facility passed its formal Production Readiness Review carried out by BAE Systems, the Type 45 prime contractor, with the involvement of the MoDs Defence Procurement Agency.
This was followed by a commissioning phase prior to the first cutting of steel in mid-May.
In parallel with the commissioning of Portsmouth, the Woolston Shipyard has been sold to the South East England Development Agency.
Nearly half of the Woolston workforce of 1,000 have now completed the transfer to Portsmouth, with the remaining staff scheduled to complete the transfer by September.
VT aim to vacate the Woolston site by the end of the year.
The investment in Portsmouth was made possible by VTs contract to construct and outt major blocks for each of the first six Type 45 destroyers.
Work on trials masts to test the radar systems for the Type 45 is underway.
Production of the Type 45 blocks will start a few months later than originally anticipated in the early autumn.
VT has a strong reputation for delivering ships to its customers on time and to a high standard.
Satisfactory progress has been made through the year with existing contracts.
Under VTs prime contract to supply two Survey Vessels to the MoD, the first vessel, HMS Echo, was successfully Andrew Bunney MD Shipbuilding Terry Madden MD Marine products 1423 VT front art 03 06 9 6 03 2:19 pm Page 11 VT Group Annual Report 2003 09 handed over and commissioned and the programme.
We remain confident of securing has been delivered to Clydeport.
They also second, HMS Enterprise, is about to around 20 per cent of the production hours on won a significant contract from Associated commence sea trials.
the carrier programme, as well as participating British Ports ABP Southampton for the in the design and support activities.
lease and support of pilot and port vessels.
The ground-breaking PFI contract to supply The first new vessels under this scheme are three River Class Offshore Patrol Vessels for VT has launched its Skills for Life initiative to due for delivery in the summer.
the Royal Navy has also passed a number recruit and train the 1,000 additional employees of important milestones.
The First of Class it is likely to need for the carrier programme.
VT announced in March its decision not to vessel, HMS Tyne, has now been accepted This has been designed to equip staff with make any further significant new investments into service: the second, HMS Severn, was skills that go beyond shipbuilding to ensure in Marine products.
This has involved launched in December and is about to start that when the peak requirements of the withdrawing from oil and gas activities, sea trials and the third vessel is due to be carrier have been met, they can apply those closing a number of sites and integrating launched in June 2003. skills elsewhere in the VT Group.
the residual motion and electrical controls businesses into an enlarged Shipbuilding As these contracts near completion On the export front, VT has completed a division.
The reorganisation will be completed VT Shipbuilding has been faced with a significant proportion of its share of the by mid-summer with the closure of two short-term gap in production until the work work as part of the technology transfer deal sites, including its Houston operation and on the Type 45 programme commences.
with the Greek shipyard Elefsis to supply the consequent sale to the Wood Group plc As a consequence the company had to three Super Vita Fast Attack Craft for the of the associated intellectual property in issue a precautionary redundancy notice for Hellenic Navy.
We are currently in April 2003.
The reorganisation is on target up to 160 employees.
In the event the discussion with Elefsis about two follow-on for completion in line with the financial company was able to take steps to mitigate Fast Attack Craft with a potential contract provision made at the half year.
the impact of this notice and to avoid the value to VT of 100m.
In addition, Elefsis need for any compulsory redundancies.
and VT have been solely nominated to Some of its shipbuilding workforce will be submit proposals for a new corvette for the temporarily transferred to its ship ret and Hellenic Navy.
repair joint venture Fleet Support Limited to assist with an increased workload resulting We have a number of other opportunities in from recent contract wins, illustrating one of the export market.
VT has been short-listed the benets of co-location at Portsmouth.
to supply, under a technology transfer deal, Others will commence work on the up to seven patrol vessels of varying sizes construction of the barge required for to the New Zealand Navy and is also bidding transporting Type 45 modules to Scotland to supply three Ocean Patrol Vessels to for assembly.
The balance of 70 staff have Oman.
A preferred bidder is expected to be volunteered to take redundancy.
selected by the end of the year on each of these programmes.
VT Shipbuilding stands to benefit from the announcement by the Secretary of State for The Mirabella V Project to build the worlds Defence in January to place a contract with largest composite sloop-rigged super yacht BAE Systems in partnership with Thales to is moving towards completion.
This has proved design and deliver two new aircraft carriers to be a challenging programme but despite for the Royal Navy.
In this announcement this, the yacht is due to be launched this the Secretary of State indicated his belief summer and delivered by the end of the year.
that the carriers would be built by a combination of four yards including VT at VT Halmatic continue to grow through Portsmouth.
VT is closely involved in contract wins and some acquisitions.
discussions with the BAE Systems Thales During the year they acquired the commercial team about both the level and nature of products of CARA a builder of small work it is best placed to carry out on the composite boats, from which the first product Above Pacic 32 and Arctic 22 patrol boats built by VT Halmatic for the UK Maritime and Coastguard Agency.
Right The new Portsmouth Shipbuilding Facility taking shape, Spring 2003.
