The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Our chosen markets: Across these key markets, Weir customers include providers of essential utilities, national governments and global industrial players.
Oil and Gas Power Water Oil remains the worlds primary energy source, Installed capacity in power generation is forecast to Increasing global demand combined with a with natural gas the fastest growing alternative.
Within that broad shortage of naturally occurring water in key Weirs strong position in this market is based on projection there are pockets of stronger growth, markets provides excellent opportunities for Weirs the reliability and safety of our pumps, valves and which Weir is targeting.
We are involved in the core technologies in water supply, desalination related products.
Opportunities for growth are whole power lifecycle, from new build, and wastewater treatment.
It is generally provided by the Groups ability to supply wholerefurbishment and regulatory compliance, to recognised that both the desalination and pipeline solutions, from subsea exploration to decommissioning and maintenance.
We provide an wastewater markets will see an average growth offshore maintenance.
We are also developing attractive range of specialist products for both fossil rate of 10% or more each year for the foreseeable technologies to meet new geophysical challenges and nuclear-fuelled plant and we are aggressively future.
Weir is the only organisation in the world and to bring marginal fields into viability.
Our marketing these in Asia and the Middle East, where able to offer the full range of desalination offshore sulphate removal technologies and gas activity in the power sector is particularly strong.
We are also seeing exciting growth storage systems strengthen our portfolio in this sector.
We also see good potential for exporting our UK in our specialised treatments to recover saleable market-leading expertise in renewables.
Emerging markets The geographic reach of the Weir Group provides the basis for us to take advantage of the most rapidly developing geographical markets.
Our approach to emerging markets ensures that we have regional champions in place with the local knowledge to open the door for any of our divisions.
In 2003, aggressive growth strategies were initiated in India, China, Korea, the Former Soviet Union, South Africa and South America, in each case leveraging the success of one operation to provide a conduit for the full range of Weir products and services.
4 The Weir Group PLC | Chairmans Statement Chemicals Mining and Pursuing growth Minerals Our strategy for pursuing growth is to focus on those markets where we can, or already do, lead.
The implementation of this strategy through all areas of our operation has established a strong, positive sense of direction and opened up several very exciting areas of growth opportunity.
Our global sales and marketing team now has the tools and skill sets to be The downstream oil refining industry and other Global minerals markets are, and are projected able to cross-sell products that are to remain, robust, with prices of important chemical processes present exactly the kind of successful in one market, worldwide.
commodities such as alumina, copper, gold, engineering and technical challenges where Weir Closer inter-divisional links allow us to lead, nickel and zinc all showing positive levels excels.
Group-wide we manufacture and service provide more integrated and of pricing.
Weirs technological superiority the worlds leading flow control systems positions us as the worlds premium supplier comprehensive solutions for our including pumps, valves and controls, effluent of specialised slurry handling equipment and and flue gas treatments for aggressive customers.
This in turn, is reinforcing ongoing technical support services for this environments.
Hydrocarbon processing provides the reputation of Weir as not only a market.
Drivers of growth include our good opportunities for new and competitive commitment to mirroring our major customers world-class equipment supplier, but products.
We are competing actively with new expansion into new markets, developing new also a long term project partner.
product ranges and customer-focused sales tools products, and actively transforming those key to ensure we have a competitive edge over relationships from conventional supply to longOur market-focused product strategy traditional suppliers.
is generating new product lines that offer distinct competitive advantages, with applications in more than one market.
We have also divested and closed non-core businesses, improving Defence and General the focus of the Group significantly.
Geographically, our strategy is to Nuclear Industrial appoint regional champions with a good foothold and understanding of the area, tasked with expanding Group-wide activities in their market.
We are engaged in a number of third party distribution agreements, joint ventures and alliances, where these offer the best method of penetrating new markets.
Weir is also well placed to take an acquisitive route when strategically apt opportunities arise.
Defence is an inherently cyclical market, subject Within the loosely defined general industrial to political as well as economic pressures.
Weir market, Weir has many opportunities to cross sell has well-established high level relationships with a broad range of flow control products.
As the both prime contractors and end-users.
As the Group implements its global strategic approach UK Ministry of Defence design authority on to sales and marketing, the strong reputation of submarine weapons handling and discharge our service business in repairing, upgrading and systems, we are well-positioned to export our maintaining pump and turbo machinery expertise providing naval services to friendly provides a key platform for growth.
A number of countries, including nuclear submarine key segments, such as steel, sugar and paper refuelling, munitions handling and systems production where we can deliver whole project, maintenance.
We are also applying our expertise whole process and whole lifecycle solutions, offer to related growth areas such as nuclear waste exciting potential for growth.
