The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Services Division: A leading provider of equipment maintenance, process support and asset management across a range of core market sectors.
200 150 100 Order input 50 Steve Simone 192.5m 177.2m Divisional Managing Director 2002 2003 Up 8.6% Operational review Our Services businesses realised a 23% increase in turnover at 188.9m against 153.4m achieved in 2002.
Operating profits of 20.6m 2002: 15.3m were up 34.3% and operating margin improved to 10.9% against 10.0% in 2002.
The improvements are a direct result of management actions to grow our principal UK service operations and recognise the considerable opportunities available for expanding our position in the key growth markets of North America, Australia and the Middle East.
As outlined in the 2002 Report and Accounts, we took the decision to transfer our Australian pump engineering business to the Services Division to use as a growth engine in that market.
This action, coupled to the acquisition of a small Bass Strait oil services business in November 2003, produced stronger Australian turnover and profits, which are expected to continue through 2004.
Our Canadian distribution and services operations continued to deliver stronger turnover, margins and profits resulting from the initiatives taken to improve customer service and reduce overheads.
The ongoing development of our geographic position into high growth markets continued to progress throughout 2003 with the commitment to four greenfield service centres in the United States and increased investments into the Middle East and Far East markets expect to deliver further growth in the medium term.
During the year, the Services Division continued to build on its already extensive relationships with major industry players, signing a joint venture to develop renewable energy technologies with Scottish & Southern Energy and a collaboration agreement with Siemens to service the turbo machinery market.
Key achievements Vital foothold established in the United States where four greenfield centres opened on programme in Houston, Los Angeles, Philadelphia and Chicago.
Further major UK hydro rehabilitation contracts secured at four sites in collaboration with market leaders, VA Tech.
Canadian business delivered further growth in profits with expansion of services and re-organisation of its distribution business.
Significant growth in oil, water and wastewater pump refurbishment in the Middle East supported by the opening of a further service outlet in Kuwait.
Weir Services Australia re-organised and focused as a Services business while acquisition expands service offering to oil related equipment.
Strategic plan in place for continued strong growth through 2008 with business development champions appointed for all key markets.
16 Operational Review: Services Division Minimum downtime of essential equipment Consolidated support for multiple sites Offshore Oil Production Assets United Kingdom Continental Shelf Process and efficiency improvements Asset Management and Rotating Equipment Maintenance A five-year contract covering 16 oil production In the first year of our management, Weir Extended plant lifespan platforms with over 150 high integrity Services reduced operational costs by 22%, production and safety related pumps.
increased rotating equipment and process availability by 31% and improved the turnround At the heart of this risk and reward contract is time of critical equipment maintenance by 33%.
Weir Services ability to align its value added Specialist technical expertise approach to the customers operational All of this was achieved without detriment to requirements.
The contract is not centred on health, safety and quality.
No lost time incidents maintenance alone but on a continuous or downtime claims arose during the contract year.
improvement regime delivering reduced cost of operation.
Value added services Innovative solutions to improve efficiency We serve a wide range of customers, from the worlds largest Our core capability is the effective maintenance and repair of a wide range multinationals to single-site industrial plants.
Our ability to adapt the of rotating machinery and associated equipment.
With a reputation for engineering expertise developed for a specific market to related problems engineering excellence, we help minimise the disruption caused by in other regions and sectors puts us ahead of the competition in meeting breakdowns and essential maintenance.
By integrating planned and preventative maintenance we can also extend Our differentiation from the many service providers in our markets derives the interval between routine shutdowns and reduce the frequency of from the value we add from extensive technical resources.
We have the equipment failure or unplanned repairs.
Where customers are operating facilities, the expertise and the capability not just to fix, but also to similar equipment on several sites, we can help realise economies of scale, improve under-performing, ageing or failing equipment.
while our inventory control systems for key spares help reduce delivery times to site and minimise stock levels held by customers.
We offer a full range of specialist technical, laboratory and engineering services, while our project and process engineering teams support major Our ability to deliver a consolidated maintenance package tailored to their refit and refurbishment programmes and help customers identify workflow and operations can help improve productivity, even for opportunities for process improvements, increased up-time and customers operating a single site.
Weir Services can provide a complete asset management service where all Ongoing relationships with original equipment manufacturers such as VA maintenance functions are effectively outsourced.
Using locally based Tech in the hydro industry and Siemens in the turbomachinery market offer teams of specialists to effectively control transferred assets, customers can substantial growth opportunities for the future.
release cost savings in their own organisation.
This has delivered significant savings in operational costs and optimum utilisation of assets.
Our comprehensive skill set extends to the manufacture and re-engineering of high-grade spare parts not only for Weir product brands but also for equipment from other manufacturers.
Our operations include the marketing, sales and distribution of an extended range of leading engineered products to virtually every primary and secondary industry across Canada, a business which has made great strides in 2003 and now offers a consistent revenue stream which is not reliant on major new build or refurbishment projects.
One area of innovation which offers a good opportunity for the Services Division is renewable energy, in particular, the upgrade and refurbishment of hydro-electric power plant to meet government and international targets.
Local presence, global network Operating on a global basis we have developed the infrastructure to provide local support on the ground for customers through a widespread network of well equipped, well stocked and well staffed service centres.
These centres are strategically located close to customers operations and equipped specifically to meet local market needs.
At the same time, they are globally networked, allowing for the rapid call up of expertise and sharing of know-how.
By providing a one-stop-shop for equipment maintenance, we are able to be more efficient in the way repair and overhaul programmes are planned and integrated.
As a result, we enjoy strong, long-term relationships with our customers.
