Directors Geoffrey Maddrell Chairman Martin Donohue Chief Executive John Bennett Finance Director Robin Davies Business 66 MA Cantab MBA Colombia 57 FCIOB joined the Group in 55 FCA is a chartered accountant Development Director 48 MBA University has been non-executive 1972 and was a member of the and was appointed as Finance Manchester, MSc Edinburgh, Chairman of Westbury since 1992. management buy-out team in Director when he joined the joined Westbury in 1993 from the He has had a long-standing 1984.
A member of the Board since Company in 1992.
He has wide manufacturing industry.
He involvement and strategic interest the Groups flotation 1986, he experience of this sector and was established the HOBMAN project in the building sector, initially on acted as Operations Director prior previously a director of Beazer plc, in 1995 and has been responsible the board of Bowater where he to his appointment as Chief with financial responsibility for its for developing Westburys new was responsible for developing Executive in 1995.
He has vast UK operations.
John has overall businesses including Westbury their building products activities.
experience and knowledge of the responsibility for financial Direct, Incresco and Space4.
Robin In 1999 he was appointed Chairman housebuilding industry, both in management of the Group and is was a Harkness FT Fellow in the US of the UNITE Group plc, the UKs the UK and in North America, and also responsible at Board level for in 1996 97 and applies his leading specialist provider of is deeply committed to supporting Personnel and Business Systems.
experience in strategic marketing, student and key worker growth and development in the research and innovation to a wide accommodation and is also Chairman sector.
He has served on the Board range of business development of BuildStore Limited, the growing of the Housing Forum and was the activities within the Group.
hub for the self-build market.
His Chairman of their Customer other major area of interest is in Satisfaction Committee, a working private investor and employee group responsible for developing shareholder participation in company customer satisfaction measures equity, as former Chairman of which provide benchmarks for the ProShare UK Limited, which he set housebuilding industry.
He is also non-executive acted as Chairman of the House Chairman of LDV Limited, the van Builders Federation Training and specialist, and the Ivory & Sime ISIS Recruitment Council until 2002.
He was formerly Chairman addition, he is a member of the of Glenmorangie plc and Chief Major Housebuilders Group.
Executive of Tootal Group plc during a period of major international development.
26 Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 Nigel Fee Managing Colin Cole Deputy George Inge NonDerek Wilson NonNeil Chandler Company Director of the Homes Managing Director of the executive Director 61 executive Director 58 Secretary 47 FCMA is Division 52 BSc Econ Homes Division 44 FCCA FRICS has been a nonBA FCA has been a nonDeputy Group Finance joined Westbury in 1991 as was appointed to the Board executive director of executive director of Director.
Neil joined Westbury a Regional Director.
Colin Westbury since 1995 and Westbury since 1996. in November 1981.
He appointed Group Operations joined Westbury in April is also non-executive Derek has wide ranging became Finance Director Director in 1996 and 1984 as Group Accountant, Chairman of Severn Trent experience in the sector of the Southern region in Managing Director of the and was Finance Director of Property Limited, the and was, until December 1987 and moved to the Homes Division in 2000.
In both the South Wales and property development 2002, Chief Executive of Northampton region as that role he is responsible South West regions before subsidiary of Severn Trent Slough Estates plc, one of Finance Director in 1991. for the management and becoming Deputy Group plc.
An innovative and senior the UKs largest property He was appointed to his co-ordination of all regional Finance Director in 1994. figure in the property world, investment companies, current position in activity to achieve the He carried out the role of George was Chairman of following periods as Group October 2000. business goals and the Company Secretary Savills plc from 1985 to 1995, Managing Director and implementation of Group between 1995 and 2001 presiding over its London Finance Director.
Nigel has extensive and also spent two years Stock Exchange listing in held senior positions at experience in the new homes as Regional Managing 1988.
He was a director of Cadbury Schweppes plc, market and has previously Director of our West Savills principal subsidiary, Wilkinson Match Limited worked with Wimpey Midlands region before FPD Savills Ltd until 30 April and is currently a nonHomes and Charles Church.
taking up his current 2002. executive director of appointment in April 2000.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 27 Financial review highlights 28 Westbury plc Annual Report 2003
