Directors report The directors present their report and accounts Social responsibility for the year ended 1 March 2003.
Social responsibility is integral to the companys business behaviour and is reflected in its relationships with all of its Principal activities and review of the business stakeholders shareholders, employees, suppliers, A detailed review of the companys activities, the customers and the communities in which the company development of its businesses, and an indication of carries on its business.
Whitbread believes that business likely future developments are given on pages 4 to 25. has a role to play in creating a healthy community in which Results and dividends to trade and that being a good corporate citizen is an The group profit before tax for the year amounted to essential ingredient to achieving sustainable growth.
To 214 million before exceptional items, 202.8 million demonstrate the importance of social reponsibility to the after exceptional items.
The directors have recommended company a separate social responsibility report will now a final dividend for the year of 14.30 pence per share.
appear on the companys website www.
The dividend will be payable on 11 July 2003 to shareholders on the register at close of business on Whitbread is committed to offering its people a rewarding 9 May 2003.
The total dividend for the year, including and challenging workplace and to becoming an Employer the interim dividend of 5.57 pence paid on 7 January of Choice as demonstrated by current and past employees 2003, amounts to 19.87 pence per share.
The company recommending the company as a great place to work.
aims to pay dividends of approximately 40% of profits To support the achievement of this, Whitbread offers a after tax, giving a dividend cover of some 2.5 times.
range of policies covering such issues as diversity, employee Shareholders may participate in a dividend wellbeing and equal opportunities to ensure that all re-investment plan, under which their cash dividend employees across our brands are treated fairly and is used to purchase additional shares in the company.
consistently and are given access to the same opportunities.
Further details can be found on page 73.
As part of an ongoing and rigorous policy review process, the company is committed to implementing a formal Board of directors disability management policy to include a detailed training The directors are listed on pages 26 and 27.
With the programme to ensure thatWhitbread is capable of offering exception of Rod Kent, who was appointed to the people with disabilities the same employment opportunities board on 1 September 2002, all of the directors served as other employees.
John Padovan retired from the board on 18 June 2002.
If an employee becomes disabled in the course of his or her work with the group, full support can be provided, for Rod Kent will stand for election and Charles Gurassa, example, through training programmes, to ensure that, David Turner and Bill Shannon will stand for wherever possible, the individual can remain in continued re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting employment within the group.
AGM in accordance with the companys Articles of Association.
Details of directors service contracts are The recruitment and retention of highly motivated and given on page 34.
None of the non-executive directors talented people is essential.
Great emphasis is therefore has a service contract.
placed on improving skills, expertise and performance of employees through a continuing programme of training Details of the directors interests in shares of and development.
Whitbread PLC are shown in the Remuneration report on pages 36 to 40.
The company is also committed to increasing employee involvement in the business and believes that open and Share capital regular communication at all levels is an essential part of Throughout the year, the authorised share capital the management process.
Employees have opportunities has been 315,000,000 divided into 630,000,000 to express their views and receive information about the ordinary shares of 50 pence each.
Details of the issued company at regular meetings with management, via elected share capital can be found in note 25 in the notes to representatives atBusiness Improvement Groups, and the accounts.
through regular employee opinion surveys.
Major interests Whitbread seeks to give its employees a direct stake in the business and to align the interests of employees with those As at 25 April 2003, the company had been notified of other shareholders through share schemes.
In June 2002, by AXA S. A. of an interest in 37,347,368 shares 279,506 ordinary shares were issued to the trustees of the representing 12.62% of the issued capital of the Share Ownership Scheme on behalf of 10,931 employees.
company: by Legal & General Investment Due to changes in legislation, the Scheme has now come Management Ltd of an interest in 11,998,672 shares to an end and that was the last appropriation made to representing 4.05% of the issued share capital of the employees under that Scheme.
company: and by Standard Life Investments Limited of an interest in 11,047,220 shares representing 3.73% In December 2002, 3,177 employees were granted options of the issued capital of the company.
over 1,524,445 shares at 441.2 pence under the terms of the page 28 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 3 Directors report Sharesave Scheme.
Presently, some 6,000employees hold Supplier payment policy options over some five million shares under that Scheme.
The group keeps to the payment terms which have been agreed with suppliers.
Where payment terms have not During the year 57 senior executives were granted been specifically agreed, it is the groups policy to settle options over a total of 1,081,000 shares under the invoices close to the end of the month following the executive share option schemes.
These options may month of invoicing.
The groups ability to keep to these only be exercised if the performance criteria described terms is dependent upon suppliers sending accurate and on page 33 are met.
adequately detailed invoices to the correct address on a Potential awards over 170,766 shares were made to timely basis.
The group had 44 dayspurchases outstanding senior executives under the Long Term Incentive Plan, at 1 March 2003, based on the trade creditors outstanding which is described on page 34. at that date and purchases made during the year.
As at 25 April 2003 there were outstanding options Auditors over 9,557,553 ordinary shares, representing 3.23% Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to of the companys issued share capital.
continue in office as auditors of the company and a During the past year Whitbreads community investment resolution proposing their re-appointment will be put programme has undergone a major restructuring with to shareholders at the AGM.
helping young people achieve their potentialas its core After proper consideration, the Audit Committee is satisfied theme.
During the year Whitbreads contribution to its that the companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, continue community investment programme was just over to be objective and independent of the company.
2 million, made up of direct cash contributions, donated The Audit Committee has considered what work should not employee time, money raised and equipment donated be carried out by the external auditors and have concluded through the companys highly successful CARE that certain services including internal audit and IT consulting programme.
Recent highlights have been: services will not be carried out by Ernst & Young LLP.
the launch of the Whitbread Young Achiever Purchase of own shares awards celebrating the achievements of young people throughout the UK: The company is authorised to purchase, in the market, the companys own shares.
Although no such purchases raising over 400,000 through David Lloyd Leisure have been made during the year, approval to renew and Marriott support for the Sport Relief campaign: this authority for a further year will be sought from the various restaurants brands raising over 500,000 shareholders at the 2003 AGM.
for Comic Reliefs 2003 Red Nose Day.
Post balance sheet event The environment is an area in which the company has As described in note 7 to the accounts, in April 2003, made significant progress during the last year.
Energy the company agreed with Whitbread Pension Trustees use, waste and water consumption have all been Limited that the company will continue to fund the reduced across the companys businesses, whilst more pension scheme for a period of up to 15 years.
robust information and tracking systems have been put in place to accurately measure the companys Annual General Meeting environmental performance year on year.
The AGM will be held at 2.00pm on 17 June 2003 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Whitbread is wholly committed to an ethical way of Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The notice of meeting operating and sets out clear standards of behaviour is enclosed with this report and is accompanied by a for all employees in the Code of Business Ethics.
This letter from the chairman.
code extends to dealings with suppliers and the By order of the board companys fair trading policy sets the objective of ensuring that suppliers share the companys values and commit to meeting its standards.
The company supports the Health & Safety Commissions S C Barratt, Revitalising Health & Safety Strategyand is aware of the Company Secretary Commissions guidance on disclosures that companies 29 April 2003 are encouraged to make.
The company continues to Registered office: Registered in England: develop reporting systems and procedures to assist in CityPoint No.
One Ropemaker Street Further information on the companys health & safety London EC2Y 9HX policy and procedures, as well as in depth information on people, community investment, the environment and fair trading can be found in the social responsibility report on the companys website www.
