Board of Directors Sir John Banham, chairman David Thomas CBE, chief executive David Richardson, finance director Sir John was appointed a director in Appointed chief executive in June 1997, Having previously been strategic November 1999 and became chairman he is also a member of the Nomination planning director, David became finance in June 2000.
He is a member of the Committee.
David has been at director in March 2001.
He has been with Remuneration and Audit Committees Whitbread since 1984 and a director Whitbread since 1983 and was appointed and chairman of the Nomination since May 1991.
His roles have included to the board in May 1996.
His other appointments managing director of Whitbread Inns previously at ICL, having qualified as an include chairman of ECI Partners LLP, and Whitbread Restaurants and Leisure.
Geest PLC and Cyclacel Limited.
He is Previously, he was with Finefare, Linfood also the senior non-executive director and Grand Metropolitan.
He was chairman non-executive director of Xansa PLC of Kingfisher plc from 1996 to 2001 and a trustee of In Kind Direct.
Aged 59. and of Tarmac PLC from 1993 to 1999.
Previously Sir John was a director of McKinsey and Co before becoming the first controller of the Audit Commission in 1983 and director general of the CBI in 1987.
He was also the first chairman of the Local Government Commission for England from 1992 to 1995 and the founding chairman of Westcountry Television.
Bill Shannon Stewart Miller Alan Parker Managing director of Whitbread Managing director of David Lloyd Alan joined Whitbread as managing Restaurants, Bill has been a director Leisure since May 2001 and a director director of Whitbread Hotel Company of Whitbread since December 1994. of Whitbread since May 2000, Stewart in 1992 and was appointed to the He joined the company in 1974 as a has been with Whitbread since 1981. board in May 2000.
Prior to joining finance manager and has since been His roles have included operations Whitbread Alan was senior vicemanaging director of Beefeater director and chief executive of Pizza president of Holiday Inn Europe, Restaurant and Pub, Thresher, Hut UK, operations director of Middle East and Africa, based in Whitbread Pub Partnerships and Beefeater, sales and marketing director Brussels.
Before that he was managing Whitbread Inns.
He is a non-executive of Whitbread Inns and managing director of Crest Hotels Europe, based director of Aegon PLC and a director director of Whitbread Pub Partnerships in Frankfurt.
Alan is visiting professor of Pizza Hut UK.
Aged 53. and Whitbread Pubs & Bars.
He is a at the University of Surrey, a board director of Business In Sport and member of VisitBritain and a director Leisure Limited.
Aged 50. of the British Hospitality Association.
Aged 56. page 26 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 3 Rod Kent, senior independent Prue Leith Charles Gurassa non-executive director Appointed a director in September Appointed a director in July 2000, Rod was appointed a director on 1995, Prue is a member of the Charles is chairman of the 1 September 2002, and senior Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Remuneration Committee and a independent non-executive director Committees.
She is a non-executive member of the Nomination Committee.
Rod is also chairman director of Woolworths Group PLC He is currently chairman of TUI of Whitbread Pension Trustees Limited and a former non-executive director of Northern Europe Limited and TUI Airline and a member of the Remuneration, Safeway PLC and Halifax PLC.
Group and an executive director of TUI Audit and Nomination Committees.
AG, having formerly been with British Having stepped down as managing Airways as head of Leisure, World Sales director of Close Brothers Group in and director of Passenger and Cargo October 2002 he remains a nonBusiness.
Rod is chairman of Bradford & Bingley plc and Grosvenor Ltd, a non-executive director of Grosvenor Group Holdings Ltd and a trustee of the Esme Fairburn Foundation.
David Turner Lord Williamson Appointed a director in January Appointed a director in May 1998.
2001, David is chairman of the Audit Before this, Lord Williamson was Committee and a member of the secretary-general of the European Remuneration and Nomination Commission from 1987 to 1997, having Committees.
Previously finance been head of the European Secretariat, director of GKN PLC, he is now the UK Cabinet Office from 1983 to 1987 chief financial officer of the Brambles and deputy director general for Group comprising Brambles Industries agriculture at the Commission plc in the UK and Brambles Industries between 1977 and 1983.
He is a Limited in Australia.
Aged 58. member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
