WB RA f ckd 2003 06-09 27 2 04 4:45 pm Page 08 Our Company today Wilson Bowden plc is the parent of a group of companies engaged in RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT THROUGHOUT MOST AREAS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OUR RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT expertise ranges from apartments for town and city dwellers, through smaller traditional homes to five and six bedroom executive homes.
OUR COMMERCIAL PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT skills are in the creation of offices, industrial parks, retail and mixed use schemes.
THESE CORE ACTIVITIES are supported by our plant hire, mechanical services, engineering design and joinery divisions.
The latter manufacturing prefabricated building components, together with bedroom and study furniture.
WB RA f ckd 2003 06-09 27 2 04 4:45 pm Page 09 David Wilson Homes 2003 saw the expansion of the Company through David Wilson Homes ability to predict and cater for the acquisition of Henry Boot Homes Limited, the changing needs of customers and to respond to which has been successfully integrated into the the continued evolution of planning has reinforced David Wilson Homes regional structure.
Ward its position as a leading and progressive Homes Group Limited was also acquired during housebuilder.
the year and, following reorganisation, continues to trade in Kent under the Ward Homes banner.
While David Wilson Homes reputation has been built largely upon 4, 5 and 6 bedroom executive The Companys plans for organic growth include homes, in responding to changing population the recent launch of the Retirement Homes demographics and government planning policy the division and the creation of three new regions: the Company has, in recent years, successfully South Coast: East Yorkshire: and Birmingham.
expanded its portfolio to include a larger proportion of apartments and smaller homes.
For example, The Company operates as four geographical apartments now account for around 18% of total divisions and has developments throughout sales.
Redevelopment of brownfield land has also England, Wales and Scotland.
been high on the Companys agenda, with 42% of land developed in 2003 from brownfield sites and Looking to the future, the Company currently has around 60% of the current land bank being an extensive land bank of around 17,250 plots categorised as brownfield.
owned or controlled with planning.
The Company plays a leading role in innovative As a member of the Housing Forum, the Company housing design, as evidenced by the Eco House, is addressing industry issues, including its submission where a partnership with The University of to the Barker review into land supply.
Skills shortages Nottinghams School of the Built Environment are being countered through the Companys longhas produced a leading edge building where new established apprenticeship scheme.
David Wilson technology and techniques are trialled under real Homes acknowledged expertise, its skilled staff life conditions.
The next phase of the project will and established business partnerships, coupled explore how people use and live in their homes.
with progressive design and an eye to the future, Two LIFE concept houses are under construction combine to sustain an unrivalled reputation in the to enable the Company to explore a variety of sector.
elements, from the design and fabric of the home to how lifestyle dictates the use of our homes.
Wilson Bowden Developments redevelopment of the former Ravenscraig steelworks Wilson Bowden Developments is the Groups in Lanarkshire.
A key scheme for the Company, the commercial property development business, project sees Wilson Bowden Developments focused on developments in the retail, leisure, working with Corus plc and Scottish Enterprise office and industrial sectors together with mixed Lanarkshire to create 1 million square feet of retail use schemes.
The Companys output is developed and leisure facilities in a town centre, 3,500 new for immediate onward sale to occupiers or homes and 2 million square feet of industrial and investors and as such it does not presently hold a business space.
Wilson Bowden Developments is also involved in Wilson Bowden Developments in-house joint venture projects with other developers, local construction operation manages over 50% of the authorities and landowners.
The Company is Companys building activities.
This allows greater acknowledged as being a leader in the successful attention to be paid to customer requirements as remediation and development of brownfield sites.
well as providing additional flexibility.
The Company operates on the land bank principle and Wilson Bowden City Homes is a division of has extensive land holdings for future development Wilson Bowden Developments and combines the in various parts of the country.
Groups homebuilding flair with the commercial property development and construction skills of As it is financed by its parent company, Wilson Wilson Bowden Developments.
The City Homes Bowden Developments has the ability to act division specialises in mixed use schemes that independently and to quickly secure opportunities.
address the increasing demands of both customers Its network of four offices ensures good contact and planners for city centre living and apartment with development agencies and a thorough homes.
Current schemes include apartments in the understanding of regional planning requirements.
heart of Nottingham and Manchester city centres: and a landmark waterside apartment scheme, The Company is closely involved in one of the Admirals Quay, at Ocean Village, Southampton.
largest regeneration schemes in Europe, the 09 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Our Company today WB RA f ckd 2003 10-21 26 2 04 12:04 pm Page 10 Section heading continued Great care has been taken at Castle Field to comply with Essex design guidelines and PPG3 requirements whilst still ensuring the development is in keeping with the village feel of Great Leighs.
Many of the houses have mock sash windows and canopies over doors and properties sitting alongside existing older homes feature timber windows and exposed rafters to blend in with their surroundings.
WB RA f ckd 2003 10-21 26 2 04 12:04 pm Page 11 Our businesses provide a balanced market spread and remain focused on our FUNDAMENTAL VALUES QUALITY of the product The Groups VERSATILITY DYNAMIC nature of the business and our PROGRESSIVE responses to our stakeholders Wilson Bowden plc is one of the UKs leading housebuilders and property developers.
The Group has two distinct, but complementary, businesses.
David Wilson Homes is responsible for building homes across almost 40 counties in the UK.
Wilson Bowden Developments specialises in commercial property development in the retail, leisure, office and industrial sectors.
Wilson Bowden Developments mixed use division, Wilson Bowden City Homes combines the Groups homebuilding flair with commercial property development and construction skills, to provide city centre living and mixed use schemes.
The Group has built its reputation and success on four fundamental values: the quality of its product: the versatility of its structure: the dynamic nature of its business: and the progressive response to its stakeholders.
The careful, balanced diversification of the Groups products, together with a broad geographic spread, continues to deliver consistent growth.
11 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Our Company today WB RA f ckd 2003 10-21 26 2 04 12:04 pm Page 12 As part of an on-going partnership, Laurence Llewelyn-Bowen has designed two stunning interior design concepts for selected showhomes across the country.
Pictured here, the showhome at Morrells Green in Takeley unveils the Mediterranean scheme in the dining, family, kitchen area.
WB RA f ckd 2003 10-21 26 2 04 12:04 pm Page 13 For the Wilson Bowden Group QUALITY of the product is not an elusive goal, it is a very tangible part of everything we do David Wilson Homes is not a conventional We pay particular attention to both practical and housing developer.
We are a Company that builds aesthetic details.
Our designers and craftsmen work homes: homes that form sustainable communities together to fashion a quality of home that, in this for the future.
This subtle, but significant, era of mass production, represents something difference lies at the root of our consistent success individual.
Finally, we place great emphasis on the over nearly forty years and is central to the way use of traditional skills.
Clever use of architectural the Company operates.
We take the same detailing, such as brickwork courses and approach whether we are building large executive stonework mouldings, captures the imagination homes, upon which much of our reputation has of our home buyers.
been established, or designing the apartments and townhouses of our greatly expanded property The Companys integrated approach to the portfolio.
building process enables us to keep close control over quality.
Our in-house departments provide Throughout each stage of the construction process services as varied as engineering, plumbing, runs a constant thread: the belief that the end bespoke joinery, plant hire and carpet fitting.
As a result will be someones home with all the practical further check on quality, we employ an and emotional issues which that represents.
It is a independent quality assurance team to inspect home, not a plot number.
homes on site and report directly to the Group Customer Services Director.
The process starts with the right location.
We work hard to find sites that will satisfy peoples needs to be close to workplaces, schools, amenities and communities.
Next, we focus on developing an attractive setting, one of the key differences that sets us apart from other homebuilders.
Our inhouse team of architects, landscape designers and environmentalists create designs, plot layouts and landscape treatments in sympathy with the local style and ecological balance.
David Wilson Homes share my passion for great design.
Together were creating some exciting and inspirational rooms.
Laurence Llewellyn-Bowen 13 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Our Company today WB RA f ckd 2003 10-21 26 2 04 12:04 pm Page 14 A four bedroom Braemar and a Campbell home at Forest Grove, set in the much sought after Stanford in the Vale.
Properties at Forest Grove are rather special as they have been specifically designed to blend in seamlessly with the local vernacular.
The brand new community offers a relaxing environment for those who want to escape the cares of city life, combining an idyllic semi rural location with ease of access to the main commuter routes of the M40 and M4.
WB RA f ckd 2003 10-21 28 2 04 6:39 am Page 15 Quality of the product We dont build housing estates: we create Our house styles are constantly updated, blending communities of individual homes.
the best of traditional design with the cream of contemporary styling, ensuring a varied and Detail is everything whether its the pitch of a vibrant street scene.
The result is an attractive, roof gable, the stone moulding around a window, welcoming community.
the steps to the front door, the curve of a drive, or the colour of the brickwork.
They are what make our houses subtly, but distinctly, different.
Individual homes that stand out from the crowd.
15 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Our Company today WB RA f ckd 2003 10-21 26 2 04 12:04 pm Page 16 Our continued, steady growth and development One example of this is the Wilson Bowden City is as much to do with the breadth as well as the Homes development at Admirals Quay in depth of our skills.
Being able to call upon a bank Southampton.
When completed, this pioneering of in-house expertise from surveyors to bespoke mixed use development will include a wide range joiners allows us to react swiftly to new of prestige shops, inviting bars and an eclectic mix opportunities as well as to undertake complex of restaurants in addition to extensive office and schemes with confidence and with a tight control commercial space.
Set within easy reach of the recently renewed and With that structure in place, we were able to take regenerated city centre, the development is close two companies with outstanding credentials to the many sophisticated shops at the West Quay, Wilson Bowden Developments and David Wilson Marlands and Bargate centres.
This is Homes and combine their expertise to create an excellent example of how our versatile a new, extremely versatile company.
As a result, skills can come together and develop Wilson Bowden City Homes is helping to reshape something really unique.
The bustle of boats, Britains urban landscape.
Our success in urban the quayside, places to unwind, all combine to regeneration schemes has come out of our make life at Admirals Quay an ideal backdrop for background in commercial property development: work and living.
from high quality business parks to mixed retail and leisure schemes.
WB RA f ckd 2003 10-21 26 2 04 12:04 pm Page 17 THE STRUCTURE OF THE GROUP is an expression of our VERSATILITY, combining homebuilding, commercial property development and mixed use development with our acknowledged strengths in construction, land procurement, planning and engineering design Admirals Quay, Ocean Village, Southampton Where the city meets the ocean: Admirals Quay is a landmark development of prestigious leisure outlets and over 400 luxury apartments all set on Southamptons lively Ocean Village marina.
17 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Our Company today WB RA f ckd 2003 10-21 26 2 04 12:04 pm Page 18 WB RA f ckd 2003 10-21 26 2 04 12:04 pm Page 19 SETTING CHALLENGING GOALS and our determination to exceed them is just one example of how Wilson Bowden responds in a DYNAMIC way to market forces, customers demands, planning requirements and an ever changing economic environment We have set ourselves some challenging goals: both A potential major site for the Group, still in its at a Group level and at an operational level.
These infancy, is the former steelworks at Ravenscraig in include delivering increased shareholder value, Scotland, one of Europes largest brownfield organic growth, and the identification of strategic regeneration projects.
Over the next twenty years, acquisitions.
But we are also aware of the challenges a community of 3,500 homes will be built we face, and the demands placed upon us, by the alongside leisure and retail facilities.
markets in which we operate.
Alongside changing lifestyles is a growing awareness The Group, and especially Wilson Bowden of the repercussions of these changes on the Developments, has built a reputation for successfully environment.
Our customers, as well as pressure developing complicated sites that present difficult groups and government, demand a more responsible issues relating to contamination, planning, highways, approach to building and development.
Their pre-site assembly and the environment.
Our markets impact, and the process of their construction, on are also changing, with different expectations for the environment is a responsibility our Company work, home and leisure.
But as well as demographics, lifestyles are changing.
Increasingly, much of our development work The recent massive investment programmes in urban is engaged in identifying materials and methods regeneration have made city centres not only viable of construction which will balance the commercial but also vibrant places to live.
Increasing numbers needs of the Companys stakeholders with the of young professionals and empty nesters now demand for smarter buildings and the needs of prefer city living to the suburbs, attracted by the the environment.
Build efficiency, waste reduction, proximity to shops, restaurants and the prefabrication and alternative materials are tested entertainment scene as well as the buzz of the and evaluated.
Those that can make a positive streetlife.
difference are then adopted and incorporated into our building programmes.
Aware of this trend the Group has shifted its extensive land bank acquisition towards brownfield sites.
We are now involved in imaginative conversions or appropriate new-build schemes in a number of major town and city centres.
The Water Gardens, Harlow This 415,000 sq ft retail and leisure extension to the town centre also includes a new 70,000 sq ft civic centre for Harlow Council.
The project was forward sold to Resolution Property Plc for approximately 70 million.
19 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Our Company today WB RA f ckd 2003 10-21 26 2 04 12:04 pm Page 20 WB RA f ckd 2003 10-21 26 2 04 12:04 pm Page 21 PROGRESSIVE RESPONSES and meeting the expectations of all our stakeholders customers, employees, investors and communities with which the Group interacts ARE FUNDAMENTAL TO OUR SUCCESS We do not work in isolation.
Our growth and We build strong links with local communities.
success relies upon engaging everyone whether With all our housing schemes, the Groups staff, customers, suppliers, investors or local planners work closely with Councils and local communities in the development of our business.
groups to identify appropriate sustainable Our goal is to satisfy their needs.
As a result, our homes are being built on a wide range of both brownfield and greenfield At the heart of the Group lies the Wilson Way, an sites.
In 2003, 43% of the Groups sales were approach which relies upon people seeking to generated by homes built on previously used land.
deliver their best at each stage of the business, be In addition, our developments can lead to they land buyers, bricklayers, sales staff or one of improvements in local services such as the the many other skilled and experienced employees provision of additional public transport, the who make up the Wilson team.
It is a way of building of a new school or other amenities working whether it is a long-standing and the alleviation of traffic congestion.
relationship with a supplier or a new partner helping us with technological development that, combined As far as possible, we preserve buildings of with a fair and responsible way of doing business, architectural importance or open spaces and other generates a common ambition to add value to the features of value to the community.
be converted into elegant apartments.
In other cases, chapels have been restored and re-consecrated by Training is intrinsic to the Groups response to the the diocese and sports facilities have been provided industry-wide skills shortage.
We have always for designated common areas.
Hand-in-hand with looked to the long term, as evidenced by our long this approach, we are committed to minimising the established apprenticeship scheme, which currently environmental impact of our operations and to provides training for 138 apprentices and trainees.
We offer over sixty internal training courses, including a group-wide programme of In response to societys demands for more affordable management training, and support the Investors in housing, we have a dedicated Partnership Homes People programme.
This offers a range of housetypes, dividends.
Our staff turnover is one of the lowest including apartments, which meet the Governments in the industry.
PPG3 Housing, Housing Corporation and Registered Social Landlord requirements.
The breathtaking Quorn Mill development in the village of Quorn, Leicestershire.
In the foreground is the historic mill, originally built by Wright and Sons in the 1880s to house machinery for the production of narrow fabric.
This has been sensitively refurbished into three ground floor two bedroom apartments and four duplex two bedroom apartments.
Original features which have been retained include exposed brick work on internal walls and iron columns, whilst the exterior has been carefully restored to its original condition.
Also visible are the three bedroom Mill View townhouses, set in the grounds of the old mill.
21 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Our Company today
