53815 Wolfson A R. qxp 4 5 04 10:11 AM Page 20 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS MAKING WAVES WOLFSON MICROELECTRONICS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 : 020 The Company has seen its customer base develop substantially during the year.
Wolfsons products are now to be found in many products marketed by the worlds leading consumer electronics companies.
RESULTS from the analogue signals necessary for sound and light outputs and inputs required by digital products.
Our revenues increased by 125% in the year to 31 December 2003 to $75.7m with our profit before tax increasing from $3.6m Driven by the transition of a wide range of home consumer to $12.5m.
The growth in revenues has been a result of increased audio and video equipment to digitally based products and sales volumes of products in each of the Companys three key the introduction of a myriad of portable entertainment devices, markets of imaging, consumer and portable audio electronics.
the consumer electronics segment is experiencing solid growth.
The improved operating profit level has been aided by an increase Products such as DVD players which now incorporate recording of 1.7% in the gross margin excluding legacy business from capability are replacing videotape recorders, while hi equipment 46.6% to 48.3% during the year and by the increased scale of the is expanding to give multichannel surround sound capability.
The gross margin for the year ended 31 December 2003 In addition, digital projectors, home cinema systems, games including legacy business was 46.8% compared to 46.9% for consoles and digital at screen televisions have added another the previous year.
dimension to home entertainment systems.
The increased profit has also led to the generation of $4.8m Demand for innovative semiconductor products is also being cash during the year from operating activities in spite of significant created by the growth in demand for portable entertainment investment in working capital and related infrastructure.
The established market in mobile together with the proceeds of the IPO, has increased the cash telephones continues to drive the industry with the inclusion of position at the end of the year by $39.6m to $46.5m.
multimedia features such as cameras, broadcast radio reception and music playback.
From the PDA market, products are The Company is, clearly, in a high growth phase and is continuing including multimedia and communications capability, while digital to invest in new products to meet the growth opportunities music players and cameras continue to replace older analogue available to it.
As stated in the listing particulars last year, the technologies with improved quality and functionality.
Company intends to retain all future earnings for investment in development and expansion of the business and does not In addition to these predominantly entertainment based currently expect to pay a dividend for the foreseeable future.
applications, the expansion of digital imaging for documents and sharing of photographs has created a market for multifunction Our accounts are stated in US dollars as almost all of our sales, peripheral devices for computers which combine printers with production and a significant portion of our overhead costs are document scanners and communications capability.
This is also incurred in US dollars.
a rapidly growing market which provides opportunities for the high performance mixed-signal interface products produced by MARKET BACKDROP the Company.
While the general market for semiconductors has retreated from the highs of 2000, the one area of significant growth has been COMPANY GROWTH the digital consumer segment which is the focus for Wolfsons The Company has seen its customer base develop substantially products.
The use of digital technology in such end products during the year.
Wolfsons products are now to be found in many requires complementary mixed-signal interface products, such as products marketed by the worlds leading consumer electronics those produced by Wolfson, to convert digital information to and
