53815 Wolfson A R. qxp 4 5 04 1:19 PM Page 21 WOLFSON MICROELECTRONICS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 MAKING WAVES REVIEW OF OPERATIONS : 021 companies.
Moreover, Wolfson now supplies in excess of 150 GEOGRAPHICAL PRESENCE customers, with many more serviced by distributors.
This range EUROPE of OEMs provides the Company with stability in rapidly evolving Our research and development headquarters are markets.
Indeed, the percentage of revenue for the year based in the United Kingdom.
More than 50% represented by the largest five customers is only 35%.
of our staff are involved in product development Hewlett Packard remained our largest customer representing activity and we are investing heavily in design tools and test facilities.
approximately 17% of our revenues, but this was spread across a number of product lines.
NORTH AMERICA It has long been recognised by the Company that electronics Wolfson has a growing team based at the heart manufacturing is migrating to the Asia Pacic region and of the electronics industry in California.
It provides customer support to U. S. equipment companies consequently Wolfson has developed a strong sales focus in the and their subcontract manufacturers.
major centres in the region.
During the year, we have strengthened our presence in Taiwan and Japan, adding technical support while TAIWAN expanding the sales capability with further eld salesmen and Our regional headquarters for Asia Pacic is local customer service.
In addition, we have expanded our foot based in Taiwan, where we have a growing team print in the region, opening sales ofces in both Shenzen and of sales, marketing, operations and technical specialists dedicated to creating a successful Korea to provide local support to customers in these territories.
In addition, we have expanded our team in San Diego to support the growing number of customers in the USA.
JAPAN The impact of the increased sales activity, in both Asia Pacic We have expanded our operation in Japan, which we consider to be a centre of innovation for and in the USA, is reected not only in the number of customers consumer electronics, to provide better customer but also the increasing number of design wins in new end service and technical support, as well as to provide products.
Since October the number of design wins has more a link to the research and development teams.
than doubled, to over 200, including new applications in digital CHINA cameras and multimedia mobile phones.
These provide exciting The opening of our ofce in Shenzen in 2003 new growth and product development opportunities.
demonstrates our commitment to expanding our presence in this increasingly important marketGrowth is also being driven by the expansion of our product place and to providing fast responses to local portfolios through the introduction of additional new products customer needs.
In 2003, we introduced a total of 15 new products including a range of low power audio codecs and DACs, some KOREA with touch screen controllers, for the multimedia PDA camera and Our Korean ofce was opened in January 2004 mobile phone applications, new multichannel devices for surround to provide a platform from which we can further develop our business in the area.
sound audio and high speed convertors for the next generation of multi-function peripherals.
These new introductions increase the total number of products offered by the Company to over 60 at the end of the year.
53815 Wolfson A R. qxp 4 5 04 10:11 AM Page 22 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS MAKING WAVES WOLFSON MICROELECTRONICS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 : 022 TURNOVER BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2003 YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 $000 $000 ASIA PACIFIC OTHER THAN JAPAN ASIA PACIFIC OTHER THAN JAPAN 63,459 25,496 JAPAN JAPAN 5,960 1,789 EUROPE AND REST OF WORLD EUROPE AND REST OF WORLD 4,185 2,248 AMERICAS AMERICAS 2,131 4,148 The Company continues to invest heavily in developing new market PEOPLE AND ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT leading products.
As highlighted at the time of the IPO we aim to Our Companys success depends on the quality of the people we add a further 23 new products covering all our product lines within employ and their organisation in support of the business.
We have added six new products to date and our new the year we strengthened every aspect of the business, increasing product development pipeline is the largest in the Companys the staff complement by 59 to 155.
The Sales and Marketing team history.
We continue to expand successfully our engineering team, has almost doubled to 30 people introducing technical and to which we have added 15 staff in Edinburgh since October.
marketing support in the regional ofces and sales administration in Edinburgh to support the growing number of customers and to PRODUCT MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLY develop new business opportunities.
The operations team and manufacturing services activities have been increased by 60% As a fabless company, Wolfson outsources its product manuto support the larger manufacturing base, while an independent facturing to foundry and assembly partners.
Wafer manufacture quality control function has been established to manage internal is now undertaken by Chartered Semiconductor, Hynix and audit, customer quality programmes and to maintain the Companys TSMC, which was introduced during the year to give additional ISO 9001-2000 quality certication.
capacity and security of supply.
Some tightening of supply is beginning to be felt with the upturn in the semiconductor industry The denition and development of new products remain key to and longer term commitments are being entered into to provide the Companys future.
Both the strategic and tactical product the manufacturing capacity to support our growth plans.
marketing functions have been enhanced to ensure the continuing ow of industry leading products while the engineering functions To meet the increasing volume of products being shipped, at the core of the Companys business have been expanded by product assembly and testing facilities have been signicantly 63%, with 28 new engineers being added during the year to enhanced during the year.
Two new test and assembly support the growing demand for new, more complex and higher subcontractors, Carsem in Malaysia and OSE in Taiwan, have performance products.
both been qualied and are now providing approximately 50% of our required volumes, with significant additional capacity The Company has a high prole within the UK electronics market available.
Product testing capacity has also been enhanced and has been highly successful in attracting not only top students with investment of $2.7m by the Company in optimised test from leading universities but also experienced electronic equipment, which has been consigned to our subcontractors engineers from a range of multinational and smaller companies.
We anticipate the continued expansion of the employee base to support the Company growth.
To support the growing manufacturing operation and larger sales base, we have invested $427K in an industry standard management information system to assist with forecasting and planning operations.
This system, together with the enhanced information technology infrastructure, forms the backbone of our operational capability to meet the needs of the Companys growth.
