Our rigorous focus on operational Our Entertainment businesses On behalf of the Board, I would disciplines in Woolworths will had another good year.
In like to thank our colleagues for continue this year.
With over six particular third party business all their efforts during the year.
million customers per week and at Entertainment UK expanded I am consistently impressed 2.2 billion in sales this year, significantly, the new Greenford by the commitment they show our focus is not on aggressively distribution centre operated and the affection they have for growing our sales, but on efficiently, and VCI made further Woolworths.
The people we have improving our margin.
in place give us great confidence Trevor outlines in his review for the future.
focus on improvement to our During the year 51.0 million of product, our promotions and capital investment was incurred: our processes, continued rollout 20.3 million was on new systems of new systems and more and 12.4 million was on opening operational improvements, as five new Woolworths big Ws to well as further cost reductions.
A similar level Successful retailing is about of capital investment is planned Gerald Corbett detail and there remains significant for this year.
Chairman potential for profit improvement by doing what we do better.
We are well aware of how much there remains to do for Longer-term growth will be driven Woolworths to achieve its full by strengthening the Woolworths potential, however we are high street proposition and encouraged by the progress getting our out-of-town format, to date.
Since the demerger Woolworths big W, trading to its the business has been stabilised, full potential.
Progress on both good progress has been made these areas has been made during on operational initiatives and the year and is covered in detail we are well on the way to delivering in the Chief Executives Review.
a recovery in the performance The strength of the Woolworths of the business.
We also have a brand and the overall power of clearer articulation of our customer our market position are a good and store propositions and remain base on which to build.
confident about the future growth potential of the Group.
