Directors Report for the financial year ended 1 February 2003 The Directors are pleased to present their report and the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the financial year ended 1 February 2003.
Principal Activities The Group trades principally as a UK-based General Merchandise retailer and Entertainment retailer wholesaler.
Review of Activities A detailed review of the Groups activities and of future plans is contained within the Chief Executives Review on pages 4 to 9.
Results and Dividends The profit on ordinary activities of the Group before taxation amounted to 38.0 million 2002: loss of 46.4 million and the profit on ordinary activities after taxation amounted to 25.3 million 2002: loss of 47.9 million.
The Directors recommend the payment on 26 June 2003 of a final dividend of 1.0 pence per ordinary share 14.1 million which, together with the interim dividend of 0.325 pence per ordinary share paid on 4 December 2002, makes a total for the year of 1.325 pence per ordinary share.
The total dividend payable to shareholders charged to the profit and loss account is 18.7 million.
The Directors propose to transfer the retained profit of 6.5 million to reserves.
The Company provides a Dividend Reinvestment Plan enabling shareholders to apply their cash dividends to purchase additional ordinary shares in the market at competitive dealing rates.
Full details can be obtained from the Registrar.
If you have previously completed a mandate form to join the Plan, you need take no further action.
Directors The Directors of the Company are shown on page 14.
The following have been Directors of the Company during the financial year ended 1 February 2003: Gerald Corbett, Christopher Rogers, Andrew Beeson, Roger Jones, Prue Leith OBE and Trevor Bish-Jones appointed 18 March 2002.
In accordance with Article 82 of the Articles of Association, Prue Leith OBE and Christopher Rogers retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and being eligible offer themselves for re-election.
Directors Interests The Directors interests in shares of the Company are shown within the Remuneration Report on pages 20 to 24.
No Director has any interest in any shares or loan stock of any other Group company.
No Director was or is materially interested in any contract other than his her service contract, subsisting during or existing at the end of the financial year which was significant in relation to the Groups business.
Corporate Governance Combined Code Statement During the financial year, the Group has complied with the requirements of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Company recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of Corporate Governance.
The principles of good governance adopted by the Company have been applied in the following way: The Board of Directors The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and three Non-Executive Directors who are considered by the Board to be independent of management.
Their biographies appear on page 14 and illustrate the Directors range of backgrounds which provides an experienced and balanced Board to lead and control the Group.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Board has considered the question of Roger Jones independence and unanimously determined that he is independent.
Mr Jones was a director of Woolworths plc until March 1998 and of MVC Entertainment Limited and VCI plc until May 1999.
The Board takes the view that Mr Jones long association with the Woolworths business, coupled with his integrity and sound judgement make him uniquely positioned to both challenge and support the Executive Directors with practical advice and an independent outlook.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years and each Director may receive appropriate training as necessary.
Andrew Beeson is the senior independent Non-Executive Director.
15 Woolworths Group plc Directors Report continued for the financial year ended 1 February 2003 The Board of Directors continued During the year 12 Board meetings were held.
The Directors attended as follows: Board of Directors Attendance Andrew Beeson 10 Trevor Bish-Jones 11 Gerald Corbett 12 Roger Jones 12 Prue Leith OBE 8 Christopher Rogers 12 In addition, 3 further Board meetings took place during the year to deal with the technical grant of share options previously sanctioned by the Board.
Gerald Corbett attended one such meeting with all 3 being attended by Trevor Bish-Jones and Christopher Rogers.
The Board meets not less than 11 times a year and has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
The Board receives detailed proposal papers in advance of meetings, together with management presentations to facilitate proper consideration and debate of matters brought before it.
The Board is primarily responsible for the strategic direction of the Group.
Major strategic initiatives involving significant cost or perceived risk are undertaken only following their full evaluation by the Board.
Progress is reported regularly and minuted, together with routine matters such as financial performance and current trading in each of the Groups business divisions.
The Board has established 3 core standing committees with dened terms of reference as follows: The Audit Committee During the year 3 Audit Committee meetings were held.
The Committee members attended as follows: Audit Committee Attendance Andrew Beeson 2 Roger Jones 3 Prue Leith OBE 3 Chaired by Roger Jones, the Committee comprises the 3 independent Non-Executive Directors.
This Committee is responsible for providing the Board with independent and objective assurance on the control environment across the Group, for ensuring that the subsidiary companies are subject to an internal audit of the required quality and for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of auditors and the audit fee.
It also reviews the performance of the Groups auditors to ensure an independent, objective, professional and cost effective relationship is maintained.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has, through their other business activities, significant experience in financial matters.
Andrew Beeson chairman until January 2003 of Evolution Group plc, a leading Corporate Finance and Stockbroking business has significant, recent and relevant experience of financial and accounting issues.
The Committee is also responsible for the proper reporting of the financial performance of the Group and for reviewing financial statements before publication.
The meetings of the Audit Committee are also the forum used by the Non-Executive Directors to meet without the Executive Directors present to discuss the performance of the Group, its management and their ongoing stewardship of shareholders interests.
The Non-Executive Directors also have the opportunity at this time to raise any issues of concern with the Companys auditors.
In the year to 1 February 2003, the Non-Executive Directors held 2 such meetings.
16 Woolworths Group plc Directors Report continued for the financial year ended 1 February 2003 The Nominations Committee During the year 1 Nominations Committee meeting was held.
The Committee members attended as follows: Nominations Committee Attendance Andrew Beeson 1 Gerald Corbett 1 Roger Jones 1 Prue Leith OBE 1 Comprising the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, the Committee is chaired by Prue Leith OBE, and is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the composition, balance and expertise of the Board and for reviewing and recommending appointments to the Board.
The Remuneration Committee During the year 4 Remuneration Committee meetings were held.
The directors attended as follows: Remuneration Committee Attendance Andrew Beeson 4 Roger Jones 4 Prue Leith OBE 3 Comprising the Non-Executive Directors, the Committee is chaired by Andrew Beeson.
The Committees aim is to ensure that the Executive Directors are rewarded for their contribution to the Group and motivated to enhance the return to shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for the Groups policy on the grant of share incentives to Executive Directors and other senior management as well as the specic remuneration and benets packages for Executive Directors.
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee As part of the Corporate Governance framework the Board recognises the importance of CSR in guiding the way the Group does business.
The CSR Committee, chaired by the Company Secretary, and with Group-wide representation, has been established to monitor and progress this commitment.
Further details can be found on page 13 and in the 2003 CSR report available on the Groups website www.
Re-election of Directors The Articles of Association require one-third of the Board to retire and submit themselves for re-election each year.
At the present time no Director will have held ofce for more than three years since his last election or re-election.
Details of Directors submitting themselves for re-election are shown on page 15.
Directors Remuneration The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, has adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the directors needed to run the Group successfully.
The full report of the Remuneration Committee, including full details of individual directors remuneration is shown on pages 20 to 24.
Relations with Shareholders and Bondholders The Company maintains an active dialogue with its investors through a planned programme of investor relations activities.
This is a key component of its corporate communications programme and is headed by the Finance Director.
The Chairman and Chief Executive also attend the majority of these shareholder meetings.
The investor relations programme includes formal presentations in the UK and overseas where appropriate on full-year and interim results.
One-to-one meetings between institutional investors and senior management are also regularly held.
Feedback from these meetings including the non-attributed views of major institutional shareholders is reported back to the Board as a whole.
The Company Secretary is also charged with bringing to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys stakeholders, including private investors.
Communication with investors also takes place through the Annual and Interim Reports and via the Group website www.
In addition, the Annual General Meeting provides an important opportunity for communication with both institutional and private shareholders.
17 Woolworths Group plc Directors Report continued for the financial year ended 1 February 2003 Accountability and Audit Going Concern A statement in accordance with the going concern principle is included in the Financial Review on page 12.
Internal Control The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness throughout the Group.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control is reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
The Board considers risk assessment and control to be fundamental to achieving its corporate objectives within an acceptable risk reward prole, and confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness of related controls.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The key procedures in place to enable this responsibility to be discharged are: The Board of Directors has approved a set of policies, procedures and frameworks that are designed to facilitate the operation of effective internal control and which include the provision of quality internal and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
These are periodically reviewed and updated: regularly reviews the Groups strategy and the strategies of the subsidiary companies: reviews and assesses the Groups key risks at least annually: reviews performance through a comprehensive system of reporting, based on an annual budget with monthly business reviews against actual results, analysis of variances, key performance indicators and regular forecasting: has well dened policies governing appraisal and approval of capital expenditure and treasury operations: seeks assurance that effective control is being maintained through regular reports from the Audit Committee and the Internal and External Audit functions.
Each Operating Company Board maintains systems for the continuous identication and evaluation of significant risks resulting from their strategies and their areas of the business: self certies that it is clearly accountable for establishing and monitoring internal controls within its business, that processes are in place to provide reasonable assurance that material business risks are identied and managed appropriately, that internal controls have been effected and that they comply with the Groups policies: and reports on any control weaknesses or breakdown considered as material to the Group: reviews and monitors the effectiveness of the system of internal control through reports from the Group Internal and External Audit functions.
The Internal Audit Function is responsible for providing the Board with independent and objective assurance on the control environment across the Group and for ensuring that the subsidiary companies are subject to internal audit of the required quality.
These processes and organisational procedures enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Hilton London Metropole, 225 Edgware Road, London W2 2QL on Tuesday 24 June 2003 at 11.00am.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting and explanatory notes are set out in a separate circular that has been sent to all shareholders with the Annual Report and Accounts.
Employee Involvement The Board seeks to instil high standards of customer care and service in each subsidiary company and the commitment of every employee to this business requirement is considered to be critical.
Accordingly, the Corporate Centre has established a communication framework for employees concerning Group-wide business performance, community involvement, company benets, people and innovation.
Each subsidiary company has, in addition, their own communication strategies concerning their brands, company performance and people issues.
Training and links with the educational sector reinforce the Groups commitment to employee involvement and development.
A graduate recruitment and fast-track development scheme, the Group Leadership Development Programme GLDP has been put in place and is open to new graduates and to managers in all subsidiary companies.
A brochure describing the scheme has been produced and made available to all employees.
Employees are represented on the Trustee Board of the Groups pension schemes.
18 Woolworths Group plc Directors Report continued for the financial year ended 1 February 2003 Equal Opportunities The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment and to ensuring that no applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, HIV status, disability, sexuality, or unrelated criminal convictions and without arbitrary restrictions in respect of age, or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to be justied.
The Group applies employment policies which are fair and equitable and which ensure entry into and progression within the Group.
Appointments are determined solely by application of job criteria, personal ability and competency.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to the possibility of employing disabled persons wherever suitable opportunities exist.
Supplier Payment Policy The Groups policy, in relation to all of its suppliers, is to settle its terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transactions, to ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by those terms provided that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group does not follow any code or standard on payment practice but it is the Groups policy to pay all of its suppliers within 30 days of the end of the month in which it receives the goods or services.
The number of days purchases outstanding for payment by the Group at the year-end was 39 2002: 35.
Political Contributions During the year the Company made no political contributions.
Charitable Donations During the year the Group has contributed 62,000 to communities in the UK.
Major Shareholders As at 25 March 2003, the Company has been notied of the following interest in three per cent or more of the Companys shares.
Number of ordinary shares Per cent Fidelity International Ltd 132,974,644 9.45 AXA Investment Managers 122,379,482 8.69 Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 57,432,891 4.08 M&G Investment Management Ltd Prudential plc 52,012,346 3.69 Prudential Assurance Company Ltd 49,448,794 3.51 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 48,473,865 3.44 Barclays PLC 43,084,874 3.06 Auditors Following the conversion of the Companys auditors  to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003,  resigned on 27 February 2003 and the Directors appointed its successor,  LLP, as auditors.
A resolution proposing the reappointment of  LLP as auditors of the Company is contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and will be put to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board Jonathan Bloom Company Secretary 25 March 2003 19 Woolworths Group plc
