How were rewarded Compensation committee report on behalf of the Board in the form of technical support from that rms Compensation Executive Compensation Consulting Practice.
For committee report on example, this support included the provision of up-to-date empirical information on evolving UK behalf of the Board and international practice, both in terms of what other major listed companies do and the current Introduction views of institutional share owners and representative This report is made by the Board, prepared on its behalf bodies on best practice.
Deloitte & Touche LLP are and for its approval by the Compensation committee.
also engaged as the external auditors to the Company.
It provides the Companys statement of how it has As such the appointment as remuneration advisors applied the principles of good governance set out in the is also subject to, and has received, pre-approval by, Combined Code and those required by Schedule 7A to the Audit committee.
Information on other services the Companies Act and the Directors Remuneration provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP is given in note 2 Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations in respect to the accounts.
Advice was also received from of Compensation matters.
The report also explains any Hammonds Solicitors concerning various legal issues areas of non-compliance.
As in previous years, additional which arose during the course of the year.
Advice on information on executive remuneration, based on a the remuneration of the chairman and the non-executive US-proxy style disclosure, is also included at the end directors was provided by the same advisors to the Board of this report.
Advice is received by the The report of the auditors on the financial committee on a wide range of relevant issues including: statements set out on page 142 confirms that the scope analysis of competitive compensation practices and of their report covers, where required, the disclosures determination of competitive positioning: contained in or referred to in this report that are specified base salary levels: for their audit by the UK Listing Authority and under annual and long-term incentive plans and awards: the Companies Act.
Details of each individual directors policy relating to WPP share ownership: remuneration and of their beneficial holdings of the pensions and executive benets: Companys shares and share options are set out on service contract terms for executives: pages 95 to 99. governance issues relating to compensation and the role of the committee: and Share owner approval issues relating to employee harassment The Company has, for many years, obtained the and discrimination.
approval of its share owners for its remuneration policy, The Compensation committee determines awards which is set out below.
Legislation now requires under annual and long-term incentive plans and awards companies to put the Compensation committee report of WPP stock the terms stock and share are used to the vote at their Annual General Meetings and the interchangeably in this report under a number of plans appropriate resolution is set out as resolution 8 in the for Group employees.
It is also responsible for reviewing Notice of Annual General Meeting.
the terms of employment of executive directors and senior executives of the operating companies including Remit of the Compensation committee salary reviews and the terms of termination During the year, the Compensation committee comprised arrangements if any for these people.
the following who took decisions in respect of the year: In determining the remuneration, stock incentive S W Morten chairman of the committee : arrangements and benets for all of the current C Mackenzie: executive directors, the Board accepted the proposals P Lader.
and recommendations of the Compensation committee No current member of the committee has any without change.
personal financial interest, other than as a share owner, in the matters to be decided by the committee, no potential conicts of interest arising from crossdirectorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the Groups businesses.
The terms of reference for the Compensation committee are available on the Companys website and are on display as set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Compensation committee regularly consults with Group executives, particularly the chief executive Sir Martin Sorrell, the chief talent officer Beth Axelrod, the worldwide compensation and benets director Adrian Jackson and the general counsel David Calow.
The committee appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP as external advisors and received material assistance WPP Annual Report 2003 87
