Executive options the Groups borrowing and surplus cash balances arising As indicated in 2002, WPP intends to expense the cost from its commercial activities and are not traded of executive options in its income statement.
Payments made under these instruments shows a pro forma unaudited income statement for are accounted for on an accruals basis.
This details the impact of expensing executive An analysis of the debt and xed rate maturities options using a Black Scholes valuation model and is shown in note 9 on page 121. applying US transitional guidelines under the prospective The Group manages liquidity risk by ensuring adoption method contained within FAS 148 as of continuity and exibility of funding even in difficult 1 January 2002.
On this basis, only executive options market conditions.
Undrawn committed borrowing issued since 1 January 2002 would be expensed.
The facilities are maintained in excess of peak net borrowing resulting reduction in headline earnings per share would levels and debt maturities are closely monitored.
Fully expensing all executive options Targets for average net debt are set on an annual granted over the last three years on a consistent basis basis and, to assist in meeting this, working capital would reduce headline earnings per share by 6.4%.
targets are set for all the Groups major operations.
Both estimates have been made on conservative input The Groups significant international operations assumptions to the Black Scholes model.
give rise to an exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group seeks to mitigate the effect of these Treasury activities structural currency exposures by borrowing in the same Treasury activity is managed centrally, from the parent currencies as the operating or functional currencies of companys London, New York and Hong Kong ofces, its main operating units.
The majority of the Groups and is principally concerned with the monitoring of debt is therefore denominated in US dollars and euros, working capital, managing external and internal funding as these are the predominant currencies of revenues.
requirements and the monitoring and management of The Groups operations conduct the majority financial market risks, in particular interest rate and of their activities in their own local currency and foreign exchange exposures.
consequently the Group has no significant transactional The treasury operation is not a profit centre and foreign exchange exposures.
Any significant cross-border its activities are carried out in accordance with policies trading exposures are hedged by the use of forward approved by the Board of Directors and subject to foreign exchange contracts.
There were no such material regular review and audit.
contracts in place at 31 December 2003.
No speculative The Groups interest rate management policy foreign exchange trading is undertaken.
recognises that xing rates on all its debt eliminates the possibility of benefiting from rate reductions and Cash ow similarly, having all its debt at oating rates unduly Net debt averaged 1,222 million in 2003, down exposes the Group to increases in rates.
121 million against 1,343 million in 2002 down Its principal borrowing currencies are US dollars, 125 million at 2003 exchange rates.
With an equity pounds sterling and euros.
Borrowings in these market capitalisation at 31 March 2004 of currencies, including amounts drawn under the working approximately 6.5 billion, and average net debt in the capital facility, represented 97% of the Groups gross first quarter of 2004 of 730 million, this would give indebtedness at 31 December 2003 at $1,163 million, a total enterprise value of approximately 7.2 billion.
318 million and e1,050 million and 97% of the Cash ow strengthened as a result of improved Groups average gross debt during the course of 2003 at working capital management and cash ow from $1,424 million, 212 million and e1,031 million.
In 2003, operating profit before goodwill of the year-end dollar debt is at xed rates averaging amortisation and impairment was 493 million, capital 4.9% for an average period of 22 months.
100% of the expenditure 94 million, depreciation 127 million, tax GBP debt is at a xed rate of 2.8% including the effect paid 94 million, net interest and similar charges paid of the redemption premium on the 450 million 2% 38 million and other net cash inows of 53 million.
convertible bonds for an average period of 40 months.
Free cash ow available for debt repayment, 57% of the euro debt is at xed rates averaging 5.49% acquisitions, share buy-backs and dividends was for an average period of 26 months.
This free cash ow was In May 2003 the Group re-issued e45 million absorbed by 355 million in net acquisition payments of Euro bonds carrying a coupon of 6%.
and investments, share repurchases and cancellations Other than xed rate debt, the Groups other of 23 million and dividends of 67 million.
The xed rates are achieved principally through interest Company met its recently set objective of more than rate swaps with the Groups bankers.
The Group also covering acquisition payments and share repurchases uses forward rate agreements and interest rate caps and cancellations from free cash ow, even after to manage exposure to interest rate changes.
31 December 2003, no forward rate agreements Your Board continues to examine ways of or interest rate caps were outstanding.
deploying its substantial cash ow of almost 450 These interest rate derivatives are used only to million per annum to enhance share owner value.
hedge exposures to interest rate movements arising from As necessary capital expenditure is expected to remain 106 WPP Annual Report 2003
