Elements of executive remuneration The key elements of shortand long-term remuneration are summarised in the following table: Element Objective Performance Performance conditions period 1 Annual Base salary Maintain package competitiveness at all levels Not applicable Not applicable.
But salary levels are determined within the Group.
taking a number of relevant factors into account, including individual and business unit performance, level of experience, scope of responsibility and the competitiveness of total remuneration.
Performance Incentivised delivery of value at all levels of 1year Achievement of challenging performance goals Bonus the Group.
A deferral opportunity provides financial and non-financial at the individual further alignment with share owner interests.
and operating company level and independent of an executives position within the Group see below.
Long-term Executive Aimed at high performers in operating 3 years Achievement of various stretching TSR and Stock Option companies to develop a stronger employee EPS conditions.
Currently not offered to parent company executive directors.
Operating Aimed at key executives in Group operating 3 years Achievement of specic operating company company LTIP companies, to align reward with achievement performance measures, such as: of targeted performance measures.
improvement in operating profit improvement in operating margin PSP Aimed at all executive directors and other key 3 years Relative TSR performance against a group of parent company executives to incentivise longkey communication services comparator term performance against key comparators.
companies, subject to the recorded TSR, in the committees view, being consistent with the achievement of underlying financial performance.
Renewed LEAP Participation offered only to parent company 5-year period Relative TSR performance against a group of executive directors and key operating company 4-year period for key communication services comparator executives who transcend their day to day awards made in companies, subject to the recorded TSR, in the role.
Incentivises long-term performance 2004 committees view, being consistent with the against key comparators and maximises achievement of underlying financial performance.
alignment with share owner interests through high level of personal financial commitment.
Notes 1 Base salary is the only pensionable element of remuneration As indicated in the table above the principal elements of Salary levels for executives are reviewed at executive remuneration for the current year and, subject least every 18 or 24 months, depending on the level to review, for future years, comprise the following: of base salary.
Executive salary adjustments are made Base salaries xed : by the committee following consultation where Annual incentives variable : appropriate with the Group chief executive, the chief Long-term incentives variable.
talent officer and the chief executive officer of each Pension, life assurance, health and disability and operating company.
other benets are also provided.
Annual performance bonus Base salary The annual performance bonus is paid under plans The salary is based on individual performance and by established for each operating company and for executives reference to the market median for similar positions in of the parent company.
Challenging performance goals directly comparable companies.
In the case of the parent are established and these must be achieved before any company, this includes other global communication bonus becomes payable.
services companies such as IPG and Omnicom.
For In the case of the Group chief executive and other J. Walter Thompson Company, Ogilvy & Mather parent company directors and executives, the total amount Worldwide and Y&R, the competitive market includes of annual performance bonus payable is based on Group other major multinational advertising agencies.
For each and individual performance.
of the other operating companies in the Group, a In the case of operating companies, individual comparable denition of business competitors is used awards are paid on the basis of achievements against to establish competitive median salaries.
Individual individual performance objectives, encompassing key salary levels are targeted at a range of 15% above or strategic and financial performance criteria relating to below the competitive median, taking a number of the participants own operating company, division, client relevant factors into account, including individual or functional responsibility, and as agreed by the and business unit performance, level of experience, committee including: scope of responsibility and the competitiveness of operating profit: total remuneration.
profit margin: 90 WPP Annual Report 2003 How were rewarded Compensation committee report on behalf of the Board staff costs to revenue or gross margin: granted to approximately 45,000 employees for over conducting talent reviews, succession planning and 21.0 million ordinary shares of the Company.
Further other key strategic goals, established annually.
details of employee share ownership are set out in the Those eligible to receive an annual performance section on Corporate Social Responsibility on page 83. bonus, may, subject to satisfying specic conditions, elect to defer their bonus for four years, converting Operating companies: Long-term incentive plans it into an award of shares under the provisions of the Senior executives of most Group operating companies Companys Deferred Bonus Plan.
The value of this participate in their respective companys long-term share award is equal to 125% of the bonus that would incentive plans, which historically have provided awards otherwise have been received earlier had it been taken in cash and restricted WPP stock based on the achievement in cash.
of three-year financial performance targets.
These plans Each executives annual incentive opportunity operate on a rolling three-year basis.
The value of is dened at a target level for the full achievement of payments earned by executives over each performance objectives.
Higher awards may be paid for outstanding period is based on the achievement of targeted performance in excess of target.
improvements in the following performance measures: The target level for Group executive directors, average operating profit or profit before tax: and other than the Group chief executive is 50% of base average operating margin.
salary and the maximum is 75%.
With effect from 2003 operating companies The target level for the Group chief executive is long-term incentive plans provide awards to be satisfied 100% of base fee salary and the maximum is 200%.
wholly in WPP stock to be paid in the March following For 2003 Sir Martins bonus was determined by the end of the three-year financial performance period, reference to three separate equal components.
First, with no subsequent restriction on sale.
financial performance of the Company measured against budgeted operating profit and cash ow.
Secondly, the Parent company: Performance Share Plan PSP Companys performance relative to a peer group of Annual grants of WPP performance shares are made major public advertising companies taking into account to all executive directors see the table on page 97 and total shareholder return, increase in operating profit and other senior executives in the parent company.
Vesting increase in earnings per share and or operating margins.
is dependent on the TSR performance relative to the Thirdly, the achievement of key strategic objectives, comparator group.
At median performance, 33% of the which for 2003 included amongst others, strengthening performance shares vest, with higher percentages vesting the geographic positioning of Group companies in both for superior performance up to 100% if WPP ranks at developed and fast growing markets, ensuring orderly least equal to the second ranking peer company.
and effective transition of leadership for key operating Contingent grants of performance shares range from company and parent company roles and developing 25% to 100% of base salary.
The current peer collaboration amongst leaders of the various businesses companies are detailed in the table below.
and encouraging cross selling amongst Group Over the 2001-2003 performance period, WPP companies, including client co-ordination initiatives.
was at the median among the peer group companies.
A comparable process was conducted for other Awards were made in April 2004 in respect of the executive directors in respect of their own specic areas performance period 2003-2005. of operation and responsibility.
Comparator group table The following communications services companies currently make up Executive Stock Option Plan and Worldwide the comparator group for all awards to be made under the PSP and Ownership Plan Renewed LEAP The Executive Stock Option Plan has been used annually Omnicom Aegis since its adoption in 1996 to make option grants to IPG Taylor Nelson Sofres members of the WPP Group Leaders, Partners and the Publicis Dentsu High Potential Group as well as key employees of the Havas Arbitron parent company, but currently excluding parent company Digitas GfK executive directors and the Group chief executive.
Ipsos VNU Howard Paster currently holds share options, but none Grey of these were granted in respect of his services as an executive director of the Company.
Original Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan In 1997 the Company broadened stock option Original LEAP participation by introducing the Worldwide Ownership Original LEAP is an incentive plan introduced in 1999 Plan for all employees other than those participating to reward superior performance relative to WPPs peer in other option programs of 100%-owned Group companies, to align the interests of executive directors companies with at least two years service, in order to and key executives with those of share owners through develop a stronger ownership culture.
Since its adoption, significant personal investment and ownership of stock grants have been made annually under this plan and and to ensure competitive total rewards.
The performance as at 10 May 2004 options under this plan had been period of Original LEAP for most participants expired WPP Annual Report 2003 91 on 31 December 2003 with the Company achieving Renewed Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan sixth position in the comparator group of 15 companies Renewed LEAP resulting in an award of three matching shares for every At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company investment share committed to the plan 60% of the held on 16 April 2004, the Company obtained the maximum, subject to certain continuing conditions approval of share owners for a renewal of Original LEAP until September 2004.
Awards made to executive under which the first investment and performance directors under Original LEAP are set out on page 97. period commenced on 1 January 2004.
Under Original LEAP, participants had to commit The Compensation committee has made a number WPP shares investment shares with a minimum of of changes in the design of Renewed LEAP to improve one third being satisfied with shares purchased in the its effectiveness as a remuneration tool, to conform with market, in order to have the opportunity to earn additional current best practice, and to increase alignment with WPP shares matching shares.
The investment shares share owners interests.
These changes include: had to be committed for a five-year period investment phasing awards, so that proportionate investment period, which comes to an end for most participants in opportunities are offered on a regular basis currently September 2004.
The number of matching shares which envisaged to operate as an annual cycle.
Phasing of a participant could receive at the end of the investment awards will have a number of benets: it will ease period depended on the performance of the Company entry to the plan for new joiners, it will avoid measured over five financial years.
situations where particularly large payments are The maximum possible number of matching delivered in any one year, and it will be more sensitive shares was five for every investment share, for which to performance relative to the comparator group as a the Company would have needed to rank first or second result of a greater number of start and end points for within a group of 15 comparator companies over the measurement purposes: performance period.
If the Companys performance had the first awards will be made shortly in respect of the been below the median of the comparator group half investment and performance period commencing on a matching share would have vested for every investment 1 January 2004.
This award will be for a four-year share held throughout the investment period, in period with a maximum matching of four shares.
recognition of a participants maintenance of their Subsequent awards will be for a five-year period with personal investment throughout the period.
Footnote 3 a maximum five times match: to the table on page 97 provides details of some reduced replacing the stepped vesting schedule of the Original entitlements to matching shares.
LEAP, with a measure more sensitive to relative total On a change of control, matching shares could be shareholder return TSR performance Pro-rata TSR: received based on the Companys performance to that removing the guaranteed half-share match for date.
The Compensation committee could also consider, participants who were also in Original LEAP: and in the light of exceptional financial circumstances during simplifying the forms that awards can take and the performance period, whether the recorded TSR was maintaining the comparable economic effect of consistent with the achievement of commensurate different forms of award by providing a dividend fund underlying performance.
based on the number of shares that actually vest.
New Sir Martin Sorrell, the Group chief executive, participants receiving the half share match will not together with JMS Financial Services Limited JMS, receive a dividend fund payment.
committed to Original LEAP investment shares worth In respect of Renewed LEAP, Sir Martin Sorrell $10 million, namely 1,073,814 shares calculated at a has agreed to commit investment shares having a value price of 5.685 per share of which investment shares of $10 million in respect of the award made for 2004 worth at least $3 million were purchased in the market.
and at the discretion of the Compensation committee It is expected that the matching shares to which may be invited to commit up to a maximum amount of participants in Original LEAP other than JMS become $2 million in respect of each of the four annual awards entitled for the awards made by reference to 1999 and that may be made in 2005 or thereafter.
2000 will be provided from one of the Companys ESOPs.
Beth Axelrods Original LEAP award is made Retirement benets by reference to an investment and performance period The form and level of Company-sponsored retirement commencing in January 2002 and expiring in January programs varies depending on historical practices and 2007.
The ESOPs acquired the maximum potential local market considerations.
The level of retirement number of matching shares in respect of the original benets is regularly considered when reviewing total awards at an average cost of 3.70 per share.
has been obtained from share owners to satisfy the In the two markets where the Group employs entitlement of JMS to matching shares by an allotment the largest number of people, the US and the UK, of new shares.
pension provision generally takes the form of dened No further awards will be made under contribution plans, although the Group still maintains Original LEAP.
various dened benefit plans and arrangements primarily in the US and UK.
In each case, these pension plans are provided for the benefit of employees in specic 92 WPP Annual Report 2003 How were rewarded Compensation committee report on behalf of the Board operating companies and, in the case of the UK plans, Group chief executive Sir Martin Sorrell are closed to new entrants.
All pension coverage for Sir Martin Sorrells services to the Group outside the US the Companys executive directors is on a dened are currently provided by JMS, although in 2005 it is contribution basis and only base salary is pensionable anticipated that this will be replaced by an executive under any Company retirement plan.
Details of pension service contract to be entered into directly between contributions for the period under review in respect of Sir Martin and the Company.
He is employed by WPP executive directors are set out on page 95.
Group USA, Inc. for his activities in the US.
Taken together, the agreement with JMS the UK Agreement Competitive positioning of remuneration and the agreement with Sir Martin directly the US The Compensation committee carefully considers the market Agreement provide for the following remuneration positioning of all executives for whose remuneration it is all of which is disclosed on pages 95 to 97: responsible, on a regular basis against the most recent annual salary and fees of 840,000: market data available.
annual pension contributions of 329,000: For example, for the Group chief executive three short-term incentive annual bonus of 100% of annual separate benchmarks for remuneration opportunities salary and fees at target and up to 200% at maximum: are used: the Performance Share Plan: and the most senior executive position in the Companys two the Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan as renewed.
closest comparators, Omnicom and Interpublic Group: the CEO position in companies of comparable size and Contract provisions relating to Sir Martin Sorrell complexity in the UK FTSE 350 index: and Term Notice periods the CEO position in public companies of comparable size and complexity in the US.
The notice provisions in Sir Martin Sorrells contracts In making its assessments, the committee takes into currently provide for a xed term of three years renewable account the overall value of the opportunities that packages on or before 1 September each year.
The contracts were represent, including salary, benets such as post-retirement renewed on 1 September 2002, but were not renewed on entitlements, short and long-term incentives and share 1 September 2003 and consequently are due to expire ownership requirements.
It focuses, in particular, on the on 31 August 2005.
Thereafter the contracts will continue on-target level of remuneration.
The committee also takes on a basis to be agreed between the Company and into account the proportions of total compensation that are Sir Martin but in any event the periods of notice will xed and those which are variable because they are subject not be in excess of 12 months.
to various conditions, including performance and, in the case Given the substantial investment commitment of share-based incentives, future share price performance.
to WPP made by Sir Martin as detailed below, the The same approach is taken for other senior committee believes that it has been appropriate that executives.
The Compensation committee considers data from the latest industry surveys for the senior positions in the terms of Sir Martins contracts should continue for WPPs operating companies.
WPP participates in the leading periods currently expiring approximately one year after global surveys of executive remuneration in the advertising, the end of the Original LEAP Investment Period, namely market research, healthcare, public relations and public August 2005. affairs sectors.
In addition, for heads of operating companies the committee also considers public disclosures for similar  positions in listed companies of comparable size and Both Sir Martins UK Agreement and US Agreement complexity in the relevant sector.
may be terminated by JMS or Sir Martin respectively upon a change of control.
In these agreements control is as dened respectively in section 416 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and Rule 13d-3 of the Securities Exchange Act 1934.
On a change of control or on a wrongful termination by the Company of the UK Agreement and the US Agreement, WPP is currently obliged to pay an amount equal to twice the annual salary and fee, target bonus and pension contribution due under the UK and US Agreements and also to continue certain benets such as health insurance under the US Agreement.
Both of these provisions relating to payments to be made on a change of control and on a wrongful termination will expire on 31 August 2005 and will not be renewed in their present form.
Thereafter any such provision will be complementary to the notice period which is agreed with him and, therefore, will be calculated on the basis of a period not exceeding 12 months.
WPP Annual Report 2003 93 Covenants Sir Martin has indicated that he may further defer In addition to the substantial investments in the for an additional period a portion of the Performance Company made by Sir Martin, he has also entered into Shares under the CIP, to which he would otherwise covenants, which apply for the period of 12 months become entitled in September 2004.
If agreement to following termination of the UK Agreement and the US such deferral is reached with Sir Martin, share owner Agreement, under which he has agreed not to compete approval for this deferral will be sought at the with any business carried on by the Company or any forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
member of the WPP Group, nor to solicit business or JMS also agreed, subject as referred to above, to custom or services from major clients or clients with defer its interest under the NSAP on a similar basis to whom he was involved.
The covenants also include an that on which Sir Martin has previously agreed to defer obligation not to induce employees to cease employment his interest under the CIP.
Accordingly, subject to the with the Company or any member of the WPP Group.
provisions of the NSAP, JMSs right to receive a sum under the NSAP may be exercised in the period 30 Awards earned and deferred by Sir Martin Sorrell September 2004 to 31 December 2004 and will be Sir Martin Sorrell has deferred the receipt by him of calculated by reference to the average price of a WPP significant entitlements under various plans and the share for the five dealing days before JMSs right under committee has welcomed and encouraged this, the the NSAP is exercised.
The NSAP relates to 1,754,520 details of which are set out below.
By September 1999 Sir Martin and JMS were Awards made to the Group chief executive or JMS entitled to a prospective benefit under a number of plans under the CIP, the NSAP and the phantom options, in respect of which the performance conditions had been become immediately exercisable on a change of control.
satisfied prior to September 1999, namely the CIP: the Under these plans only, change of control is currently NSAP and phantom options granted in 1993 and 1994. dened as the acquisition by a person or persons of In September 1999 in addition to making a further more than 20% of the issued share capital of WPP substantial commitment to Original LEAP, Sir Martin where this is followed within 12 months by the also deferred the right to take the benefit of all of his appointment of a director with neither the Group chief outstanding awards on the basis that other than the executives nor JMSs approval.
This denition of phantom options they lapsed if he left the Group other change of control is not embodied into any other than in special circumstances, such as good leaver, until contract provisions or plans relating to Sir Martin, the expiration of the Original LEAP Investment Period executive directors of the Company or other senior in September 2004. executives in the Group.
The CIP provided Sir Martin with a capital The rights of the Group chief executive and JMS incentive initially over a five-year period with effect respectively under the CIP and the NSAP are also from 4 September 1994 and which matured in dependent on Sir Martin remaining interested until September 1999.
Sir Martin agreed to defer taking his September 2004 in 747,252 shares acquired in entitlement to the 4,691,392 Performance Shares which September 1994. he would otherwise have been able to acquire in September 1999, subject to good leaver, change of control and other specified provisions, so as to correspond with the investment period under Original LEAP.
Accordingly, subject to the provisions of the CIP, the rights to acquire the Performance Shares may be exercised in the period 30 September 2004 to 31 December 2004.
These Performance Shares were acquired by an ESOP in 1994 at a total cost of approximately 5.5 million.
Awards earned and deferred by Sir Martin Sorrell The following timeline shows the performance periods for awards earned and deferred by Sir Martin and JMS: 1,571,190 options at 52.5p exercisable until 29 June 2006 Phantom Options 577,391 options at 115p exercisable until 1 March 2007 Notional Share 1,754,520 shares exercisable 30 Sept-31 Dec 2004 Award Plan Capital 4,691,392 shares exercisable 30 Sept-31 Dec 2004 Investment Plan 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 Notes Phantom options awarded in March 1993 originally numbered 2,196,190.
Sir Martin exercised 625,000 of the options in 1997, leaving the current balance unexercised.
Represents period of continued deferral.
