failure to be regarded as independent based on length David Komansky: and of tenure alone raises concerns of arbitrariness and lack Paul Spencer to be appointed chairman of the of appropriateness or relevance to the individuals Audit committee in October 2004. involved.
There are other factors which are important The chairman, Philip Lader, was independent on when considering the independence of a director with his appointment in 2001. over nine years service.
Of the examples which are The Company also considers that all of the referred to in the Combined Code, only the fact that above directors including Philip Lader are independent Bud Morten has been a member of the Board for a within the meaning of Rule 4200 a 15 of NASDAQs period of more than nine years is relevant.
Bud Morten rules as such rule currently applies to the Company.
is a well respected and extremely experienced Koichiro Naganuma is not considered to be international businessman with a particularly detailed independent by the Company, given the substantial knowledge of the Groups global activities and he cross-shareholdings between the Company and Asatsu-DK.
remains deeply involved in and committed to the Group.
John Quelch is not considered independent in view With his various responsibilities Bud commits an of the consultancy fees which he has received in addition extraordinary amount of his time to the affairs of the to his fees as a non-executive director.
Company and particularly in his role as chairman of the Compensation committee, where his knowledge of the Board responsibilities Companys compensation and incentive structures and The Board is collectively responsible for promoting of those of the sector as a whole are invaluable and the success of the Company by directing and difficult to replace at the present time.
Bud recently led supervising the Companys policy and strategy and is the dialogue with share owners on the remuneration responsible to share owners for the Groups financial policy for WPP including the renewal of LEAP referred and operational performance.
Responsibility for the to above.
development and implementation of Group policy The Board is consequently of the opinion that and strategy and for day-to-day management issues is Bud Morten is independent in character and judgement delegated by the Board to the Group chief executive and fulls the role as a critical director in a manner and the other executive directors.
which the Board considers to be independent and For the year under review, Philip Lader further that there are no relationships or circumstances continued as chairman of the Board, responsible for which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the leadership of the Board.
Sir Martin Sorrell, as the his judgement.
Group chief executive, continued to be responsible The Board, however, does accept that not all for the development and implementation of policy share owners and their governing bodies will agree and strategy and for the day-to-day operations of the with its view and the Board will continue its efforts Group.
The biographies of the Board members appear to recruit additional non-executive directors who are on pages 72 to 74. independent and who are able to devote substantial All directors are fully briefed on important time to committee work, and have experience which, developments in the various sectors in which the Group after a suitable induction period, will enable them to operates worldwide and regularly receive extensive join the Compensation committee.
information concerning the Groups operations, nances, Certain institutions have queried the independence risk factors and its people, enabling them to full their of David Komansky who joined the Board in January obligations as directors.
Prior to his retirement in April 2003, David was frequently advised on regulatory and best practice chairman of the board of Merrill Lynch & Co, Inc. requirements which affect the Groups businesses on a one of the investment bankers to the Company.
Since global basis, but particularly in the US and the UK.
his retirement from Merrill Lynch, David has severed In 2003 the Board met six times formally and all relationships with the bank and is not, and in fact held a number of ad hoc meetings throughout the year.
never had been, involved in the Companys relationship With the exception of Masao Inagaki who has recently with the bank.
retired from the Board and has been replaced by The Board therefore does not consider that Koichiro Naganuma, Michael Jordan was absent Davids former relationship with Merrill Lynch results for three meetings, John Jackson due to illness and in his not being independent.
David Komansky were each absent for one meeting, Consequently, the Board considers that by otherwise there was full attendance at all meetings October 2004 the independent directors will be: of the Board during 2003.
Esther Dyson: A process of self-assessment and evaluation in Orit Gadiesh: respect of the Board and each of the Board committees Christopher Mackenzie member of the Compensation has been carried out since 31 December 2003. and Nomination committees : The executive directors held one meeting during Bud Morten chairman of the Compensation the year with the most senior executives of the Groups committee, Senior Independent non-executive director operating companies to discuss the development of the and member of the Audit and Nomination committees : Companys strategies and their conclusions were fully John Jackson chairman of the Audit committee : discussed and ratied by the Board.
