How we behave Directors report In addition to the chairman, following the Annual as chairman of the committee in October 2004 and, General Meeting the Board will consist of 14 directors following the Annual General Meeting, a replacement of whom four are executive and ten plus the chairman will be nominated in place of Michael Jordan.
As explained above the Board The Company also meets the requirements of considers that seven of the ten non-executive directors, Rule 4350 d 2 of NASDAQs rules relating to its other than the chairman, are independent.
qualitative listing requirements as such rule currently The shareholdings of non-executive directors are applies to the Company.
In particular, each current set out on page 96 and details of their fees on page 95. member of the committee is considered to be Non-executive directors do not participate in the independent under NASDAQs rules and has both the Companys pension plans, share option or other experience and background in corporate financial affairs incentive plans.
resulting in their respective financial sophistication Non-executive directors may receive a part and therefore their appropriateness to serve on this of their fees in ordinary shares of the Company.
In particular, Paul Spencer is a former The Board considers that the non-executive finance director of several listed companies.
directors remuneration conforms to the In 2003 the committee met four times and all Combined Code.
the then members attended the meetings other than The fees payable to non-executive directors Michael Jordan who was unable to attend two represent compensation in connection with Board and meetings.
The meetings are also attended at the Board committee meetings, and where appropriate for invitation of the chairman of the committee, in devoting additional time and expertise for the benefit whole or in part, by the auditors, the chairman of of the Group in a wider capacity.
the Board, the Group finance director, the director The following directors will retire from ofce but of internal audit, the Company secretary and the offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Group general counsel.
Annual General Meeting: The role of the committee includes: Appointed since the last Annual General Meeting monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial Orit Gadiesh, Koichiro Naganuma and Paul Spencer.
statements and reviewing significant financial Retiring by rotation Philip Lader.
reporting judgements: Directors for more than nine years Bud Morten reviewing and reporting on the key elements of risk 13 years : John Quelch 16 years : Jeremy Bullmore management as they affect the Groups operations until 30 September 2004 16 years and John Jackson on a global basis: until 30 September 2004 11 years.
reviewing internal financial control and internal The Board recommends that share owners vote audit functions: in favour of the Resolutions to re-elect these directors the review and appointment of the external and set out their reasons for this recommendation in auditors and approval of their remuneration and the Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
terms of engagement: Details of directors remuneration and service monitoring the external auditors independence, contracts form part of the report of the Compensation objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account committee which commences on page 87. relevant global professional and regulatory All directors are required to submit themselves for requirements: re-election by share owners at least every three years.
the approval in advance of the engagement of the In line with best practice under the Combined external auditors in relation to the supply of Code, directors who have held ofce for more than permissible non-audit services, taking into account nine years are now required to submit themselves for relevant ethical and regulatory guidance: re-election by share owners every year.
monitoring accounting and legal reporting requirements, including all relevant regulations of Board committees the UK Listing Authority, the Securities Exchange The Board has long-established and active Audit, Commission, and NASDAQ with which the Compensation and Nomination committees.
All the Company must comply: committees have specic terms of reference against in conjunction with Howard Paster, the director which their performance is appraised on an annual basis.
responsible for Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, The terms of reference are available on the Companys ensuring systems are in place to monitor social, website and will be on display, as referred to in the environmental and ethical issues other than those Notice of Annual General Meeting.
which are the responsibility of the Compensation committee which may affect the Group: Audit committee establishing procedures for the receipt and treatment The committee currently comprises non-executive of concerns regarding accounting, audit and internal directors, whom the Company considers to be audit matters, including condential and anonymous independent, namely: John Jackson chairman of the submission by employees of such concerns.
committee, Michael Jordan and Bud Morten.
It is intended that Paul Spencer will replace John Jackson WPP Annual Report 2003 79
