03 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 BT Xansa to save BT 93 million Xansa was appointed BTs partner in one of by managing the UKs largest Business Process Outsourcing contracts.
Twin objectives for the Accounting millions of & Finance Services contract were established up front: freeing management to concentrate Accounting on the telecommunications business while also achieving major cost reductions.
The project builds on Xansas 15 year relationship with BT.
& Finance Around 550 BT staff have transferred to Xansa to carry out business processing duties, ranging tasks including from some 13billion in annual payments, three million BACS electronic banking payments, 13 billion and many hundreds of thousands of expense claims, purchase orders and payslips.
Xansa is also working with BT to replace 16 different IT annual systems with one global network in one of the worlds largest implementations of Oracle payments Financials.
Soon BT will have a centralised financial warehouse providing them with a powerful new financial reporting capability.
Increased clarity will mean further economies and quality of financial management.
The seven year, 250 million contract guarantees BT net savings of at least 93million.
In the same manner that BT provided significant savings to our customers through managing their network, our partnership with Xansa increases our ability to support our core business proactively and economically.
Our new systems will provide quality information about the whole business in timely fashion and on a cost-effective platform.
For BT, the bottom line is the streamlining of our financial systems, making substantial savings, improving the quality of information and allowing us to concentrate on our customers.
Ian Livingston, Group Finance Director, BT 04 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 AXA Xansa helpsAXA achieve 100% Xansas insurance sector expertise is built on a productivity gain track record of strong performance with three of the worlds leading insurers.
This experience led and new ways to a five year outsourcing contract to support the entire portfolio of the AXA Sun Life and Pension to service two systems for the UK.
Xansa today has responsibility for the units 800 applications.
Productivity was doubled in year two of the contract through million policies introduction of best practice development lifecycle processes.
In this arrangement, 430 of AXAs IT staff have transferred to Xansa in the UK and work in tandem with Xansa teams in India, for support of AXA mainframe and other business applications.
The applications in Life and Pensions cover the full range of business processes: finance, marketing, human resources and management information services, among others.
Xansa has also brought innovation to AXA.
Xansa supports and maintains AXA Sun Lifes business-to-business capabilities for in-force contract enquiries made directly by Independent Financial Advisers.
More than 2,000 AXA Sun Life employees will benefit from these performance and productivity enhancements leading to improved customer service for the holders of some two million policies.
We have gained exibility and reduced our costs by working with the Xansa team on the support and enhancement of some 800 applications.
The bottom line for us is that were in closer touch with our customers.
Dennis Holt, Group Chief Executive, AXA UK plc 07 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 Barclays Xansa delivers 50% savings In 2000, Xansas Barclays contract developed for Barclays, into a framework for provision of its full range of services across the Group, earning the status of and Xansa a preferred supplier for software development services and the support and maintenance for the Barclaycard Groups applications.
In 2001, Barclays increased its commitment to Xansa, enhancing the value of this framework contract to around 48 million.
Partnership Over a four year period, the Xansa team continued to improve live system support services, halving commits to costs to Barclays Group from contract inception whilst exceeding contractual metrics.
additional 26% Xansas partnership with Barclaycard follows more than 13 years of working successfully with cost reduction Barclays Group.
In 2002, the Xansa Barclaycard Partnership was established, a joint business venture that transferred some 450 Barclays people to Xansa.
This five year contract is committed to producing 26% savings, worth 58 million, through productivity gains and the integrated delivery of IT services from the UK and India.
The first year of the Partnership resulted in the implementation of 288 projects, the introduction of Xansas processes and methods, and significant quality improvements.
Our joint business venture is a natural extension of our long relationship.
It allows us to further share risk and reward in delivering best value and service excellence within Barclaycard.
The bottom line is the cost-effectiveness of the Partnership through significant gains in productivity, and Xansas commitment to our vision of becoming the worlds most admired card services business.
Gary Hoffman, Chief Executive, Barclaycard 08 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 Diageo Xansa helps streamline Xansa has been building strong relationships Diageos global with Diageo across the UK, Europe, North America and Asia Pacic for nine years, most recently business helping it to become a unied global company.
After a series of mergers and acquisitions by processes that this world leading premium drinks business, Xansa is now streamlining business processes by integrating supply, purchase, accounting and track premium management reporting systems.
It is part of the Operational Effectiveness Programme featuring brands which implementation of a global SAP platform to integrate shared back-ofce services and to deliver 11billion establish common practices and common data.
The aim is to improve efficiency and create a speedier and more exible organisation to annual sales underpin Diageos journey of becoming an iconic company with premium brands, such as Smirnoff, Johnnie Walker, Guinness, Baileys, J&B, Captain Morgan, Cuervo and Tanqueray which deliver 11 billion sales.
Xansa is providing change and programme management, business process design and enterprise application integration to Diageo.
Key to the success to date and at the heart of this global programme is teamwork.
The bottom line is there is a real team spirit that is critical in making our transformation to a unied global company a major success and within such demanding timeframes.
Robin Dargue, Business Process Director and Chief Information officer, Diageo 11 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 RWE Xansa drives Xansa was already involved in major projects with Thames Water and Yorkshire Electricity Group over 700,000 now npower when Essen-based RWE made its acquisition of Innogy, the integrated UK energy rm that owns both companies.
Xansas work transactions for continues, with customer satisfaction as a focal point.
At Thames Water, Xansa will drive a Business Thames Water Process Outsourcing initiative for handling responses to some 270,000 written customer and produces transactions per year.
All replies will be guaranteed within four working days.
In addition, Xansa will manage some 460,000 metered billing exceptions 1.5 million bills each year determining the reason, instigating action and resolving any discrepancy beforehand for npower to ensure correct billing to the customer and speedy payment to Thames Water.
Xansas India resources will be heavily involved, working closely with UK based teams to deliver this operation.
Xansa will also provide development and enhancement services to IT applications.
For the former Yorkshire Electricity, part of Innogys npower retail business, the focus is also on service delivery.
Xansa supports the continuous production of some 1.5 million electricity bills to domestic and business customers.
Xansas IT expertise, combined with knowledge of the electricity business and billing systems, has contributed to this success.
Xansa also heightens customer satisfaction by improving availability Xansa will be helping us to set the standard by of mainframe systems, which in turn shortens which other water companies are measured.
They response times of customer call centres.
Recently, understand and are committed to our business.
npower Business Services acknowledged the Their process outsourcing operation will also give Xansa team with a Customer Recognition Award us new ways of working.
The bottom line is that for Customer Obsession, a distinction normally we depend on reliable service continuity vital to reserved for npower employees.
us in maintaining excellent customer relations.
Jeremy Pelczer, Chief Operating officer, Thames Water Xansa is supporting our drive to protect and grow the npower brand.
Many IT service companies claim they can improve service availability but Xansa has actually achieved this.
The bottom line is that the excellent service we receive directly affects our ability to serve customers in a swift, accurate and professional manner.
Chris Johnson, Operations Director, npower 12 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 HBOS Xansa continues to deliver results With a five year record of successful and profitable for HBOS after operation, Xansas joint venture with the Bank of Scotland BOS has opened the way for Xansas 32% productivity continued support of HBOS.
A newly agreed framework will extend beyond December 2003 when First Banking Systems FBS concludes.
HBOS boost and has now opted for a federated structure for its IT function.
When it was established, FBS provided a 20 million new and innovative way of dealing with computing developments and IT support services to BOS.
profit in 2001 02 It provided a solution to a rapidly changing business and was positioned at the leading edge in the sophistication of existing and emerging technologies.
from innovative It achieved a 32% productivity increase and aided the rapid change required in the banks business joint venture processes.
This was done by taking a major role in the creation of a Core Banking System for the business banking arm of HBOS with teams working in the UK and India.
In the last 12months alone, FBS beat all service levels.
Xansa remains one of our key service providers.
The highly skilled team has worked with us to successfully deliver real business benefit through large and complex system integration programmes that will hold HBOS in good stead.
The bottom line is that even in challenging times, Xansa has professionally delivered tangible business benets for HBOS.
Ian Kerr, Director, Group Programmes, HBOS 14 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 The most important aspect of the last year has been the creation of a new Executive team under Alistair Cox, Chief Executive.
The new team has undertaken a major strategic review of the business, has sharpened the investment focus and has streamlined the organisation, centred around client relationships, with profit accountability by country.
The effect of the streamlining is a more efficient organisation with significant reductions in overhead costs.
Highlights 2003 2002 Turnover 453.9m 515.1m Operating profit 28.7m 49.1m Operating margin 6.3% 9.5% Pre-tax profit 27.7m 46.5m Exceptional restructuring costs 25.2m 13.2m Diluted earnings per share 4.13p 7.55p Dividend per share 3.24p 3.24p Order bank 569m 518m Before profit on sale of own shares, distribution of shares from the trusts, reorganisation costs and goodwill amortisation and impairment.
