Robert MacDonnell, aged 66, Sir Steve Robson CB, aged 60, Ian Strachan, aged 60, became Santiago Zaldumbide, joined the Board of Xstrata AG retired as Second Permanent Chairman of Instinet Group Inc aged 61, Executive Director, in May 1997, and was Secretary at HM Treasury in in 2003, and is also a Director Chief Executive of Xstrata Zinc appointed to the Board of January 2001.
He had joined of Reuters Group plc, Johnson and Executive Chairman Xstrata plc in February 2002.
HM Treasury after leaving Matthey plc, Rolls Royce plc, of Asturiana fide Zinc.
Prior to joining Kohlberg Kravis university.
His early career and Transocean Inc,.
Mr Mr Zaldumbide was appointed Roberts & Co. in 1976, Mr included a period as Private Strachan was Deputy Chairman to the Board of Xstrata plc in MacDonnell was a Management Secretary to the Chancellor of of Invensys plc from 1999 to February 2002.
He is a previous Consultant at Arthur Andersen the Exchequer and a two year 2000, and he was Chief Chief Executive Officer and & Co.
He subsequently formed secondment to Investors in Executive of BTR plc from 1996 Director of Union Explosivos his own rm, which specialised Industry plc 3i.
Mr Strachan joined Rio Tinto and of Petroleos del in small management buyouts.
his retirement, his responsibilities Rio Tinto plc formerly RTZ plc Norte.
In 1990, Petroleos del Mr MacDonnell became the first included the legal framework for as CFO in 1987, and became Norte became part of the non-founding partner of KKR in regulation of the UK financial Deputy Chief Executive from Repsol Oil Group where Mr 1982.
As such, he participated services industry, public private 1991 to 1995.
Mr Strachan was Zaldumbide was responsible for in virtually all investment partnerships, procurement policy appointed to the Board of establishing the international decisions until the rm including the private finance Xstrata plc at the AGM held on structure of the enlarged expanded in the late 1980s.
initiative and the Treasurys 8th May 2003.
In 1994 he Mr MacDonnell is also currently enterprises and growth unit.
was appointed Chief Executive a Director of Safeway, Inc. Sir Steve is a Director of Officer of the Corporacion US Natural Resources, Inc, Cazenove Group plc, Industrial fide Banesto and in and Pacic Realty.
Partnerships UK plc and The December 1997 Chairman Royal Bank of Scotland Group and Chief Executive Officer of Trevor Reid, aged 43, Chief plc.
Sir Steve was appointed to Asturiana fide Zinc.
Mr Reid joined the Board of Xstrata plc in Xstrata AG in January 2002, and February 2002 and is Chairman was appointed to the Board of of the Audit Committee.
Prior to joining Xstrata, he was Dr Fred Roux, aged 56, joined Global Head of Resource Johannesburg Consolidated Banking at the Standard Bank Investment Company Limited in Group.
He joined the Standard 1976, where he held positions in Bank Group in 1997 from the Finance, Base Metals, Gold Warrior International Limited, and Platinum divisions.
In 1990, a corporate finance boutique he joined Gencor Limited where specialising in the minerals sector.
he became Chairman of Alusaf and Executive Director responsible for Base Metals and Heavy Minerals.
Since 1997, he has pursued private business interests in game ranching and safaris in South Africa.
Dr Roux was appointed to the Board of Xstrata plc in February 2002.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Mick Davis Chief Executive Trevor Reid Chief Financial Officer Santiago Zaldumbide Chief Executive Xstrata Zinc Peter Coates Chief Executive Xstrata Coal Marc Gonsalves General Manager Corporate Affairs Peter Coates Marc Gonsalves Peet Nienaber Chief Executive Xstrata Alloys Charlie Sartain Chief Executive Xstrata Copper Peet Nienaber Charlie Sartain EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Xstrata Alloys Xstrata Zinc Neil Crafford-Lazarus Financial Director Angel Abajo General Manager Mining & Technology Deon du Preez Managing Director, Chrome Division Iigo Abarca Chief Legal Counsel Wynand Meyjes Managing Director, Vanadium Division Manuel Alvarez General Manager Assistant to the Chief Executive Eric Ratshikhopha Executive Director Corporate Development Jaime Arias General Manager Spanish Operations Alan Breen General Manager BRM Xstrata Coal Brian Hearne General Manager McArthur River Mining Garry Beck General Manager Marketing, Australia Kevin Hendry General Manager Mount Isa Zinc Lead Operations Mick Buffier Chief Operating Officer, New South Wales Juan Len Chief Financial Officer Ian Cribb Chief Operating Officer, Queensland Rainer Menge General Manager German Operations Peter Freyberg Chief Operating Officer, South Africa Emilio Tamargo General Manager Business Development & Research Jeff Gerard General Manager Business Strategy Murray Houston General Manager Marketing, South Africa Corporate Phil Jones General Manager Human Resources Brian Azzopardi Group Controller Peter McKenna General Manager Engineering and Development Gavin Carroll Head Internal Audit Earl Melamed Chief Financial Officer Richard Elliston Company Secretary Reinhold Schmidt General Manager Commercial Paul Jones General Manager Health, Safety and Environment Colin Whyte General Manager Sustainable Development Andrew Latham General Manager Corporate Development Benny Levene Chief Legal Counsel Xstrata Copper Thras Moraitis General Manager Group Strategy and Development Hugh Callaghan General Manager Commercial NQld Shaun Usmar General Manager Corporate Development John Coldham General Manager Administration and Services NQld Ian Wall Group Treasurer Jon Evans General Manager Ernest Henry Jason Wilkins Head of IT Peter Forrestal General Manager Business Development Asia Pacic Barry Grant General Manager Minera Alumbrera Louis Irvine Chief Financial Officer Steve fide Kruijff General Manager Mount Isa Copper Operations Neal OConnor General Counsel Karen Read General Manager Finance NQld Julian Rooney General Manager Commercial and Corporate Affairs Americas Peter Symons General Manager Business Development Americas Pierre Vix General Manager Metallurgical Operations NQld 76 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 DIRECTORS REPORT Results and Dividend The Group profit for the year ended 31 December 2003 on ordinary activities after taxation and minority interests was US$277 million compared to US$142.3 million in the previous year.
The Group consolidated profit and loss account and other financial information is produced on pages 101 to 163 of this review.
The directors declared a dividend of 13.3USc per share, amounting to a total of US$83.6 million.
The shareholders will be asked to approve the dividend at the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2004, for payment on 21 May 2004 to ordinary shareholders whose names were on the register on 30 April 2004.
Principal Activities and Review of the Business Xstrata plc is an international metals and mining company.
The Groups activities are managed through four major global Businesses Units: Xstrata Alloys: The Group is the worlds largest producer of ferrochrome in terms of both attributable production and attributable sales and one of the worlds leading producers of primary vanadium, with integrated production facilities in South Africa and Australia.
Xstrata Coal: The Group is the worlds largest export thermal coal producer, having interests in 34 operating coal mines, 22 of which are located in Australia and 12 of which are located in South Africa.
Xstrata Copper: The Group has interests in three operating mines, two in Australia and one in Argentina and smelting and refining plants in Australia.
Xstrata Zinc: The Group has zinc smelting operations in Spain and Germany, and interests in three operating mines and a lead smelter in Australia and a lead refining plant in the United Kingdom.
Full details of the principal activities and performance of these and other Group businesses in the year ended 31 December 2003, together with an indication of likely future developments of the Company and its subsidiaries are set out in the Chief Executives Review and the Financial and Operating Reviews on pages 6 to 73.
On 1 January 2003, Xstrata Alloys acquired 100% of Char Technology Pty Limited in South Africa from Glencore International AG for US$7.6 million.
On 1 January 2003, the Group acquired a further 11.5% interest in a Coal Australia subsidiary company, Oakbridge Pty Ltd for US$58 million from Tomen Corporation, increasing the percentage ownership in the subsidiary from 66.5% to 78%.
On 28 February 2003, Coal Australia acquired a further 32.5% interest in the Glendell Joint Venture for US$12 million with US$1.7 million deferred until the commencement of production, increasing its ownership to 100%.
10 February 2003, the Group suspended its vanadium operations at the Windimurra facility in Western Australia due to market conditions.
On 1 April 2003, the Group sold its magnesium recycling plant in Anderson, Indiana through the sale of its shares in Xstrata Magnesium Corporation for US$1.2 million to Advanced Magnesium Alloys Corporation.
A major restructuring of the Group occurred following the approval by the Supreme Court of Queensland of a Scheme of Arrangement leading to the acquisition by the Group on 24 June 2003 of MIM Holdings Limited, now known as Xstrata Queensland Ltd.
The acquisition, for a cash consideration of US$2,090.1 million including acquisition costs provided Xstrata with entry into two new commodity businesses through MIMs substantial Australian and Latin American copper assets, and Australian coking coal assets, as well as expanding the Groups thermal coal interests in Australia and its lead-silver-zinc interests in Australia and Europe.
On 17 June 2003, in order to conserve resources in a period of declining thermal coal prices, Xstrata Coal announced that Australian thermal coal production would reduce by 600,000 by the end of July and on 18 July 2003 announced that the Baal Bone Colliery in Australia would reduce annual production from two million to 1.2 million tonnes of coal.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 77 DIRECTORS REPORT On 4 August 2003, the Group issued US$600 million 3.95% guaranteed convertible bonds due 2010.
This issue of bonds diversified the Groups funding base, extended the maturity profile of the Groups debt and reduced the cost of the Groups financing.
On 19 November 2003, the Group sold as a package a 20% interest in the Queensland coal business and a 25% interest in Queensland coal projects for US$388 million.
On 8 December 2003, the Group announced approval for the construction of a 330,000 tonne ferrochrome smelter in South Africa which will raise the Groups capacity to 1.63 million tonnes, representing about one third of current global capacity.
Post Balance Sheet Events On 14 January 2004, the Group announced the restructuring of the management of its copper businesses in Australia and in the Americas as a single global copper business, known as Xstrata Copper.
The Vantech vanadium production plant was placed on care and maintenance on 1 January 2004.
Further details are given in Note 23 of the Financial Statements.
An agreement has been signed to sell Carpentaria Gold Pty Ltd Ravenswood to Resolute Mining Limited effective 1 March 2004 for a gross consideration of US$45 million.
Further details are given in Note 17 of the Financial Statements.
Development of the Rolleston coal project has been approved and will be announced on 24 February 2004.
An agreement with SA Chrome & Alloys Pty Limited SA Chrome will be announced on 24 February 2004 to establish a shared venture the Xstrata SA Chrome Venture to which each party will contribute its respective South African chrome and ferrochrome assets.
Exploration and Research, Development The Group business units carry out exploration and research and development activities that are necessary to support their operations.
Health, Safety, Environment & Community HSEC Xstratas Business Principles state the Groups commitment to achieving the highest standards of health, safety and environmental performance.
The Groups mission is to have no work related injuries or illnesses and to seek continual improvement in HSE performance and our contribution to sustainable development.
The Groups General Manager Health Safety and Environment reports to the Chief Executive of Xstrata and oversees the implementation, review and assurance of the Groups Health, Safety and Environment Policies and Standards globally and manages the Groups interface with stakeholders in the areas of HSE.
Xstratas 2003 Health, Safety, Environment and Community HSEC report has also been published which includes information on the Groups HSE management and performance as well as its social involvement initiatives.
Further HSEC details and case studies are also available on the Xstrata website.
Political and Charitable Donations In accordance with Xstratas corporate social involvement policy, no political donations were made.
As part of its corporate social involvement CSI, the Group made charitable donations totalling US$6.7 million in 2003, of which US$6,500 was donated in the UK.
Further information on the Groups CSI is set out in the 2003 HSEC report published separately.
Employee Policies and Involvement The Groups policy is to communicate honestly with employees and encourage consultation between employees and management.
In keeping with the Groups Statement of Business Principles, which is published separately and available on the website, no form of workplace discrimination is tolerated.
78 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 Disabled employees The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons, where the requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career development and promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
Labour relations The Group has approximately 19,500 employees worldwide.
The majority of these employees are unionised.
In South Africa, the Group has a policy of recognising a trade union if its members make up a particular percentage of the mine or plants workforce.
In addition, at each of the Groups South African operations excluding those that bargain under the auspices of the Chamber of Mines, there is an annual collective bargaining process to determine the following years rates of pay and general conditions.
The Group strives to ensure and believes that all of the Groups operations have, in general, good relations with their employees and unions.
Employee share schemes The Company has a policy of encouraging employees to acquire Xstrata plc shares and linking a significant element of employees variable reward to the performance of the Xstrata plc Group.
Executive directors and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are eligible to participate at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee in the Xstrata LTIP which has two elements i a free contingent award of ordinary shares which vest in three years and ii a share option to acquire ordinary shares at the exercise price after three years.
The vesting of awards and options depends upon the satisfaction of stipulated performance conditions.
Further details of the above and of other Companys share schemes are set out in Note 29 to the Financial Statements.
Corporate Governance A report on corporate governance and compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code is set out on pages 82 to 87.
Directors and their Interests The directors as at 31 December 2003 were: Retirement by Director Position Status First appointed Re-elected rotation at AGM Mick Davis Chief Executive 25 February 2002 8 May 2003 Standing for re-election Ivan Glasenberg Non-Executive 25 February 2002 8 May 2003 Paul Hazen Non-Executive Independent 25 February 2002 8 May 2003 David Issroff Non-Executive 25 February 2002 8 May 2003 Standing for re-election Robert MacDonnell Non-Executive Independent 25 February 2002 8 May 2003 Sir Steve Robson Non-Executive Independent 25 February 2002 8 May 2003 Standing for re-election David Rough Deputy Chairman, Independent 1 April 2002 8 May 2003 Standing for re-election Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Trevor Reid Chief Financial 25 February 2002 8 May 2003 Officer Dr. Fred Roux Non-Executive Independent 25 February 2002 8 May 2003 Ian Strachan Non-Executive Independent 8 May 2003 Willy Strothotte Chairman and 25 February 2002 8 May 2003 Non-Executive Santiago Zaldumbide Executive 25 February 2002 8 May 2003 In accordance with the Companies Act 1985, all the directors retired, offered themselves for re-election and were subsequently re-elected at the last AGM on 8th May 2003.
At the forthcoming AGM, four directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election.
Details of the resolutions that will be put to the AGM are given in the Notice to the AGM.
Further details about the directors and their roles within the Group are given in the directors biographies on page 74 and 75.
