30 BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 Directors report The directors of BAE Systems present their The group operates a centralised treasury Supplier payment policy report, together with the accounts, for the department that is accountable to the TRMC It is group policy that each business unit is in year ended 31 December 2003. for managing treasury activities in accordance compliance with local best practice in the with the framework of treasury policies and country of operation in respect of supplier Principal activities guidelines approved by the Board.
Agreed payment schedules BAE Systems is a company engaged in the overriding policy is that trading in financial are maintained provided that the supplier development, delivery and support of instruments for the purpose of profit complies with all relevant terms and advanced defence and aerospace systems in generation is prohibited, with all financial conditions.
Group policy is that changes to the air, on land, at sea and in space.
The instruments being used for risk management the agreed payment schedule are only made company designs, manufactures and supports purposes.
Other key policies are: with the prior agreement of the supplier.
military aircraft, surface ships, submarines, radar, avionics, communications, electronics to maintain a balance between continuity The average number of days credit provided in and guided weapon systems.
Further details of funding and flexibility through the use of 2003 by suppliers to the group was 37 days of the principal activities of the company and borrowings with a range of maturities, 2002 38 days.
likely future developments in the business are currencies and fixed floating rates of set out in the chief executives review and interest reflecting the group risk profile: Employment operating and financial review on pages 4 The group has a programme in place to to maintain adequate undrawn committed to 23. assist employees to achieve their full borrowing facilities: potential and to develop the skills necessary Research and technology to meet the current and future expectations to mitigate the exposure to interest rate The company makes significant investment in of our customers.
The programme focuses on fluctuations on borrowings and deposits by research and technology in all the main areas both personal and technological development.
utilising interest rate swaps, interest rate of its business and in its own corporate options and forward rate agreements: and research centre.
Emphasis is increasingly All employment policies include a to hedge economically both contracted being placed on exploiting the UKs strong commitment to equal opportunities and anticipated foreign currency cash science base through the University regardless of sex, race, colour, nationality, flows over a five-year period, having first Partnerships programme and the Systems ethnic origin, religion, age or disability, subject matched receipts and payments.
Engineering Innovation Centre formed in only to considerations of national security.
The The companys policy is to provide, wherever Within this policy framework the treasury emphasis of the research programme is being possible, employment opportunities for departments principal responsibilities are: directed increasingly at the development of disabled people and to ensure that disabled the companys systems and sub-systems people joining the company and employees to manage the groups core funding and capabilities that relate to the evolving who become disabled whilst in our liquidity: requirements of the defence customer base.
employment benefit from training and career development opportunities.
to manage exposure to interest rate Note 3 to the accounts details the amounts movements: spent on research and development in 2003.
The company has put into place a number of to manage exposure to foreign currency ways of consulting with employees and movements: Office of Fair Trading undertakings providing them with information on the As a consequence of the merger between performance of the company and other to control and monitor bank credit risk and British Aerospace and the former GEC matters that affect them.
The effectiveness of credit capacity utilisation: and Marconi Electronic Systems businesses in the communication process is assessed to manage the groups relationship with 1999, the company is required to comply with regularly with the aim of ensuring continual debt capital market investors, banks and certain undertakings given to the Secretary of improvement so as to provide employees with rating agencies.
State for Trade and Industry.
Compliance with the information they want by the most the undertakings is monitored by an effective means.
The treasury department transacts with an independent compliance officer.
Further extensive range of counter-party banks and information regarding the undertakings and Employees are actively encouraged to financial institutions and adopts a systematic the contact details of the compliance officer become shareholders in the company by way approach to the control and monitoring of may be obtained through the company of SAYE share option schemes.
A credit limit is secretary at the company's registered office.
around 32,000 employees participate in the allocated to each counterparty with reference company and joint venture SAYE share option Corporate governance to its relevant credit rating.
The corporate governance statement is set risk purposes, all transactions are marked-toout on pages 32 to 35. market and the resultant exposure is allocated against the credit limit.
Treasury policy The groups treasury activities are overseen The company, through its internal audit by the Treasury Review Management department, monitors compliance against the Committee TRMC.
Two executive directors principal policies and guidelines including the are members of the TRMC, including the utilisation of credit and any exceptions found group finance director who chairs the are reported to the TRMC.
The TRMC also has on financial instruments is set out in note 30 representatives with legal and taxation to the accounts.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 31 Honours Results and dividends Sir Charles Masefield retired from the Board In the UK, the following individuals were The profit after taxation and minority interests on 28 February 2003.
Sir Robin Biggam and honoured in the 2003 Birthday Honours and was 6m 2002 loss 686m.
The directors Keith Brown retired from the Board on the 2004 New Year Honours lists: propose a final dividend of 5.5p per ordinary 29 April 2003. share 2002 5.5p, amounting to 168m CBE 2002 168m, which, together with the Paolo Scaroni will be retiring from the Board interim dividend, amounts to a total annual at the conclusion of this years AGM.
Ray Wilson dividend of 9.2p per ordinary share 2002 OBE 9.2p, at a total cost of 281m 2002 Beneficial and non-beneficial interests, 281m.
After deducting 21m 2002 21m, including family interests, in the share capital Simon Hargreaves which represents the total for the preference of the company, for those persons who were Andy Williams share dividend, the total retained loss for the directors at the end of the financial year are year is 296m 2002 loss 988m.
There have been no MBE changes in the beneficial or non-beneficial Eric Cheer Charitable donations interests of the share capital of the company During 2003, the amount donated for in the period from the year end to 25 February David Holt charitable purposes in the UK was 2004.
Further of significance other than service contracts Jamie Webster details of the companys charitable activities or as disclosed in the remuneration report in are set out on page 26. relation to the company or its subsidiaries in Safety, health and environment which any director has, or has had, any The company is committed to high standards Political donations material interest.
of health and safety at work and encourages It is the companys policy not to make active concern for the environment.
Further contributions to political parties.
Annual General Meeting details of the companys activities in these The Annual General Meeting of the company areas are set out on pages 25 to 27.
The Political Parties, Elections and will be held on 5 May 2004.
The Notice of Referendums Act 2000 the Act amongst Annual General Meeting is enclosed with this Share capital other things, prohibits the company and its annual report and details of the resolutions As at 25 February 2004, the company had subsidiaries from making donations to EU to be proposed at the meeting.
These include been advised of the following significant Political Organisations as defined in the Act special resolutions amending the companys interests in the issued ordinary share capital of more than 5,000 in any 12 month period Articles of Association so as to allow the of the company: unless they are authorised to do so by the company to hold shares in the form of companys shareholders.
The Act defines EU treasury shares and for the disapplication of Barclays PLC: 3.96% Political Organisations widely as a result of pre-emption rights pursuant to section 89 of Brandes Investment Partners, LLC: 12.1% which the definition could include bodies, the Companies Act 1985. such as those concerned with policy review Franklin Resources, Inc. and its and law reform or with the representation of Auditors affiliates: 8.1% the business community or sections of it, KPMG Audit Plc, the auditors for the company, Legal and General Investment which the company may see benefit in have indicated their willingness to continue in Management Limited: 3.0% supporting.
In recognition of this fact the office and a resolution proposing their shareholders, at the 2002 AGM, authorised re-appointment will be put to the Annual the company and certain of its subsidiaries to General Meeting.
The companys Articles of Association contain make donations or incur expenditure as provisions to the effect that no foreign By order of the Board defined in the Act up to an aggregate person, or foreign persons acting in concert, maximum of 250,000 in a 12 month period.
can have an interest in more than 15% of the The company made a donation of 50,000 in companys issued ordinary share capital.
David Parkes 2003 to Britain in Europe which may be Company secretary deemed to fall within the ambit of the Act.
At the Annual General Meeting AGM held on 25 February 2004 29 April 2003 the company was given Directors authority to purchase up to 306,006,415 of The names of the current directors are listed its ordinary shares.
The authority will expire on pages 28 and 29.
The full remuneration at the AGM held in 2004.
Although no report is set out on pages 36 to 45. ordinary shares have been purchased by the company during the period from 29 April Sir Peter Mason and Michael Hartnall were 2003 to the date of this report, a resolution appointed as directors of the company on will be put to shareholders at this year's AGM 22 January 2003 and 10 June 2003 to renew the authority to make market respectively.
purchases of the company's shares up to a maximum of 10% of the share capital of the company.
