12 The future Is there life after smallpox?
The contract to supply smallpox vaccine to the US Government made Acambis profitable, but whats next?
To address that issue, Acambis has looked long and hard at its business to determine how to maximise existing opportunities, where to allocate its resources and what else to pursue to drive future growth.
Sustainable profitability depends on three key strategies: maximising existing opportunities: retaining product rights: and acquiring additional products.
POTENTIAL SOURCES OF REVENUE 2002 2003 SMALLPOX VACCINE US GOVERNMENT CONTRACT US STOCKPILE MAINTENANCE OTHER GOVERNMENT SALES PRIVATE SALES MVA US R&D CONTRACT US 3M-DOSE CONTRACT US 50M-DOSE CONTRACT OTHER GOVERNMENTS C-VIG VIVOTIF TYPHOID TM ARILVAX YELLOW FEVER CHIMERIVAX-JE CHIMERIVAX-WEST NILE 13 ALSO How can you sustain profitability?
Is there more to Acambis than smallpox?
What Acambis has done since ACQUIRING ADDITIONAL PRODUCTS In a recent portfolio review of its is to establish a smallpox vaccine Acambis strong financial position, products, based on an extensive franchise that aims not only to with cash and short-term investments assessment of the market potential, maximise sales of ACAM2000 but also totalling 125.2m at the end of 2003, Acambis identified nine key high-value to exploit the potential of two related gives it the flexibility not only to invest vaccine projects that it plans to pursue.
products, Vaccinia Immune Globulin in its own products but also to acquire These products are already licensed, and Modified Vaccinia Ankara.
That well advanced in clinical development It is also developing a travel vaccines flexibility has already facilitated the or represent significant market franchise with products that can be sold acquisition of BPC, which brought opportunities, such as the West Nile, through its North American sales and Acambis profits, a valuable infrastructure dengue or C. difficile vaccines.
and rights to sell a licensed oral typhoid review enabled Acambis to identify vaccine.
It will also enable Acambis these key projects as the areas in which RETAINING PRODUCT RIGHTS to acquire additional licensed or lateto direct its resources in a highly Acambis aims to retain as much value stage products, particularly ones which focused, well-targeted way that should as possible from the products it is can be sold through BPCs channels.
drive development timelines as rapidly developing and has put in place the Each of these strategies should make as possible.
manufacturing, sales, marketing and an important contribution to Acambis The smallpox vaccine opportunity distribution capabilities to do this.
continued growth and, Acambis highlighted to Acambis the potential Of the projects it is now pursuing, believes, could help to assure its future for expansion by playing to existing Acambis can manufacture four of the as a sustainably profitable business.
The US Government vaccines itself and sell to some or all contract established Acambis as the of the target markets for practically leading player in the smallpox vaccine every one of its vaccines.
2004 2005 2006 2007 The above table represents Acambis current internal best estimates of when revenues could start in the future.
As ever, these are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
