14 Interview Youre a small biotech with ambitions to be a leading vaccine company.
What makes you think youll succeed?
Acambis has come a long way in a short time.
How does that change look to the people who are leading the process?
These are extracts from a discussion about progress and prospects between three members of the Groups senior management team.
Dr Philip Bedford PB is Senior Vice President, Clinical Operations and Regulatory Affairs.
Dr Joe Caldwell JC is Senior Vice President, Operations.
Dr Christian Loucq CL is Vice President, Sales and Marketing.
we have the cash to go into the market PB: Whats exciting is that were SMALL COMPANY, BIG AMBITIONS.
and look for new opportunities like developing products for markets that WHY WILL YOU SUCCEED?
BPC, the US travel vaccines marketing the big companies arent necessarily PB: Our smallpox vaccine sales have company we acquired in August 2003. interested in and for diseases where differentiated us from most of the The competences weve been building there are currently no vaccines available.
By making us profitable, in clinical trials, regulatory, All three of us have worked in senior theyve enabled us to build an manufacturing, marketing make us jobs in big companies: we found they infrastructure that can deliver all a very attractive partner for mid-sized moved too slowly to make the most of the way to the marketplace.
We have companies who have a product to bring the opportunities they had.
Projects were a research and development process, to market but dont want to partner ratified, re-ratified, reviewed to death, money to acquire more products to with big companies.
With us, theyll and by the time you got a decision the fill gaps in the pipeline have direct access to senior management excitement had disappeared.
JC: a manufacturing facility, so were with a big company the relationship CL: The trouble with having teams not dependent on third parties and could be peripheral and impersonal.
of functional specialists in areas subject to their priorities like tax, legal and so on is that each CL: and our own marketing.
So now decision gets split into many functional SO CAN ACAMBIS CO-EXIST WITH we can retain all the rights ourselves, pieces.
Only those at the very top ITS BIG PHARMA COMPETITORS?
make the money from manufacturing can see enough of the picture to and marketing and plough it back into CL: To succeed in the pharma market, be entrepreneurial.
its important to be in niches where JC: Here, we can all see the big picture.
JC: Other biotechs need partners to get the big players arent competing.
Big You can make your case and reach a product to market, so that they can companies want a market worth a decision quickly.
Were putting key fund the development of more products.
processes in place and refining them, Weve got the resources to get products We can thrive on niche opportunities.
But only those we need onto the market without partners.
Vaccines are only 2-3% of the pharma to get the job done.
But we do recognise From now on, we aim to do our own market and theyre a very specialised the challenge to be sure our decisions manufacturing and marketing we dont field.
So theyre not attractive to the are right a smaller company hasnt want to have to give royalties away.
major players, except perhaps for the same resilience to making mistakes.
PB: We cant achieve our ambitions variations on existing themes in through organic growth alone.
But now paediatrics and flu.
15 PHILIP BEDFORD PHD JOE CALDWELL PHD CHRISTIAN LOUCQ MD HAS OVER 15 YEARS EXPERIENCE OF PROJECT JOINED ACAMBIS IN 2002 TO MANAGE THE JOINED ACAMBIS IN 2002 TO ESTABLISH THE MANAGEMENT, CLINICAL RESEARCH AND DRUG CANTON MANUFACTURING FACILITY.
HE HAS EXTENSIVE VACCINE DEVELOPMENT.
HE JOINED ACAMBIS IN 1997 AFTER HE WAS MANAGING DIRECTOR OF EVANS SECTOR EXPERIENCE THROUGH WORKING FOR 10 YEARS WITH GLAXO WELLCOME PLC NOW GSK.
VACCINES AND WORKED FOR GLAXO WELLCOME SMITHKLINE BEECHAM NOW GSK AND PASTEUR PLC NOW GSK FOR 25 YEARS.
MRIEUX CONNAUGHT NOW AVENTIS PASTEUR.
CL: Were looking at the business PB: There are competitors coming up for CAN ACAMBIS ATTRACT THE PEOPLE differently, setting targets for monthly some of our pipeline products, but ours IT NEEDS TO GROW?
sales and returns on investment.
Theyre based on tried CL: There are people working elsewhere capabilities for conventional commercial and tested technologies, so the chances in the industry that wed like to have.
marketing in the US are being put in of success are high, and the same We have to make sure Acambis is place and were already marketing platform can be applied to other diseases.
Were beginning to make CL: In 2005 we hope to have our first PB: What will draw people out of the ourselves known in the private sales product launch, with private smallpox big pharma companies?
They want marketplace, and preparing for 2005 sales.
We have plenty of learning and to know we have a credible strategy when ACAM2000 could be licensed for new challenges ahead.
And thats in for remaining profitable.
They look at private sale in the US.
Meanwhile, theres just one market we still have Europe whos here already and at our record.
still a market for sales to governments.
On all counts, were increasingly PB: Were now looking more closely JC: Three years from now, well be attractive.
Last year we submitted two at project prospects: were out of the bigger and more profitable, with IND applications for clinical trials academic arena.
We have to ensure more products coming through.
with new vaccines and a BLA for that whats in the pipeline will give a And even more exciting.
In a single year, thats no good return on investment.
Hence the in procedures, but no more than we mean feat.
We have 10 Investigational recent pipeline rationalisation.
need: we still want to be a fast, New Drug applications currently open, JC: The big cash burn comes at Phase III, mobile machine so we dont stifle the and thats a serious number of clinical so by then youve got to be sure youve enthusiasm and entrepreneurialism phase projects.
It tells people were got a product you can market profitably.
that have taken Acambis this far.
Its not just about doing good science: you have to be realistic about how many products you have the resources AND HOW WILL YOU MAINTAIN to support.
Especially if youre taking THE MOMENTUM?
them all the way to market yourself.
JC: One things certain: theres no going However, we have one huge advantage: back to being an R&D boutique.
Making the US is the biggest vaccine market a profit brings a responsibility to remain and also the hardest to penetrate, but profitable, whatever we do.
