Board of Directors Key to photographs: Sir David John left Ian Tyler left Robert Walvis left Sir David Wright left Michael Welton right Alistair Wivell centre Chalmers Carr centre Christoph von Rohr right Jim Cohen right Richard Delbridge right Anthony Rabin left Gordon Sage bottom right Peter Zinkin right Sir David John KCMG Chairman Anthony Rabin Finance Director Age 65.
Appointed a Director in 2000 and became Chairman Age 48.
He is chairman of Premier Oil Group and The BSI Group and 2002, he was previously managing director of Balfour Beatty Capital immediate past chairman of The BOC Group.
Formerly a director of Projects, which is responsible for the development and management Inchcape plc, he is a member of the CBI International Advisory Board.
of the Groups privately nanced concession operations.
Prior to joining He is also a director and trustee of Asia House, which promotes Balfour Beatty, he was a partner at Coopers and Lybrand and before understanding and closer communication between the UK and Asian that, a senior assistant director at Morgan Grenfell.
countries, and a governor of the School of Oriental and African Studies.
Jim Cohen Managing Director He is chairman of Balfour Beattys Business Practices Committee and Age 62.
A Director since 2000 having joined the Nomination Committee.
Previously, he held senior management positions Michael Welton Chief Executive with GTE and GEC and prior to that, was a senior civil servant at Age 57.
A chartered civil engineer and Fellow of the Institution the Department of Energy.
A Director since January 1996 and Group Chief Alistair Wivell CBE Managing Director Executive since 1999.
He has been with the Group in a range of Age 58.
A civil engineer and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of increasingly senior positions since 1978.
A Director since 2002, he joined Balfour Beatty in 1966, Ian Tyler Chief Operating officer and was previously managing director of Balfour Beatty Construction Age 43.
Became Chief Operating officer Limited.
He received a CBE for services to the construction industry in 2002.
A Director since 1999, he was previously Finance Director.
He joined Balfour Beatty in 1996 from the Hanson Group where Peter Zinkin Planning and Development Director he was finance director of ARC Ltd, one of the principal subsidiaries Age 50.
Joined the Group in 1981 and became Planning and of the Hanson Group, having previously been Hansons Group Development Director in 1991 after a series of senior positions in financial comptroller.
Previously, he worked at the London Business School and UMIST.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 32 Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Business Practices Committee Richard Delbridge Sir David John Robert Walvis Sir David John Chalmers Carr Gordon Sage Chalmers Carr Chalmers Carr Christoph von Rohr Robert Walvis Richard Delbridge Christoph von Rohr Gordon Sage Michael Welton Sir David John Gordon Sage Sir David Wright Sir David Wright Christoph von Rohr Robert Walvis Sir David Wright Sir David Wright GCMG, LVO Non-executive Director Chalmers Carr Non-executive Director Age 59.
He is a solicitor Peterhouse, Cambridge.
He is currently vice chairman of Barclays who is senior counsel to Standard Chartered Bank, having previously Capital, having retired as group chief executive of British Trade been general counsel to Coutts and Company and, before that, International in 2002, and was previously Ambassador to Japan for general manager and group legal adviser to HSBC Holdings plc.
He is vice-president of the China-Britain Business His career experience also includes senior legal and other management Council, a member of the International Advisory Board of All Nippon positions in the Central Electricity Generating Board, Bridon plc, Airways, and a Governor of the Royal Shakespeare Company.
GKN plc, Elliott Automation and Rolls-Royce Ltd. Christoph von Rohr Non-executive Director Richard Delbridge Non-executive Director Age 65.
Appointed a non-executive Director in June 2003.
A chartered accountant, a partner of the international law rm TaylorWessing and a board he was formerly group finance director of HSBC Holdings plc member of several corporations.
He is also chairman of the German and then a director and group chief financial officer of National Institute for Market Economy and Competition.
Previously he was Westminster Bank plc until 2000.
He is currently a non-executive chairman of the Industrial Investment Council and also chief executive director of Tate and Lyle PLC, Cazenove Group plc and Gallaher officer of the German manufacturing group, Klckner-Werke AG.
Group Plc, and treasurer of The Open University.
He is chairman of Balfour Beattys Audit Committee.
Robert Walvis Non-executive Director Age 57.
Previously with the Shell Group, Gordon Sage Non-executive Director latterly as chairman of the Corporate Centre of the Royal Dutch Age 57.
A chemical Shell Group of Companies.
He is a non-executive director of Johnson engineer, he is deputy chairman of ERM Holdings Ltd, the Matthey plc.
He is chairman of Balfour Beattys Remuneration environmental services consultancy, and a non-executive director Committee and is the senior independent Director.
of Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc.
Between 1970 and 2001, he held a series of increasingly senior positions in Rio Tinto plc, latterly as executive director responsible for its industrial minerals and diamonds businesses.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 33
