Chief Executives review continued In Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services, profits improved by Developing our strategy 24% to 21m 2002: 17m.
Performance in UK major projects, In 2003, we carried out a major Board level strategic review.
Most of regional civil engineering, power engineering, road maintenance our business is undertaken in the UK.
Our customers are, principally, and in Devonport Management was good.
Progress was also made in the public and utility sectors.
The great majority of our UK businesses in reducing the losses in US civil engineering, although some claim are amongst their sector market leaders and our footprint across the settlements previously anticipated in 2003 were delayed.
In Balfour supply chain from design to whole-life operation and management Beatty Utilities, the cost of integrating Kentons and John Kennedy shows few significant gaps.
and some contract issues adversely affected performance in that We have the capacity to service increased demand for integrated sector but, as in the US, the year ended on an improving trend.
skills and services in each of our four business segments.
We also In Rail Engineering and Services, profits increased by 11% to are responding to a PPP concession market which continues to grow 41m 2002: 37m.
This reected a particularly strong second half and to generate the complex large-scale contracting work at which year with continuing good performance from the Groups Germanwe excel.
We are well placed to respond to increasing demands for based rail power systems business, particularly in Italy.
We have created Balfour Beatty Management also good performances in UK maintenance, track renewals and to service the strategic and project management requirements of systems, plant and major projects, and some successful settlements our major infrastructure customers.
These factors offer good scope on UK projects.
Preferred bidder status was secured on both major UK track Looking to the longer term, in the US we have some of the renewals work and the Southern Region power upgrade project, while building blocks already in place to create a presence of the same the sector order book increased substantially as a result of the award scale and constituency as our UK business.
A new US senior of the 500m contract for the new trackwork for Metronet under the management team, recruited over the last 12 months, is charged London Underground PPPs.
A small acquisition was made in Germany with identifying, developing and executing opportunities to move in early 2004 to enhance the Groups capacity to serve Deutsche Bahn.
our US business in that direction.
profits in Investments and Developments improved by 10% to Our rail skills, anchored by our strong domestic positions in the 54m 2002: 49m.
Continued growth in existing concession income UK, Germany and Italy, are transportable internationally.
Our strong was augmented by a first contribution in line with budget from the presence, usually on a single discipline basis in a large number Groups investment, through Metronet, in the London Underground of national rail markets such as Spain, Sweden, Austria, Greece, PPPs.
This more than offset the anticipated fall in profits at Barking Malaysia and China, offers scope for broadening our rail footprint Power where, following, the entry into administration of TXU Europe, in a number of territories.
some 28% of the stations output is now sold on the spot market.
Continued selective investment in PPP concessions both in the UK and elsewhere offers another source of long-term growth.
Strategy During 2003 a major Board level strategic review was undertaken and a clear way forward determined for the Group.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 20 Overall, we expect to see further growth in 2004 and to make progress accordingly.
Our strongly positive cash position and the cash generative capacity Outlook of our existing business mix gives us the exibility and confidence A very significant proportion of anticipated current year UK work to pursue selected bolt-on opportunities.
The successful integration of has already been secured and longer-term order books are also healthy new businesses into the Group and the availability of key management despite the disappointing developments in UK rail maintenance.
talent to achieve this are key priorities.
During 2004, pension charges will increase further.
Barking Power In any event, our focus remains rmly on a small number of should see the first recoveries, from the administrator, of monies owed simple but critical management priorities.
We aim to sustain earnings as a result of the demise of TXU Europe.
We will manage our working capital closely.
We will maintain In the Building sector, the addition of Mansell should see progress strong financial controls and account prudently.
We will keep our made during the year.
In Engineering, UK markets should continue businesses focused on areas where we have existing expertise and to develop positively and, with improving performance in the US and can sustain competitive advantage.
We will take contracts and make from UK utilities, we are confident that this sector, too, should provide investments only where the best interests of our shareholders are forward momentum in 2004. demonstrably served.
Our Rail business performed particularly strongly in the second half of 2003.
It is an acknowledged world leader with excellent Safety and the environment positions in a number of national markets.
UK volumes are likely Balfour Beattys determination to continuously improve the safety to be reduced in 2004, reecting the changes in UK maintenance, of its people resulted in a 17% fall in accident frequency rate AFR and sector performance is likely to be broadly in line with 2003. in 2003.
Over the last 10 years, the Groups AFR has improved In Investments, a full year of Metronet and continuing improvements signicantly despite a 160% increase in numbers of employees and in existing concession performance should ensure progress.
subcontracted staff and the acquisition and integration of over 20 new Overall, we expect to see further growth in 2004 and to make businesses during the period.
In the unfortunate event of a fatality or progress accordingly.
other serious incident, a very detailed Board level review is undertaken and improvements to processes and practices are made in the light of the findings, as appropriate.
2003 marked the second year of the detailed measurement, in the UK, of our principal environmental impacts and a first set of data returns from outside the UK.
A fourth year of detailed Mike Welton Chief Executive benchmarking of operating company policies and practices revealed further across-the-board improvements in the engagement of our UK operating companies in environmental management and the embeddedness of their systems.
Our overseas operations were benchmarked for the first time in 2003.
Metronet PPP investment Corporate responsibility and the environment Balfour Beattys Safety, Environment and Social Report will be published in May.
It will 1.2bn 180m be available by application to the Company At financial close, in The Group has 180m April 2003, the Metronet of committed equity and online at www.
London Underground investment in 16 UK Corporate responsibility is a fundamental PPPs brought 1.2bn of PPP schemes.
part of modern business management.
construction contracts We continue to make progress in safety and to the Group.
environmental management and in fullling our wider responsibilities as a corporate citizen.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 21
