Balfour Beatty is a world-class engineering, construction and services group, well positioned in infrastructure markets which offer significant long-term growth potential... Balfour Beatty plc Balfour Beatty plc Annual r Annual report and accounts 2003 eport and accounts 2003 01 01 A Healthy Balance.
As a leader in Public Private Partnership hospitals, the LIFT programme and PROCURE 21, Balfour Beatty is playing a central role in modernising healthcare provision in the UK.
Building a new Supporting the new Running the most hospital for London health programme The construction of the The Local Improvement advanced teaching new 220m, 669-bed Finance Trust LIFT hospital in Europe University College London programme will radically Haden Building Management, Teaching Hospital is on improve local healthcare the Groups building and budget and on schedule provision and patient care.
facilities management for a first-phase opening Balfour Beatty is active on specialist, is responsible in 2005. the East London scheme for full non-clinical service and is preferred bidder provision under the 25-year for over 100m further PPP concession for the new LIFT contracts.
Edinburgh Royal Inrmary and Medical School.
Developing Houstons Working in school stock partnership for Transforming Stokes Heery is a US leader in West Yorkshire educational facilities managing school design and Through its ongoing Through its PPP vehicle, construction programmes.
partnership with Babcock Transform Schools, Balfour In July 2003, it signed its and Brown, Balfour Beatty Beatty is modernising and third major contract with is building four new maintaining the entire school the Houston Independent secondary schools and stock within the six towns of Schools District, which a new primary school in Stoke-on-Trent.
Eight new includes five new schools, Calderdale, West Yorkshire.
schools have already been the expansion of seven more delivered, with over 60 already and major renovation works successfully upgraded.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 04 In both the UK and the US Balfour Beattys design, management, construction and service skills are playing a critical role in improving educational facilities.
Education is an increasing priority in both the UK and the US.
Initiatives are in place to see widespread improvements in educational facilities, and our skills across this sector will see us playing a critical role.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 05 All Systems Go.
Balfour Beattys specialist electricity, gas and water engineering companies are extending and improving the efficiency of utility systems in the UK.
Supporting Transcos Managing infrastructure water distribution Strengthening the National Grid development and disposal Balfour Beatty worked Balfour Beatty designs, installs, Balfour Beatty repairs and closely with National Grid tests and commissions gas maintains over 31,000 to survey, design and mains including the use of kilometres of the UKs construct a new 400 kV advanced no-dig technology, clean water mains, transmission line through the in support of Transcos 21,000 kilometres of its Vale of York.
The 56 million new build, upgrade and sewer system and supports project was delivered and maintenance programme.
consumer services to over fully energised on time 4m homes and businesses.
and on budget at the end of October 2003.
Balfour Beatty is the worlds largest rail xed infrastructure contractor and a specialist in constructing and maintaining airports and airport facilities.
Bringing Italys cities Extending the Restoring New closer together worlds busiest Balfour Beatty completed international airport Yorks rail network the design and construction Balfour Beatty companies are Balfour Beatty completed work for the high-speed responsible for the construction the challenging high-prole electrication of the system and t-out of the new railway project for new track for the Rome-Naples rail station, trackwork, traction installation and rail line and is now well power and mechanical and electrication as part of advanced with a similar electrical works for the the new infrastructure at project for the 125 kilometre new rail link at Heathrows the World Trade Centre site Milan to Turin line.
In addition we in New York in the summer are widening the adjacent of 2003. motorway and constructing a new spur road.
Keeping the UKs Protecting a world arteries open famous landmark Opening up the RCS, the Groups road Balfour Beatty is working Lone Star State management and with the Highways Agency Balfour Beatty is currently maintenance arm, and a wide range of special ahead of schedule in is responsible for trunk interest groups to plan, building the $87m road and motorway design and construct a state highway interchange maintenance across a new road system which in Dallas, Texas, due to large portion of southern will take trafc and its open in November 2006.
England, including winter impacts away from the Also in its early stages for maintenance, incident Stonehenge monument.
the Texas Department of management, street lighting Transportation is the Groups schemes, bridge works joint venture $1.4bn, and barrier and sign 90-mile SH130 toll road.
Balfour Beatty plans, designs and constructs major road schemes in the UK and the US, and is among the UKs leading road widening and maintenance specialists.
Working together Helping communities to keep the mail to improve their Delivering a worldon the move quality of life class underground Through Romec, Balfour Through Mansell, its recent system for London Beatty is providing a full acquisition, Balfour Beatty Balfour Beatty and its four range of management works with a range of the co-owners of Metronet are and maintenance services UKs registered social responsible in partnership from the installation and landlords and local authorities with London Underground maintenance of sophisticated to deliver national and for upgrading, replacing security systems to ofce regional development and and maintaining two-thirds cleaning for all of the Royal regeneration programmes of London Undergrounds Mails 3,000 plus buildings.
using a number of critical infrastructure.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 12 All For One.
Balfour Beatty is committed to the concept of working in partnership with its customers and other supply chain parties, making it a natural choice for long-term relationship contracts.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 13
