Directors Report The directors submit their re p o rt and the accounts for the year ended 30th June 2003.
ACTIVITIES OF THE GROUP The Group's principal activity continues to be housebuilding and development.
A full review of the Group's perf o rmance and prospects can be found in the Chairman's Statement on pages 2 and 3, and in the Chief Executives and Operational Reviews on pages 4 to 19.
R E S U LTS AND DIVIDENDS The profit on ord i n a ry activities after taxation for the year ended 30th June 2003 was 206.4m 2002 158.1m.
An interim dividend of 4.94p per share 2002 4.49p was paid on 23rd May 2003 and it is proposed to pay a final dividend of 12.32p per share 2002 9.89p per share second interim dividend paid in place of the proposed final dividend of the same amount on 21st November 2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3rd October 2003.
The dividends paid and proposed to be paid amount to 40.2m 2002 33.3m.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The notice of the annual general meeting on page 21 contains three resolutions relating to the Companys share capital.
Resolution number 10 requests shareholder approval to renew for one year the directors' authority to allot unissued shares in the capital of the Company and Resolution number 11 requests shareholders to authorise the directors to allot shares for cash in the context of a rights issue and otherwise up to a limit equal to 5% of the issued share capital without initially offering such shares to existing shareholders.
The directors consider that the Company should maintain an adequate margin of unissued shares for use, for example, in connection with a future acquisition although they have no present intention of issuing any shares except to satisfy options under the Companys share option schemes.
Under Resolution number 12, the company is seeking renewal for a further year of its authority to make purchases in the market of its own ord i n a ry shares subject to specified limits.
Purchases under this authority will only be made on the London Stock Exchange and will be funded from distributable profits.
Any ord i n a ry shares so purchased will be cancelled.
In seeking this authority, the Board is not indicating any commitment to buy back ord i n a ry shares.
The Board will only exerc i s e the authority if it considers that the purchases of ord i n a ry shares can be expected to result in an increase in earnings per share and 2 2 would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR SHAREHOLDINGS The current directors of the company are listed on page 20.
Mr F Eaton was a director at 30th June 2002 but died on 7th October 2002.
Mr C Fenton was appointed a director on 1st July 2003.
All other directors listed on page 20 held office throughout the financial year.
Directors Report At 30th June 2003 the executive directors had a potential future interest in 2,850,000 or d i n a ry shares which are held by the B a rratt Developments PLC Employee Benefit Tr u s t. Details of movements in the directors interests in executive share options are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 35.
No notification had been received of any change in the above interests during the period 30th June 2003 to 24th September 2 0 0 3.
Under the provisions of Article 87 of the companys memorandum and articles of association, Mr S J Boyes, Mr P R Gieron and Mr G K Hester offer themselves for re-election.
Mr C Fenton re t i res in accordance with the provisions of Article 86 and offers himself for re-election.
At no time during or at the end of the year did any director have a material interest in a contract of significance in relation to the business of the Group, other than the transactions detailed in note 25 to the accounts.
C O R P O R ATE GOVERNANCE The company aspires to high standards of corporate governance in accordance with the principles of the Combined Code as appended to the UK Listing Rules, administered by the Financial Services Authority.
"The Board is considering the recommendations of the Higgs Review: ""The role and effectiveness of non-executive directors"", the Smith Report on Audit Committees and the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 which is to take effect for financial years commencing after 1st November 2003."
The Board believes that the Group is already compliant with most of the proposals that the Revised Code will introduce as from 1st November 2003.
The principal area of non-compliance is in relation to the proposal that 50% of Board Members, excluding the Chairman, should be independent non-executive directors.
The B o a rd is committed to ensuring that the Gro u p s governance systems continue to evolve in line with the Co d e s r e c o m m e n d a t i o n s and a number of options are currently under consideration.
As part of the ongoing internal review of the Gr o u p s governance and accountability systems the following measures have been 2 3 implemented during the year: The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive have been separated with the responsibilities of each role clearly delineated.
Strategic and Business Planning Systems have been reviewed and updated.
Risk Management and Internal Financial Control and Compliance Systems have been reviewed and updated.
Revised terms of r e f e rence have been introduced for the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
A revised Statement of Shareholder Relations has been introd u c e d. A Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Managers has been developed.
G roup Governance Pro c e d u res have been set out in a manual for Directors and Senior Management.
D i re c t o r s The Board of directors, which during the majority of the year comprised six executive and four non-executive directors, one third of whom re t i re by rotation each year, has overall responsibility for the maintenance and operation of Group internal controls.
There a re four non-executive directors, Mr C G T o n e r, Mr P H Ashworth, Mr A E Kilburn and Mr M Pescod.
Mr C G Toner served as senior independent director and Group Vice Chairman, until 18th October 2002 when he was appointed Group non-executive C h a i rman.
The Board believes that all the non-executive directors, with the exception of Mr P H Ashworth, are wholly independent in that they have no business or other relationship with the Group that might influence their independence of judgement.
Mr P H Ashworth has an ongoing business relationship with the company, details of which are disclosed on page 47.
The nonexecutive directors do not participate in the companys per f o rmance related pay, pension or share option schemes.
Mr F Eaton was both Group Chairman and Chief Executive until his death on 7th October 2002.
The Board considered, however, that a balance of power and authority at the head of the company was achieved by the then senior independent dire c t o r, Mr C G T o n e r, serving as G roup Vice Chairman and Mr D A Pretty as Group Managing Dir e c t o r. This, coupled with the experience and expertise of the four non-executive directors ensured that there was a division of responsibility between the executive function and the running of the B o a rd.
On 18th October 2002 the roles of Group Chairman and Chief Executive were separated.
On 18th October 2002 Mr C G Toner was appointed Non-Executive Chairman and Mr D A Pretty was appointed Chief Executive.
Directors Report The Board meets eleven times each year and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically re s e rved to the Board for decision or approval.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secre t a ry, who is a practising solicitor, and, if n e c e s s a ry, to independent professional advisors at the companys expense.
Training is available for both new and existing dire c t o r s as, and when, re q u i re d. The Board has established three standing committees, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee, the functions of which are clearly specified within defined terms of re f e rence.
The terms of re f e rence of all three Committees have been reviewed and updated during the year.
The Audit Committee is made up of the four non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr M Pescod.
The committee is responsible to the Board for the appraisal of the Gro u p s financial management and re p o rting systems and for assessing the integrity and effectiveness of its accounting pro c e d u res and internal controls.
All material issues arising from the internal audit p rogramme are re p o rted to the Board on a monthly basis, including a forw a rd action plan, pro g ress against which is monitore d by the Audit Committee and the Board in one and three monthly follow-up re p o rts.
The Committee is responsible for d e t e rmining the audit fee and for keeping under review the scope and results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for establishing the parameters of the Group Risk Map and for reviewing pro g ress in terms of the management of risk and internal controls.
It is p roposed that once an additional wholly independent director has been appointed Mr C G Toner and Mr P H Ashworth will stand down from membership of the Audit Committee having re g a rd to the recommendations of the revised Combined Cod e on Corporate Govern a n c e. The Remuneration Committee was also made up of the four non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr A E Kilburn.
The Committee meets at least once a year and its role is to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the terms of employment and remuneration of the executive directors.
Mr P H Ashworth has now stood down from membership of the Remuneration Committee in view of his non-independence.
The Nomination Committee, chaired by Mr C G To n e r, comprises the non-executive directors and Mr D A Pre t t y.
The p r i m a ry function of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board with re g a rd to all new appointments and p romotions to main Board positions.
In discharging this function the Committee aims to ensure that all directors possess a balanced range of skills, experience and expertise in order to discharge their responsibilities eff e c t i v e l y.
As Group parent, Barratt Developments PLC, through its Board of directors, retains overall responsibility for the control and d i rection of the business and for the allocation of funding and re s o u rces.
Housebuilding and development operations are delivere d t h rough a decentralised regional and divisionalised stru c t u re.
There are currently four operating regions within Barratt Homes Limited covering England, Scotland and Wales.
KingsOak Homes Limited, which has its own corporate identity and prod u c t 2 4 branding, is also managed by the Group as an operating region.
Each operating region including KingsOak is headed up by a Regional Chairman who also serves as an executive director at Main Board level.
Not only does this enable the Main Board to remain close to, and focused on, the cutting edge of the business, it also means that the operating divisions remain in touch with the Gro u p s centre and values.
The Managing Director of each operating division and the local management team make up the divisional Board, each of which is chaired by a Regional Chairman.
Each divisional Board meets monthly to oversee local housebuilding operations and p e rf o rmance.
Although each division is run and monitored as a free standing business, they operate within clearly defined central parameters in relation to overall strategic direction and financial control.
This tried and tested stru c t u re enables the divisions to be responsive to local demand and market conditions, whilst at the same time benefiting from the financial strength and economies of scale of a large national Gro u p. D i rectors Remuneration The policy for and details of directors remuneration are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 35.
Accountability and Audit The directors are re q u i red by UK company law to pre p a re financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the Group for that period.
The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently and reasonable and pru d e n t judgements and estimates have been made in the preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 30th June 2003.
The d i rectors also confirm that applicable accounting standards have been followed and that the financial statements have been p re p a red on the going concern basis.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting re c o rds, for safeguarding the assets of the company and of the G roup and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irre g u l a r i t i e s. The Board of directors is re q u i red to consider whether the company and the Group is a going concern.
Accordingly the Board has made appropriate enquiries and is satisfied that the company and Group have adequate re s o u rces to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
They there f o re continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial s t a t e m e n t s. The Annual Report and Accounts will be published on the Gro u p s websites.
The maintenance and integrity of the Gro u p s websites is the responsibility of the Directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not include consideration of these matters.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors Report I n t e rnal Control System The directors are responsible for the Gro u p s system of internal control which is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the Gro u p s established control framework are : A clear organisational stru c t u re with defined levels of authority and responsibility for all senior management.
A comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system with monthly re p o rting to the main Board and divisional B o a rds of the results and forecasts of all Group operating units against budget.
Operational pro c e d u res, control parameters and accounting policies are embodied in the Group Policy and Accounting Manuals which are issued to all divisions and are regularly reviewed and updated.
All major land acquisitions and capital projects are subject to rigorous financial and environmental appraisal within established parameters and also to formal authorisation pro c e d u res by main Board directors, divisional Boards or senior management within authorities approved and reviewed by the Board.
A Risk Map process overseen by the Audit Committee.
Key risk areas, including finance, land buying, the market and e n v i ronmental and health and safety perf o rmance are re p o rted to the Board each month.
The Risk Map, the Combined Cod e and Internal Control exception re p o rts are reviewed by the Board on a quarterly basis.
All systems are monitored by the internal audit function including financial, marketing and construction related matters.
The directors have reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the Gro u p s system of internal control for the year ended 30th June 2003.
S h a reholder Relations The Board believes that the effective management of investor communications is critical to its relationship with its share h o l d e r s and to the market in which the Companys shares are held, analysed and traded.
The Gro u p s corporate governance framework sets the context for its continuing investor relations programme particularly in respect of key areas such as Board membership, remuneration and public accountability statements.
The annual and interim re p o rts are the primary means by which information about the Group, its Board and its business is communicated to institutional and private shareholders, investors and analysts.
In addition, other major company publications are also circulated to shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting is also used to enable private shareholders to discuss the Gro u p s operations and pro g ress directly with the Board.
Information of a price sensitive nature is communicated as re q u i red by the Company S e c re t a ry to the Company Announcements Office of the Stock Exchange and the Group strives to ensure that all key inform a t i o n 2 5 is effectively and clearly communicated.
In addition to the above formal communications, the Company meets regularly with institutional investors and analysts in order to convey an understanding of the Companys operations, the market and its management objectives.
The aim is to meet with major institutional shareholders at least once a year.
Press releases on the Companys activities a re made to journalists and the media through the Group Press Office and its external financial public relations consultancy serv i c e, Weber Shandwick Square Mile.
The Group bro k e r, Cazenove & Co. also works actively on its behalf in an eff o rt to ensure that investors and potential investors in the business are given reliable information on the Gro u p s operations, its values and ethos in ord e r to make informed investment decisions.
C o m p l i a n c e The Board has considered the Combined Code and believes that for the year under review it has complied with the principles of the Cod e. EMPLOYMENT POLICY The Board recognises that employees need to understand and contribute to the broad objectives of the business and seeks to develop good relations with employees through regular communication and consultation.
Selection for employment and pro m o t i o n is based on the objective assessment of ability and experience and the Group is committed to ensuring that its workplaces are fre e f rom unlawful discrimination of any sort.
The Group strives to ensure that its policies and practices provide equal opportunities for all irrespective of gender, race, ethnic origin, colour, religion, physical disability, mental health, marital status, sexual orientation or a g e. Applications for employment by disabled persons are considered on their merits with due re g a rd to the individual skills and abilities of the applicant.
Where disability arises in the course of an individuals employment the company will seek to enable the person to continue working by making appropriate adjustments to the working environment and by offering appropriate support and t r a i n i n g. The Group is committed to employee training and development at all levels of the organisation and endeavours to contribute to the industry s future skills base by an extensive re c ruitment and training programme for apprentices and also graduate trainees.
The G roup currently employs over 400 apprentices and 35 graduate trainees re c ruited from communities close to its areas of operation and its policy is to ensure that the majority of housebuilding sites employ appre n t i c e s. The Group works closely with the Construction Industry Training Board CITB and the National House Building Council NHBC in training provision and a training plan is pre p a red annually linked to identified business priorities and objectives.
Having re g a rd to the nature of our business, particular focus is given in the training programme to construction management, trade skills, health and safety and customer care.
As a business our commitment to quality and continuous improvement is absolute.
"Our National Employee Aw a rd scheme form s an important part of our ""Forw a rd Through Quality"" initiative which seeks to raise quality and perf o rmance standards through a p rocess of internal monitoring and appraisal."
Directors Report During 2003 04 a review of employment pro c e d u res and processes is to be undertaken with a view to the introduction of a new Employee Handbook and the introduction of employment practice guidelines for managers.
H E A LTH AND SAFETY The Board is committed to the continuous improvement of health and safety perf o rmance and during the year work has continued on the further development of our Group Occupational Health and Safety Management System OHSMS first i n t roduced 18 months ago.
The OHSMS is designed for ease of use to ensure that all staff understand their responsibilities for the management of health and safety at every stage of the development process from scheme viability, site purchase, tender and c o n s t ruction through to individual purchaser sales and after sales serv i c e. The OHSMS incorporates as a technical re f e rence the CITBs GE 700 Site Safety Notes, which are regularly updated to re f l e c t all statutory regulations, approved codes of practice, Health and Safety Executive guidance and British and European Standard s and directives.
GE 700 is also the standard re f e rence for site management health and safety training throughout the industry.
The objectives of the Gro u p s Health and Safety Policy are : To meet health and safety legislative re q u i re m e n t s : To prevent injury to our customers and members of the public, our employees and subcontractors and to eliminate p ro g ressively any risks to health and safety arising from our operations: To promote health, safety and welfare as an integral part of management and leadership: To establish health and safety standards and management systems commensurate with our activities: To provide suitable health and safety training for all staff based on identified needs which are reviewed annually as part of the G roup Training Plan: To monitor and audit the effectiveness and perf o rmance of our safety standards and management systems and to keep them under regular re v i e w : To provide, insofar as is practicable, a safe working environment with a shared commitment to site security, tidiness, re d u c t i o n of waste and careful use of materials and equipment.
2 6 Training is central to the process of continuous improvement and to the achievement of our health and safety objectives.
All safety training re q u i rements are identified annually and are incorporated into the Group annual training programme.
Pro g ress of health and safety training is monitored on a quarterly basis at divisional board meetings and by the Group centrally on a twice yearly basis.
During the year we have endeavoured to work more closely with our subcontractors in the development of our health and safety systems relying on our Safety Code for subcontractors, close monitoring of subcontractors safety perf o rmance and the i n t roduction of new site induction pro c e d u res.
In the coming year it is intended to build on this work by making our intern a l training programme available to subcontractor management and staff.
In order to monitor and re p o rt on overall health and safety perf o rmance more effectively all Group sites are subject to thre e weekly safety inspections by either NHBC specialist safety inspectors or independent consultants.
Site inspection re p o rts are m o n i t o red both at divisional level and centrally by the Gro u p s health and safety managers.
As the NHBC also provides an identical inspection service to other national housebuilders, NHBC perf o rmance data is used to benchmark the Gro u p s health and safety perf o rmance with that of others in the sector.
It is encouraging to re p o rt that based on management re p o rts pro v i d e d by the NHBC during the year under review the Gro u p s average perf o rmance score under the NHBC Safety Inspection regime has been ahead of the national average score achieved by other builders to which the NHBC provides site safety inspection serv i c e s. During the year an Accident and Incident database has been established under which we hope to have perf o rmance data from 1st July 2003 available for inclusion in next years Annual Report.
The following additional measures to strengthen our health and safety systems have also been implemented in the year: The number of Group Health and Safety Managers has been increased from 2 to 4 and another is about to be re c ruited, making a total of 5, covering all regions of the Gro u p. A comprehensive review of fall protection and roof truss work has been undertaken which has resulted in a decision to acquire a pro p r i e t a ry safety decking system for use in all 33 operating divisions.
Soft landing systems are also being acquired as a s e c o n d a ry option for use in roof work where use of the decking system is not appro p r i a t e. A range of additional Group Standard pro c e d u res have been developed for inclusion in the OHSMS dealing with Lifting Operations, Ground Works, Stairwell Protection, External Wall Construction, Asbestos Removal and Employment of Yo u n g P e r s o n s. Directors Report E N V I R O N M E N TAL PERFORMANCE AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Barratt Group has been at the fore f ront of urban renewal in towns and cities throughout the UK for close on 25 years.
The development of homes that stand the test of time for families and individuals in communities in which they can live and thrive is at the very heart of our business.
We recognise there f o re the significant and direct impact which our business has on the quality of life of our customers, those who at one time or another live in the homes we have built, their neighbours and all those who make up the wider communities in which our developments are located.
For many years the Group has actively pursued an environmental policy which seeks to minimise the potential adverse impacts of its business operations: to develop and improve the environmental perf o rmance of our products and to re s t o re and enhance the natural environments in which our developments are set.
In operational terms this broad policy translates into the following actions: Ensuring that before any land is purchased for development the feasibility study includes an environmental survey and risk assessment identifying both potential adverse impacts and opportunities to pre s e rve and enhance existing enviro n m e n t a l f e a t u re s. Clear instructions to architects and other specialist consultants to produce dynamic custom designs which minimise the e n v i ronmental impact of our developments and complement any natural features on or adjacent to them.
Close consultation and open dialogue with local communities and local planning authorities on the planning and building of d e v e l o p m e n t s. The Group strives to minimise any adverse environmental impact by sustained emphasis on safety, security, cleanliness and c a refully planned traffic management arrangements on all construction sites.
The operation of national agreements with suppliers under which suppliers environmental perf o rmance is monitored with p a rticular emphasis on the use of raw materials from renewable sources, the reduction of waste and improved energy eff i c i e n c y.
Ensuring that building designs set good standards in energy efficiency and water usage.
A national agreement with Wastefile UK, a waste and environmental management facilitator under which waste materials fro m all Group building sites are segregated, measured, recycled or disposed of in accordance with statutory re q u i rements.
Detailed statistics are now available by Region and Division which enable the Group to monitor waste production levels and to t a rget a sustained improvement in overall perf o rm a n c e. 2 7 Although the above policies apply to all Group developments they are particularly suited to developments on land which has had a former use.
Barratt has been and continues to be the industry leader in the re c o v e ry and regeneration of redundant land and buildings, creating in their place dynamic and sustainable communities which enhance the environment and quality of life of people t h roughout the country.
The Group builds over 75% of its homes on sites with a former use, well in excess of Government targ e t s and in doing so it reclaims over 800 acres of derelict land each year.
During the year a number of schemes of particular environmental interest have been under development, including a 208 unit scheme at The Dell, Southampton, which will incorporate a geothermal heating system which harnesses natural heat from below the e a rt h s surface.
This is the second scheme of this type developed by the Group with the prototype scheme at Park Vi e w, Southampton being the first of its kind in the UK.
In Camberley Surrey our scheme for 340 houses on a former Army barracks site involves the p romotion of alternative transport methods to reduce car dependency and to facilitate improved bus access and secure cycle parking.
"Our scheme at Chantry Rise, Medbourne, Milton Keynes developed in cooperation with English Partnerships and the Building R e s e a rch Establishment BRE has achieved ""very good"" ratings in the Eco Homes Assessment with Standard Assessment Pro c e d u re SAP ratings in excess of 100 and an National Homes Energy Rating NHER rating of 10.0."
In addition during the year Gro u p schemes won no fewer than 12 Greenleaf Housing Aw a rds organised by the New Homes Marketing Board and by the Daily Mail in recognition of various aspects of their positive environmental impact.
This was the highest number of Greenleaf enviro n m e n t a l a w a rds achieved in the industry for the second year running.
To qualify for an award the environmental features in the scheme must have been established for at least 3 years to demonstrate their durability.
The Board has agreed that for 2003 04 the Group will produce a separate environmental and corporate responsibility re p o rt to demonstrate to customers, shareholders and all other interested parties our continuing commitment to improving perf o rmance and t r a n s p a rency in these critical areas of our business.
In doing so our aim will be not only to present more graphically to our stakeholders the many achievements of which we are justifiably proud, but also to set clearer benchmarks and indicators against which our future environmental and social accountability perf o rmance can be monitored and measured.
Directors Report S TAT U T O RY INFORMAT I O N At 24th September 2003 notification had been received of the following interests which exceed a 3% interest in the issued share capital of the company.
Date of O rd i n a ry share s % of issued n o t i f i c a t i o n of 10p eachs h a re capital FMR Corp0 9.
0 4 % During the year the Group made charitable donations of 6,000 2002 nil.
No political contributions were made during the year.
CREDITOR PAY M E N T S Each Group company is responsible for agreeing the detail of terms and conditions relating to transactions with its suppliers.
It is Group policy to abide by the agreed terms of payment with suppliers where the goods and services have been supplied in accord a n c e with the relevant terms and conditions of contract.
Implementation of this policy resulted in a supplier payment period for the company of 41 days 2002 47 days for its trade creditors at 30th June 2003.
A U D I T O R S Following the conversion of our auditors  to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1st January 2003, P r i c e w a t e rhouseCoopers resigned on 14th Febru a ry 2003 and the directors appointed its successor,  LLP, as auditors.
A resolution concerning their reappointment will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
On behalf of the Board L Dent S e c re t a ry Newcastle upon Ty n e 9th October 2003 2 8
