Aviation As we anticipated, the first half of 2003 was impacted by the Middle East conflict with reduced flying activity, a deferral of engine overhauls and significantly higher fuel costs.
However, the second half recovered well with increased revenues and higher margins, and for the year overall revenues were 797 million 2002: 773 milllion at constant exchange rates with operating margins remaining above 10 per cent.
Signature Flight Support is the worlds leading provider of airport services for business aviation through a world-wide network of 51 fixed base operations FBOs.
At the half year we saw the market down 8 per cent on the previous year, against which our volumes were down 6 per cent.
However, in the second half we saw an 8 per cent improvement, so that for the year overall, volumes ended up 1 per cent on 2002.
Our volumes with the fractional ownership companies, which comprise approximately 30 per cent of the total, continued to grow strongly and the non-fractional market improved throughout the second half.
We won new business in 2003 on the fractional side with customers like Flexjets and Flight Options and in our traditional markets the new pricing initiative we launched in April resulted in a number of successes as the year progressed.
During the year we purchased an FBO in St Louis, Missouri, from Sabreliner Corporation.
In Europe, at Luton, London, we sold our airframe maintenance business to Gulfstream and our new hangar is now approaching capacity.
AVIATION TURNOVER 797M NEW BUSINESS WINS FLEXJETS 233m BUSINESS AVIATION AND FLIGHT OPTIONS 797m 172m COMMERCIAL AVIATION REVENUE FOR 2003 298m ENGINEER REPAIR & OVERHAUL 21m SPECIALITY PARTS 65m SYSTEMS 8m OTHER 07 In addition, our FBO at Toulon, France, became operational.
We continue to look for opportunities to further enhance our network and our capacity to provide our customers with a service which is second to none.
In Washington National, our FBO remains closed due to Federal Government restrictions and we continue to seek compensation from the US Government.
ASIG is the largest into-plane fuel provider to commercial aviation in the USA and the fourth largest independent ground handling company in the world.
Clearly, we were impacted during 2003 by the Middle East situation, SARS and a generally weaker economy.
Despite that, organic sales were up 1 per cent on 2002 and operating margins remained healthy.
This was achieved through focused marketing and cost management.
Around the middle of the year we saw several structural changes in the commercial airline market.
On the one hand, older, larger jets were being replaced by smaller, more fuel efficient aircraft resulting in a shift in demand for into-plane fuelling and handling: this we have addressed through pricing and cost actions.
More encouragingly, we saw outsourcing by airlines continue to grow and we benefited with a number of new contracts including United Airlines, US Airways and Delta Cargo.
In recent months we have seen some important new business initiatives.
In Thailand, ASIG has secured a 20 year agreement commencing in 2005 to provide into-plane fuelling services at the new Bangkok airport.
We have gained new outsourcing work from SAS in four major airports in the USA, and we have been awarded an operating permit to provide ground handling services at JFK, New York, which has resulted in a new contract with Virgin Atlantic.
08 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Our engine repair and overhaul businesses in Dallas Airmotive USA and H S UK saw a significant improvement in the second half of the year with an increase in order inputs and new business wins including a significant volume of business from our investment in Brazil.
In April we acquired Premier Turbines, for $36 million 22.5 million from Sabreliner Corporation.
Premier adds new capabilities to our repair and overhaul competence, in particular, the Honeywell TFE 731 heavy maintenance authorisation.
More than 10,000 TFE 731s have been delivered world-wide on various business jet types including Hawker, Citation, Falcon, Gulfstream and Learjet.
Integration is to plan and the business is performing well.
More good news came recently as Dallas Airmotive was awarded a five year contract by Siemens to provide repair and overhaul support for Avon engines for the industrial power market worth over $5 million 3 million per year.
Our speciality parts businesses, ITS and Barrett, both had good years in difficult markets.
Our APPH landing gear and hydraulics companies saw revenues slightly lower than 2002 on lower commercial spares demand, although with military about 50 per cent of revenues slightly stronger.
During the year we won a number of new contracts including NH 90 helicopter, Airbus 320, Raytheon, Hawker 700, EH101 and Hawk trainer which cumulatively should add over 20 million of revenues over the next five years.
At Oxford Airport, our pilot training business continued to suffer from lower airline demand.
However, our management has done a good job in streamlining the operations to current requirements and we believe the market to now be at a low point with a recovery expected in the medium term.
AVIATION GROUP DALLAS AIRMOTIVE AWARDED A ACQUIRED PREMIER TURBINES REVENUES 5 YEAR CONTRACT BY SIEMENS FOR 23 MILLION WORTH 3 MILLION PER YEAR 200m 800m 2003 1995 09 Our Aviation Group revenues have grown from 200 million in 1995 to 800 million in 2003.
Our aim is to continue to build a balanced portfolio of Aviation Aerospace businesses with the emphasis on service and aftermarket, capable of generating high returns and strong cash flows.
We will do so by growing Signature both within and outside North America through market share gains, acquisitions and partnerships.
We will grow ASIG selectively in areas where we can see acceptable returns and have cost flexibility.
In Dallas Airmotive H S we have a leading presence in the business and regional jet markets.
At this time we are not looking to move outside this sector although we will continue to look to grow in the aircraft auxiliary power markets, the military and defence arena and other areas that fit our competencies.
Our speciality parts and landing gear operations are high aftermarket, high return businesses and we are looking to acquire similar businesses.
We will also continue to look to acquire and grow in new areas of aviation which fit well with our core competencies.
10 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003
