Materials Technology Revenues were 528 million compared to 495 million in 2002 at constant currency.
Underlying operating profits of 66 million were impacted adversely by 6 million from a significant increase in raw material prices, and our operating margins were slightly lower than 2002 at 12.4 per cent 2002: 13.6 per cent for the same reason.
During the year we renamed our Nonwovens business BBA Fiberweb to capitalise on one of our strongest brands and we are now managing the businesses under three sectors: Healthcare, Industrial Products and Consumer Care see chart below.
In Fiberweb Industrial the overall market volume growth was 4 per cent with our underlying sales growth being 5 per cent, within which construction sales grew by 20 per cent following the introduction of a new Typar house-wrap product.
In Consumer Care sales grew by 6 per cent.
This side of the business was significantly expanded during the year.
First by the commissioning of our new baby wipes line in Bethune, South Carolina, which after ramping up in the fourth quarter of 2003 is now running near to planned levels.
Secondly, with the acquisition in September of Tecnofibra, Milan, Italy, for 33 million 23 million.
Tecnofibra is a leading provider of wipes and consumer care materials in Europe and fits into our strategy to significantly grow our Industrial & Consumer Care revenues outside the USA.
In Fiberwebs healthcare market, in which we are the worlds leading supplier of engineered products, BBA volumes were up 5 per cent.
REVENUES BY BUSINESS 528M DURING THE YEAR WE RENAMED ACQUISITION OF TECNOFIBRA OUR NONWOVENS BUSINESS AS FOR 23 MILLION, A LEADING 235m HEALTHCARE PROVIDER OF WIPES IN EUROPE 193m INDUSTRIAL 81m CONSUMER CARE 19m BECORIT 11 During the year we saw the commissioning of important new lines in Germany and at our joint venture in Thailand.
Capacity utilisation improved in our airlaid plant in China, and our Finotech joint venture in Germany commissioned new on-line printing capabilities.
Pricing for the year on average was marginally lower and this side of the business was impacted by the increase in polypropylene costs in the first half.
These increased by 25 per cent in the first few months and subsequently retreated by 10 per cent where they remained until the year end.
Although we pass much of these increases through to customers through contractual arrangements, these are usually lagged the adverse profit impact for the year versus 2002 was approximately 5 million.
For BBA Fiberweb overall, we ended the year on a stronger note with virtually all our Hygiene lines at, or near, full capacity, the new wipes contract running well and Tecnofibra performing to plan.
This gives us confidence for 2004.
In addition to this, we are hopeful that a number of new R&D projects will come to fruition in 2004 including from our partnership with Dow Chemical to produce new enhanced engineered fabrics.
Becorit, our rail friction business in Germany, had a year of flat revenues with lower margins due to some price deflation.
Looking to the strategic development of our Materials Technology Group, the Industrial & Consumer Care sectors comprise two very large and diverse markets with many customers.
Within these markets there are a number of niche higher return areas.
We will look to grow in these higher value sectors, including specialty wipes, household products and filtration.
We will grow the business outside North America and we will look to exit lower return sectors, where appropriate.
12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003
