In 2003, the size of our tenanted residential management issues.
Good communication portfolio rose from 4,928 properties to 12,030, between the senior management team and mainly as a result of full acquisition of BPT the regional network ensures rapid feedback Professional asset via the Bromley Joint Venture.
This high level from local markets.
management skills of growth has been challenging, but the experience and knowledge within the We have continued to invest in new IT systems management and administrative teams at to enhance management control of the Grainger Trust and the former BPT have portfolio and provide quick access to the ensured that the integration and rationalisation most relevant information.
process is being achieved efficiently and effectively.
Our proven asset management capability is now being successfully deployed on behalf Our nationwide business now operates through of Schroders Residential Property Unit Trust, six offices, each of which is responsible for for whom we manage over 1,000 properties, understanding the dynamics of its local most of which have recently been constructed market and maintaining firm control of and are let on assured shorthold tenancies.
Capable The management of a portfolio of over 12,000 tenanted residential properties with an investment value of 1.2bn demands a co-ordinated and consistent professional management approach.
14 Grainger Trust plc Our business in action Our property managers undertake regular inspections of properties and provide a proactive and entrepreneurial 1,000 approach.
We now manage over 1,000 properties for Schroders Residential Property Unit Trust.
We continue to invest in developing Our residential portfolio is managed strong management tools such as a by a network of six offices, giving us best practice intranet guide.
a nationwide presence: Altrincham Cheshire Epsom Surrey Harborne Birmingham Knightsbridge London Martlesham Suffolk Newcastle upon Tyne Tyne & Wear 15 Grainger Trust plc Our business in action
