Operating review continued 10 Pillar Property PLC Developments 01 Omni, Edinburgh.
03 Fulham Broadway, 01 Retail parks Pillar has continued to pursue London.
02 Gallions Reach Retail its strategy to invest in a development pipeline Park, Beckton.
of retail parks which ultimately will be offered to HUT.
The development pipeline comprises eight projects with an anticipated end value of over 750 million and 1.6 million sq ft. During the year Pillar purchased two development sites from Chartwell at Manchester and Farnborough at a combined cost of 121 million.
The M8 development in Manchester is a 313,000 sq ft 50% prelet scheme due for completion in 2004 05.
The detailed planning applications for an 86,000 sq ft scheme at Farnborough will be 02 submitted imminently.
It is anticipated that the scheme will be completed during the next two years.
Highlights also include the acquisition of the site for Glasgow Fort which is currently being developed in a joint venture with Capital & Regional where prelets have now been concluded on over 200,000 sq ft of space at average rents well above the initial rents forecast.
Practical completion of the first phase of the scheme is expected in the third quarter of 2004.
We expect this development to set a new benchmark for both retailers and shoppers seeking a point of difference in out-of-town developments.
Pillar has entered into two new forward funding agreements in the year at Brent Cross and Denton in Manchester, both of which are conditional on prelets.
The scheme at Brent Cross is a 92,000 sq ft predominantly open A1 scheme anticipated to complete towards the end of 2004.
11 Pillar Property PLC The development pipeline comprises eight projects with anticipated end value of over 750 million and 1.6 million sq ft 03 Denton, a 212,000 sq ft shopping park east Banbury It is intended that the Castle Quay of Manchester is being developed by REEB Shopping Centre at Banbury will be sold later Estates, and is due for completion early in this year.
The letting process is just commencing Europe Pillar has continued to pursue its on this project.
These are in addition to strategy for limited investment in Continental the forward funding agreement at Beckton Europe.
The intention is to attract a small where completion on the 195,000 sq ft 90% number of other investors to create a European prelet shopping park is due later this year.
retail park fund of up to c500 million.
Fulham Broadway This 195,000 sq ft mixed In January 2003, we acquired the 530,000 sq ft development at Fulham Broadway in now Nassica retail and leisure park in Getafe, Madrid, virtually complete.
The scheme is fully let our first investment in Continental Europe.
or under offer, with the exception of two small Since the year end we have entered into units within the scheme itself, and the old station a forward funding agreement for the c8 million building which will be refurbished once the retail park at Beaucaire in Southern France.
new station opens this summer.
During the course of the next 12 months it We anticipate that the scheme will be is our intention to enter into three further forward sold later this year.
funding commitments, which together with Nassica and Beaucaire will represent a total investment Woking This site has been sold to Barratts of almost c350 million.
for residential development at a price of well in excess of its current book value.
Capability Green It has been another very successful year at our business park joint venture development near Luton.
A contract was completed to sell ten acres of land to British 04 Aerospace for a new research and development facility.
The joint venture now only has 2.5 acres remaining and it is intended to dispose of this land later this year.
Omni The 213,000 sq ft Omni leisure development in Edinburgh is now complete and virtually fully let.
All units will be trading by June 2003.
We anticipate that the scheme will be sold later this year.
