18 Pillar Property PLC Directors report The directors present their report and the Mr P L Vaughan retires by rotation in 7 Substantial shareholdings The directors 12 days 2002 27 days purchases outstanding audited financial statements of the group for accordance with the Articles of Association have been notified that the following in respect of the companys creditors.
the year ended 31 March 2003. and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
shareholders have a disclosable interest of 3% 13 Donations During the year the group made Mr R A Hambro, Mr V T Beresford and or more in the ordinary shares of the company 1 Principal activities and business review charitable donations of 4,100.
There were no Mr A M Jones newly appointed to the board at the date of this report: The group is engaged in property investment: political donations.
in the year, offer themselves for election.
Shares % directly and through specialist unit trusts and All new directors receive appropriate training.
14 Auditors A resolution is to be proposed joint venture arrangements, development and General Electric Sir Derek Hornby, being aged 73 and at the Annual General Meeting for the management through its subsidiaries and Pension Trust 23,580,137 21.72 Mr M C Stoddart, being aged 71, offer reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors through joint venture arrangements.
During the themselves for re-election.
The company Prudential Corporation 7,487,764 6.90 of the company.
year, the group, either directly or indirectly supports the re-election of both through its investment in HUT acquired Fidelity Investments 7,296,728 6.72 15 Special Business at the Annual General Sir Derek Hornby and Mr M C Stoddart 11 and sold 18 retail parks, and sold all the Meeting Resolution 11 will be proposed as an because their considerable experience is Aegon Asset Management 3,956,959 3.64 remaining city offices other than those ordinary resolution to authorise the directors to believed to be an asset to the company.
It is intended that the Legal & General 3,293,216 3.03 allot up to 3,643,628 nominal value of share The interests of the directors and their families group will continue to pursue further acquisition capital representing approximately 34% of the in shares of the company and in share options and development opportunities.
A detailed 8 Going concern The following statement is existing issued share capital.
Unless renewed are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
made solely in order to comply with paragraph review of the activities and prospects of the this authority would expire on 21 July 2008.
There has been no change in the beneficial company and its subsidiaries is contained in the 12.43v of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing The directors have no present intention of and non-beneficial shareholdings of the directors Authority and section D1.3 of the Combined Chairmans statement and in the Operating and exercising this authority.
between 31 March 2003 and the date of this Financial review on pages 2 to 13 and should Code.
After making enquiries, the directors have Resolution 12 will be proposed as a special report except for a sale of 17,480 shares by a reasonable expectation that the company and be read as part of this report.
resolution to enable the directors to allot shares Mr A J M Huntley on 3 April 2003. group has adequate resources to continue in for cash for the purpose of a rights issue to 2 Results and dividends The financial All service contracts are for a period of less operational existence for the foreseeable future.
shareholders, an employee share scheme and statements deal with the results of the group than one year.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the otherwise up to 542,818 nominal value of for the year ended 31 March 2003 which are going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
6 Statement of directors responsibilities share capital representing approximately 5% shown on page 26.
The profit on ordinary activities Company law requires the directors to prepare of the existing issued share capital without 9 Corporate governance The directors statement before taxation amounted to 15.9 million financial statements for each financial period giving effect to statutory pre-emption rights.
on corporate governance is set out on page 24.
The directors which give a true and fair view of the state of Unless renewed, this authority shall expire on recommend the payment of a final dividend of 10 Environment The board recognises the affairs of the company and group and of the 21 July 2008.
5.7p, which together with the interim dividend profit or loss for that period.
importance of maintaining and improving the Resolution 13 will be proposed as a special of 2.3p paid on 3 January 2003 makes a total environment.
All acquisitions are subject to In preparing those financial statements, resolution to renew the companys existing of 8.0p per ordinary share.
The recommended the directors are required to: assessment to identify the presence of any authority to purchase its own shares in the dividend, if approved at the Annual General potential environmentally harmful materials or select suitable accounting policies and then market.
This authority shall be limited to Meeting, will be paid on 25 July 2003 to apply them consistently: contaminants.
A remediation strategy is then put 10,856,371 shares representing approximately shareholders registered on 11 July 2003. in place to treat any contamination as appropriate.
make judgements and estimates that are 10% of the shares in issue at the date of 3 Share capital Details of changes in the share reasonable and prudent: The board has an established policy on the passing of the resolution.
Any shares purchased environment and a framework for ensuring capital during the year are explained in note 21. state whether applicable accounting under this authority would be cancelled.
To facilitate the return of capital to standards have been followed, subject to any compliance with all relevant laws and regulations.
The maximum price to be paid on any exercise Consultants are used to advise on and undertake shareholders as described under note 1 to material departures disclosed in the financial of authority would not exceed 105% of the the financial statements, a new holding statements: and the compliance on a property by property basis.
average of the middle market quotations for the All contracts are reviewed to ensure they fully company was created.
prepare the financial statements on the going companys ordinary shares for the five business concern basis unless it is inappropriate to bind third party contractors to comply with days immediately preceding the date of the 4 Investment properties Investment properties environmental regulations.
presume that the group will continue in business.
The directors would only exercise the with a book value of 231.3 million at 31 March There is a regular Environmental Report to power to purchase any shares when satisfied 2003 were professionally valued by external The directors are responsible for keeping proper the board.
that such purchase would have a beneficial valuers.
The directors have valued certain accounting records which disclose with effect on net assets per share and generally 11 Health and safety The group is committed properties which are undergoing significant reasonable accuracy at any time the financial that it would be in the shareholders interests to achieving a high standard of health and safety.
development which was not completed at the position of the company and enable them to to exercise that power.
The directors have no The group operates and regularly reviews its year end, at 248.1 million, based on formal ensure that the financial statements comply with immediate plans to exercise this power and health and safety policies and practices to ensure assessments of gross development value given the Companies Act 1985.
They have a general propose to keep the matter under review.
that appropriate standards are maintained.
to the directors by the groups valuers.
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the By order of the board 5 Directors The directors of the company 12 Suppliers The group aims to settle supplier assets of the group and to prevent and detect accounts in accordance with their individual terms who held office during the year and as at the P J Martin Secretary fraud and other irregularities.
date of this report are shown on page 16. of business.
