Operating review continued 08 Pillar Property PLC In April 2002 CLOUT purchased Plumtree Austral House is also a prime City office CLOUTs strategy at the beginning of the financial year was Court, a major 195,000 sq ft office investment development opportunity.
Slaughter and Mays to seek to widen the investor base in the fund and concentrate for 101 million.
occupational lease expired last year, and since The lack of performance of the City market then the design development has been refined on the acquisition of further assets, particularly of large has put the expansion strategy on hold for now, and a further planning application is to be and the emphasis is to increase liquidity in the submitted shortly adding a further 6,000 sq ft multi-let buildings.
fund with a view to placing it in a strong position to the scheme taking it to 183,000 sq ft.
The to acquire assets in the future at better yields.
scheme had planning consent for 150,000 sq ft The fund still owns four key assets in the at the time of the Wates acquisition.
City, the principal property being CityPoint, Due to its investment in the trust, Pillar reported London EC2, which at 700,000 sq ft is the last year that it would concentrate its focus largest commercial building in the City.
in the City through CLOUT and as a CityPoint is virtually fully let with 28,000 sq ft consequence, the two other principal assets available on levels 16, 35 and 36.
Negotiations owned by Pillar, 5 Cheapside and Cannon are in hand with existing tenants indicating the Bridge, were sold during the financial year.
start of an internal market within the building.
CLOUT has contracted to acquire the A new planning consent has been received freehold interest in Moorfields House immediately for 35 Basinghall Street, which increases adjacent to CityPoint.
This is a small but strategic the development potential of this site from ownership, enabling control of or participation 102,000 sq ft to 133,000 sq ft of prime in the redevelopment of this property.
The funds strategy has been to dispose of this site, and whilst a potential sale of the asset fell through in December last year, negotiations are in hand with a new purchaser with a view to disposal in 01 Eugene Doyle.
01 the first half of this year.
CLOUT 09 Pillar Property PLC 02 03 CityPoint, the largest commercial building in the City is virtually fully let
