Board of directors 1 3 4 5 2 1 Nigel Ellis Chairman 4 James Hamilton Stubber Chief Operating Officer Aged 64, a Chartered Accountant, Nigel joined Quintain in 1995 as a Aged 48, James joined Quintain in October 2002 from Jones Lang non-executive director following his retirement from BAA plc, where he LaSalle where he was a National Director leading a specialised Transaction was Group Finance Director from 1988.
Prior to that he was Finance Services Team.
He has advised property companies and banks on Director of Hammerson plc.
acquisitions, valuations, mergers and IPOs and also advised the Government on the privatisation of the UKs electricity industry.
He became Chairman of Quintain in March 1996, and is also a member of its Audit Committee and Chairman of its Nominations Committee.
In addition to his responsibilities at Quintain as Chief Operating Officer, he also oversees the Groups investment property portfolio and is developing a strategy and business model for joint ventures in the 2 Adrian Wyatt Chief Executive & Deputy Chairman private and public sectors.
Aged 55, Adrian was a partner of Jones Lang Wootton in charge of its Fund Management Division prior to the formation of Quintain.
He was also responsible for the formation of JLW Financial Services Limited, which 5 Rebecca Worthington Finance Director gave him extensive experience of tax planning and financing structures.
Aged 31, Rebecca joined the Company in March 1998 as Group Accountant.
In July 2001 she was appointed Finance Director with He directs the Groups portfolio strategy and is closely involved additional responsibility for Quintains Investor Relations.
She had with all acquisitions and disposals and, in particular, the Groups previously held the position of Company Secretary from March 2000 investment in the specialist areas of short leasehold property and to July 2002. index linked transactions.
He is also a member of the Donations and Nominations Committee.
She qualified as a Chartered Accountant with  in 1997 and worked as Financial Controller for Britton Group plc prior to joining Quintain.
3 Nick Shattock Property Director Aged 43, a lawyer, Nick Shattock joined Quintain in 1995.
His main responsibility is for the Special Projects division.
This incorporates the majority of the Companys developments, complex restructurings and urban regeneration programme.
The latter includes circa 20 million sq ft of regeneration at Greenwich and Wembley.
For the five years prior to joining Quintain he was a Partner in the City law firm, SJ Berwin & Co. QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC 18 6 7 8 9 10 6 John Plender Non-Executive Director 9 Pam Alexander Non-Executive Director Aged 58, John joined the Company as a non-executive director in July 2002.
Aged 49, Pam was appointed to the Board as non-executive director on 22 July 2003.
John trained as a chartered accountant and is a former chairman of PIRC.
He is currently a leading journalist with the Financial Times, and Interim Director of The Churches Conservation Trust from May 2003, brings to the Group a wide experience in both investment and corporate she was previously Chief Executive of English Heritage, Deputy Chief governance issues.
Executive of The Housing Corporation and a senior civil servant at The Department of the Environment.
More recently she led the Agency Policy He is a member of the Groups Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Review for Cabinet Office and Treasury Ministers, who accepted her Donations Committees.
recommendations for improving service delivery through governments 130 Executive Agencies.
7 David Pangbourne Non-Executive Director She is a Board member of The Peabody Trust and The Housing Finance Aged 63, David was appointed to the Board in August 2001.
He is a Corporation Ltd, an Associate of the New Economics Foundation, an Chartered Accountant and spent most of his working life with Deloitte & advisor to the Joseph Rowntree Foundations Development Overview Touche where he was a partner for 24 years until retiring in 1997.
Committee and a shadow Board member of Investors in Communities.
He had a special interest in taxation in the UK and internationally.
She is a member of the Groups Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and He has experience in working with substantial multinational companies, Donations Committees.
including those involved in property, on a wide variety of transactions.
He is Chairman of the Groups Audit and Remuneration Committees and a member of the Nominations and Donations Committees.
Barbara Thomas Non-Executive Director Aged 56, Barbara was appointed to the Board of Quintain in March 2000.
She is a lawyer, an international banker and entrepreneur.
8 Martin Meech Non-Executive Director Formerly she was a Commissioner to the US Securities & Exchange Aged 45, Martin was appointed to the Board in July 2000.
Commission and an executive director of Samuel Montagu and News Having gained considerable prior experience in property at director level, International, amongst others.
he joined the Dixons Group in 1993 as Group Property and Development Currently Executive Chairman of Private Equity Investor Plc, Deputy Director and since January 1999 has been Managing Director of Dixons Chairman of Friends Provident plc and a director of Capital Radio plc, Group Retail Properties Limited.
she is a member of the Groups Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and He is currently a non-executive director of Holborn Public Relations Donations Committees and is the senior independent non-executive Limited, Currys Group plc and DSG Retail Limited, a Fellow of the Royal director.
Institution of Chartered Surveyors and is a member of the Groups Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees and Chairman of the Donations Committee.
