Valuation reports PROPERTY PORTFOLIO AS AT 31 MARCH 2003 The Directors From 10th April 2003 Stamp Duty relief at 100% was introduced in Quintain Estates and Development PLC Disadvantaged Areas on all non-residential property transactions.
This measure has only been given approval until 2006, following a review of EU In accordance with your instructions we have valued the freehold and State Aid rules, or earlier, should the Government seek to amend Stamp leasehold investment properties, as set out in the attached schedule Duty in the interim.
The classification of Disadvantaged Areas is based on as at 31st March 2003 for annual account purposes.
a deprivation index, translated to electoral wards.
The property market is assimilating the impact of Stamp Duty exemption, but we are of the view Our valuations have been made in accordance with the Practice that investors will be prepared to increase their bids in circumstances Statements in the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Manual 4th Edition, where there is competition from other purchasers.
The extent to which on the basis of open market value, the full definition of which accompanies this occurs is likely to depend upon the quality of the property and the the General Principles attached hereto, to which we draw your attention.
We have not reflected this change in Stamp Duty in our valuations as it was a post valuation date event.
We have not We have inspected the top 30 properties by value, a third of the remainder made any allowance for properties that are jointly owned and have and all properties acquired over the last twelve months.
For each property therefore reflected the full open market value of these properties in our we have made relevant local enquiries and obtained such other information certificate.
Adjustments should be made elsewhere in your accounts for as we considered necessary to provide you with our opinions of value.
No allowance has been made in our valuations for expenses of realisation Our valuation of the property at the Parishes Shopping Centre, Scunthorpe or for any taxation which might arise in the event of a disposal and our does not take into account the cost of incentives that are likely to be valuations are expressed as exclusive of any Value Added Tax that may required by tenants in order to secure lettings.
Our valuation is therefore become chargeable.
We understand that an estimate of these costs is reflected elsewhere in QEDs company accounts.
Our valuations assume that there is good and marketable title to the properties and that they are free of any undisclosed burdens, outgoings, UK properties restrictions or charges.
We have not read all documents of title nor all leases Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the aggregate and, for the purpose of our valuations, have accepted the details of tenure, open market value of the freehold and leasehold properties, as at tenancies and all other relevant information with which we have been 31st March 2003, subject to and with the benefit of the tenancies supplied by your Company or other professional advisers.
We have not seen then subsisting where applicable, was:- or read the planning consents and have assumed that the buildings have 512,405,500 been erected and are being occupied and used in accordance with all FIVE HUNDRED AND TWELVE MILLION FOUR HUNDRED requisite consents and that there are no outstanding statutory notices.
AND FIVE THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED POUNDS We were not instructed to carry out structural surveys of the properties, Categorised as follows:- nor to test any of the services, but have reflected in our valuations, where Freehold and Feuhold 331,105,000 necessary, any defects, items of disrepair or the benefit of any improvements Long leasehold 156,901,000 which we noticed during the course of our inspections, or of which you have subsequently advised us.
Our valuations assume that the buildings Short leasehold 18,214,500 contain no deleterious materials, and that the sites are unaffected by Freehold and Leasehold 6,185,000 adverse soil conditions or environmental contamination, except where we have been notified to the contrary.
Should it, however, be established United States properties subsequently that contamination exists at any property or on any 36,853,475 neighbouring land or that the premises have been or are being put THIRTY SIX MILLION EIGHT HUNDRED AND FIFTY THREE THOUSAND to a contaminative use, this might reduce the values now reported.
FOUR HUNDRED AND SEVENTY FIVE POUNDS Unless expressly advised to the contrary we assume that appropriate insurance cover is and will be available on commercially acceptable terms relating to composite panels, terrorism and flooding.
Accordingly, our opinions of value make no allowance for the risk that insurance cover for any property may not be available, or may only be available on onerous terms, or for any adverse market reaction to the presence of composite panels.
QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC 30 Aggregate of UK and United States properties The Directors 549,258,975 Quintain Estates and Development PLC FIVE HUNDRED AND FORTY NINE MILLION TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY EIGHT THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY FIVE POUNDS LAND HOLDINGS AT GREENWICH AND WEMBLEY We confirm that we have inspected the above properties and made all In accordance with our normal practice, we confirm that this Certificate relevant enquiries in order to provide you with our opinion of Market Value is confidential to the Company Directors for the specific purpose to which as at 31 March 2003 of the various property interests which Quintain it refers.
No responsibility is accepted to any third party, and neither the Estates and Development PLC hold at Greenwich Peninsula, London SE10 whole of the Certificate, nor any part, nor reference thereto, may be and at The Wembley Complex & the Palace of Industries, London HA9.
published in any document, statement or circular, nor any communication with third parties without our prior written approval of the form and We confirm that our valuations have been carried out in accordance with context in which it will appear.
the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Appraisal and Valuation Manual and that we have carried out the valuation as External Valuers, Finally, we confirm that the above valuation has been carried out by us as qualified for the purpose of the valuation in accordance with that Manual.
External Valuers, qualified for the purposes of the valuation in accordance Our valuations have been made on the basis of the definition, terms of with the requirements of the Practice Statements in the RICS Appraisal reference, information sources, assumptions and conditions as noted in and Valuation Manual.
our formal Valuation Certificate dated 30 April 2003.
Having carefully considered this matter, we have reported our opinion of R D Norman MRICS National Director Market Value as at 31 March 2003 of the Freehold and other interests held, For and on behalf of Jones Lang LaSalle Limited subject to and with the benefit of the existing leases and otherwise with 20 May 2003 vacant possession, at an aggregate of 167,000,000 One Hundred and Sixty Seven Million Pounds.
Our Valuation Certificate comments on the high degree of subjectivity in this instance for both properties and various other property specific matters.
This letter is a shortform confirmation of our valuation for inclusion in the Companys Report and Accounts.
No reliance should be placed upon it without simultaneous reference to our formal Valuation Certificate, copies of which have been provided to you and which are available for inspection at your offices by interested parties.
Stephen Reasbeck MRICS Director For and on behalf of FPDSavills Commercial Limited 30 April 2003 ANNUAL REPORT 2003 31
