Report on corporate governance Whilst the directors subscribe to the principles of best practice set out in Non-executive directors contracts are for a period of three years, with an The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code, the age and option on both sides to renew for a further three-year period.
Thereafter, in size of the Company may make full compliance impracticable on occasions, appropriate circumstances, a non-executive director may be invited to and these are disclosed as appropriate.
serve on the Board for a further three-year term.
Executive directors service contracts provide for a notice period of six months.
Each director The Board of Directors must stand for re-election at least every three years and the chairman of During the year, the Board comprised four executive and four nonthe Remuneration Committee must offer himself for re-election annually.
executive directors and the Chairman, which accords with the principles of the Code.
Brief biographies of each director appear on page 18 and 19.
Board Committees The Audit Committee, chaired by David Pangbourne, meets at least three Formal board meetings are held at least bi-monthly during the year: during times yearly and comprises all the non-executive directors and the the year ended 31 March 2003 there were seven meetings: each meeting Chairman.
The Audit Committee also meets separately with the auditors was attended by all directors.
A schedule of matters reserved for the and the Companys property valuers.
During the year ended Boards consideration has been agreed and includes those matters which 31 March 2003 the Committee met on four occasions.
Its terms of are most significant to the Group, based on the nature and size of the reference include considering the appointment and terms of engagement of transaction, both in terms of financial impact and of risk.
As part of its the external and internal auditors together with a review of their collective responsibility for the affairs of the Company, the Board is independence, objectivity and effectiveness: the co-ordination of responsible for ensuring that the appropriate resources are in place to internal and external auditors: reviewing auditors reports, annual and achieve the strategic aims of the Group, that the Companys obligations interim reports, asset valuations, internal control policy and procedures to its shareholders and other stakeholders are met and for the review of and consistency.
It also gives direction to the Executive Committee, which consists of executive directors and senior management.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee, chaired by David Pangbourne, comprised all the non-executive directors and Nigel Ellis, the Company Board members are provided with training and information in a timely Chairman, who has since resigned from this Committee.
The Committee manner in a form and of a quality which it believes is appropriate to enable meets at least three times each year and also on an ad hoc basis, when it to discharge its duties.
The directors have access to the advice and required, to consider all aspects of the executive directors performance, services of the Company Secretary who, in addition to being a Chartered employment, remuneration and incentives and to review the performance Secretary, is also a qualified solicitor and all necessary external professional and remuneration of staff.
During the financial year the Committee met on advice at the Companys expense.
The Committees report on directors remuneration is set out on pages 26 to 29.
The non-executive directors bring independent views to the Board and are considered to have diverse and appropriate experience to add to its The Nominations Committee, chaired by Nigel Ellis, is responsible for the effectiveness, particularly in the areas of corporate strategy, performance selection and approval of candidates for appointment to the Board.
All serving non-executive directors are considered independent Committee meets formally at least once a year and otherwise as and when under the Code.
John Evans, having been with the Company for ten years, required and comprises Nigel Ellis, Adrian Wyatt and all the non-executive was no longer considered independent and resigned his directorship in directors.
Its terms of reference include the regular review of the structure April 2002.
Barbara Thomas continues to be the Groups and composition of the Board, the identification of suitable candidates to nominated senior independent non-executive director.
fill vacancies as and when they arise, making recommendations for reelection of directors and forming succession plans.
During the year ended 31 March 2003 the Nominations Committee met four times.
Following external search and screening, an internal selection process led to John Plender being chosen as a non-executive director from several candidates.
The professional abilities and skills of James Hamilton Stubber were well known to the Company and, in the opinion of the directors, complement the existing Board.
QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC 22 The Donations Committee, chaired by Martin Meech, is responsible for Control environment: The Group is committed to the highest standards evaluating requests submitted to the Group and makes decisions within of business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all the scope of strict pre-set criteria.
The Committee meets as necessary, and of its operations.
met three times during the financial year.
The Committee comprises the Chief Executive and all the non-executive directors.
The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business operations in order The Board confirms that, subject to the following, the Company is now to achieve the Groups objectives.
Lines of responsibility and delegation in compliance with the principles and provisions set out in the Code: Nigel of authority are documented.
Ellis is a member of the Audit Committee, which he chaired until July 2002 when David Pangbourne also a Chartered Accountant was appointed in Risk identification: Managers are responsible for ongoing identification and his stead, and Adrian Wyatt is a member of the Nominations Committee.
evaluation of key risks applicable to their areas and for taking appropriate action.
These may be associated with a variety of internal or external During the financial year the Committees met with full attendance on sources including control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, all occasions.
competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
The risks identified and the actions taken to minimise or eliminate them are Lease Code assessed on a regular basis by the internal auditors who report to the The Group is in support of the initiatives set out in The Code of Practice Audit Committee, the significant findings of which are presented to the for Commercial Leases in England and Wales, which was launched on Board, some of which have resulted in refinements to internal procedures.
This Code contains a range of recommendations which are deemed to represent best practice between principals and their Information and communication: Periodic strategic reviews are carried representatives in all landlord and tenant matters.
out which include the consideration of long-term projections and the evaluation of business alternatives.
Annual budgets and strategic plans Internal control are prepared.
The Portfolio Manager provides management with regular The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal progress reports for consideration and early corrective action: periodic control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However such a system is forecasts support the active monitoring of the Groups performance designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve against plan: and both results and forecasts are consolidated and business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute presented to the Board on a regular basis.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee meets periodically with the external auditors to In accordance with the Code, the effectiveness of the Groups system ensure a direct line of communication with them and to review their of internal controls was reviewed during the period, both by the Audit independence.
Similar meetings are held with the valuers.
Committee and by the Board.
This review included financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
The internal audit function, which reports to the Audit Committee, has recently been strengthened by the appointment of an additional internal auditor with significant professional auditing experience.
ANNUAL REPORT 2003 23 Report on corporate governance continued Procedures for accounting control, monitoring and corrective action: In addition the Group has taken positive steps to create sustainable The Group has implemented procedures designed to ensure complete mixed use development areas which: and accurate accounting for transactions and to limit the potential are safe and people friendly, with an adequate range of residential, exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
Control measures taken include commercial and retail properties physical controls, segregation of duties, reviews by management and support local shops, education, health and other community internal and external audit.
Monitoring is achieved through assessment facilities including the incorporation of public spaces to foster by internal auditors at the direction of the Audit Committee and community cohesion presentation to the Board of findings together with recommendations include an element of affordable housing suitable for key workers of any appropriate corrective actions to be taken.
through regeneration create job opportunities for local people concentrate on brownfield and urban centres, thereby revitalizing Social and Environmental issues town centres The Group recognises the importance of long-term maintenance of the reduce car use by siting developments near to public transport and local environment and encourages a continuous assessment and awareness facilities and co-ordinate with local transport developments of its environmental responsibilities.
The Group aims to minimise the risk promote economic energy efficiency through efficient transport, of its activities causing harm to the environment through: production and use of building materials and minimising energy use careful consideration of construction techniques through intelligent management and controls the specification and use of sustainable materials with a view to the eventual elimination of materials or substances harmful During such development the policy of the Group is to: to the environment provide that waste is not unnecessarily generated, and for the recycling safe encapsulation or removal of contaminated materials from its sites of water and of waste from the areas reduction of waste minimise the depreciation of natural resources and reduce any site the adoption of safe working practices in the construction and contamination to acceptable levels maintenance of its buildings wherever possible protect wildlife areas and or restore the ecological balance of the environment to promote a natural habitat and its Amongst the measures taken during this period to manage the Companys enjoyment by the local community operations so as to minimise the risk of harm to the environment were: use off site manufacturing and construction techniques which compliance with relevant environmental regulations minimise the disruption to residents during construction evaluating contamination issues and all necessary remedial work in all new development projects The Group works closely with the relevant private bodies and local observation of local environmental controls authorities to ensure that all guidelines are properly considered appropriate lease controls requiring tenants to observe and work is completed within the given regulations.
environmental issues inspecting property in the ownership of the Group for The board director with responsibility for the implementation of the environmental damage Environmental Policy is James Hamilton Stubber.
QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC 24 Health and Safety The Companys Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for The Group is committed to the highest standards of care in the provision investors to put questions to the directors both formally and informally.
of a safe and healthy environment for its employees, tenants and visitors, In addition the number of proxy votes cast for each motion is announced and to actively promoting a culture of health and safety best practice at the Annual General Meeting and recorded on the web site in the which will lead to the avoidance of, or reduction in, risks to health and minutes of the meeting.
safety and ensure compliance with the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 and associated legislation.
To this end the Groups activities have The corporate web site at www.
com continues to been audited by its external advisor National Britannia Limited, which provide up to date information relating to its property portfolio, recent assists staff with specific health and safety responsibilities in reviewing transactions, finance and corporate contacts, together with an on-screen the Groups exposure to risk.
The Groups health and safety manual of Annual Report which may be downloaded and printed in the same format regulations has been updated.
The specific health and safety requirements as the hard copy.
It also includes a facility to contact the Company of the Wembley London Limited business is dealt with by a number of through the site by e-mail.
Going concern The objectives include: The following statement is made as required by provision D. 1.3 of the elimination, where possible, of risks to health and safety, the Code: and where not possible the effective control of such risks the reduction of accidents and other incidents to their lowest After making enquiries, including reviewing the Groups budgets and possible level available finance, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the ensuring that employees are appropriately trained to carry out their Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in duties in the area of health and safety operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they the review of risks and controls on an ongoing basis with a view continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
to improvement in standards of health and safety and compliance with legislation and best practice Directors responsibilities the maintenance of a management system which, inter alia, identifies Company law requires that the directors prepare accounts for each responsibilities of key personnel and a corporate health and safety financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs structure of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
the promotion of staff awareness in relation to good practice in In preparing those accounts the directors are required to: minimising risks to health and safety select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: During the year there were no incidents of a serious nature.
The director make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and responsible for health and safety is James Hamilton Stubber.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
Investor relations The executive directors are primarily responsible for investor relations The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which and regularly make contact with institutional and other shareholders disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the in an effort to ensure that there is an open and effective dialogue.
Company and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with Following such discussions the directors are always pleased to incorporate the Companies Act 1985. any suggested improvements.
Formal feedback from shareholders is also given to the directors by Cazenove & Co Limited.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
