Greenwich Peninsula building the future Quintain owns 18.5 acres of the Greenwich Peninsula, which it has pooled as part of a landowners agreement with English Partnerships the Governments regeneration agency.
Meridian Delta Limited MDL, owned 49% by Quintain and 51% by Lend Lease Europe, has signed a 21 year agreement giving rights to develop the 190 acre site.
COMMERCIAL AND RETAIL 3.5m sq ft of offices and 330,000 sq ft of walkable retail are permitted under the planning approval.
2.5m sq ft of the commercial is dependent upon improved transport infrastructure, such as the PPP proposed upgrades to the Jubilee Line.
DOME AEG will build, own and operate a 135m, 20,000 seat enclosed arena inside the Dome as MDLs tenant.
The lease is for 55 years, extendable to 100 years subject to its continued operation as an arena.
In addition planning approval has been given for 670,000 sq ft of retail, restaurant and leisure provision with additional exhibition and conference uses within the remainder of the Dome, currently termed Dome Waterfront.
This is developable in a 50:50 joint venture between MDL and AEG.
QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC 4 NEXT STEPS Subsequent to the year end the Mayor of London has approved the London Borough of Greenwichs unanimous resolution to grant planning.
He has indicated that it is appropriate for Greenwich to complete the negotiations with MDL without further reference to his Office.
Over the next few months MDL will be undertaking the negotiation of the legal agreement governing the conduct of the development on the peninsula.
HOUSING edge of environmental sustainability MDLs planning application included and will challenge the role of the 10,000 homes to be built in four car in contemporary urban living.
residential communities each with its The development will make a major own characteristics.
Apartments will contribution to Londons housing have either parkside or riverside views needs with 24.5% available for socially and at 200 to 330 units per hectare rented accommodation and 13.5% for set new benchmarks for intensive keyworker or intermediate ownership.
The development will be at the cutting ANNUAL REPORT 2003 5
