Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Report of the Directors The directors have pleasure in submitting the Annual Report of Bellway p. l. c. to the shareholders, together with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 July 2003.
Principal activities The Company is a holding company owning subsidiary undertakings which continue to be engaged principally in housebuilding in the United Kingdom.
Performance and prospects A review of the Group's performance and prospects is given in the Chairman's Statement on pages 3 to 5, the Chief Executive's Operating Review on pages 9 to 15 and in the Financial Review on pages 25 to 30.
Profits and dividends The profit attributable to shareholders for the year amounts to 118,564,000 of which 1,900,000 relates to preference shareholders and the balance of 116,664,000 relates to ordinary shareholders, which the directors recommend be dealt with as follows: Ordinary dividends 000 Interim dividend paid, 6.2 pence per ordinary share 6,879 Final dividend proposed, 13.8 pence per ordinary share 15,387 Total ordinary dividends, 20.0 pence per ordinary share 22,266 Retained profit for year 94,398 116,664 The directors recommend payment of the final dividend on Monday 19 January 2004 to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on Friday 12 December 2003.
Directors All the directors of the Company, who are shown on pages 7 and 8, were directors throughout the year with the exception of Mr P M Johnson whose appointment as a non-executive director takes effect on 1 November 2003.
Mr D S Bramley retires from the Board on 31 October 2003.
Three directors retire from the Board in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.
Mr J K Watson and Mr L P Finn retire by rotation.
Mr P M Johnson retires at the first Annual General Meeting following his appointment on 1 November 2003.
Being eligible, all three offer themselves for re-election.
Mr J K Watson has a service contract which expires when he attains his normal retirement age of 60.
His contract is terminable at any time by the Company on 12 months' notice.
Mr L P Finn and Mr P M Johnson do not have service contracts.
They both have a letter of appointment with a fixed term.
In the case of Mr L P Finn the term is two years, terminating on 31 July 2005 and, in the case of Mr P M Johnson, three years terminating on 31 October 2006.
Both letters of appointment are subject to termination by either party giving the other not less than three months' notice.
Directors' interests The directors' interests in the share capital of the Company and directors' share options are given in the Report of the Board on Directors' Remuneration on pages 36 to 44.
31 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Report of the Directors continued Notifiable shareholders' interests As at 13 October 2003, the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Fidelity Investments holding of 7,275,963 shares, representing 6.52%.
Aviva plc holding of 5,461,606 shares, representing 4.90%.
Prudential plc holding of 5,437,060 shares, representing 4.88%.
Standard Life Investments holding of 4,602,979 shares, representing 4.13%.
HBOS plc holding of 4,261,453 shares, representing 3.83%.
Corporate governance The Company acknowledges the importance of, and is committed to, the principle of achieving and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance.
Following the publication and subsequent adoption by the UK Listing Authority in its Listing Rules of the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice the 'Combined Code' the Company has continued to review its procedures.
An explanation of how it has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the current Combined Code and whether it complies with those principles is detailed below under the four headings contained in the Combined Code.
In July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council published a revised version of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The new Code is derived from Derek Higgs review into the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors and Sir Robert Smiths guidance for audit committees.
The new Code applies to financial reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
Directors At the date of this report, the Board comprises four executive and three non-executive directors.
All the non-executive directors are considered to be independent and are led by a senior non-executive, Mr D S Bramley.
When Mr Bramley retires from the Board on 31 October 2003, he will be replaced as senior non-executive director by Mr L P Finn.
In addition, Mr P M Johnson will become a non-executive director on 1 November 2003.
He also is considered to be independent.
One third of the directors retire by rotation each year at the Annual General Meeting.
All directors have access to independent professional advice, as required, in furtherance of their duties at the Company's expense.
In addition, all directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Appropriate training is available to new and existing directors as and when necessary.
The primary responsibility of the Board is to the Company's shareholders while at the same time having regard to its employees, customers, the community and the environment.
The Board meets regularly, ten times last year, to review group strategy and performance and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its consideration and decision.
The executive directors meet on a more frequent basis and are in continual discussion with operational management.
To facilitate the effective administration of the Group's affairs, certain functions and responsibilities are delegated by the Board to Board Committees.
Board committees There are four permanent committees of the Board: 1.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr L P Finn.
He and the other members, Mr D S Bramley and Mr D G Perry, are all non-executive directors.
It meets at least twice a year and its written terms of reference include the review of the Annual and Interim Reports issued to shareholders, the accounting policies of the Group, compliance with financial reporting standards, internal controls and the planning, scope and conclusions of the external auditors' programme.
The Board Committee on Executive Directors' Remuneration is chaired by Mr D S Bramley.
He and the other members, Mr L P Finn and Mr D G Perry, are all non-executive directors.
Its duties are to review and recommend the basic salary, benefits in kind, terms and conditions of employment, including performance related payments, share options and pension benefits of executive directors.
The Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors' Remuneration consists of all the executive directors and is chaired by Mr H C Dawe.
It meets at least once a year to review and recommend the terms and conditions and the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr D G Perry and comprises Mr H C Dawe and the two other non-executive directors.
Its role is to make recommendations regarding appointments to the Board.
32 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Report of the Directors continued Directors continued When Mr D S Bramley retires on 31 October 2003, Mr P M Johnson will assume the roles vacated by Mr Bramley on the Audit, Executive Directors Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
However, Mr Finn assumes the chairmanship of the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee and Mr Johnson the chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
Other committees of the Board are formed to perform certain specific functions as required from time to time.
Directors' remuneration and notice arrangements The principles and details of directors' remuneration are contained in the Report of the Board on Directors' Remuneration on pages 36 to 44.
Mr H C Dawe and Mr P J Stoker have service contracts which are terminable by the Company on 24 months' notice, subject to retirement provisions, but with a condition that, on early termination, a payment equivalent to two years' salary, benefits and bonus is payable.
They would also be entitled to exercise any outstanding share options and be credited with two years' pensionable service.
However, Mr H C Dawes contractual retirement date is 1 November 2004.
His notice period is therefore, at the date of this report, approximately 12.5 months.
The liquidated damages clause in his contract reduces down to retirement in line with that of his notice period.
In addition, Mr P J Stoker has agreed that, with effect from 1 November 2003, the notice and liquidated damages clauses in his contract reduce to 12 months from 24 months, without compensation.
Mr J K Watson and Mr A M Leitch have service contracts terminable by the Company on 12 months' notice.
It would be the Company's intention to engage any future executive director on a service contract with a notice period of not more than 12 months, unless prevailing market conditions make this difficult.
Relations with shareholders The Company encourages active dialogue with its private and institutional shareholders, both current and prospective.
Meetings are held with both existing and prospective institutional shareholders on a regular basis and as requested.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with company affairs through the Annual and Interim Reports.
The Annual General Meeting is used to communicate with institutional and private investors and their participation is encouraged by the taking of questions by the Board during the meeting.
Further information for shareholders is also available on the Company's web site at www.
co. uk Accountability and audit The Going Concern statement and the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities in Respect of Preparation of the Accounts are shown on pages 34 and 45 respectively.
The Company has an Audit Committee which has meetings at least twice a year with the Company's auditors, KPMG Audit Plc.
Its role is detailed above.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and also for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has reviewed on an ongoing basis the effectiveness of the system of internal control throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report & Accounts.
"The system is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the guidance contained in the Turnbull Report ""Internal Control Guidance for Directors of Listed Companies Incorporated in the United Kingdom""."
The Board acknowledges its responsibility to establish, maintain and monitor a system of internal control relating to operational, financial and compliance controls and risk management to safeguard the shareholders' interests and the Company's assets.
This system, however, is designed to manage and meet the Group's particular requirements and reduce the risks to which it is exposed, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
Management are responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their particular areas of the business together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks are regularly assessed and cover all aspects of the business, but in particular, land acquisition, planning, construction, health and safety, information and reporting systems, asset protection, treasury management and legal and regulatory compliance.
In addition there is a responsibility to mitigate risk by the provision of adequate insurance cover and by management reporting on material changes in the business or external environment affecting the risk profile.
33 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Report of the Directors continued Accountability and audit continued The Board has a system of regular reporting to the Board which provides for appropriate details and assurances on the assessment and control of risks.
The continuing role of the Board is, on a systematic basis, to review the key risks inherent in the business, the operation of the system of control necessary to manage such risks and its effectiveness and satisfy itself that all reasonable steps are being taken to mitigate these risks.
The key areas of control are as follows: The Board has agreed on a list of key risks which affect the Group and has considered the extent to which the measures taken by the Group affect those risks An established management structure is in place which provides short lines of communication and easy access to members of the Board Delegation of clearly defined responsibilities to divisional boards with clear procedures and authority limits in place to provide and maintain effective controls across the Group A comprehensive reporting system entailing annual budgets, regular forecasting and financial reporting A central treasury function operates at Head Office Regular meetings with management attended by members of the Board to review divisional performance The acquisition of land and land interests is subject to checking by management and approval by the Board to ensure purchasing criteria are met Regular reviews of site costs and revenues Regular visits to sites by management and external consultants to monitor health and safety standards and performance A number of the Group's key functions are dealt with centrally.
These include finance, banking, taxation, financial services, pensions, insurance, information technology, legal and secretarial Compliance The Company considers that it has complied with the detailed provisions of the Combined Code throughout the year.
Going concern After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Employees The Group is an equal opportunities employer and the importance of good communications with employees is recognised by the directors.
Each division maintains employee relations appropriate to its own particular needs and a Group magazine is published at periodic intervals.
New employees, when eligible, are invited to join the Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme and the Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
In accordance with statutory requirements, the Company also has a designated stakeholder pension arrangement.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons who become disabled whilst employed by the Group and to comply with any current legislation with regard to disabled persons.
Environmental issues The Board recognises the importance of environmental issues and when carrying out its business, endeavours to make a positive contribution to the quality of life both for the present and the future.
An environmental policy statement approved by the Board has been adopted by all trading entities within the Group.
Environmental issues are addressed in the Chief Executive's Operating Review on page 13 and in the Environmental Policy Statement on page 17 and in the Environmental and Corporate Responsibility Report on page 19.
Health and safety at work The Group promotes all aspects of safety throughout its operations in the interests of employees, sub-contractors and visitors to its sites and premises and the general public.
Donations During the year the Group made no political contributions but donated 89,197 2002 - 80,096 for charitable purposes.
34 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Report of the Directors continued Suppliers The Group agrees terms and conditions under which business transactions with suppliers are conducted.
The policy is that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with these terms and conditions, provided that the supplier is also complying with the terms and conditions.
The Group follows the CBI Code of Practice 'Prompt payers: in good company' and its current policy concerning the payment of the majority of its materials suppliers and sub-contractors is for payment to be made at the month end following the month of the invoice.
For other supplies, particularly land, the terms are many and varied.
Trade creditors due within one year at 31 July 2003 of 74,629,000 2002 - 62,980,000 gave a creditor payment period of 32 days 2002 - 33 days.
Including land creditors, the creditor payment period was 69 days 2002 92 days.
The parent company had no land or trade creditors at 31 July 2003 2002 - Nil.
Annual General Meeting - Special Business Four resolutions will be proposed as special business at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The effect of these resolutions is as follows: Ordinary Resolutions Resolution 7 Approval of the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the Board is required to present the Report of the Board Committee on Directors Remuneration the Report to shareholders for approval at the meeting.
The Report is given on pages 36 to 44.
The Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration considers that appropriate executive remuneration plays a vital part in helping to achieve the Companys overall objectives.
Resolution 8 Authority to establish the Bellway p. l. c. 2004 Performance Share Plan the Plan This resolution seeks shareholders approval for the introduction of a new long-term incentive plan for executive directors and employees of the Company.
In this regard the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration the Committee, all of whose members are non-executive directors, has conducted a review of the Companys remuneration policy for executive directors and the company secretary.
A consequence of that review is that the Committee has recommended to the Board a new Performance Share Plan which, in the case of the executive directors and the company secretary, will replace the existing Bellway p. l. c. 1995 and 1996 Employee Share Option Schemes.
The Committee believes that participation in the Plan will help to recruit, retain and motivate executive directors and key personnel of the Company.
Full details of the proposed Plan are summarised in shareholder information on pages 71 to 72.
Special Resolutions Resolution 9 - Disapplication of pre-emption rights This resolution is the customary annual request that the shareholders empower the directors to allot equity securities for cash without first offering them pro rata to existing shareholders as would otherwise be required by section 89 of the Companies Act 1985.
This power allows the directors to allot equity securities for cash only a up to an aggregate nominal value of 696,301, being approximately equal to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: or b in a rights issue or other offer of securities pro rata to shareholders up to the maximum unused amount of the general authority to allot conferred on the directors on 10 January 2003.
Resolution 10 - Company's purchase of its own shares The Company's authority to purchase its own ordinary and preference shares, given at the last Annual General Meeting, expires on the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors propose that it should be renewed for a further year to expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting.
The directors will review opportunities to use this authority in the light of stock market conditions and trading opportunities during the year.
The directors will only make purchases which will reduce the number of shares in issue after paying due attention to the effect on the financing of the Group, its assets and earnings per ordinary share for the remaining shareholders.
By order of the Board G K Wrightson Company Secretary 13 October 2003 35
