Directors 1 1 G Stanley Thomas OBE 2 3 Nonexecutive chairman Member of Remuneration Committee 4 5 G Stanley Thomas OBE, age 61, was appointed a non-executive director of TBI plc in 1994 and 6 became non-executive chairman in 1995.
He was previously joint chairman and managing director of Peters Savoury Products, a substantial food manufacturing business that was sold to Grand 7 8 Metropolitan plc in 1988.
He holds no other non-executive directorships.
He has significant charity and community interests.
2 Keith Brooks Chief Executive Member of Nomination and Operations Audit Committees Keith Brooks, age 54, was appointed chief executive of TBI plc in November 1994.
He had previously been a senior partner of Price Waterhouse, providing tax, corporate finance and business advice to a number of clients, including TBI plc, for which he was the lead professional adviser.
He was appointed Chairman of the Wales North America Business Council in March 2003.
3 Caroline Price Finance Director Member of Operations Audit Committee Caroline Price, age 38, is a Chartered Accountant and was appointed finance director in October 1995.
She was previously an assistant corporate finance director with Price Waterhouse and advised TBI plc on the reverse takeover of Markheath PLC and on the acquisition of Cardiff International Airport Limited.
4 Paul Kehoe Executive Director Member of Operations Audit Committee Paul Kehoe, age 44, was appointed to the board in November 2001.
He joined the Group in August 1997 as managing director of Belfast International Airport.
He became director, European Airports in October 1999 and managing director of London Luton Airport in March 2001.
He began his career in the RAF and, before joining TBI plc, had been managing director of Sercos aviation company and a senior manager with BAe Systems.
He was appointed deputy chairman of the Airport Operators Association in March 2003.
5 Larry Gouldthorpe Executive Director Larry Gouldthorpe, age 44, was appointed to the board in July 2002.
He joined the Group in March 1999 as managing director of Orlando Sanford International, Inc. and has since taken responsibility for Airport Management and Airport Services in North America and for the Groups activities in Bolivia.
Before joining the TBI Group, he was director of aviation services for Lee County Port Authority in Florida.
He is a member of the Florida Airports Council and the American Association of Airport Executives.
6 Charles Scott Senior non-executive director Chairman of Audit and Remuneration Committees Charles Scott, age 54, was appointed a non-executive director in 1998.
He is a Chartered Accountant and is non-executive director of several companies, including adidas-Salomon AG, William Hill plc and InTechnology plc.
7 Tim Simon Non-executive director Chairman of Nominations Committee Member of Audit and Remuneration Committees Tim Simon, age 55, was appointed a non-executive director in 1995.
He is a Chartered Surveyor with an extensive background in investment property and was chairman of Savills plc Commercial Division until 1991, when he founded Tim Simon & Company, property advisers specialising in investment and development.
He is managing director of The Newcombe Estates Company Limited and a member of the industry-wide working party on property securitisation.
8 Gareth Jones Non-executive director Chairman of Operations Audit Committee Member of Audit and Remuneration Committees Gareth Jones, age 54, was appointed a non-executive director in 2001.
He is a Chartered Accountant, a former director of Abbey National plc and former managing director of Abbey National Treasury Services.
He is a non-executive director of Kensington Group plc and Management Consulting Group plc and a director of the Economic and Research Council of Cambridge University.
21 TBI Annual report and accounts 2003 Directors
