Directors report for the year ended 31 March 2003 The directors present their report and the Groups audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2003.
Principal activities and review of the business The principal activities of the Group during the year were the ownership and management of airport facilities at various locations throughout the world and the provision of airport services at various locations in the US.
These activities and the likely future development of the Group are reviewed in the Chairmans Statement and the Operating and Financial Review.
Results for the year and dividends The results for the year are set out in the consolidated profit and loss account on page 30 and show a profit before tax of 10.2 million 2002: 16.5 million.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 1.60 pence per share which, if approved by shareholders, will be paid on 1 October 2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 29 August 2003.
This is in addition to the payment of an interim dividend of 0.70 pence per share which was paid on 2 January 2003.
The total dividend of 2.30 pence 2002: 2.30 pence will leave a retained loss of 8.3 million 2002: 4.6 million to be transferred to reserves.
Directors The directors who held office during the year were: Executive directors Non-executive directors Keith Brooks Gareth Jones Larry Gouldthorpe appointed 1 July 2002 Charles Scott Paul Kehoe Tim Simon Caroline Price G Stanley Thomas Keith Brooks and Caroline Price will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, submit themselves for re-election.
In addition, Larry Gouldthorpe submits himself for re-election following his appointment by the directors in July 2002.
The interests and options of the directors in the issued share capital of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Substantial interests Other than the directors shareholdings, disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital which have been notified to the Company, in accordance with Part VI of the Companies Act 1985 as at 3 June 2003 are as follows: Number of ordinary shares Percentage of allotted share capital Vinci Airports UK Limited 83,250,000 14.90% Deutsche Bank AG 45,854,103 8.20% Dermot Desmond 28,406,660 5.08% In addition to the shareholdings above, Peter Thomas and Mary Case both direct relatives of G Stanley Thomas, the Chairman and their immediate families held 37,490,000 and 17,454,580 ordinary shares respectively, representing 6.71% and 3.12% of the allotted share capital respectively.
Donations During the year ended 31 March 2003 the Group made charitable donations amounting to 68,000 2002: 133,000.
Of this, the largest amount was 50,000 paid to the Noahs Ark Appeal with the balance paid to a number of other registered charities.
Policy on payment to creditors The Groups current policy concerning the payment of the majority of its trade creditors is to follow the Better Payments Practice Code published by the Department of Trade and Industry.
A copy of this code and information about it may be obtained from the Department of Trade and Industry, No.
For other suppliers, the Groups policy is to: settle the terms of payment with those suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations The payment policy applies, without exception, to all payments to creditors for revenue and capital supplies of goods and services.
The Groups average creditor payment period at 31 March 2003 was 38 days 2002: 42 days and that of the Company was 14 days 2002: 22 days.
22 TBI Annual report and accounts 2003 Directors report Corporate social responsibility The Group recognises its responsibility to the communities which are affected by its businesses and continually reviews its policies with regard to social, ethical and environmental matters.
Environmental policy Specifically the Group aims to: comply with environmental legislation continually assess, and where possible improve, the impact of its operations on the environment include environmental considerations in its investment decisions use energy efficiently progressively seek similar environmental standards of the Groups customers, suppliers and business partners The Group is committed to providing the knowledge, skills and resources needed to support an effective environmental policy within its wider commercial objectives.
During the year, the Group has, in partnership with specialist environmental consultants, continued the development of an Environmental Management System EMS, with the object of consistent management of environmental issues, the establishment and measurement of meaningful performance standards, the promotion of best practice throughout the Group and the development of a reputation for environmental management which will attract support and investment.
Each of the Groups businesses has identified its main environmental risks and impacts and appointed an officer with responsibility for championing the implementation of the EMS locally.
Guidelines on the management of environmental issues have been issued to all of the Groups businesses and a series of environmental performance indicators has been developed for the Group.
An environmental awareness training programme has commenced in the UK and is being extended throughout the Group.
Environmental audits are conducted concurrently with our established programme of operational assessments.
During the year, the Group participated for a second successive time in the Business in the Environment Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement.
The resulting report noted encouraging improvements in the areas of policy, employee communication and training, external stakeholder communication and EMS.
The Group was rated among the top ten Transport Sector participants in the index.
While airports make a major economic and social contribution to the community, it is recognised that they have an environmental impact.
The Groups businesses aim to take appropriate action to mitigate or remedy this impact, including the following: Air noise: a number of noise mitigation measures have been implemented to reduce the impact of noise generated by aircraft movements at our airports.
For example, at London Luton Airport there are departure noise preferential routes, away from highly populated areas near the airport, and departure noise limits.
Water management: airports consume large amounts of water and produce effluent containing chemicals that can influence the environment.
Water management techniques are taken into account in all new projects.
For example, reed bed technology is being used at Cardiff International Airport to remove fire fighting chemicals from waste water.
Air quality: airport studies have shown that, while aircraft and vehicles are significant sources of emissions, regional background pollution is a large contributor to air quality in neighbouring communities.
Although the Group has no direct influence on aircraft emissions, it can control other ground level emissions.
For example, fixed electrical ground power, which enables aircraft to shut down their auxiliary engines while on stand, has been installed on all stands at London Luton Airport.
Waste: studies have shown that between 60% and 70% of waste generated at airports originates from aircraft.
The Groups airports are promoting various recycling schemes.
Ground noise: the Groups airports are using the best practical means to reduce emissions from ground based sources, such as construction activities, engine testing and taxiing aircraft.
Energy: under the Kyoto Agreement, the UK is committed to reducing its carbon dioxide and other emissions harmful to the environment to 12.5% below 1990 levels by 2012.
The Group is committed to helping to achieve this target and is adopting energy conservation measures throughout its European businesses.
Employment of disabled persons The Groups policy for the employment of disabled persons gives full and fair consideration to all applications for employment made by such persons, having regard to their aptitudes and abilities and to the Groups operational requirements.
Once employed, a career plan is developed so as to ensure suitable opportunities for each disabled person.
Arrangements are made, where possible, for retraining employees who become disabled, to enable them to perform work identified as appropriate to their aptitudes and abilities in line with the Groups operational requirements.
23 TBI Annual report and accounts 2003 Directors report Directors report for the year ended 31 March 2003 continued Employee involvement During the year, regular consultations and briefings took place with employees and their representatives to increase their knowledge and understanding of the Groups performance and the financial and economic factors which affect it, and to enable the Group to take into account the views of the employees and their representatives when making decisions likely to affect employees interests.
The interests of employees in the defined benefit pension schemes were represented throughout the year by the trustees of those schemes.
The TBI Sharesave Scheme, referred to in the Directors Remuneration Report, encourages the involvement of employees in the Groups performance.
Annual General Meeting Part a of Resolution 9 set out on page 67 would replace the allotment authority given at the Annual General Meeting held on 2 August 2002 and would authorise the directors to allot up to 18,110,507 nominal value of ordinary share capital, representing the difference between authorised and existing issued ordinary share capital.
Part b of Resolution 9 set out on page 67 would replace the authority given at the Annual General Meeting held on 2 August 2002 to disapply pre-emption rights in relation to equity securities allotted for cash pursuant to the authority to be given by Part a of Resolution 9 and would continue to provide the directors with flexibility to act in the interests of the Company when opportunities arise, so that: the Company can follow normal practices in the events of a rights issue equity securities may be issued to persons other than existing ordinary shareholders up to a maximum of 2,794,474 nominal value of share capital, equivalent to approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the date of the notice of meeting Unless renewed, the authority and power given by Resolution 9 would expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2004 or 1 August 2004 whichever is the earlier.
Auditors Following the conversion of our auditors  to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003,  resigned on 31 January 2003 and the directors appointed its successor,  LLP, as auditors.
A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held at noon on Friday, 1 August 2003 at the Hilton Cardiff Hotel.
By Order of the Board R C Clifton Secretary 10 June 2003 24 TBI Annual report and accounts 2003 Directors report
