With over 25 years experience St George is Londons leading For over 70 years, The Crosby Group Berkeley Community Villages has of providing high-quality homes, mixed-use residential developer.
has maintained its reputation as a been established by The Berkeley Berkeley Homes is one of the most Last year, St George became the market leader.
The Crosby Group Group to create new sustainable respected property developers in first property developer to be now takes a leading role in the settlements in a way that is sensitive London and the South-East.
Its granted the prestigious Queens renaissance of cities outside London to existing communities and the portfolio includes contemporary Award for Enterprise: Sustainable and the South-East, creating natural environment.
apartments, traditional townhouses, Development 2002. landmark buildings which have conversions of period buildings and introduced a blend of quality a range of mixed-use developments.
residential and complementary retail, commercial and leisure uses.
THE QUEENS AWARDS FOR ENTERPRISE: SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2002 St James is a joint venture between Berkeley College Homes is the Berkeley Commercial is the Groups The Berkeley Group and Thames dedicated student and key worker dedicated commercial property Water.
It has gained a formidable accommodation specialist in The developer and investor, sharing the reputation for introducing a new Berkeley Group.
It aims to deliver Groups passion for innovation and level of innovation to housebuilding quality and practical accommodation quality.
Its agship development is in London and the South-East which institutions, ranging from Gunwharf Quays at Portsmouth of England.
universities to NHS Trusts, can be Harbour, which has become the proud to offer.
focal point for the economic renaissance of Portsmouth.
1 Charter Quay, Kingston 3 4 2 One SE8, Deptford 3 Royal Clarence Yard, Gosport 4 Royal Arsenal, Woolwich 5 6 5 Leybourne Lakes, Kent 1 2 6 St George Wharf, London 7 7 Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth 03 03
