What we do The Berkeley Group is a leader in the business of urban entire design and planning process.
We consult with a wide regeneration with over 95% of its developments taking range of stakeholders to ensure their views and concerns are place on browneld land.
Our talented and experienced taken into account.
We aim to nd intelligent, original and management team consistently demonstrate the vision imaginative solutions that are appropriate to the needs of the and air needed to develop attractive and sustainable local community.
We regularly review all our development sites communities for our customers while extracting high and densities are increased wherever appropriate in line with value from the land that we develop.
best planning practice, in consultation with planning authorities.
The development of land involves a number of complex Construction stages, from the initial acquisition of the land in question, We place a strong focus on delivering a highly efficient through planning, designing, building and nally marketing construction process.
At all times, we work to ensure that a development.
our construction sites are safe, secure, tidy and cause as little disruption as possible to the local community.
We work closely Acquisition with our sub-contractors and suppliers to improve standards, The first part of the development process is to nd and buy increase efficiencies and uphold the Groups commitment to new land for development.
We acquire new land within strict sustainability in the day-to-day operation of our sites.
financial criteria and undertake detailed risk assessments prior to any land acquisition, which take into account Sales and Marketing sustainability issues.
Our aim is to gain the greatest value Through their marketing activities, our divisions have created from land, whether by developing it or selling it.
strong brand identities which drive their ability to achieve sales at an early stage in the development process.
Wherever reasonably Planning and Design possible we integrate sustainability issues into mainstream sales Each of our projects has a dedicated team to prepare the and marketing information, including customer handbooks and planning application and associated environmental and choices concerning the specication of dwellings.
This team takes a proactive approach to ensuring that sustainability criteria are built into the 02
