05 3i Report and accounts 2003 Chief Executives statement 2000 and 2001, which has Key elements of this approach Portfolio value by product m as at 31 March 2003 damaged our short term include a refined investment Buy-outs 1,927 performance, but we have now process and a new performance broadly restored the shape of management system for our staff.
Growth capital 1,206 the portfolio in line with our long We closed our office in Tokyo and Early stage technology 589 term strategy.
subsequently our office in Dublin, Quoted 217 We seek to invest in companies but made no other changes to our Total 3,939m with good growth potential rather country network.
In Japan, we had than relying on financial hoped to develop a mid-market Buy-outs and growth capital include a total of 544m in unquoted late stage engineering as the driver of value buy-out business, but after three technology companies.
See page 71 for further information.
Additionally, we look for years it became clear that this growth markets, a strong and market was not developing at a well-balanced management team rate to support a local presence.
Portfolio value by geography m as at 31 March 2003 and a business strategy that will Our decision to close our Dublin UK 2,494 deliver value to all shareholders.
office reflected the slower than Continental Europe 1,175 expected development of the Irish Strategy and management private equity market.
US 180 action We have adjusted our resources and organisation to In Germany, market conditions Asia Pacific 90 meet the market challenges.
have been very tough, particularly Total 3,939m The process of reorganising the for early stage companies, and business on to a product as well we have carried through a major as geographical basis is now restructuring resulting in the largely complete.
We have also closure of our offices in Hamburg Portfolio value by FTSE classification m as at 31 March 2003 reduced staff numbers to align and Berlin.
Resources 186 resources with market conditions.
Outlook In the short term, the Industrials 944 Our business is led on a product outlook for corporate profits Consumer goods 873 and sector basis.
Jonathan Russell growth remains weak.
Against this heads up our buy-out business background, we are actively Services and utilities 1,018 and Rod Perry our technology managing the portfolio and Financials 274 business.
Following the focusing investment on those retirements of Peter Williams and companies that can thrive in this Information technology 644 Richard Summers, who had more difficult environment.
Total 3,939m respectively run our UK and Market weaknesses and continental European networks, imperfections also create great we were particularly pleased opportunities and we are mindful to recruit Chris Rowlands back that the recession years of to 3i.
Chris is, in addition to 1992-93 were excellent vintages responsibilities for the UK regional in terms of investment returns.
network and the northern European countries, driving Although cautious about the short forward our growth capital term outlook, I have every business across Europe.
The drivers of change in our product approach have been specialist teams, focused marketing and using our resources on a pan European Brian Larcombe basis.
This model, which we Chief Executive adopted in our buy-out business 14 May 2003 two years ago, is working well and delivering strong investment opportunities.
