10 3i Report and accounts 2003 3i Report and accounts 2003 Operating review The key factor in the weak before the successful ones is investment performance of early interesting.
While the continuing stage technology companies has depressed markets and the been the depressed state of the difficulty of commercialising newly markets for their products and developed products have services.
The most important adversely affected the reported cause of this has been the performance of that portfolio, the significantly reduced levels of J-Curve phenomenon would hold expenditure by corporates on that the performance of the information technology and related remaining portfolio should improve applications.
A number of 3is as more of the underlying investments have underperformed businesses achieve success and as their business models have the investments are realised.
been undermined by significantly The financial performance of the lower levels of demand than early stage technology portfolio expected.
was also adversely affected by A number of technology falls in value.
Valuation of reflect the impact of actual down Europe Economic conditions companies have also experienced technology companies usually rounds undertaken by our portfolio across Europe weakened during difficulty in translating a strong involves reference to valuation companies, and also at 31 March the year.
In general, manufacturing product into a commercial ratios of listed companies or the 2003 the application of this sectors experienced difficult success.
An example is Weston price at which similar companies benchmark to companies with no conditions but the downturn has Medical, a 3i investment that have been acquired.
However, the imminent plans to seek funding.
spread to all sectors, including achieved an IPO in 2001.
Westons absence of an active market for The combined down round effect retail and services, largely driven needle-free injection product was IPOs and a low level of mergers during the year was a 361 million by weakening consumer demand.
technically respected but the and acquisitions activity have reduction in value of which company was unable to translate diminished the usefulness of these The prevailing economic 269 million was in respect of that into commercial success, and traditional benchmarks.
Another uncertainty continues adversely to early stage technology recently went into receivership.
benchmark involves reference to affect the levels of private equity investments.
the value at which private investment, as institutional In the context of the reported companies in the early stage In conclusion, the early stage investors, banks and equity performance of 3is early stage technology sector are currently technology business has seen a providers have become more technology investments made in raising capital.
During the year, significant loss of value this year cautious and vendors of the period 1999 through 2001, the capital has generally been raised but the portfolio has been valued businesses have become J-Curve phenomenon so named through funding rounds at lower using prudent assumptions increasingly unwilling to sell in the because the reported performance capitalisations than previous regarding the outlook for market face of falling prices.
Additionally, of a portfolio or vintage of rounds, even when a company is conditions, and the business has expansion and acquisition plans technology investments tends to meeting its milestones, and they been reshaped for the market we have been deferred and spending dip in the early years before rising have therefore become known as now face.
on information technology by again, as poor and failing down rounds.
Our valuations corporates has reduced.
Offsetting investments become apparent 11 3i Report and accounts 2003 3i Report and accounts 2003 Operating review these negative factors, economic There has been a significant conditions have encouraged reduction in the valuation of our corporate restructuring and the portfolio, caused by increased selling off of non-core assets, provisions and value reductions as which has created opportunities a result of down rounds and for buy-outs.
At 31 March 2003, our portfolio in Against this background, market Europe amounted to 3,669 million, Adaytum Software Inc PlaceWare Inc statistics show that the total of which 2,494 million was in amount of private equity monies The sale of Adaytum Software, In January 2003, PlaceWare Inc, the UK.
invested in Europe in 2002 Inc. a provider of financial planning a provider of web conferencing increased to c27.2 billion from During the year, we announced software products to businesses, services that enable businesses to c24.3 billion in 2001, but was still the closure of three of our offices in January 2003 crystallised a total conduct real-time, interactive below the c35.0 billion invested in Europe Hamburg, Berlin and profit for 3i of 6.5 million on its presentations and meetings over in 2000.
Dublin and we reduced the total investment of 6.1 million, the internet, announced that it had number of staff in our European made over six investment rounds entered into an agreement to be Across Europe, 835 million 2002: business.
These changes were since January 1997.
A key element acquired by Microsoft Corp, 889 million was invested by 3i made to align resources with the in the successful development of providing 3i with realisation including co-investment funds market and to reflect changes in the business was the expansion proceeds of $14 million on its in 357 companies during the year.
into and establishment of a strong November 2001 investment of In the UK, investment amounted 3i now has 27 offices across base in the US, both of which $7 million.
3i led the private to 399 million, compared with Europe.
were facilitated through 3is placement financing round in 2001 443 million the previous year.
contacts there, with venture capital and subsequently helped US The US venture market has Despite difficult conditions, firms and others.
PlaceWare build its European continued to be depressed we achieved a strong level of business by facilitating throughout the year.
Featured: Guy Haddleton, former realisations at good prices, approaches to 3is network of CEO, Adaytum Software, Inc. comfortably in excess of the 3i continues to develop its portfolio companies.
3is board valuations we placed on those business in the US and to focus representative at PlaceWare businesses at March 2002. on managing the existing portfolio established the initial contact with with a view to achieving Microsoft that ultimately led to the In total, realisation proceeds realisations in the next few years.
sale and also played a lead role across Europe during the year in the sale negotiations.
amounted to 965 million, During the year, 74 million compared with 927 million the down from 119 million in 2002 previous year.
was invested in 33 companies, of which 56 million was in new investments.
Our people programmes continue to deliver Our people programmes continue to The Independent Directors Programme These programmes, which operate deliver At 3i, we believe that a strong IDP is a pool of successful business as a centre of excellence on people board significantly improves a companys people who are available to become a issues across 3i, deliver real value performance and that strong boards have chairman or an independent director of through deal origination, assessing clarity of purpose, the right people and 3i-backed businesses.
opportunities, and building and realising good process.
IDP members come from a wide range Our people programmes focus on of industries and company backgrounds.
They have also enabled us to develop sourcing and developing people for four Today, the programme has over 600 innovative training materials and key board roles: Chairmen, Chief members in Europe, Asia Pacific and approaches to board best practice for the Executives, Finance Directors and North America and they hold board people with whom we work.
positions in over 1,000 3i-backed members, such as How do you know a situations.
good Finance Director when you see one?
are highly participative and draw The CEO programme provides 3i with on the combined experience of those access to talented and ambitious CEOs.
12 3i Report and accounts 2003 Operating review Asia Pacific The Japanese market Private equity fund management During the year, we earned fee has not developed as rapidly as 3i manages third party coincome of 34 million 2002: we had expected, and the flow of investment funds primarily in our 35 million from the management quality deals has not been mid-market buy-out business, of funds and, in addition, received sufficient to justify the resourcing where capital raised is co-invested 7.3 million 2002: 1.6 million in of our Tokyo office, which was alongside our capital, enabling us respect of carried interest on closed in February 2003.
The to invest in companies without 3i realisations.
At 31 March 2003, Japanese market will continue to itself holding a majority interest in the invested portfolio managed be serviced out of the Hong Kong the underlying business.
on behalf of third party investors and Singapore offices, as will other was valued at 1,158 million Since 1994, 3i has raised funds markets in the region.
2002: 1,264 million, excluding with total third party commitments undrawn commitments.
The Asia Pacific business invested of 2.3 billion.
Funds are usually 22 million during the year, raised from institutional investors, Since the balance sheet date, 3i including the first investment typically pension funds and has announced the successful first by the Hong Kong office, insurance companies seeking closing of its pan European midwhich was in a Korean multiplex exposure to private equity and market buy-out fund, Eurofund IV.
who are attracted by 3is market Third party investors have leading position, business model committed c0.4 billion and intend Conditions for realisations in the and track record.
The funds raised to invest a further c0.2 billion over region were depressed during the are typically invested on a 50:50 the life of the fund and 3i intends year.
Despite this, 9 million of basis alongside 3is capital.
It is realisation proceeds were expected that further closings will generated.
take place over the coming months and the final closing of Eurofund IV will take place by the end of the year.
The network brings it all together 13 3i Report and accounts 2003 Operating review Quoted fund management 3is Summary Despite a tough year, Third party unquoted co-investment funds under management bn Asset Management team manages we have focused the business on at 31 March the Groups portfolio of quoted the three product areas of buy- 1999 1.5 investments comprising principally outs, growth capital and early our holdings in investments that stage technology.
We believe we 2000 2.3 have achieved an IPO as well as have the right structures and 2001 2.1 the portfolios of the 3i Group processes in place to gain access Pension Plan and of three quoted to and select the most profitable 2002 2.0 specialist investment companies opportunities and then to enhance 2003 1.6 3i Smaller Quoted Companies value and generate profit from the Trust plc, which invests in smaller investments that we make.
In an UK companies, 3i Bioscience environment of low growth and Investment Trust plc, which invests low inflation, this strategy will Third party quoted funds under management bn internationally in life science and enable 3i to provide superior at 31 March healthcare companies, and 3i returns for our shareholders.
1999 0.5 European Technology Trust plc, which invests in quoted 2000 0.8 companies across Europe whose 2001 0.9 focus is on technology.
2002 0.8 At the balance sheet date, 2003 0.5 total third party funds under management by 3i Asset Management were 452 million.
Fees earned from quoted fund management amounted to 4 million for the year, a reduction from 7 million last year, mainly due to the fall in capital markets.
3is relationships deliver tangible assemble the best board for the job and business school in Barcelona and management teams, larger corporates, benefits every day.
Investments such as increase our chances of winning the INSEAD in Fontainbleau add a different our people programmes, intermediaries fide Telefoongids in The Netherlands or deals we want to do.
They also help kind of value.
They learn, and they such as corporate finance advisers and Fonecta in Finland demonstrate that, us reduce costs and avoid weak partner and forge new commercial search consultants, academic institutions, without our teams on the ground in local investments through earlier withdrawal.
As the attendee government and last, but not least, business communities and our sector from PlaceWare, one of our US our staff.
When it comes to adding value to network and credibility, our pan European investments, put it: The conference was investments, relationships like those with Why does it deliver?
Put simply, because buy-out business would not have the most interesting portfolio event that I IBM, which enabled a small software we add value to the people in it.
We have developed so quickly.
Relationships with have ever attended.
The concept of company deNovis to link up with IBM in the systems in place to make it work in large corporates and key corporate bringing your companies together in a winning a substantial contract with a large terms of IT knowledge management.
finance houses enable exits like the sale beautiful location, to educate them with insurance company in the US, can propel More importantly, we ensure through our of Bristan to Masco Corporation to top academia, introduce them to peer an exciting business with potential into a performance management systems and maximise value.
group, industry leaders and target commercial success.
The leadership and individual objectives that there is the right customers is truly superb networking.
Our people programmes enable us to sector insights that our Portfolio Chief attitude.
But above all, the network take informed views of businesses at an Executives gain from our regular sector Our network comprises many important delivers because it is built on thousands early stage in the bidding process, focused CEO summits at the IESE groups of people.
For example, of good relationships.
