07 3i Report and accounts 2003 Operating review 3is investment in Go profiled on Growth capital Growth capital page 6 was a good demonstration has always been a core part of 3is of our approach to this market.
It involves the provision Access to the original investment of capital to accelerate the growth was gained through strong of established businesses and corporate relationships with British generally involves investing in a Airways and its advisers.
It is a experience, track record and product suited to a diverse range fide Telefoongids PaperPak relationships in the sector enabled of growth opportunities, including In February 2003, 3i co-led the In September 2002, 3i led the 3i to take an informed view and acquisitions, increasing production 345 million buy-out of the 65 million buy-out of PaperPak, win the transaction at the right capacity, market or product fide Telefoongids telephone an international manufacturer and price, 110 million.
Through the development, turnaround directories business from KPN supplier of adult incontinence efforts of the management team opportunities, shareholder the Dutch telecommunications products.
3is investment totalled and staff, led by CEO Barbara succession and change of group, investing 22.6 million of 15.3 million.
The combination of Cassani, both market share ownership situations.
3is local presence 3is local presence in Stockholm, and profitability levels increased.
In the second half, we observed in Amsterdam, the use of sector supported by buy-out specialists They were supported with the signs of increasing demand for and buy-out specialists within its from London, and 3is knowledge introduction of Keith Hamill as growth capital, resulting from two investment team, its prior of the sector both persuaded the Chairman and non-executive main factors.
Firstly, companies investment experience and incumbent management team to directors, including Paul Sternbetz, were unable to raise capital by knowledge of telephone work with 3i and enabled 3i to who was formerly Operations achieving an IPO on European directories businesses and its appraise and execute the Director for Southwest Airlines in stock markets and, secondly, ability, through its network, to investment opportunity.
easyJet, a natural strategic debt providers adopted a more source a CEO and a number of introduced a chairman with buyer for Go, made a successful cautious view on the level of key managers with highly relevant relevant strengths from its bid in July 2002 of 374 million finance they would advance.
directories business experience Partnership Programme and a for the business.
Both these factors are increasing combined to help create a non-executive director, with a Our view is that the medium term demand for growth capital.
background in healthcare and outlook for buy-outs is improving.
Furthermore, as and when the turnaround situations, from its Economic conditions and economic outlook improves, we Independent Directors depressed public markets are would expect deferred expansion Programme.
encouraging corporate and acquisition plans to be Featured: Alan Peterson left, restructuring and the selling off reactivated, giving rise to an Chairman of PaperPak and of non-core activities.
Reduced increasing demand for growth Chris Williams, Director of levels of corporate mergers and capital.
We believe that we are 3i London Buy-out team.
acquisitions activity mean there well placed to take advantage of is less competition from trade these conditions.
We believe that there is a significant amount of pent up demand, both in terms of corporates with subsidiaries to sell and of good management teams keen to gain their independence.
Ten largest 3i-led buy-out investments in the year 3i and funds Transaction total size investment Company Business description Country m m fide Telefoongids Telephone directories The Netherlands 345 45 Westminster Health Care Care homes operator UK 301 55 SR Technics Repair and maintenance of aeroplane engines and frames Switzerland 293 70 Esmalglass Manufacturer of frites and glazes for ceramic tiles Spain 159 48 E2V technologies Switching, sensing and imaging components UK 77 21 Extec Manufacturer of mobile crushing equipment UK 68 15 PaperPak Manufacturer of incontinence products US Europe 65 24 United Transport Tankcontainers Tank container operation moving hazardous chemicals The Netherlands 65 12 Partners for Finance Legal Specialist financial Marketing Services services UK 37 9 Ascent Technology IT software consultancy and supply UK 17 10 08 3i Report and accounts 2003 Operating review Parkdean Holidays plc Prosol Gestion In January 2003, 3i invested 3i invested in Parkdean in c14 million in Prosol Gestion, a November 1999 and achieved specialist retailer of fresh, chilled a full realisation, via a listing on and ambient food based in Lyon, AIM in May 2002, earning a total France, to help fund the rapid return of 3.8 million on its roll-out of 70 new stores over the 7.0 million investment.
Parkdean following five years and thereby to was set up to undertake a buy and secure Prosols leading position in build strategy in the UK caravan this attractive product category.
3i contributed to Our strategy for this product A Product Leadership Team, Three factors were key to 3i the successful implementation of targets investments from 3i of with representatives of each of winning the deal against intense this strategy through the provision between 2 million and the targeted regions in Europe, competition: 3is local presence in of appropriate financial 30 million, across a range of coordinates individual country Lyon: its ability to fund potential engineering, strategic support as sectors.
This product is primarily activities, develops and further rounds of investment: and the company made and integrated focused on 3is European and implements strategy and operates its retail sector contacts, which four acquisitions and through the Asia Pacific markets and has as a forum for sharing ideas on a were instrumental in allowing introduction of Graham Wilson, historically had a less competitive range of best practices.
senior Prosol management to an executive chairman who was environment than buy-outs.
have direct access to senior Certain sectors are ideally suited well known to 3i, having worked management at a leading UK food Success in this market is to the growth capital product.
on three previous 3i investments retailer.
3i has recently introduced determined by the ability to A good example is the oil and gas and who had a strong track record a non-executive director with build long term relationships with sector.
The North Sea exploration in the leisure industry and in relevant sector and roll-out local businesses and local and production sector is making acquisitions.
intermediaries, as well as undergoing significant change and demonstrating the capability of a number of new independent helping these businesses to grow.
businesses are emerging as the This fits well with our strategy next generation of North Sea oil of local presence, sector companies.
In the oil and gas specialisation, sharing knowledge services sector, the ability to and offering local businesses provide services on an access to our international international basis is an important network of relationships.
competitive advantage, and capital is required to enable the Chris Rowlands was appointed to development and international lead growth capital investment in distribution of products and September 2002 and he has services.
3is sector knowledge, brought a more focused approach local presence and international to deal origination and the key network combine to position us as processes for this product.
09 3i Report and accounts 2003 Operating review a strong financial partner to such However, following a restructuring The year to 31 March 2003 businesses.
Major transactions by under the leadership of Rod Perry, saw total investment of our Oil and Gas team in Aberdeen we now have a tightly focused 176 million, and realisation during the year included the business which is targeted at four proceeds of 93 million, at an investments in Petrofac Limited key sub-sectors.
equity loss of 26% on the carrying and Faroe Petroleum Limited, and value at 31 March 2002.
We have also focused this activity the partial realisation, through an on a smaller number of our The two biggest early stage IPO on the London Stock ultrafilter AG locations and have refined the technology markets, Europe and Exchange, of our investment in investment process.
As a result, the US, both experienced The sale in July 2002 of ultrafilter John Wood Group plc.
In addition, we now believe 3i is well significant falls in aggregate AG to US based Donaldson Corp. the sale of Orwell Group plc positioned to take advantage of investment during 2002.
According enabled 3i to crystallise its minority crystallised a total return for 3i of current market conditions and to to market statistics, the total investment in the Haan Germany 35.0 million on our total seize the opportunity presented amount invested in Europe fell based specialist filter technology investment of 2.9 million.
by an improved environment in the 66% to $2.5 billion.
3is initial growth During the year, we invested medium term.
investment was in support of investment in 1989 was followed 273 million 2002: 258 million existing venture capital backed by two further funding rounds, We continue to develop and in growth capital transactions, businesses rather than in in 1996 and 2000, to support the nurture our relationships with key 46% 2002: 32% of which was in completely new opportunities.
expansion of ultrafilters export larger corporates in each subcompanies new to our portfolio.
3i also saw this pattern, with 78% business and an acquisition in sector, since these corporates are of early stage technology northern Germany respectively.
However, despite difficult potentially customers, partners or investment during the financial 3is local presence in Dusseldorf conditions for sales and IPOs, ultimate buyers of our individual year being in our existing portfolio.
enabled 3i to stay close to a good level of realisations was portfolio companies, and to share management throughout, achieved, with proceeds of these relationships with our The US market has shown a providing strategic input during 270 million during the year portfolio companies.
According to market the earlier expansion and and an equity uplift of 30%.
we hold for portfolio CEOs and statistics, aggregate investment acquisition phases and at the latter key larger corporates are one way fell by 53% in 2002.
Our US Early stage technology The exit stage.
In addition, 3i was key in which we do this.
For example, business is also now making a continuing depressed state of the in sourcing a new CFO when that the 3i eSecurity CEO Conference contribution to the rest of the technology and capital markets position became vacant.
at the IESE business school in Group, through the relationships meant that 3is early stage Barcelona in November 2002 was we have been building with larger technology business, which at attended by over 20 3i-backed corporates such as IBM.
31 March 2003 represented 15% companies and 25 corporates, of our assets, had a difficult year.
including IBM, Sun Microsystems A negative return of 671 million, and Microsoft.
arising principally from a reduction in the value of the portfolio to reflect these market weaknesses, severely impacted the performance of the Group as a whole.
Balance and flexibility A key theme underpinning our We invest across each of the three conditions.
We are also able to take a Finally, we aim to take a balanced business is balance and flexibility, product categories within private equity balanced and flexible view with regard to outlook in planning our business activity, which has a number of different and venture capital buy-outs, growth the period we hold individual investments.
recognising the risks that face us and our aspects.
capital and early stage technology with need to manage them, but also having an We aim for balance as regards our product specialists in each.
We strive for eye for opportunity and ensuring we are Firstly, our ability to balance the strengths people.
Our culture embraces a balanced balance in our investment activity in well placed to exploit it.
lifestyle between work and family: and in of our international network with our local terms of product, geography and presence gives us a strong and unique our people we seek a rounded set of industry sector.
qualities we recognise the need for source of competitive advantage, enabling us to originate an attractive 3is balance sheet enables us to take a strong technical and task-oriented skills view of the relative attractiveness of the and the benefits of competitive deal flow and to assemble the best team for the job.
We can draw upon new investment and realisations markets.
behavioural instincts, but equally In an uncertain environment, we have emphasise other qualities such as sound complementary skills and knowledge across international, sector and product sought to achieve a balance between judgement, the ability to work in a team, as these two key aspects of our business, well as communication, motivational and boundaries.
but we are able to flex their respective influencing skills.
levels in line with our view of market
