Business Review and Forward-looking Statements Forward-looking Statements Abbey may from time to time make written or oral forwardAbbey cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is looking statements.
Written forward-looking statements not exhaustive.
When relying on forward-looking statements may appear in documents led with the US Securities and to make decisions with respect to Abbey, investors and others Exchange Commission, including this Annual Report, reports should carefully consider the foregoing factors and other to shareholders and other communications.
The US Private uncertainties and events.
Such forward-looking statements Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 contains a safe speak only as of the date on which they are made, and Abbey harbour for forward-looking statements on which Abbey relies does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any of in making such disclosures.
Examples of such forward-looking them, whether as a result of new information, future events statements include, but are not limited to: or otherwise.
projections or expectations of revenues, profit or loss, earnings or loss per share, dividends, capital structure or other financial items or ratios: statements of plans, objectives or goals of Abbey or its management, including those related to products or services: statements of future economic performance: and statements of assumptions underlying such statements.
Words such as believes, anticipates, expects, intends, aims, and plans and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements.
By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, both general and specic, and risks exist that the predictions, forecasts, projections and other forward-looking statements will not be achieved.
Abbey cautions readers that a number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the plans, objectives, expectations, estimates and intentions expressed in such forward-looking statements made by Abbey or on Abbeys behalf.
These factors include: ination, interest rate, exchange rate, market and monetary uctuations: the effect of, and changes to, regulation and government policy: the effects of competition in the geographic and business areas in which Abbey conducts operations: changes in consumer spending, saving and borrowing habits in the United Kingdom and in other countries in which Abbey conducts operations: the effects of changes in laws, regulations, taxation or accounting standards or practices: the ability to increase market share and control expenses: the timely development of and acceptance of new products and services of Abbey and the perceived overall value of these products and services by users: acquisitions and disposals: technological changes: the possibility of foreign exchange controls, expropriation, nationalisation or confiscation of assets in countries in which Abbey conducts operations: and Abbeys success at managing the risks of the foregoing.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 7
