Report of the Directors Directors Report The directors have pleasure in presenting their report for Directors and directors interests Abbey National plc for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Details of all the current directors are included on pages 87 and 88.
All of the directors have served on the Board for the whole of Principal activities the period 1 January to 31 December 2003, with the exception The principal activity of Abbey National plc and its subsidiaries of Priscilla Vacassin, Angus Porter and Tony Wyatt who were appointed continues to be the provision of an extensive range of Personal to the Board on 1 June 2003, 1 July 2003 and 1 September 2003 Financial Services.
The Operating and Financial Review for the year, respectively.
Having been appointed to the Board since the last including a review of non-banking activities, is set out on pages 8 Annual General Meeting, Priscilla Vacassin, Angus Porter, Tony Wyatt, to 86 of this document.
Note 23 to the Financial Statements provides together with Gerry Murphy and Geoffrey Cooper, who were a list of the principal subsidiaries and the nature of each companys appointed on 1 January 2004, will retire and, being eligible, offer business as well as details of overseas branches.
Details of important themselves for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
events which have occurred since the end of the financial year and Leon Allen, Yasmin Jetha and Mark Pain will retire by rotation at the prospects for 2004 are included in the Business review and the Annual General Meeting and, all being eligible, offer themselves for Operating and Financial Review sections.
Malcolm Millington retired as an Executive Director on 8 September 2003.
Peter Ogden retired as a Non-Executive Director Results and dividends on 31 December 2003.
The loss on ordinary activities before tax for the year ended In accordance with our Articles of Association, one third or the 31 December 2003 was 686m 2002: 984m.
nearest whole number below one third of the Directors of Abbey are An interim net dividend of 8.33 pence per ordinary share required to retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting, together was paid on 6 October 2003 2002: 17.65 pence per ordinary share.
with the Directors appointed by the Board since the previous Annual The directors propose a final dividend for the year of 16.67 pence General Meeting.
The retiring Directors may stand for re-election.
per ordinary share 2002: 7.35 pence per ordinary share to be paid No director had a material interest in any contract of signicance, on 4 May 2004. other than a service contract, with Abbey or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year.
Disclosures required by FRS 8, Related Share capital Party Disclosures, are set out in note 56 to the Financial Statements.
The authorised and issued share capital of Abbey is detailed Directors interests in the shares of the Company, awards under in note 42 to the Financial Statements.
the Long Term Incentive Plan and options to acquire shares are set During the year, 249,116 ordinary shares were issued on the out in the Remuneration report on pages 99 to 105. exercise of options under the Sharesave scheme, 450 ordinary shares were issued on the exercise of options under the terms of Substantial shareholdings the Employee Share Option Scheme and 114,990 ordinary shares As at 25 February 2004, Abbey has received notication of disclosable were issued under the terms of the Executive Share Option Scheme.
interests in the issued ordinary share capital, in accordance with In addition, 2,109,211 ordinary shares were issued in lieu of cash for sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985.
Fidelity Management the final dividend for 2002 and 1,928,522 ordinary shares were issued & Research Company has disclosed an interest in 58,767,384 ordinary in lieu of cash for the interim dividend in 2003, in accordance with the shares of 10 pence each, representing 4.03% of the issued share terms of the Alternative Dividend Plan.
During 2003, shares to meet capital of Abbey.
Franklin Resources Inc. has disclosed an interest grants under the Executive Share Option Scheme and Share Matching in 44,239,862 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, representing 3.04% Scheme were purchased in the market by the Abbey National ESOP of the issued share capital of Abbey.
Legal & General Investment Trust and the Abbey National Employee Trust.
Shares, which are Management Limited has disclosed an interest in 43,7 7 7,126 ordinary intended to be used in respect of the conditional rights under the shares of 10 pence each, representing 3.01% of the issued share Abbey National Employee Share Ownership Scheme Partnership capital of Abbey.
Shares were purchased in the market and held in the Abbey National ESOP Trust.
Corporate governance At the Annual General Meeting on 24 April 2003, shareholders A report on corporate governance is set out on pages 96 to 98 of this authorised Abbey to make market purchases of its own shares, to a Annual Report.
The remuneration policy contained in the Remuneration maximum of 145,802,777 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, 125 million report on pages 99 to 105 of this Annual Report will be proposed 5 3 8 8% preference shares of 1.00 each and 200 million 10 8% for approval at Abbeys Annual General Meeting on 22 April 2004. preference shares of 1.00 each.
No purchases have been made during the year under these authorities.
These authorities remain valid until the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that resolutions will be put to shareholders to renew them and extend them to cover the series B dollar preference shares.
The contractual conditions precedent to any redemption of the 1996 US Dollar denominated preference shares were met during 2003, and Abbey chose to exercise its right to redeem these instruments in July 2003.
Market value of land and buildings On the basis of a periodic review process, the estimated aggregate market value of the company and its subsidiaries land and buildings was below the xed asset net book value of 39m, as disclosed in note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, by approximately 20m.
It is considered that, except where specic provisions have been made, the land and buildings have a value in use to the Abbey group of companies which exceeds the estimated market value, and that the net book value is not impaired.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 89 Report of the Directors Directors Report continued Management of Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate social responsibility A Steering Group oversees all corporate social responsibility matters Abbey continues to be committed to good corporate citizenship and is responsible for updating the board on strategy and process.
and to treating all those who come into contact with us in a fair and ethical This committee is chaired by the Executive Director, Human Resources, manner.
We recognise the need to structure our approach to corporate demonstrating the signicance the board attaches to these issues.
social responsibility and to report regularly on progress.
We do so through Abbey aims to comply with industry standards including the our annual corporate social responsibility report, which is approved by the Association of British Insurers disclosure guidelines on social board and includes information about our ethical principles, corporate responsibility, the Department of Trade and Industry Company Law governance, social impact of the business, treatment of employees, Review and the Accounting for People Report recommendations.
community involvement and charitable donations, and our environmental The Association of British Insurers call for companies to provide policy and performance.
The corporate social responsibility report can be information on social, environmental and ethical matters in their found on our website www.
com Abbey Corporate, and a hard copy annual reports, and we provide such information in this directors can be obtained by writing to Community Relations at the registered ofce report, as summarised in the chart below.
address on page 198 of this Annual Report.
With regard to the board, the company should state in its annual report whether: 1.1 The board takes regular account of the signicance of social, Abbeys annual corporate social responsibility report, with supporting environmental and ethical matters to the business of the company.
information, is considered and approved by the board.
The board also regularly reviews Abbeys ethical, environmental, and human resources policies, which are drafted to reect and ensure the management of the significant social, environmental and ethical risks identied by the business.
1.2 The board has identied and assessed the significant risks to the Social, environmental and ethical issues are integral to the business.
The companys shortand long-term value arising from social, environmental business, including the Risk and Internal Audit functions, is responsible for and ethical matters, as well as the opportunities to enhance value that may identifying and assessing the risks and opportunities arising from social, arise from an appropriate response.
environmental and ethical matters, and for reporting social, environmental and ethical risks upwards and, where appropriate, to the board.
The board has confirmed the identication of social, environmental and ethical risks in the corporate social responsibility report.
1.3 The board has received adequate information to make this assessment The board receives regular reports about social, environmental and ethical and that account is taken of social, environmental and ethical matters in the matters, including the annual corporate social responsibility report.
is no explicit account taken of social, environmental and ethical matters in the training of directors, although this is being reviewed.
1.4 The board has ensured that the company has in place effective systems There are a number of systems in place for the effective management of for managing significant risks which, where relevant, incorporate performance social, environmental and ethical risks.
The companys high-level risk management systems and appropriate remuneration incentives.
architecture explicitly identies social, environmental and ethical risks, and structures the work programme of Internal Audit and the risk management frameworks of Abbey.
The corporate social responsibility steering group, the Chief Executive, and other executive directors have explicit responsibilities to promote ethical practices, environmental management and social responsibility, and receive regular information on our performance.
At present, there are no remuneration incentives in place.
With regard to policies, procedures and verication, the annual report should: 2.1 Include information on social, environmental and ethical related risks Information is provided in the corporate social responsibility section of and opportunities that may signicantly affect the companys shortand the directors report, as well as the annual corporate social responsibility long-term value, and how they might impact on the business.
report, following broad reporting areas recommended by Business in the Community: workplace, marketplace, community and environment and reecting the key stakeholder concerns we are aware of.
We will review the robustness of this process in line with the recommendations of the Operating and Financial Review Working Group on the assessment and reporting of material social, environmental and ethical risks.
2.2 Describe the companys policies and procedures for managing risks The directors report includes such information within space constraints.
to shortand long-term value arising from social, environmental and ethical Relevant information is provided on key social, environmental and ethical matters.
If the annual report and accounts states that the company has policies such as the statement of ethical principles, the environmental no such policies and procedures, the board should provide reasons for policy, procurement, and policies relating to employee diversity and other their absence.
Further detail about policies and procedures for managing social, environmental and ethical risks to shortand long-term value is available in the annual corporate social responsibility report and the company website: www.
2.3 Include information about the extent to which the company has Some information is provided in the directors report, given space complied with its policies and procedures for managing risks arising.
Further detail is presented in the annual corporate social responsibility report.
2.4 Describe the procedures for verication of social, environmental and The directors report and annual corporate social responsibility ethical disclosures.
The verication procedure should be such as to achieve report are considered by the companys Executive Committee and board.
In addition, disclosures made in the environmental section of the 2002 corporate social responsibility report were veried independently by SGS United Kingdom.
90 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the Directors Directors Report continued Code of ethics Employees At 31 December 2003 Abbeys ethical policies are set out in How we do business.
This Total employees 27,726 document, which was reviewed and updated by the board in 2003, confirms that: Total female employees 18,402 employees should raise concerns if they become aware Total male employees 9,324 that ethical polices and principles are not being followed: Total full-time employees 21,116 we value all employees as individuals and treat them as partners Total part-time employees 6,610 in the business: Total full-time ethnic minority employees 1,472 we will consider ethical and environmental concerns when Total part-time ethnic minority employees 464 investing Abbey assets: we are committed to adopting sound environmental Employees aged 50 and under 25,157 management practices: and Employees aged over 50 2,569 we expect suppliers to operate to high ethical standards.
Employee turnover % 14.66 The ethical investment guidelines are an integral part of the risk Average days absent per employee 10 management processes for investment decision making.
They are Total number of staff grievances at final stage 9 found within How we do business: this is posted on our website at www.
com Abbey Corporate General Information Our policies.
Total employee satisfaction % 58 with everything measured by the employee opinion survey Procedures are also in place for employees to follow if they feel that there has been a breach of ethical or environmental principles, Training and they are urged to follow these procedures if they have evidence of any breaches.
Total number of training days 188,752 We also comply with the applicable code of ethics regulations Average number of training days per employee 7 of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission arising from Average invested in training per employee 614 the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Amongst other things, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act aims to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability Health and Safety of information that companies disclose.
It requires companies to Total number of reported accidents 296 disclose whether they have a code of ethics that applies to the Total number of accidents reported to enforcing authorities 36 Chief Executive and senior financial ofcers that promotes honest Total number of adjustments to workplaces 543 and ethical conduct: full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosures: compliance with applicable governmental laws, rules and Workplace adjustments for disabled employees 42 regulations: prompt internal reporting of violations: and accountability The total number of employees, as at 31 December 2003, on a full-time for adherence to such a code of ethics.
We meet these requirements equivalent basis.
through How we do business, our whistleblowing policy, the Financial Services Authoritys Principles for Businesses, and the Financial Services Authoritys Principles and Code of Practice for Approved Persons together, the Code of Ethics, with which the Chief Executive and senior financial ofcers must comply.
These include requirements to manage conicts of interest appropriately and to disclose any information the Financial Services Authority may want to know about.
We provide a copy of our code of ethics to anyone, free of charge, on application to our registered ofce address as shown on page 198.
We participate in a number of indices FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability indices and benchmarking exercises focusing on corporate social responsibility issues.
We continue to be a member of the FORGE Group, a government-supported consortium of major financial services companies that, in 2002, formalised a structured approach for the management and reporting of corporate social responsibility issues for the financial sector.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 91 Report of the Directors Directors Report continued Our condential Employee Advice Line can: Workplace answer questions about their employment with Abbey: Equality and diversity point them in the right direction if theyve got a personal problem: and Abbey has shown a lasting commitment to workforce diversity and has tell them about our external counselling provider which offers had some form of diversity policy since the early 1980s.
Our Valuing professional counselling to Abbey employees on a wide range People as Individuals policy is consistent with the values that underpin of work or personal issues.
This counselling can be done on the our culture.
This policy is available on our website at www.
com telephone or face to face.
Abbey Corporate Key facts Our policies.
Abbey also provides post-trauma counselling.
Employees might need We were pleased that our work in the area of diversity was this if theyve experienced violence, a major personal upset or some recognised in 2003 when Opportunity Now awarded us the Silver other traumatic event at work.
Standard in its benchmarking index on gender equality.
In 2003, we undertook an equal pay audit for the third consecutive year.
The Health and Safety results showed that overall pay levels of men and women are within At Abbey we believe that healthy employees working in a safe 10% of each other.
environment enhance the business and the achievement of our objectives.
Weve continued to work with local communities, particularly Ensuring this is good business practice and a positive investment where we have large ofces.
We have nine community partnership which protects our people who are our most valuable asset.
Their main role is to distribute donations In 2003 our Chief Executive set down a new policy statement on from our Charitable Trust to meet the needs of the community.
There health and safety at work and we strengthened our directly employed are also a number of diversity action groups.
These work to promote occupational health and safety team to provide an improved service a more diverse workforce in their local areas.
Our aim is to develop to the business.
further our relationship with local communities by expanding the Throughout the year we pursued our goal of health and safety number of diversity action groups, and by co-ordinating their work excellence and a number of initiatives were introduced to improve with that of the Community Partnership Groups, to provide a more our health and safety performance.
We were pleased to experience focused approach to the community.
a signicantly reduced number of serious accidents in 2003.
Weve continued our involvement in national interest groups throughout 2003.
Weve supported Opportunity Now, the Employers Health and safety projects in 2003 Forum on Disability, the Employers Forum on Age, and Race for th th Some of the initiatives we undertook in 2003 are listed below.
We came 11 in the Race for Opportunity and 4 Driver road risk outside studies show that about 30% of all in the Global Inclusion Disability Benchmark.
road accidents involve drivers on company business.
We have Our Disability Employment Action Team has continued to focus around 3,000 employees who drive on company business, so on setting up a strong framework for the employment of people with we commissioned the Royal Automobile Club to complete a driver disabilities.
This helps to make sure that we have the appropriate road risk survey for us.
As a result, a new Road Safety Policy is processes in place to help recruit, develop and retain employees with being prepared for the business.
The following are examples of the Disability Employment Asbestos management to ensure safe working in the branch Action Teams work over the past year.
network we commissioned a series of asbestos surveys and A mentoring scheme for employees with disabilities has been have put in place clear plans detailing how we will manage any set up across Abbey.
Mentors from around the country took part asbestos risk in the future.
in a training day to make sure that they had the appropriate skills Stress management weve reviewed our policy on managing to advise employees with disabilities.
work-related stress, and put in place new guidelines and We provided financial support and took part in the Employers procedures to ensure our people are adequately protected.
Forum on Disability pilot benchmarking survey.
The Employers Sickness absence management we undertook a comprehensive Forum on Disability is developing a benchmarking tool to help overhaul of our sickness absence procedures to ensure we enable its members to become confident with Disability.
deliver an improved service to the business.
We found the process useful in reviewing our own progress on Contractor safety weve developed new guidelines and disability and identifying areas where action still needs to be taken.
procedures to ensure contractors carrying out work for Abbey Were committed to the Disability Discrimination Act and are proud to always operate in a safe way and within health and safety law.
use the Employment Service Positive about Disabled People symbol.
Health and safety training we critically analysed the training We have a partnership agreement with the Employment Service we provide for our people and are in the process of selecting Disability Service to provide access to work for people with disabilities.
an e-learning provider for Abbey.
This aims to make sure that new and existing staff get the necessary aids and equipment to make their working life easier.
Employee communications We believe that involving employees is key to being successful.
This Work-life balance means effective communication is vital to everything we do.
We publish Abbey is committed to supporting individuals in achieving a magazine every other month for employees read that combines a reasonable balance between their home and working life.
We work-related issues and information with more general articles.
Almost understand that people must be valued and supported through all employees have access to our intranet net.
We also use more the various stages of their lives.
As a result, we offer a wide range traditional methods of communication, such as team meetings.
All these of exible working options, including part-time work, job sharing, channels are designed to keep employees fully informed of news and homeworking, compressed working arrangements, career breaks developments which may have an impact on them, and also to keep and extended maternity and adoption arrangements.
them up to date on financial, economic and other factors which affect Our employees health and well-being is very important to us and the companys performance.
we want to support them as much as we can.
Experience has shown Its just as important to listen to the views and opinions of our us that employees need help in a number of ways and thats what our employees and, for the last decade, weve asked for their views on Employee Advice Line is all about.
We want to give them the right help a range of issues through departmental and company-wide opinion in the right way, or point them towards someone who can.
These surveys are condential and employees dont have to give their names.
Data is inputted and analysed by an external company and no-one in Abbey has access to the completed questionnaires.
92 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the Directors Directors Report continued Employee opinion survey Working in partnership In May 2003, the survey was sent to 26,500 employees, over half of Abbey wants to involve and inform our employees on matters that affect whom completed it.
The response rate to the survey increased from them.
As well as discussions with line managers, we have continued to 51.9% to 53.7%.
use different methods of communicating with all employees.
These Whilst overall the scores in all categories from last year have include read the staff magazine, vision the television channel, and decreased, in the majority of cases we are on a par with Financial talk the sessions where senior management, including the Chief and Retail average benchmarks.
Given the pace and extent of change Executive and the Chairman, have answered staff questions face to face.
taking place within Abbey, we have not been surprised at the decline In the UK, we achieved our first 25 years of trade union and are addressing these issues.
recognition in the business and we marked the anniversary during Despite decreasing from last year, some of the questions in the 2003 by conrming the partnership agreement with Abbey National survey achieved favourable scores.
82% of our employees think that Group Union, our recognised independent trade union.
Abbey their manager focuses on ensuring that their business area objectives National Group Union are afliated to the Trade Union Congress and are achieved, 80% of employees are committed to helping the operate from their own ofces in Hertfordshire.
company to succeed, and 74% feel that they have a clear During 2003, Abbey National Group Union has been involved understanding of the goals and objectives of their business area.
in many initiatives, and we continue to consult them on significant proposals within the business.
Consultation takes place at both Developing our people national and local levels.
We hold regular relationship management Abbeys Training and Development department supports employees meetings to make sure that communication is open and two-way.
by providing training and development that is effective, efficient and responsive.
This department works in partnership with each business Employee share ownership area to provide learning and development activities where they will As in previous years, in 2003 we invited eligible employees to add the most benefit.
In 2003, we increased the number of training become financial stakeholders in the company by taking part in our days by 38% from 2002 to almost 190,000 days.
In 2003, we also ran a Partnership Shares scheme that gave staff Facilities the opportunity to save money from their pre-tax salary, over 12 months.
Abbey has seven dedicated learning environments, where we deliver Through these schemes, and others we have introduced on-line training using a desktop computer.
This on-line training over the years, a large number of our employees now own shares ensures we deliver consistent and high-quality training, and that in the company.
we provide appropriate and cost-effective learning for all employees.
The facilities are also available to staff out of hours to help them study Offshoring outside their job role for their own personal development.
In 2003 Abbey announced a wide-ranging review of how and where We also provide a library facility where we lend training videos we carry out our operational activities, as well as a pilot with the and Ofce 2000 software.
company MsourcE to perform some activities in India.
Subsequently, in January 2004, we confirmed that we would invest 25 million in Performance development five key UK locations, close three other operational sites, and transfer Abbey wants to create a high performance culture.
This means were some banking enquiries jobs to India.
committed to developing our employees ability to perform at their Throughout the review leading up to the decision, we fully best, continually stretching them to deliver better service to our consulted the Abbey National Group Union.
We agreed with them a customers, and supporting each other by removing obstacles and range of measures to help staff who were affected, including using their talent to produce better results.
enhanced relocation and travel packages to help them take advantage We believe everyone can give of their best and be successful.
of redeployment opportunities, as well as resources and guidance Our approach to performance development is simple and to help others pursue jobs outside of Abbey.
Its about being clear what best and successful mean.
We are sensitive to concerns being raised in the UK Parliament, Employees will understand whats expected of them and get the right the media and other forums about the movement of jobs to India.
development and support to allow them to succeed.
And when theyve Nonetheless, we believe these decisions are absolutely necessary done this, they will be recognised and rewarded for their contribution.
to the health of Abbeys future and for giving customers better service Employees are responsible for their performance and their manager at a competitive price.
Furthermore MsourcE has a proven track record is responsible for making sure they are clear about what they need to do in treating employees fairly and with respect.
The people who work for to perform to their best, and for supporting them to achieve it.
our operation in India will be treated well, and will be paid to reect their professionalism.
There are four elements to performance development: Marketplace what youll do this is what employees need to achieve and Abbey made public commitments in 2003 to improve its treatment will be clearly linked to their business areas performance plan: of all customers.
These include: how youll be this will help them understand how they need understanding our customers and how they feel about money: to behave to do their job well: creating products our customers will want to buy because they how youll develop the development that they need to be meet a real and definite need: the best they can in their role: and giving good impartial advice, not just to the few, but to everyone: how are you doing at least every three months employees delivering faultless service and following through on what we say should talk to their line manager informally or formally to review well do: how theyre doing against these elements and record the results being open with customers and using simple everyday language: on their development plan.
Twice a year theyll have formal taking a positive, can-do attitude and removing obstacles reviews where theyll get a rating against an eight-point scale between customers and their money: and for Do and Be.
Our approach is to focus on improving the relationship people have with their money, by helping them to get on top of their money and confront any problems or concerns.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 93 Report of the Directors Directors Report continued Financial inclusion Much greater emphasis will be placed on learning from what our Abbey is working with the government and the Post Ofce on the customers are telling us and feeding that back to improve further delivery of universal banking services.
This work has included the our products and services.
development and launch in February 2003 of a new basic bank account, appropriate for state-benefit recipients who wish to access Environmental their money either at cash machines or at Post Ofce counters.
We Abbey is a signatory to, and an active member of, the United Nations actively support the Consumer Credit Counselling Service and Money Environment Programme Financial Institutions Initiative.
Advice Trust to assist people who have fallen into financial difficulties.
We recognise our responsibility to consider the environmental Measures have been put into place to help ensure that all of issues associated with our business activities.
Our environmental Abbeys services are equally accessible to customers with disabilities.
management strategy is to reduce the direct impacts of our activities, For example, communication aids such as induction loops for for example energy and resource use, and to manage the indirect risks hearing-impaired customers exist in most branches, and textphones associated with our main business interests and our supply chain.
are in operation across head ofce sites.
Customer and shareholder Our environmental policy has been approved by the board, and information remains available in alternative formats including Braille the Chief Operating officer is accountable for ensuring management and large print.
acts in accordance with its principles.
The policy applies to all Our Chief Executive Luqman Arnold was appointed a member of business units, covers all significant environmental impacts and risks, the Financial Services Authoritys Steering Group on Financial Capability.
and provides the basis for our environmental management system.
Financial inclusion should be about how we treat all customers.
We encourage the organisations with which we undertake joint When we relaunched the business in September 2003, we said ventures or outsourcing operations to support it.
that we intend to democratise money: helping everyone not just the Environmental management is integrated in the Operational Risk privileged few get on top of their money.
In one sense this is just a framework overseen by the Chief Risk officer and risk function, and return to our roots: Abbey began as a building society to help ordinary in the management objectives of functions such as procurement and people buy land so that they could vote, because at that time only property management.
Senior managers are responsible for ensuring landowners were enfranchised.
We have committed ourselves to compliance with the policy and risk management procedures.
Through communicating in language that everyone can understand and to the risk framework, environmental risks are identied and assessed, make it easier for people to get good advice about their money.
and there is opportunity to report significant environmental risks to the board and or Risk Committee on a monthly basis.
Environmental Social housing management and performance reporting will be reviewed in 2004 Abbeys specialist Social Housing Finance unit delivers long-term to align it more closely with the wider corporate social responsibility finance solutions to Registered Social Landlords to enable them management and reporting framework within Abbey.
to provide affordable housing for people in need and to undertake Our environmental performance is subject to internal audit wider social inclusion initiatives.
Registered Social Landlords often on a rolling basis and our disclosures in the public corporate social called Housing Associations are regulated, non-profit making, responsibility report are externally veried.
Development of the community-based organisations.
Abbeys loan commitments currently environmental management system takes into account the exceed 4.5 billion, making it a market leader in this eld.
recommendations of independent management reviews, emerging industry initiatives and benchmarks, and feedback from stakeholders.
Procurement Whilst good progress has been made during 2003 in line with Abbey has in place a procurement policy that explicitly promotes the environmental policy principles, the ongoing changes to business competitive tendering and dealing with suppliers in a fair and open structure necessitate a continuous review of our environmental manner.
The policy requires a record of hospitality received to be management priorities.
Our objectives for 2003 of: maintained by each department and made available for review.
reviewing and strengthening environmental governance Abbey reserves the right to verify the ethical standing of its suppliers arrangements: as it deems appropriate.
improving performance data quality and coverage: We do not operate a single payment policy in respect of all refocusing performance targets: classes of suppliers.
Each individual operating area is responsible formalising environmental considerations in product for agreeing terms and conditions under which business is to be development and partnership arrangements: and transacted and for making the supplier aware of these beforehand.
monitoring climate related risks and opportunities will be carried It is, and will continue to be, Abbeys policy to ensure payments are forward and form a priority for 2004. made in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed, except The environmental policy and more detailed information on where the supplier fails to comply with those terms and conditions.
risk and performance are published in the annual corporate social Our practice on payment of creditors has been quantied under responsibility report.
the terms of the Companies Act 1985 Directors Report Statement of Payment Practice Regulations 1997.
Based on the ratio of amounts Political contributions invoiced by trade creditors during the year to amounts of Abbey trade No contributions were made for political purposes.
creditors at 31 December 2003, trade creditor days for Abbey were 19 2002: 24 days.
The equivalent period calculated for Abbeys legal Community entities is 20 days 2002: 26 days.
Abbey is proud of its involvement in the community and has continued to support a wide range of charitable projects in 2003, primarily through Complaints Management the Abbey Charitable Trust Limited the Trust.
We have built links with Abbey is committed to ensuring that customers get the very highest the local community, particularly in the areas where we have a large levels of service.
We do recognise, however, that from time to time we presence, through our employee participation schemes and donations.
may do something that does not match the high expectations of our customers.
Our commitment to our customers at these times is to Donations provide a clear and responsive approach to dealing with customers In 2003, we made a total cash donation of 1,711,380 2002: 1,892,635 concerns and to put right what may have gone wrong.
Over the to charities through the Trust and Abbey.
The total value of support to course of 2004, we are placing extra emphasis on the systems, charities and the voluntary sector amounted to 2,170,036 in 2003 practices and training that support our complaint handling systems.
This comprised cash donations and other support 94 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the Directors Directors Report continued given in kind, including the value of employee time which is matched New charitable priorities on an hour-for-hour basis through Abbeys volunteering scheme.
We have revised our charitable priorities for 2004 to reect the changes to Abbeys core values.
These changes took place after Volunteering consultation with local charities, employees and the Board.
We have piloted three new opportunities for employee volunteering in The Trust will support disadvantaged people through: the Camden area of London which will be rolled out to other locations in education and training: the UK throughout 2004.
E-mentoring matches Year 10 pupils studying local regeneration projects which encourage cross community vocational General Certicates of Secondary Education GCSEs with an partnerships: and Abbey employee who is working in that subject area and the mentoring financial advice which helps them manage their money.
support is carried out by exchanging e-mails.
Number Partners uses Further details on Abbeys involvement in the community and the specially designed board games to help small groups of eightand Trusts work can be found in the corporate social responsibility report nine-year-olds develop their number skills with the help of trained and on the website.
groups of volunteers from Abbey head ofces.
The third opportunity to volunteer is via a scheme called business experts where employees Auditors with specialist business skills work with charities in the local area.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors will Through our giving and our employees fund-raising efforts we aim be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
to make a difference, and support for employee efforts was 583,868 On 1 August 2003 Deloitte & Touche transferred their business 2002: 621,500 matching the amount they raised during the year.
to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited liability partnership incorporated In all 13% of our employees were involved in one of our matching under the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2000.
These gures are collated using the London Benchmarking has been given to treating the appointment of Deloitte & Touche as Group reporting model.
extending to Deloitte & Touche LLP with effect from 1 August 2003 under the provisions of section 26 5 of the Companies Act 1989.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors of Abbey National plc are required by United Kingdom What we give 7% Management cost company law to prepare financial statements for each financial year 79% In cash which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Abbey and its 14% In kind subsidiaries as at the end of the financial year, and of the loss for Abbey and its subsidiaries for the year.
They are also responsible for ensuring that proper and adequate accounting records have been maintained and that reasonable procedures have been followed for safeguarding the assets of Abbey and its subsidiaries and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
13% Other In respect of the financial statements the directors are required to: Who benefits 22% Disability ensure that suitable accounting policies, which follow generally accepted accounting principles, have been applied consistently: 6% Employment ensure that reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates 33% Education have been used in the preparation of the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless 20% Relief of suffering it is inappropriate to presume that Abbey will continue in 6% Community benefit business: and state whether applicable United Kingdom accounting standards Community projects have been followed and to disclose and explain any material Here are just three examples of the community projects that we have departures from the financial statements.
worked on in 2003: Camden Community Action received 20,000.
The charity, set Annual meeting up by the Community Housing Association, will use the money to fund Details of the business of the Annual General Meeting can be found in a programme of sports and arts activities for children in the Camden the accompanying booklet Notice of Annual General Meeting 2004. area, where our principal ofce is situated.
Thanks to a partnership between Abbey and Help the Aged, By Order of the Board hundreds of unwanted Christmas presents have been put to good use.
The unwanted Christmas gift appeal ran for four weeks from 29 December 2003, with 120 Abbey branches participating.
The charity was given a boost with a 10,000 donation from the Charitable Trust.
All the donated gifts were delivered to Help the Aged shops, Karen M Fortunato where they will be resold to raise money for the charity.
Company Secretary A 14,400 donation from the Charitable Trust enabled the 25 February 2004 national charity Canine Partners to purchase the entire intake of puppies for the class of 2003 2004.
The 32 puppies will be trained over an eighteen-month period to enable them to transform the lives of people with disabilities, as they learn to respond to over 100 commands in order to undertake a wide range of activities.
When the puppies are fully trained, they will be placed with a disabled partner and will be able to carry out tasks such as switching on lights, opening and unloading a washing machine, and using cash machines.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 95
