Operating and Financial Review Business Overview This section contains forward-looking statements that involve inherent Human Resources responsible for all human resources risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those strategy and personnel support.
This division is headed by contained in such forward-looking statements.
Portfolio Business Unit consisting of those businesses earmarked for exit in coming years.
This together with the General ongoing Treasury Services business is headed by Nathan Abbey National plc and its subsidiaries constitute a major financial Bostock, reporting to Stephen Hester.
services group in the United Kingdom.
It is the United Kingdoms second largest residential mortgage lender.
Competition The principal executive ofce and the registered ofce of Competitive environment and future trends Abbey National plc and Abbey National Treasury Services plc is Abbey Abbeys main competitors are UK banks, building societies and House, 2 Triton Square, Regents Place, London NW1 3AN.
The telephone insurance companies and other providers such as supermarket number of Abbey is 44- 0 870-607-6000.
The designated agent for chains and large retailers.
service of process on Abbey National plc in the United States is CT In recent years, customer access, choice and mobility have all Corporation System, with ofces at 111 Eight SystemCT, New York, increased.
Channel development, particularly the use of e-commerce NY 10011.
Please see Operating and Financial review Tangible xed technology, has moved hand-in-hand with this process as both new assets for further information regarding Abbeys properties.
and traditional competitors seek alternative ways of doing business.
These trends are expected to continue.
Summary history of Abbey National plc A changing regulatory environment has been an increasingly The Abbey National Building Society the Society was formed important feature of the United Kingdom financial services market in 1944 with the merger of two long-standing building societies.
This has had a particular impact on the savings and In 1988, Abbey National plc was incorporated as a bank and in investment market, with the industry beginning to move away from 1989 the Society transferred business to Abbey National plc as current polarised arrangements.
part of the conversion and listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The industry is currently preparing for potential changes in the regulation of the mortgage and the general insurance markets.
Corporate purpose and strategy Steps are also being taken towards the simplication and greater On 24 September a re-launch of the business was announced with transparency of products, including the further development of plans to turn banking on its head by making radical improvement in a suite of stakeholder products.
Finally, there is a range of pending the way customers are treated.
The brand name was also shortened accounting and supervisory regulation changes that could have a to Abbey and this is the name we use in this Annual Report and significant impact on Abbey, as well as on the broader sector.
Abbey is now focusing on the provision of personal financial impact of these changes is as yet uncertain.
services in the United Kingdom and new accounts and services will be introduced which will be simple and easier to understand.
The new Competition outlook look and our shortened name are symbols of much more fundamental Against this backdrop, management is confident of Abbeys strength changes that are being introduced to make Abbey the first choice and potential in its core personal financial services markets.
Abbey is in the UK for personal financial services.
undergoing a significant and substantive strategic change to address the challenges that it faces.
It will increasingly focus on its UK Personal Executive Responsibility Financial Services operations, where it has extensive distribution and As part of Abbeys strategic review, a new organisational structure customer reach.
and set of executive responsibilities has been implemented.
The new structure has three customer-facing divisions, increasing the focus on the customer, supported by group-wide functional support to streamline operations and place greater emphasis on the economics of distribution and production.
The main components of the new structure are: Customer Sales responsible for all channel delivery branches, telephone, internet banking to both direct and intermediary customers.
This division is headed by Mark Pain.
Customer Propositions operating around four competencies: product strategy, customer insight, brand and communications and economic insights.
This division will help develop detailed and unique customer insights and execute responsive marketing strategies.
This division is headed by Angus Porter.
Customer Operations responsible for all operations activity including service centres built around four product service units including banking and savings, payment processing, investment, asset management, lending and general insurance.
This division is headed by Tony Wyatt.
Supporting the customer-facing divisions are a number of business support functions: Central Division consisting of Finance, Communications, Corporate Strategy, Risk, Audit, Compliance, Secretariat and Legal and ongoing Treasury business.
This division is headed by Stephen Hester.
Information Technology responsible for providing the organisation with all its IT needs, as well as procurement, property and security.
This division is headed by Yasmin Jetha.
8 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and Financial Review Business Overview continued cahoot Personal Financial Services cahoot is Abbeys separately branded, multi channel e-commerce retail banking and financial services provider.
cahoot targets new Banking and Savings customers who are ready to embrace e-commerce, giving customers Residential mortgages access through their personal computers and telephones.
cahoot Abbey is the second largest provider of residential mortgages in the focuses on customer self-service, using new systems based on UK, providing mortgage loans for house purchases as well as home straight-through processing technology.
improvement loans and secured personal loans to new and existing mortgage customers.
Mortgage loans are offered in two payment Investment and Protection types, repayment and interest-only.
Repayment mortgages require The UK life insurance industry consists of three principal segments: both principal and interest to be repaid in monthly installments over protection, investment and savings and pensions.
Interest-only mortgages require monthly Protection.
The traditional form of protection policy, known as interest payments and the repayment of principal at the end of the term insurance, provides a lump sum benefit payable on death mortgage term which can be arranged via a number of investment within a specified term.
Policies are also available to provide products including Individual Savings Accounts and pension policies, protection against critical illness and disability.
or by the sale of the property.
Investment bonds, with-profit bonds, Abbeys mortgage loans are usually secured by a first mortgage structured products, unit trusts, Individual Savings Accounts and over property and are typically arranged for a 25-year term, with no endowment life insurance policies are included in this category.
minimum term, and a typical maximum term of 35 years.
In the United Kingdom pensions are a tax-efficient way mortgage loans has been charged predominantly at oating rates of saving to provide benets on retirement.
This is a result of the determined at the discretion of Abbey by reference to the general tax deductibility of contributions made and the generally tax-free level of market interest rates and competitive forces in the UK growth granted to pension funds.
Fixed rate products offer a predetermined interest Under the terms of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, rate, generally for between two and five years, after which they bear financial advisers who give advice on packaged products including interest at oating rates.
life assurance, pensions and unit trusts, are required to sell either the In common with the market, a proportion of new business in products of one provider or related group of providers tied advice, recent years has been through trackers that track the Bank of England or the products of all providers in the market independent advice.
More recently, an increasing proportion of new loans are This is known as Polarisation.
Following a review by the Financial exible mortgages, allowing the customer to vary their monthly Services Authority, this separation is likely to be removed, allowing payments, or take payment holidays, within predetermined criteria.
a wider distribution capability in the financial services market.
Abbey National Life, and its related subsidiary companies Savings distribute via the marketing associate route, whereby the associate is Abbey provides a wide range of retail savings accounts, including required to recommend the most suitable products from the product on-demand accounts, notice accounts, investment accounts and range of the companies for which it acts as associate.
Interest rates on savings in the United Abbey National Life provides a wide range of products including Kingdom are primarily set with reference to the general level of pension, protection, investment and savings products.
These products market interest rates and the level of competition for such funds.
are sold through Abbeys retail distribution network, via the marketing associate route.
Advisers examine the financial circumstances and needs Banking and Consumer Credit of customers, identifying pension, protection, investment and savings Abbey offers a range of personal banking services including current requirements, and recommend to them the appropriate products from accounts, credit cards and unsecured loans.
Credit scoring is used the Abbey brands.
for initial lending decisions on these products and behavioural scoring Abbey National Unit Trust Managers manages a range of Unit is used for certain products for further lending.
Trusts and Abbey National Personal Equity Plans and Individual Savings Abbeys principal credit card offering is delivered through its Accounts Managers Limited manages the Personal Equity Plans and strategic alliance with MBNA Europe Bank Limited, who are Individual Savings Accounts businesses of Abbey.
The trustees of the responsible for taking the credit risk and managing the credit card unit trusts are either Citicorp or HSBC and the investment manager up base on an ongoing basis.
to January 2004 was Abbey National Asset Managers.
On 22 January 2004 Abbey announced that it was transferring certain of its fund Abbey National Offshore management activities to external fund managers.
Abbey National Treasury International Limited, the principal offshore Scottish Mutual Assurance plc distributes principally via company, uses the Abbey National Offshore brand.
Abbey National the Independent Financial Adviser route in the United Kingdom.
Treasury International Limiteds head ofce is in Jersey and it has Independent Financial Advisers must provide suitable advice on an operational centre in the Isle of Man.
Abbey National Treasury the complete product range that exists in the marketplace.
International Limiteds focus is on attracting deposits by offering a range Scottish Mutual Assurance plc and its predecessors have been of savings accounts denominated in sterling, US dollars and euros.
in the insurance business since 1883.
Scottish Mutual markets a broad range of products including personal pensions, conventional and Cater Allen Limited unit-linked protection plans, regular investment plans, single premium Cater Allen Limited offers banking services under the trading name products such as investment bonds, annuities, products linked to Cater Allen Private Bank and aims to provide a personal banking mortgages, and products to cover death, critical illness, disability and service to high net worth individuals and small corporate clients.
The bank attracts clients by marketing to introducers, including On 1 August 2001, Abbey completed the acquisition of Scottish Independent Financial Advisers.
Its operations have been combined with Abbeys other life assurance operations, realising cost synergies.
New protection James Hay business sold under the Scottish Provident brand in the UK is written James Hay provides and offers administration services for self-invested into Scottish Mutual Assurance plc.
personal pension schemes and small self-administered pension schemes.
It is planned that all Scottish Mutual and Scottish Provident new Its services are provided to end customers mainly via Independent business will be rebranded Abbey from the second half of 2004.
Financial Advisers and branded financial service providers.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 9 Operating and Financial Review Business Overview continued Financing General Insurance Treasury continued to raise funding during the year, across the The range of non-life insurance products sold by Abbey includes maturity spectrum and in a diverse range of currencies and property buildings and contents, motor, payment protection, and instruments, but raised no new capital in 2003.
Residential home insurance remains the primary type throughout the year illustrated Abbeys capacity to attract investors of policy sold and is offered to customers through the branch network at funding levels favourable to the organisation.
and over the telephone, often at the same time that a mortgage is 1 Major debt issuance programs managed by Treasury : being taken out.
The business model currently uses a panel of competing insurers, Outstanding at including ongoing relationships with Aviva plc, a leading UK insurer, Programme 31 December 2003 Comments to offer a wider choice of products and more competitive retail pricing.
$15bn Issued in European In addition, Capita Eastgate and Cap Gemini are responsible for the medium-term notes $9.2bn markets management and development of new systems to support the general $7bn U. S. Issued in the United insurance business, using the Consumer Direct platform, whilst the medium-term notes $4bn States servicing of policies was outsourced to Capita Eastgate and some $4bn commercial Issued in claims administration to Aviva plc.
The process of fully implementing paper $0.2bn European markets these arrangements and new systems is ongoing.
$20bn U. S. Issued in the 2 commercial paper $1.7bn United States Treasury Services Treasury Services is now structured into the following three 1 Securities issued by Treasury Services unless otherwise stated.
business areas: 2 Managed for Abbey National North America LLC, a guaranteed subsidiary of Abbey.
Abbey first registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission Asset and Liability Management in October 1994.
Abbey National plc, Treasury Services plc and Abbey Asset and Liability Management supports Abbeys liquidity and National First Capital B. V. have registered various shelf facilities with capital management activities and carries out medium and long-term the Securities and Exchange Commission, the most recent being in funding, including Abbeys securitisation programme.
It manages February 2001, permitting preference shares and debt securities, Abbeys product and structural exposure to interest rates and, in that including medium term notes and other subordinated securities, to be role, is a link between the retail and wholesale banking areas.
Asset issued from the date of registration in an aggregate principal amount and Liability Management helps set and implement Board, Asset and of approximately $7bn.
Liability Committee and Risk Committee policies for all aspects of Under the shelf facility registered with the SEC, Abbey National balance sheet management formulating guidance for, and monitoring, Treasury Services plc may issue senior debt securities, and Abbey and the overall balance sheet shape, including maturity prole.
In carrying Abbey National First Capital B. V. may issue subordinated debt out its nancing role, it maintains many relationships in the financial securities.
Abbey acts as guarantor on a senior basis of the debt world which are utilised by other parts of the organisation, including securities issued by Abbey National Treasury Services, and as the Personal Financial Services businesses and the two customer-facing guarantor on a subordinated basis of the debt securities issued by Treasury Services businesses.
Abbey National First Capital B. V. Various other entities within the Abbey group of companies may issue other subordinated securities Financial Products under the shelf facility.
Financial Products covers equity, xed income and credit derivative At 31 December 2003, the aggregate amount of outstanding activities including the manufacture of structured products sold to claims of creditors senior to the holders of subordinated debt of the retail customers by Abbey and other financial services organisations.
following entities and, in the case of Abbey, senior to the holders of subordinated debt guaranteed by Abbey was as follows: Short Term Markets Short Term Markets runs Abbeys short-term funding and liquidity Abbey and its subsidiaries 163,811m management activities and the securities lending borrowing and Abbey National First Capital B. V. 4m repo businesses.
Short Term Markets focuses on managing Abbeys liquidity, within the overall balance sheet management framework Abbey 78,882m set by Asset and Liability Management, which also creates trading opportunities.
Additionally, Short Term Markets operates in several At 31 December 2003, the aggregate amount of outstanding claims of international non-cash markets, in particular the stock borrowing and creditors of the following entities that will rank pari passu with the lending repo markets.
It has retained a US ofce, to facilitate Abbeys subordinated debt issued by those entities and, in the case of Abbey, multi-currency fund raising.
with the subordinated debt guaranteed by Abbey was as follows: These businesses have been reviewed and are an integral part Abbey National First Capital B. V. 388m of the overall Abbey business plan.
Abbey 7,431m Treasury Services assisted Abbey in raising further capital market funding, through a new issue under Abbeys Holmes Financing Master Trust, bringing the total issuance under the programme to 20.6bn, of which 14.5bn is outstanding.
The terms and conditions of the underlying mortgages remain unaffected by the securitisation process.
10 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and Financial Review Business Overview continued Group Infrastructure Group Infrastructure comprises Central Services, Financial Holdings which contains the earnings on the difference between Abbeys statutory capital and the target regulatory capital allocated to segments, and the results of certain small non-core businesses.
Portfolio Business Unit Businesses that are not consistent with the new strategy are managed within the Portfolio Business Unit.
The intention is to reduce or exit these businesses whilst focusing on getting optimum value from these businesses to ensure that returns for shareholders are maximised and at the same time risk is reduced in a timely manner.
The following businesses are currently included within the Portfolio Business Unit.
Parts of the Wholesale Bank including: the debt securities: the corporate loan portfolio, private equity and leasing portfolio: French and Italian operations: First National Motor Finance and Litigation Funding: Selected parts of Abbey Business, such as Cashow Finance, Block Discounting and State Securities: International Life Business, such as Scottish Mutual International and Scottish Provident International Limited.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 11
