MANAGERS REPORT INTRODUCTION Inabsoluteterms, , %intheyear to31December2003.
This , however, sufcienttokeeppace withthebenchmark: the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies rose by 43.0%.
Larger companies meanwhile achieved a relatively modest gain of 20.9%, as measured by the FTSE All-Share Index.
So, out of the gloom of the previous two years, the fortunes of equity markets around the globe brightened in 2003.
To generalise, this was due to an increasing conviction that the US Federal Reserves interest rate , indeed,  of strong recovery.
This renewed optimism found its starkest conrmation in the recently released GDP gures for the third quarter that showed the US economy to be growing at an annual rate of 8.2%.
To this extent, therefore, the Feds confidence trick, which was described in ASCoTs Interim Report, has had its desired effect.
Faced with historically low interest rates, the US consumer, in Pavlovian fashion, has remained steadfast in his proclivity to spend.
More encouragingly, however, US businesses are also showing signs of greater optimism: they increased investment in equipment and software at an annual rate of 18.4% during the third quarter and took some pressure off the labour market with a lower rate of redundancies.
Such renewed confidence is founded on an improvement in profitability: the GDP report also revealed that corporate profits in the third quarter increased by 30.0% compared with a year earlier.
That the worlds largest and most inuential economy is enjoying a more robust recovery than many commentators, including the Managers, had anticipated is, ceteris paribus, good news for equity investors.
Unfortunately, other things are rarely equal and, in the present economic context, have not been for some time.
The imbalances that characterise the global economy have their roots in the recovery from the recession of the early 1990s: it is now estimated that in dollar terms the US accounted for 96% of the rise in world GDP between 1995 and 2002.
A large part of US growth has been driven by consumer expenditure.
The consumer has nanced a significant , %ofGDPagainst65%in 1992 during the last recovery from recession.
Moreover, in its efforts over the last two years to kick-start the economy and offset the enfeebled corporate sector, the government has also increased borrowing: the US budgets move from a surplus in 2001 to a deficit of almost 5% of GDP in 2003 represents the fastest deterioration in public sector nances in 40 years.
The Americans reluctance to save is reected in a mounting current account deficit: at over 5% of GDP, it is unusually large, especially for the recovery stages of the economic cycle.
To an extent, though, it is underpinned by a mutually beneficial relationship with the South East Asian economies, most notably China.
In this symbiosis, the US gains cheap goods and services while the Asians enjoy strong economic growth and rising living standards.
History, however, suggests that current account deficits of this magnitude cannot be sustained and, in the continuing decline of the US dollar, there are signs that a process of rectification is underway.
The dollar fell by 16.4% against the euro in 2003 to stand 34.3% below its October 2000 peak.
To the extent that US exports are rendered cheaper, this devaluation ought to assist in the reduction of the trade deficit and act as an extra stimulus to the corporate sector.
Dollar weakness is not, however, the panacea.
To treat the imbalances in the global economy, it ought to be accompanied by a reduction in the American propensity to spend and, to take up the slack, an increase in demand growth from the rest of the world.
In this regard, many of the Asian economies remarkably including Japan are pulling their weight.
The laggard remains Europe, whose growth prospects are undermined by the resurgent euro.
There are, though, some hints of optimism, with the notorious Stability Pact abandoned and, more crucially, signs of labour market reform in both Germany and France.
10 MANAGERS REPORT As seems often to be the case, the UK has been caught somewhere in the middle: sterlings drop of 7.4% against the euro last year was offset by a 10.7% rise against the dollar.
At the margin, though, these currency movements ought to be positive for UK based manufacturers: Europe is not only the more important export market, but also harbours rival companies that are rendered less competitive by the strengthening euro.
Indeed, sterlings decline against the euro may have afforded the Bank of England a degree of latitude with respect to monetary policy when in November it raised interest rates for the first time in almost four years from 3.5% to 3.75%.
The trigger for tightening was not obvious in reported ination statistics, with the RPIX remaining close enough to its targeted 2.5% rate through 2003.
Indeed, some commentators identify a sleight of hand in Decembers shift to a new ination target, the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices or, as it is to be known, the CPI.
They argue that the adoption of the 2% goal for the CPI is equivalent to an increase in the RPIX tolerance to 2.8%.
Whatever the intricacies of ination targeting, there was subsequent justication for higher interest rates in the Chancellors expectations for above trend economic growth, fuelled in part by the continued buoyancy of the housing market and the consumer.
But the scale of further interest rate rises presently discounted by the financial markets brings its own dangers.
As is the case in the US, the ratio of debt to income for the typical British household is meaningfully higher than in previous periods of monetary tightening: the consumer may therefore prove more vulnerable to increases in the costs of servicing that debt.
In seeking to achieve greater balance in the economy by calming the consumer, the authorities risk stiing the sector of the economy that has accounted for much of the UKs resilience in recent times.
INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE Small companies enjoyed a marvellous year in 2003.
The opening quarter was not auspicious, with a negative total return of 6.1% from the HGSC XIC reecting a continuation of the bear market conditions of 2001 and 2002.
This strength was broadly based: of the 32 sectors that constitute ASCoTs benchmark, only three fell in absolute terms.
But the year was also remarkable in relative terms, with the benchmarks total return exceeding that of the FTSE All-Share Index by 22% points.
Bettered only in the bubble year of 1999, this margin of out-performance rendered 2003 the second best relative year for small companies since 1987, the earliest period for which benchmark data have been made available by the London Business School.
It is worth noting that small company superiority was not confined to the UK: a similar phenomenon was observed in the US, Japan and many European stockmarkets.
In broad terms, the success of ASCoTs asset class in 2003 can be attributed to two popular views about investment in small companies.
The first is that the small company universe contains a greater number of businesses that are prone to the vagaries of the general economic cycle.
The second is that small companies are inherently riskier than their larger brethren.
Both these perceptions played to the advantage of small companies as confidence in the US-led recovery took root and investors became less risk averse.
The following paragraphs and numerical Performance Attribution Analysis give some detail as to how ASCoT performed against its benchmark.
11 MANAGERS REPORT Performance Attribution Analysis 12 Months to 31 December 2003 Basis Points Stock Selection 112 Sector Selection 190 Attributable to the portfolio of investments 302 Cash 158 Undistributed revenue 19 Effect of warrant buy-ins and exercises 80 Management fee charged to capital 59 Total Attribution 580 Note: 100 basis points 1%.
Total Attribution is the difference between the capital only performance of the Ordinary Share basic net asset value and the Benchmark Index i. e. Ordinary Share basic net asset value 32.74%: Benchmark Index 38.54%: difference is 5.80% being 580 basis points.
Warrant buy-ins enhance shareholder value on a fully diluted net asset value basis but, along with exercises, are negative on a basic net asset value basis as shown above.. .
Inprevious years, comment on sector and stock selection alone has sufced.
In 2003, however, there is a third significant effect.
In a rapidly rising stockmarket, cash balances were, with hindsight, too high: though cash never exceeded 5% of net assets, the resulting drag reduced ASCoTs return by 158 basis points.
The cash built up through the year essentially as a consequence of the Managers adherence to :, the inclination was to realise some profit.
Compounding this effect were cash bids for five portfolio companies.. Sector selection accounted for 63% of the portfolios under-performance.
The portfolio was incorrectly aligned i. e. either a lower exposure than the benchmark in those sectors that performed well or a higher exposure in those that performed poorly in 14 of the benchmarks 32 sectors.
However, two sectors alone accounted for the entire shortfall.
A relatively low exposure to IT Hardware a sector that rose by 109% during the year was costly.
It reected scepticism about valuations within the sector but also about the sustainability of certain business models.
An over-weight position in the Oil & Gas sector, which rose by just 15.6%, was also painful..
The remaining 37% of portfolio under-performance was attributable to stock selection, which measures the performance of the portfolios investments in each sector against that sectors benchmark return.
It was a period of dramatic price movements.
The HGSC XIC comprised 858 companies at the beginning of 2003.
In a universe of this size, a number of stocks will almost inevitably double or more in any twelve month period.
It was remarkable, though, that last year just short of 150 constituents rose by over 100% and that these together accounted for almost a third of the HGSC XIC s rise.
Though it owned ten of these super stocks, ASCoT did not participate fully in the phenomenon.
In general terms, there were two categories of super stock.
The first comprised companies that were seen to be beneciaries of the economic upturn and, amongst others, included certain engineers and retailers that had suffered badly in the previous two years.
ASCoT did not participate fully in these recovery situations, reecting the Managers doubts that the recovery would prove sufciently strong to justify valuations.
The second category consists of technology stocks.
In another turnaround in perceptions, many of these experienced extravagant share price rises, albeit not sufficient to repair the damage of the bear market.
Though the Managers were able to identify some value in the Software & IT Services sector, there were fewer opportunities in IT Hardware.. ASCoTs interim report noted that corporate activity in the earlier part of the year remained subdued but argued that there were good reasons for an upturn.
The number of deals did pick up in the second half of the year, to the extent that, in relation to the number of companies in the universe, activity was higher in 2003 than in 2002, though still lower than in 2001.
It is encouraging that three of the five portfolio companiesacquired during the yearweresnapped upbyother corporates, whotendto payhigherprices than private equity houses.
Moreover, it is notable that the three acquiring companies were from the US, which perhaps reects its higher stockmarket valuation.
The good news is, however, tempered by signs of an increase in equity supply, the inevitable consequence of more buoyant stockmarkets: technology IPOs are once more a reality and the use of equity by small companies to fund acquisitions is becoming more common.. ,  of the businesses underlying ASCoTs portfolio.
Of the 110 companies in the portfolio at 31 December 2003, it was the policy of 17 not to pay a dividend: six cuts were endured, four of which were expected: and 19 companies reported unchanged dividends.
The remaining 68 raised their payouts.
Of the 93 companies whose policy it was to pay dividends, the median increased its payout by 6.2% compared with the previous year, although it should be noted that ASCoTs actual receipts vary from this since the portfolio is actively managed.
This should be seen as a good outcome, given a subdued rate of ination and the customary reluctance of company boards to make large dividend increases until the recovery in profits is well entrenched.
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK Experience suggests that financial markets are capable of exaggerated and capricious movements.
Therefore, it should not be too surprising that, in less than a year, stockmarkets around the world have ipped from fretting about a debt-induced deationary spiral to discounting a prolonged period of profitable economic growth.
In effect, the Fed has performed the same trick that it found so successful in addressing previous financial .
 with some success, but carries with it two opposing risks.
The first is that of an extraneous event that might threaten to push economies back towards recession and deation: with interest rates already at historically low levels, there is little scope for extra traditional stimulus anduntested  morehave tobecontemplated.
Thesecondrisk pertains to the inationary pressures that might follow in the wake of the present period of loose monetary policy and that might be evident in the recent strong performance of commodities.
Should reation make the transition to ination, the inevitable interest rate rises could prove awkward for still highly indebted Anglo Saxon economies.
Therefore, although economic prospects have improved, underlying structural problems remain and require skilful negotiation byboth governments and monetary authorities.
It would appear that the US stockmarket has considerable faith: on a historic price to core earnings multiple of over 30x, the S&P 500 Index continues to trade at heady levels.
Admittedly, profits growth came through well in 2003, but rapid progress has to be sustained in order to take into account an economic environment that is not without risk and bring valuations to levels closer to their historic norms.
13 MANAGERS REPORT With the FTSE All-Share Index excluding investment companies ending 2003 on a historic PE of 18.9x, according to the London Business School, UK equities remain more modestly valued.
In part this reects an inferior outlook for profits growth: interest rates are rising earlier and the UK probably has less recovery potential, owing to more defensive industrial exposures and the fact of a milder profits squeeze previously.
Compared with their larger peers, small companies should be greater beneciaries of recent currency movements thanks to their greater trading exposure to Europe.
Despite this and, indeed, their remarkable performance in 2003, valuations remain relatively undemanding, as the table below illustrates.
31 December 2003 31 December 2002 Characteristics ASCoT Benchmark ASCoT Benchmark Number of Companies 110 731 101 858 Weighted Average Market Capitalisation 341m 334m 249m 279m Price Earnings Ratio Historic 12.75x 15.04x 10.13x 11.74x Net Dividend Yield Historic 3.13% 2.55% 3.83% 3.42% Dividend Cover Historic 2.51x 2.61x 2.58x 2.49x The table also suggests that ASCoTs portfolio is relatively well placed, enjoying the combination of a lower PE and a higher yield than its benchmark.
Dividend cover, which might be expected to support a higher rate of dividend growth, is also noteworthy.
At 2.51x, the cover of the portfolio stands well above its average over ASCoTs history.
Moreover, the portfolios cover relative to that of the HGSC XIC, though down slightly from theendof2002, .
Crucially,  the expense of the Managers value investment philosophy: the historic PE is in line with its average over ASCoTs life and, in relation to that of the benchmark, has never been lower.
Accordingly, despite a somewhat disappointing relative performance in 2003, the Managers believe that ASCoTs portfolio is well positioned.
It would, though, be unreasonable to expect it to repeat 2003s remarkable absolute returns annually.
Despite last years distinct and welcome improvement in economic prospects, the Managers continue to see little reason for real returns fromequities over the long term to deviate far from their historical average of 5-7%.
