BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Strategy BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT The benefits of natural gas over other fossil fuels are well known.
It has the As a major integrated lowest environmental emissions, is competitively priced, plentiful and offers gas company, we aim to geographical diversity of supply.
The US Energy Information Administration deliver outstanding value predicts that the compound annual growth rate between 2000 and 2025 to shareholders through for global gas consumption will substantially exceed those of the our distinctive strategy, other principal fossil fuels.
Within the natural gas industry, the Liquefied Natural Gas LNG sector has, in recent times, attracted a significant amount of interest from both demand and supply perspectives.
As an integrated gas major, we believe that BG Group is strongly positioned within the natural gas industry as a whole, and the LNG business in particular.
SKILLS We put our heritage of nearly 200 years STRATEGY in the gas business to good use.
BG Group Focus on markets is renowned within the industry for its performance in finding and Secure competitively priced gas supplies commercialising gas and for project 08 delivery.
For example, over the last three Exploit high growth opportunities years, our proved reserves replacement Create value across the gas chain ratio of 304% is expected to be amongst the best in the industry, as is the finding and development cost of $3.17 per boe.
Success in the fast-moving natural gas arena requires skill and agility to meet the needs of the many stakeholders.
We aim to continue to demonstrate our value as the partner of choice.
STRATEGY Our distinctive strategy is underpinned by our skills as a major integrated gas company.
The strategy comprises the following elements: Market focus: we begin with a deep understanding of markets both current demand and future trends and how to connect reserves to those markets.
We will continue to pursue opportunities in the existing industrialised markets, particularly North America and Europe, where rising demand will increasingly need to be met by gas imports.
Our second area of market focus is on selected developing markets, principally Brazil BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 GAS MARKET FOCUS uk europe focus access and growth middle east caspian region atlantic supply focus north america focus india long term growth bolivia brazil Developed market long term growth Developing market Supplies and India, where we believe the large will remain the centre of gravity for populations, economic development the Group, although LNG is expected and increasing energy intensity will to become an increasingly important 09 create significant long-term demand part of the integrated business in for gas.
Further details on all the segments can be found on Competitive gas supplies: we plan to pages 13 to 21. supply these markets by continuing to secure competitively priced resources.
Building on existing assets: we plan We will continue to explore and to grow our business in four ways: develop established positions in places realising the strong in-built growth such as Trinidad, Egypt and the UK potential of our existing assets North Sea and we also aim to access further supplies in the Atlantic Basin making incremental investments and, in the longer term, the rich gas around existing assets resources of the Middle East and the adding value by interconnecting Caspian region.
Our gas assets commercialisation skills and market access positions also permit us to capturing new opportunities complement our own equity deliveries This approach of building on existing with additional contracted supplies.
assets gives us greater control and Integration: we are an integrated gas should enable us to generate higher company because we believe that returns at lower incremental costs having the capability to choose where and also pursue new opportunities we deploy skills along the gas chain with lower execution risk.
allows us to maximise value creation.
With these firm foundations in place, we The principal segments in which believe that we can continue to balance we have skills and experience are strong growth with good financial returns.
Exploration and Production E&P, Liquefied Natural Gas LNG, The map above illustrates our gas Transmission and Distribution T&D market-focused strategy.
