BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 BG Group Executive Committee The Group Executive Committee has primary Charles Bland 54 David McManus 50 authority for the day-to-day management of Executive Vice President Policy & Corporate Executive Vice President & Managing Director the Groups operations within limits set by Affairs BG Advance the Board of Directors.
It is chaired by the Charles Bland joined BG plc in 1999.
He is David McManus joined BG Group plc in 2000 Chief Executive and membership comprises responsible for government and public affairs, and was appointed Executive Vice President the Executive Directors and those senior brand and marketing, communications, with responsibility for the Eastern Hemisphere.
managers whose details are set out below.
corporate responsibility policy and community He was appointed to his current position in affairs.
He was appointed to his current January 2003 and is now responsible for all position in 2002 having previously been matters relating to exploration, petroleum President, BG Kazakhstan, and Vice President, engineering, project engineering management, Government Affairs.
Before joining BG he information management, procurement and worked in UK government, holding various commercial and operational functions, posts in the Ministry of Defence.
He was previously president of ARCO Europe and managing director of ARCO UK Limited.
Prior to working at ARCO, he acquired extensive technical and commercial experience in various roles with Ultramar, Lasmo and Shell.
52 Frank Chapman 50 Peter Duffy 42 Emma Nichol 39 Chief Executive Executive Vice President Human Resources Company Secretary William Friedrich 55 Peter Duffy joined BG Group plc in 2001, when Emma Nichol joined BG plc in 1997 and has Deputy Chief Executive and General Counsel he was appointed to his current position with responsibility for all matters relating to the responsibility for all matters relating to human Board, its committees and governance and risk Ashley Almanza 40 resources strategy and policy.
She was appointed Company Chief Financial Officer international human resource management Secretary in 2000.
Her previous role was as See pages 50-51 for biographical details.
experience, particularly in the area of Deputy General Counsel.
She formerly worked organisation development, performance as a solicitor at Clifford Chance and National and change management.
worked for TRW Inc. LucasVarity plc, and British Aerospace plc.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Stuart Fysh 47 Dave Roberts 43 Rick Waddell 44 Executive Vice President & Managing Director Executive Vice President & Managing Director Executive Vice President & Managing Director Mediterranean Basin and Africa Asia and the Middle East South America Stuart Fysh joined BG plc in 1998 and was Dave Roberts joined BG Group plc in January Rick Waddell joined BG Group plc in 2002 when appointed Executive Vice President in 2003 when he was appointed to his current he was appointed to his current position.
Based November 2003 with responsibility for the position, with responsibility for the Groups in So Paulo, he is responsible for all upstream Groups activities in Egypt, Tunisia, Italy and activities in India, South East Asia, the Middle and downstream activities in South America, Spain and development activities elsewhere in East and Kazakhstan.
He was previously including Comgas in So Paulo and MetroGAS the region.
He was appointed Vice-President adviser to Chevron Texacos vice chairman and in Buenos Aires.
He is a former senior vice BG Egypt in June 2001 and prior to that he was director of strategy management for Texacos president of Enron Corporation for Latin Vice-President BG Thailand, Singapore and worldwide upstream business.
He has America and was regional logistics manager for Malaysia.
He previously spent 17 years with the extensive experience in surface and subSouth America with Wal-Mart International.
mining, steel and petroleum conglomerate surface engineering and technical leadership, BHP, where his various roles included operations and general management.
commercial, business development, corporate planning and research & development.
He has lived and worked in Australia, Pakistan, India, Singapore and Egypt.
53 Martin Houston 46 Sean Sutcliffe 40 Jon Wormley 55 Executive Vice President & Managing Director Executive Vice President & Managing Director Executive Vice President & Managing Director North America, Caribbean and Global LNG New Businesses North West Europe Martin Houston joined British Gas in 1983 Sean Sutcliffe joined British Gas plc in 1990 Jon Wormley joined British Gas plc in 1992 and and was appointed Executive Vice President and was appointed Executive Vice President was appointed to his current position in 2000. in 2000.
He was appointed to his current in 2000.
He has responsibility for corporate Prior to that he was Finance Director, BG EVP position in September 2003 and is based development activities across the Group, International, and held executive responsibility in Houston.
Prior to his first EVP appointment Group Strategy and Planning and Mergers for Comgas in So Paulo.
He is a Certified Public in 2000, he held a number of technical and and Acquisitions.
In addition, he leads the Accountant Texas, USA.
He received his BSBA commercial posts predominantly with an New Businesses portfolio including degree from the University of Tulsa, Oklahoma international focus.
He played a leading role Natural Gas Vehicles, MicroGen and in 1970.
He has worked in the oil and gas in the development of the LNG industry in Telecommunications.
Previously, he worked industry since 1971, beginning his career with Trinidad and was chairman of Atlantic LNG in strategy, business development and Phillips Petroleum Company in the USA.
His most recent positions operational roles across the gas chain, both held various senior level financial positions have included President and General Manager in the UK and internationally.
Before joining with Phillips both in and outside the USA.
of BG Trinidad and Tobago, Director of LNG BG, he worked for VSEL Consortium plc, and Vice President of Strategy and Portfolio primarily in engineering consultancy.
He is a non-executive director of Severn Trent Plc and a fellow of the Geological Society of London.
Power generation Powering growth opportunities for BG Group.
We have Power assets in the UK, Northern Ireland and the Philippines.
Further, we have signed an MOA with the Tunisian Government for the $250 million 500 MW Barca power project that we anticipate will provide a reliable source of electricity for the fast growing Tunisian market.
In Northern Ireland, the new Ballylumford Power Plant, fully commissioned in 2003, has enabled Premier Power to export electricity to the Republic of Ireland, the first cross-border deal of its kind.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 55 CONTENTS 57 Directors Report 59 Remuneration Report 69 Auditors Report 70 Principal Accounting Policies 72 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 74 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 75 Balance Sheets 76 Movement in BG Group Shareholders Funds 77 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 77 Reconciliation of Net Borrowings 78 Analysis of Financing and Cash Movement 79 Notes to the Accounts 117 Supplementary Information Gas and Oil 122 Historical Production 123 Five Year Financial Summary 127 Five Year Financial Summary continuing operations only 129 Shareholder Information 130 Additional Shareholder Information 138 Cross-Reference to Form 20-F 139 Index 140 Presentation of non-GAAP Measures and Glossary ibc Definitions
