Board of Directors John Windeler Aged 60 Peter Barton Aged 66 Richard Pym Aged 54 Michael Allen Aged 66 Chairman Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Group Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board of and Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board in Alliance & Leicester plc in Appointed to the Board in of Alliance & Leicester plc January 2000, Michael Allen is October 1996, having joined May 1998, Peter Barton is in October 1996, having a member of the Remuneration the Board of Alliance & Leicester Chairman of the Remuneration joined the Board of Alliance & and Nomination Committees.
Building Society in April 1995, Committee and of the Group Leicester Building Society in He was Group Vice President in he became Chairman in January Audit & Risk Committee.
He September 1993 as Group Procter & Gambles European 1999 assuming the role of is also a member of the Group Finance Director, Richard Pym operations, having held a Executive Chairman between Credit Policy and Nomination became Managing Director, number of senior management October 1999 and June 2002.
He is Chairman Retail Banking in 2001 and positions in the Group.
He is John Windeler has extensive of Howard fide Walden Estates was appointed Group Chief a non-executive director of experience in international Limited, Vice Chairman of the Executive in 2002.
He is a Safeway plc and Fiske plc.
money and securities markets, Guinness Trust Group and a member of the Group Credit formerly as Executive Vice director of Foreign & Colonial US Policy Committee.
A Chartered President of Irving Trust Bank, Smaller Companies plc.
He is a Accountant, his previous career Group Chief Financial officer at solicitor, investment banker and was with Thomson McLintock the National Australia Bank and a Deputy Lieutenant of Greater & Co, British Gas plc, BAT Chief Executive of that banks London.
His previous career in Industries plc and The Burton UK insurance division.
He is the financial services industry Group plc.
Until August 2003 Chairman of the Nomination included 9 years with Lehman he was a non-executive director Committee.
He is also a Brothers International and 4 years of Selfridges plc.
non-executive director of BMS with Robert Fleming & Co. Associates Limited and RM plc.
The Honourable David Brougham Frances Cairncross CBE Aged 59 Mike McTighe Aged 50 Aged 63 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board of Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in Alliance & Leicester plc in June 2000, Mike McTighe May 2000, David Brougham October 1996, having joined is a member of the Group is Chairman of the Group the Board of Alliance & Audit & Risk, Remuneration Credit Policy Committee Leicester Building Society and Nomination Committees.
and a member of the Group in January 1992, Frances He is currently Chairman of Via Audit & Risk and Remuneration Cairncross is a member of the Networks, Inc and Phyworks Committees.
He has served as Remuneration and Nomination Limited, and maintains Chairman of Chartered Trust plc Committees.
Currently on the a small portfolio of other and as an executive director at staff of The Economist, she is directorships of private equity Standard Chartered, where he also chair of the Economic and backed companies.
He was was on the Board from 1993 Social Research Council and an formerly Chairman & CEO of until 1998.
He is a director at honorary fellow of St Annes Carrier1 International SA, and Hampden Holdings Limited.
College and of St Peters College, before that Executive Director & Oxford.
She will become Rector Chief Executive, Global of Exeter College, Oxford, in Operations of Cable & Wireless October 2004. plc.
Prior to these appointments, he spent 5 years with Philips of the Netherlands, 5 years with Motorola, and 10 years with GE.
22 Alliance & Leicester Richard Banks Aged 52 Jane Barker Aged 54 David Bennett Aged 41 Managing Director, Non-Executive Director Group Finance Director Wholesale Banking Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board In Appointed to the Board in in January 2004, Jane Barker January 2000, David Bennett February 1998, Richard Banks is a member of the Group is responsible for financial is a member of the Group Audit & Risk Committee.
She planning and reporting, Credit Policy Committee and is a Chartered Accountant and strategic planning, group has responsibility for Wholesale Finance Director of Equitas risk and group property Banking, including the Limited, the company set up services.
He has many years Commercial Banking and to reinsure and run off the experience in the financial Treasury businesses.
He was 1992 and prior years non-life sector, as Finance Director of previously Distribution Director, liabilities of Lloyds of London Cheltenham & Gloucester plc Retail Banking, having held a Syndicates.
She is also a and then as an Executive number of senior positions in member of the Council of the Director of the National Bank Alliance & Leicester since he Open University and Chair of of New Zealand Ltd. joined Alliance & Leicester the Audit Committee of the Commercial Bank formerly Open University.
Her previous Girobank plc in 1987.
His roles have included being previous career was with Finance Director of the Midland Bank plc.
London Stock Exchange, and a number of senior finance roles in Marsh & McLennan Companies Inc. the leading insurance brokerage.
Chris Rhodes Aged 40 Peter Stone Aged 57 Jonathan Watts Aged 49 Managing Director, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Retail Banking Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in October 2003, Peter Stone May 2000, Jonathan Watts is a June 2002, Chris Rhodes is a member of the Group member of the Group Audit & became Managing Director, Audit & Risk and Group Credit Risk, Remuneration and Retail Banking in October 2003.
He is Chris was previously the an Executive Director of Close Chairman of Hutchison Network Groups Operations Director, Brothers Group plc from 1975 Services and a member of the and has held a number of to 1998.
He is a non-executive Advisory Boards of Telegraph Hill senior positions with the Director of Intermediate Capital Partners and Exony.
Previously he Group since he joined in 1988, Group Plc, DTZ Holdings plc, was Managing Director of COLT including Deputy Managing and Smith & Williamson.
Telecommunications, Europes Director and Finance Director of largest business telephony, data Alliance & Leicester Commercial and internet company and held Bank formerly Girobank plc.
senior positions in the UK and overseas in a number of telecommunications and technology companies, including National Band Three Ltd, Aircall Holdings, Sintrom Plc, Datapoint Corp and Control Data Corp.
