directors directors and officers meetings of directors The Board consists of five independent non-executive Board meetings are held monthly.
With the exception of the directors and four executive directors.
The non-executives are Chairman, the non-executive directors also serve on the Bruce Johnston who is the Chairman of the Board, William audit and remuneration committees.
For all these meetings Berry who is the senior independent director, Bill Jack, Lesley the directors are provided, in advance, with financial reports Knox and Christopher Masters.
The executive directors are and supporting papers which enable them to monitor Gavin Suggett, chief executive, David Deards, finance operational and corporate issues as well as decide on policy.
director, Sheila Ruckley, investor relations director, and Alan Young, investment director.
directors remuneration The Chairman plays an important role, along with the other The Directors Remuneration Report, which includes details non-executives, in bringing an independent and objective view to the activities of the Group.
These directors are of all directors fees, is set out on pages 28-30. chosen for the relevance of their particular expertise and experience to the business and direction of the Group.
directors interests Each director is required, in terms of the Companys Articles how directors are appointed of Association, to hold at least 200 of the Companys ordinary Nominations of directors are considered by the Board which stock units.
No director has any interest in the Companys also makes the initial appointment.
Such appointments are preference stocks or debenture stock.
No director, nor any submitted for approval by the stockholders at the next Annual member of any directors immediate family, has been granted General Meeting.
The Articles of Association require that options to subscribe for stock or debentures in the Company, directors retire by rotation but may stand for re-election.
In or in any body corporate in the same group as the Company.
addition, the Board has resolved that all directors should submit themselves in turn for re-election by stockholders at The table below gives the total interests of each director in least every three years.
the ordinary stock at 15 March 2003.
Acquisition of stock between 31 January and 15 March 2003 has been pursuant Nelson Robertson retired on 26 April 2002, having served as a to standing instructions through plans provided by ATS.
Christopher Masters was appointed a director on 15 November 2002 and David Deards During the year, no director had any material interest in any on 1 January 2003.
The other directors served throughout contract, being a contract of significance, with the the year.
Company or any subsidiary company or was connected to Details of directors retirals and proposed appointments at any adviser or supplier who had such an interest.
the Annual General Meeting are contained in the notice of meeting which accompanies this report.
