CUSTOMER SECTOR GROUP REVIEW Petroleum 9 8 1 10 2 12 7 11 3 5 6 4 Philip Aiken, President 1 ROD and Ohanet Algeria 7 Laminaria Corallina Australia US$ million Zamzama Pakistan 2 8 Liverpool Bay Europe Turnover 3 264 3 North West Shelf Australia 9 Bruce Keith Europe EBIT, excluding exceptional items 1 178 Bass Strait Australia 4 10 Gulf of Mexico North America Capital and investment expenditure 909 5 Griffin Australia 11 Bolivia South America Net operating assets 3 293 Minerva Australia 6 12 Trinidad South America Results As a partner in the NWS project, we finalised several significant Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT excluding exceptional LNG sales contracts with new customers, including the items were US$1178 million, compared with US$1073 million in agreement to supply approximately 3.3 million tonnes of LNG 2002, an increase of US$105 million or 9.8 per cent.
per year to the Guangdong LNG project in China.
We also signed sales and purchase agreements with Korea Gas Corporation and The major factor driving the increase was higher average realised Tohoku Gas.
prices for all petroleum products.
This was partly offset by lower oil production, mostly due to natural field decline from Bass The ROD and Ohanet developments in Algeria and the Mad Dog Strait, Griffin, Laminaria and Liverpool Bay.
This decline was and Caesar and Cleopatra developments in the Gulf of Mexico largely in line with management expectations.
continued, all to time and budget.
In Australia, work continues on the NWS fourth train and the Minerva gas development.
The stronger A$ US$ exchange rate together with higher royalties and taxes had a negative impact on EBIT.
HSEC Tragically, a contractor was killed while mobilising drilling Markets and operations equipment at our ROD development.
While our injury frequency During the year the average realised oil price was US$28.14 per rate continued to decline, the fatality highlights the need for barrel, compared to US$22.58 last year.
The average realised LPG vigilance.
price was US$283.48 per tonne compared to US$232.87, and the average natural gas price was US$2.21 per thousand standard There were no significant environmental incidents.
A selfcubic feet compared to US$1.84 last year.
assessment and audit process is under way to ensure compliance with new HSEC standards.
Total production for the year was 122 million barrels of oil equivalent, comprising 61 per cent liquids crude oil, condensate The outcomes from the two major initiatives launched last year and LPG and 39 per cent gas.
the HSEC Leadership Workshops and an HSEC Perception Survey are being implemented.
Executive Committee members are Oil production was 65.9 million barrels, 16 per cent lower than participating in selected HSEC audits and we are focusing on last year.
Natural field decline from existing assets was partly improving the sharing of HSEC information.
offset by production commencing at the Boris field in the Gulf of Mexico.
Gas production excluding LNG was 219.2 billion cubic Outlook feet bcf, 2 per cent below last year.
During the year gas flow Our focus is on delivering our development projects, including commenced at the Bass Strait Bream pipeline in Australia, and commissioning of Ohanet, ROD and Minerva.
at the Zamzama gas development in Pakistan.
LNG production Work will continue with the Atlantis, Mad Dog, Caesar and from the North West Shelf NWS was 62.0 bcf, 4 per cent above Cleopatra developments, the NWS fourth train and the last year, due to increased demand in Asia and the timing of Angostura development.
Continuing our exploration program, we will appraise for Development activities potential development our recent Gulf of Mexico and Western We pursued our growth objectives with considerable success.
Exploration activity will continue in Bass The Greater Angostura development in Trinidad and Tobago and Strait, with the completion of seismic interpretation and the start the Atlantis development in the Gulf of Mexico were sanctioned of drilling operations.
with a total approved capital expenditure of US$1.427 billion.
We had positive exploration results in the Gulf of Mexico from the deepwater Shenzi-1, Chinook-3, Cascade-1 and Vortex-1 wells, and in Australia with Stybarrow-1.
We also significantly increased our exploration acreage in the Gulf of Mexico, acquiring 67 new blocks in Lease Sales.
10 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Kitchens around the world may be cooking with natural gas sourced from our Petroleum CSG.
In street stalls, homes, hotels, cafs, bistros and the finest restaurants, gas is playing a key role in our everyday culinary activities.
Our petroleum products are also used as fuel for vehicles, heating and furnaces and to generate electricity, and you will find them in plastic components, packaging, clothing fabrics, plastic toys and pens.
Petroleum Left to Right West Tuna platform, Bass Strait, Australia John Edwards, Production Specialist, Griffin Venture, Australia North West Shelf, Australia BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 11
