directors report investment background Our investment approach is primarily based on individual Global overcapacity, stock selection.
However, we also monitor prevailing resulting from recent overconditions in the underlying economies, business sectors and financial markets to which companies in which we investment and subdued invest are exposed.
The following section describes the demand, remains a problem main events in these areas during our last financial year and outlines our investment position as at 31 January 2003.
Our for many industries portfolio is then reviewed in detail on pages 13 to 20. economies Last year was another difficult period for the world economy, influenced significantly by the US.
At the start of our financial year, it had become apparent that an anticipated recovery in the US economy had been delayed by the events of September 11th 2001, but it was hoped that the loosening of both monetary and fiscal policy would prove effective in boosting growth.
However, a series of US corporate and accounting scandals severely damaged gold price, oil price and US dollar business, consumer and investor confidence, further delaying economic recovery.
Confidence has been damaged yet again, recently, by rising geopolitical tensions which have spread from the Middle East to Asia, pushing up gold and oil prices, whilst adding to the downward pressure on the Dollar.
In response to weak growth, US interest rates have been cut to a 50 year low, stimulating a surge of mortgage refinancing which has helped sustain US consumer spending.
Although more general economic growth remains below trend, the source: Thomson Financial Datastream outstanding flexibility and resilience of the US economy has been confirmed.
A return to recession has been avoided despite the series of shocks that has been endured.
The UK economy continued to outperform many of its peers in 2002 as domestic demand remained robust, underpinned by the strong labour market, rising house prices and historically low interest rates.
The performance of the manufacturing sector remained disappointing, however, as exports were hit by the combination of Sterling's relative strength and global over-capacity, causing the trade deficit to rise to its highest level on record.
Meanwhile, domestic demand in Europe was disappointing once again, and at the same time the appreciation of the Euro, particularly against the Dollar, has limited the prospect of an export-led recovery.
In Germany, where much needed structural reform remains elusive, sluggish economic growth pushed the government's budget deficit above the level deemed acceptable by the Maastricht Treaty, leading to further tensions in the Stability and Growth Pact.
As long as governments in Europe focus on 9 directors report investment background reducing fiscal deficits, hopes for economic stimulus rest companies with monetary policy and the willingness of the European Global overcapacity, resulting from recent over-investment Central Bank to take a more flexible approach and reduce and subdued demand, remains a problem for many the risk of a deflationary spiral similar to that which has industries, reducing pricing power and limiting the source of plagued Japan for many years.
Demand within the profits growth to cost cutting.
The chart on this page clearly European Union may be boosted, however, by the illustrates the extent to which this has been a particular forthcoming expansion to include much of Eastern Europe, problem for the IT Hardware sector in the US, due to the including the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary.
excessive over-investment of the late 1990s.
Capacity Japan has been relying heavily on its export sector to utilisation in this sector has fallen by nearly 30% from its provide economic growth while its domestic economy peak, intensifying price pressures, and resulting in many job remains strangled by structural problems in its banking losses as companies have been forced to restructure.
Elsewhere in Asia, however, recent export growth generally, companies are choosing to retrench using available has been strong enough to boost local economies, and cash flow to pay down existing debt and to strengthen their domestic consumption has generally risen.
China, in particular, balance sheets further.
There is little sign of an improvement continues to benefit from membership of the World Trade as confidence remains low due to geopolitical concerns, the Organisation and the recovery in Asia after the 1997 crisis.
slump in stock markets, a drying up of equity finance and An increasing number of companies are moving production corporate scandals uncovered last year.
These disclosed there in search of lower costs.
In sharp contrast, countries in many irregularities, not only in basic accounting practices, Latin America remained burdened by high levels of debt, but also in the corporate structures and governance of weak domestic demand and political uncertainty.
Overly optimistic pension assumptions and the value-destroying effects of dilutive options-based reward structures have also emerged.
Moves to address many of these have been made quickly in the US, but the transitional process is still painful.
A remarkable feature of the recent economic slowdown has US manufacturing capacity utilisation been the extent to which labour productivity has remained relatively high in the US, where cost cutting is well advanced.
This is vital everywhere, however, if companies and industries are to compete against the headwind of fierce price competition which continues to emanate from Asia.
equity markets The chart on the right illustrates the disappointing year experienced by all the major equity markets.
Not only have share prices now fallen for three consecutive years, creating one of the longest bear markets in history, but source: Thomson Financial Datastream many stock market indices have almost halved from their peak levels.
Markets fell heavily last summer as corporate scandals came to light, raising concerns over company profitability and adding to doubts about the sustainability of the economic recovery.
More recently, geopolitical concerns have returned to the fore, increasing risk aversion among investors in general, pushing US bond yields down to a 40 year low, but raising the attractiveness of dividends and secure income growth for equity investors.
10 Forced selling of equities by insurance companies, and a equity markets - sterling adjusted widespread rebalancing of pension funds towards bonds, hit the UK market particularly hard, culminating in it declining 31% over our financial year to 31 January.
Similar falls were experienced elsewhere.
Adjusted for the strength of the pound against the US Dollar, the US market fell by 35% and in Europe the index fall reached 30% after adjusting for the appreciation of the Euro.
Falls were closer to 20% in Japan in sterling terms.
At the sectoral level, falls in oil and basic resources were confined to 22%, but the technology sector remained out of favour, with the FT World technology index declining by nearly 50% over the 12 months.
Thomson Financial Datastream asset distribution The pie chart shows the distribution of our portfolio, with more than 50% now managed on a 'global sector' basis.
Over the last year our holdings of cash and fixed interest rose from 5% to 6%, despite investing a net 8m in equities during the year.
On a geographic basis, we reduced our exposure to the US, Europe and Japan and added a net 26m to our UK holdings, mainly at times of particular weakness when prices were depressed.
We also increased our exposure to Asia by a net 29m, encouraged by the progress we have seen in China, in particular, and by the prospects for how the assets are managed increased consumer activity in the region as a whole.
GLOBAL GEOGRAPHICAL On a sector basis, we invested a net 19m in resources and basic industries, focusing mostly on the oil and gas sector, where income is relatively secure despite being constrained by the weaker US Dollar.
We added a net 4m to our technology holdings, encouraged by more realistic valuations and by the strong cash positions of some companies, which are allowing them to respond to the pressure to pay dividends for the first time.
These purchases were largely financed by net sales of over 7m in the pharmaceutical and healthcare sector, where we felt that some valuations were excessive early in the year, and by sales of our holdings of telecom service companies, source: internal particularly in the US.
