policy statements voting payment of creditors The Company owns investments in many listed companies All dealings in investments are settled in accordance with and its policy is to vote its shares wherever practical, the terms of the relevant investment exchange.
Investment usually by arranging for a proxy to be lodged.
Votes are cast apart, the Company either accepts suppliers payment with a view to the development or defence of shareholders terms or settles terms of payment with each supplier interests consistent with the long-term aims for this individually when agreeing a transaction.
Any proposal to vote against the recommendations supplier is always aware of the terms of payment and of the board of the company in which shares are held payment is made in accordance with these terms.
requires the approval of an executive director, and any At 31 January 2003 the Company had no trade creditors.
decision so to vote is reported to the Board.
ATS, its principal operating subsidiary, had trade creditors of 13 7 days purchases.
data protection The Company and ATS are both data controllers as defined environment under the Data Protection Act 1998.
Information received The Group seeks to conduct its own affairs responsibly and from or about stockholders or investors for example from a environmental factors are, where appropriate, taken into stockbroker, whether by telephone or in writing, by fax or consideration.
by any other electronic or digital means of communication Using reporting guidelines issued by the Department of the may be processed.
For security and compliance monitoring Environment, Transport and the Regions, UK greenhouse purposes telephone calls may be recorded.
gas emissions during the year by reason of the Groups Information held on the Companys Register of Members activities office heat and power requirements and is, by law, public information and the Company cannot employee travel are calculated to be approximately 120 prevent any person inspecting it or having copies of it, on 118 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
This is the equivalent of payment of the statutory fee.
operating 10.7 10.5 3 bar electric fires for a year.
ATS records about its clients are confidential and are only disclosed on the clients authority or where ATS is obliged donations to do so by law or regulation.
ATS does not sell or The Company is a member of ProShare which promotes otherwise make its client list available to third parties.
individual share ownership and which has charitable status.
6,494 6,494 was subscribed during the year as a membership fee.
No political or charitable donations have been made and it is the Companys policy not to do so.
