CUSTOMER SECTOR GROUP REVIEW Diamonds and Specialty Products 7 6 9 8 3 2 1 5 4 Marcus Randolph, President 1 Johannesburg South Africa 6 Antwerp Belgium US$ million 2 Richards Bay Minerals South Africa 7 EKATI Canada Turnover 1 485 Brisbane Australia 8 Integris North America 3 EBIT, excluding exceptional items 299 4 Melbourne Australia 9 Vancouver Canada Capital and investment expenditure 101 Newcastle Australia 5 Net operating assets 1 518 1, 5: Technology Centres 3, 4, 9: Minerals Exploration Offices 6: Diamonds Marketing Results Our airborne gravity survey tool, FALCON, created several Excluding Minerals Exploration and Technology expenses, Earnings opportunities, including a diamond exploration project in Before Interest and Tax EBIT were US$370 million, compared Botswana through our alliance with Kalahari Diamonds.
with US$342 million in 2002, an increase of US$28 million or Our regional Canadian diamond exploration program is also 8.2 per cent.
Minerals Exploration and Technology expenses generating encouraging results.
were US$71 million, compared with US$70 million in 2002.
Our Technology group coordinates the application of technology The results were enhanced by high processing rates and diamond across our operations and also seeks to develop revolutionary production at the EKATI Diamond Mine.
Integris Metals, our technology that will fundamentally alter the cost structure of North American metals distribution joint venture, recorded lower producing a particular product.
Major activities include the next profits, primarily due to reduced volumes and margins in the generation of bio-leaching, using whole-of-ore heap leaching of depressed US and Canadian manufacturing market.
sulphide ores, which is producing encouraging results.
Other projects include the development of proprietary processes for the Markets and operations production of low-cost titanium metal and atmospheric leaching The polished diamond market was consistently solid and of nickel laterite deposits.
Christmas sales were higher than expected.
The rough diamond market was also buoyant, with strong demand for all the EKATI HSEC Diamond Mine categories.
To support premium prices for EKATI The focus on Zero Harm contributed to an improved HSEC stones, we are increasing promotion of our Aurias and performance.
Major safety programs are under way at EKATI and CanadaMark brands.
Diamond production was 4.3 million within our Exploration and Technology groups.
Classified injuries carats, an increase of 19 per cent.
were down 24 per cent versus the previous year.
The primary product from Richards Bay Minerals is titanium BHP Billiton Diamonds continues to be recognised for its strong dioxide in the form of chloride slag.
Markets are currently in community and environmental performance.
EKATI was named substantial oversupply and are expected to continue so for the Canadian Developer of the Year and received several other major medium term.
With production reduced to reflect lower demand, awards for excellence in workplace literacy and energy efficiency.
output was 10.9 per cent lower.
EKATI has also recently been recommended for ISO 14001 certification.
Integris Metals, reflecting the US economy, recorded total sales of 660 million pounds of primarily aluminium and stainless steel, Outlook a decrease of 17 per cent.
The outlook for diamonds continues to be excellent.
Increased brand advertising appears to be strengthening demand, which Development activities should sustain prices.
We manage Minerals Exploration and Technology activities across the Group.
Our exploration strategy is globally focused, For titanium dioxide, prices are expected to remain under combining a rigorous risking and ranking of opportunities with a pressure due to oversupply, and Richards Bay Minerals is not mix of sole-funded, joint venture and optional buy-back expected to return to full capacity in the coming year.
This approach seeks to reduce the risk We will continue to focus on ramping up diamond production, inherent in early-stage exploration while maximising exposure to including development of underground reserves at EKATI, while world-class targets per dollar of expenditure.
Funds are allocated further developing our downstream diamond activities.
mainly to diamonds, copper and nickel platinum group metals, with lesser funds applied to iron ore and coal.
At the Resolution Arizona, US copper deposit, a joint program with Rio Tinto is advancing what has been confirmed as a deep high-grade porphyry copper mineralisation discovery.
18 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Quality of life today is enhanced by replacement implants for failing hips and other joints.
Many of these are made with titanium metal manufactured from rutile supplied by our Diamonds and Specialty Products CSG.
Titanium is also a vital ingredient in heart pacemakers, robotics, aerospace equipment, ceramics, computer and TV screens, cosmetics, and pigments for paints, fabrics, plastics and paper.
As well as being valued as jewellery, diamonds can be used in drill bits, machine tool tips, cutting discs and polishing compounds.
Diamonds and Specialty Products Left to Right Gilbert Mantia, Process Plant, EKATI Diamond Mine, Canada Slag Tap on Furnace 4, Richards Bay Minerals, South Africa Falcon, the worlds first airborne gravity gradiometer system BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 19
