portfolio review top thirty holdings company value % of The classification table on the opposite page gives a sector m assets Shell Transport & Trading 45.5 3.8 and geographical view of the portfolio.
It allows GlaxoSmithKline 40.5 3.4 comparisons against the same period last year.
The table BP 38.2 3.2 Royal Bank of Scotland 36.7 3.0 underneath it helps to identify changes as a result of stock Vodafone 27.0 2.2 price movements and active repositioning by our HBOS 20.6 1.7 Johnson & Johnson 20.0 1.7 investment managers.
Wal-Mart 14.8 1.2 Barclays 13.4 1.1 Our top holdings list has been expanded to 30.
This helps Reckitt Benckiser 12.7 1.1 illustrate the diversity of companies within the portfolio, Unilever 12.5 1.0 Abbott Laboratories 12.5 1.0 many of which have global operations.
Diageo 12.5 1.0 HSBC 11.5 1.0 In the following pages we list all stocks within each sector Emap 11.2 0.9 with a value greater than 1.75m.
In total the stocks listed Marsh & McLennan 11.0 0.9 Persimmon 10.9 0.9 represent 86% of the portfolio by value and 46% by Rio Tinto 10.8 0.9 number.
Slough Estates 10.6 0.9 Exxon Mobil 10.4 0.9 During the year, our exposure to resource and utility Lloyds TSB 10.4 0.9 Aviva 10.3 0.9 companies with solid yields was increased, as was fixed Microsoft 10.2 0.8 interest, helping to underpin income.
We added to John Wood Group 9.7 0.8 BT Group 9.0 0.7 technology companies which hold large net cash positions, Standard Chartered 8.8 0.7 and are starting to see some of that cash redistributed in Merck 8.7 0.7 Canon 8.6 0.7 the form of dividends.
Sizeable reductions occurred in the BHP Billiton 8.5 0.7 telecommunications and retail sectors as we saw Aventis 7.5 0.6 prospects deteriorate there.
Geographically, our actions Calculated as % of total assets less current liabilities.
were biased towards increasing UK and Asia over the US, This list excludes Alliance Trust Finance and Alliance Trust Savings, which total 28.8m.
Europe and Japan, where we have been net sellers.
investment companies Our investment trust and fund holdings are held mainly to gain exposure to markets or investment sectors which we feel are attractive and offer additional diversification, but which we consider would be less efficient for us to access directly.
The investments listed represent 93% by value of the 21 such investments in our total portfolio.
The year end valuation of all investment companies was 29.1m source: John Wood Group representing 2.4% of the total portfolio.
investment companies value m Candover Investments 5.1 Standard Life European Private Equity 4.6 Schroder Ventures International 3.0 UK Balanced Property Trust 2.9 Aberforth Smaller Companies 2.7 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust 1.6 F&C Latin America 1.5 Korea Europe Fund 1.3 Throgmorton Trust 1.3 3i Group 1.0 Falcon Investment Trust 0.7 Electra Active Management 0.6 Edinburgh Dragon Trust 0.6 Martin Currie Pacific 0.5 13 directors report portfolio review oil, chemicals and resources resources Lacklustre growth in the developed economies affected demand in all of these industries, only partly offset by & basic increasing demand from the continued industrialisation of industries China.
Cuts in production by OPEC meant that the oil price remained within the cartels target range of $22 - $28 per barrel for much of the year.
However, prices moved above $30 at the end of the year due to disruption in supply from the national strike in Venezuela, together with concerns about potential war with Iraq.
Mining particularly benefited from the pace of industrial development in China, with demand for many basic resources showing double-digit growth.
China now consumes more copper and steel than the US.
Miners of source: BHP Billiton gold also prospered, as the precious metal regained its appeal as an investment in uncertain times.
Its price rose oil, chemicals & resources m 30% over the year to $368 per ounce.
Shell Transport & Trading UK 45.5 BP UK 38.2 We made net additions to these sectors.
In oil, we added Rio Tinto UK 10.8 to Shell Transport & Trading, which has a proven business Exxon Mobil USA 10.4 John Wood Group UK 9.7 model resilient under differing oil price scenarios, while we BHP Billiton UK 8.5 reduced BP, which in the event failed to meet challenging Total Fina France 6.2 Air Liquide France 3.7 targets for production growth.
The increasing attractions of Schlumberger USA 2.2 natural gas as a cleaner, more efficient, fuel prompted us to British Vita UK 2.2 Shin-Etsu Chemical Japan 1.8 build holdings in Burlington Resources and EnCana in North RPM International USA 1.8 America, and PTT E&P and CNOOC in Asia.
We benefited particularly from our long-term holding in John Wood Group, as the company successfully achieved a stock market listing.
In mining, a position was initiated in the Australian gold producer Newcrest Mining, while we raised our holding in BHP Billiton, which has benefited from higher sales of iron ore into China to satisfy the growing steel industry there.
This was partly funded by selling out of Anglo American and WMC.
In chemicals, we increased Johnson Matthey but sold Syngenta.
14 utilities Our positioning in this industry is based on gaining exposure to areas where regulation is favourable, by avoiding so-called growth utilities and by favouring regions showing genuine growth in demand.
The UK water regulatory outlook is encouraging and we utilities m added to Kelda, and also to National Grid, where the Scottish & Southern UK 5.9 Kelda Group UK 5.2 integration with Lattice appears to be progressing as National Grid Transco UK 4.8 planned.
Elsewhere in Europe, we added to Suez, which has Consolidated Edison USA 4.6 Scottish Power UK 4.0 begun to focus on integration and restructuring, and to United Utilities UK 3.7 Autostrade, the Italian road toll operator, which is now Constellation Energy USA 2.9 Huaneng Power China 2.8 subject to a bid.
Suez France 2.6 Autostrade Italy 2.5 In the US market, the growth utilities, which typically Australian Gas Light maintain high levels of debt and large energy trading Company Australia 2.3 Hawaiian Electric USA 2.2 businesses, fared badly.
However, our exposure is through WPS Resources USA 2.1 local distribution companies, which benefited from the Hong Kong Electric Hong Kong 2.1 turmoil and contributed positive total returns.
We increased our exposure to Chinese utilities which are construction & building materials m experiencing strong demand, including electric companies Persimmon UK 10.9 Beijing Datang and Huaneng Power, and also added to Wolseley UK 3.8 Lafarge France 3.6 Hong Kong Electric, attracted by its high dividend yield.
Aggregate Industries UK 3.2 construction & building materials The environment for construction is challenging, with activity constrained by government budgets and by private sector companies reducing their capital expenditure.
However, the UK house building sector has seen rapidly rising prices, underpinned by low interest rates and strong consumer demand.
We do not believe such extreme growth to be sustainable, but underlying demand, coupled with accessible financing, should continue to support prices.
Persimmon has a solid track record and nationwide presence, and remains our core housebuilder.
During the year, we added to Crest Nicholson, a refocused house builder with a bias to the South and the Midlands.
Across Europe, building and construction was mixed, with continued weakness in Germany in particular.
The French company Lafarge is our core European building materials holding, with an attractive geographic balance between emerging and developed markets.
In the UK, we added to Aggregate Industries, Wolseley and Marshalls.
The source: Scottish & Southern Electricity collective merits of these companies are based on their being well managed with resilient end markets and sensible growth profiles.
15 directors report portfolio review general industrial capital Some manufacturing stocks have shown relative strength in goods anticipation of recovery from the cyclical downturn.
However, companies reliant on acquisitions to produce earnings growth remain pressured by concerns about accounting.
In the US, we disposed of the conglomerate Tyco owing to uncertainty over its break-up plans, now aborted.
Despite fierce market conditions, Japanese auto companies increased their global market share, and record profits confirmed their resilience.
We acquired new holdings in Japanese auto component companies FCC, Showa and Keihin at attractive valuations, and increased our Asia-Pacific automobile exposure through Hyundai Motor and Denway Motors.
source: Sage electronics and engineering The global operating environment for engineering proved general industrial m extremely difficult.
We sold Xaar and Senior Engineering, and Pentair USA 4.7 concerns about conditions in certain end markets led us to BAE Systems UK 3.6 Hutchison Whampoa Hong Kong 2.9 reduce our position in Heidelberger Druckmaschinen, the Honda Motor Japan 2.7 German printing machine manufacturer.
We further reduced our exposure to General Electric, and sold Japanese companies heavily exposed to capital investment, including electronics and engineering m Sumitomo Electric, Omron, Amano and Daifuku.
Canon Japan 8.6 General Electric USA 6.8 Many well-run companies with good industrial positions Keyence Japan 4.3 now offer yields attractive enough to help support share Illinois Tool Works USA 4.1 Grainger USA 4.0 prices until a cyclical improvement occurs.
We increased Hoya Japan 3.3 our holdings in Sandvik, Kidde and Bodycote and bought Spirax-Sarco Engineering UK 3.0 Sandvik Sweden 2.8 Worthington Industries, a US steel processor at the Renishaw UK 2.8 value-added end of the steel production industry with an Sony Japan 2.1 Kidde UK 2.0 excellent record of earning respectable margins.
Mabuchi Motor Japan 1.9 technology technology m With business investment subdued, conditions for Microsoft USA 10.2 technology companies remain challenging.
However, First Data USA 6.7 Intel USA 4.7 leading companies are using strong market positions to Cisco Systems USA 4.2 enhance cash flows and bolster balance sheets.
The recent Nokia Finland 3.6 SAP AG Germany 2.7 decision by Microsoft to pay its first dividend may lead to Dell USA 2.3 the improved allocation of surplus capital in the interest of Oracle USA 1.9 Motorola USA 1.9 shareholder value over the longer term.
Sage UK 1.9 Texas Instruments USA 1.8 Demand conditions are unlikely to improve in the near future, but this is an industry with a strong history of innovation, which encourages us to maintain a reasonable exposure.
We favour companies with sound business principles and where demand for their products looks set to grow over the long run.
Reflecting this, we added to positions in Microsoft and Sage.
16 beverages, foods & consumer household products goods and A more difficult outlook for consumers in the West limits companies ability to raise prices.
The outlook for the sector products is nevertheless positive, with strong companies, sensible strategies and disciplined management teams showing they beverages, foods are capable of delivering value to shareholders.
& household products m Reckitt Benckiser UK 12.7 In many companies to which we are exposed, visible Unilever UK 12.5 demand improvements and margin gains are helping to Diageo UK 12.5 Nestl Switzerland 6.6 sustain investor confidence.
Where concerns have arisen, Pepsico USA 6.0 such as with Geests salad sales and Altrias market share British American Tobacco UK 4.6 Altria USA 4.2 losses, share prices have suffered severely, but they are BRL Hardy Australia 3.1 supported by attractive yields.
Scottish & Newcastle UK 2.8 Fosters Australia 2.6 Corporate activity surfaced with a recommended cash offer Allied Domecq UK 2.3 Kraft Foods USA 1.9 for BRL Hardy, the Australian wine company.
Unilevers Kao Japan 1.9 focus on areas offering potential demand growth was Geest UK 1.8 enhanced by making several small disposals of underperforming brands, while Reckitt Benckiser refused to overpay for acquisitions and may now reinitiate dividend pharmaceuticals & healthcare m increases.
GlaxoSmithKline UK 40.5 Johnson & Johnson USA 20.0 Abbott Laboratories USA 12.5 pharmaceuticals & healthcare Merck USA 8.7 Aventis France 7.5 Worries about challenges over patents and the declining Bristol-Myers Squibb USA 7.2 number of new drug approvals weighed against Novartis Switzerland 6.7 UCB Belgium 5.4 pharmaceutical companies share prices.
Recent news has Takeda Chemical Japan 5.2 been more encouraging, with the successful legal defence Amersham UK 4.7 Unitedhealth USA 3.2 of some patents and the appointment of a new head of the Gyrus UK 3.0 US Food and Drug Administration.
The initiative to speed Cardinal Health USA 2.8 Altana AG Germany 2.7 up the review of new drug applications by the FDA is Celltech UK 2.5 helpful.
Major drug patent expirations are starting to Fresenius Germany 2.1 Steris USA 2.1 dissipate, helping to eliminate a concern which has dogged Alcon USA 1.8 the industry.
Medicare reform in the US is also now firmly back on the agenda, with President Bush proposing wider prescription coverage.
As demand for healthcare grows, due to ageing societies and the increasing incidence of western diseases, both insurance and government buyers of healthcare are trying to constrain expenditure.
The most cost-effective way of treating illness is to use drugs and the latest medical devices, which reduce hospital times and costs.
Innovative devices are seeing very strong growth rates and to this end we increased our investment in Gyrus, which makes instruments to improve tissue management.
We also added source: Unilever a new holding, Alcon, the world leader in eye care products.
Overall, however, we cut our exposure through partial sales of Merck and Johnson & Johnson.
17 directors report portfolio review retail services UK consumption growth has slowed, but, if unemployment and interest rates stay low, an outright reduction in consumer expenditure may be avoided.
Discounting and trading down to cheaper products are major industry themes globally.
US consumers continue to demand value and falling Japanese incomes inhibit demand.
Wm Morrisons bid for Safeway triggered interest from five other parties which may result in major changes to UK food retailing.
GUS bought Homebase and Kingfisher took over Castorama to become a pure DIY group.
We sold Findel in the UK and Uni in Japan, while Tesco, Ahold, Wal-Mart, C&S and Walgreen were reduced.
In the UK, new holdings in Next and New Look were initiated and we started to rebuild our Home Depot holding in the US.
source: New Look leisure, entertainment & hotels It has been a sluggish year for the leisure sector.
Weak retail m Wal-Mart USA 14.8 corporate and international travel inhibited recovery in hotel Tesco UK 7.2 demand, although brand presence, cost cutting and Home Depot USA 6.6 GUS UK 6.4 exposure to some geographical pockets of strength have Sysco USA 4.3 been positive factors.
Corporate activity was confined to Sainsbury UK 4.2 Walgreen USA 3.1 NH Hoteles of Spain expanding from its domestic base and Kingfisher UK 3.0 a proposed demerger of hotel and pub businesses by Six Marks & Spencer UK 2.7 New Look UK 2.0 Continents.
Gaming remained resilient and, with evidence Debenhams UK 1.8 of Asian consumer strength, this led to the purchase of Genting, a Malaysian casino and hotel operator.
Slower high leisure, entertainment & hotels m street spending in the UK hit town centre pubs, but there Six Continents UK 4.2 has been steady growth in community pubs, helping Hilton UK 3.8 Wolverhampton & Dudley and our new holding in Greene Wolverhampton & Dudley UK 3.0 Greene King UK 2.0 King to produce strong operational performances.
media media m Emap UK 11.2 This economically sensitive sector saw global advertising Gannett USA 4.9 Reed Elsevier UK 4.8 expenditure decline again last year.
Any improvement in Pearson UK 3.9 expenditure this year is expected to be modest, but growth VNU Netherlands 3.1 Carlton UK 2.5 in 2004 should be boosted by the US general election and Arnoldo Mondadori Editore Italy 2.4 the Summer Olympics.
In the UK, corporate activity may be Singapore Press Singapore 2.3 Mediaset Italy 1.8 stimulated by the implementation of the Communications Bills far-reaching reforms on cross-industry ownership.
In the meantime, Granada and Carlton have agreed to merge and await clearance from the regulator.
We sold our holdings in AOL Time Warner and Vivendi Universal in light of increasingly constrained balance sheets and the strategic challenges facing them.
A holding has been initiated in BSkyB, the dominant UK pay TV broadcaster.
18 transport Security threats, less trading activity, and continued UK rail disruption made the environment difficult for most transport companies, but we saw some interesting opportunities and added to our position in BAA, the airport operator, as this provides exposure to the air travel sectors long-term growth.
transport m We are not directly exposed to any airlines, having sold BAA UK 4.0 easyJet when it changed strategic direction by acquiring United Parcel Service USA 1.9 GO.
We built a holding in Associated British Ports, the UKs Forth Ports UK 1.8 leading provider of port facilities and related services, which has a strong operating track record.
Our other main holding, support services m Forth Ports, continued to trade well in its traditional Compass UK 6.7 activities as well as its land developments.
Electrocomponents UK 4.5 Hays UK 3.5 Brambles Industries Australia 3.4 support services Premier Farnell UK 3.1 Securitas Sweden 3.0 With governments and companies searching for cost Secom Japan 2.0 Pactiv USA 1.9 savings via outsourcing, many of our holdings experienced CDW Computer Centers USA 1.8 some growth, but the cyclical downturn also caused some Serco UK 1.8 significant share price falls.
In this difficult environment, several holdings were sold, including Waste Management, telecommunications services m Chubb, Deutsche Post and Bell System 24.
Vodafone UK 27.0 BT Group UK 9.0 Electrocomponents was further reduced.
Pockets of Verizon Communications USA 5.9 growth in demand do still exist, and new positions were SBC Communications USA 4.2 Telefonica Spain 3.5 established in CDW Computer Centers and packager Telefonos fide Mexico Mexico 2.1 Pactiv, both in the US.
Holdings were also started in Drake Beam Morin, a Japanese employment agency, and ports operator China Merchants Holdings.
telecommunications services The telecommunications markets were mixed.
Relative to reduced expectations, mobile companies experienced stronger demand for their services.
However, the UK regulator imposed stricter than expected tariff reductions, and another competitor arrives in 2003.
For these reasons, we reduced our position in MM02.
In the US, pricing problems and accounting improprieties at WorldCom further depressed sentiment.
Fixed-line operators continue to face threats to their profitability, and we lightened our holdings in the Regional Bell companies.
Looking ahead, industry consolidation would be welcome, especially in the mobile sector, but regulatory complexities and a lack of technology standards make it difficult to predict when this may occur.
We remain confident in the source: BAA sectors long-term prospects, as new consumer technologies are introduced and balance sheets repaired, but patience is required.
19 directors report portfolio review banks financials Economic uncertainty makes credit quality remain a key issue.
Exposures have generally been well managed thus far and widespread systemic issues seem unlikely, due to the growing use of loan syndication, securitisation and credit derivatives.
Revenue growth, although constrained by weaker loan demand and depressed margins, has been mitigated by strong cost control.
In the UK, personal sector debt levels have escalated with annual house price increases surpassing 25%, although affordability is manageable at present interest rate levels.
Bancassurers dividends have been affected by capital injections into their life assurance subsidiaries.
The German banks structural problems have been highlighted by anaemic economic growth and in Japan the financial system is probably insolvent.
We retain only one Japanese holding, Credit source: UniCredito Italiano Saison, a credit card company.
US retail banking profits are growing strongly, although corporate credit quality is still banks m deteriorating.
Valuations are becoming more attractive and Royal Bank of Scotland UK 36.7 HBOS UK 20.6 the sector is well capitalised with strong bad debt reserves.
Barclays UK 13.4 Our portfolio continues to be positioned defensively.
We HSBC UK Hong Kong 11.5 Lloyds TSB UK 10.4 see good value in selective high yielding stocks, but not Standard Chartered UK 8.8 exclusively.
We strengthened our holdings in HSBC, Lloyds Wells Fargo USA 4.3 TCF Financial USA 4.3 TSB, Northern Trust, BNP Paribas, UniCredito Italiano and Commonwealth Bank some Asian holdings, but sold Abbey National, BNL, Credit of Australia Australia 3.8 BNP Paribas France 3.8 Lyonnais and Suruga Bank and reduced Bank One, Bank of Bank of America USA 3.5 America and TCF Financial.
ABN Amro Netherlands 3.5 UniCredito Italy 3.2 Northern Trust USA 2.8 insurance Socit Gnrale France 2.5 UBS Switzerland 2.4 Weaker equity markets and rising corporate bond defaults Bank One USA 2.1 Bradford & Bingley UK 1.9 pressurised the solvency of insurers, resulting in Comerica USA 1.8 downgrades by the credit rating agencies.
As a insurance m consequence, insurers raised capital, cut dividends and Marsh & McLennan USA 11.0 bonus rates, and curtailed their new business levels.
They Aviva UK 10.3 American International also diversified further out of equities into bonds and Group USA 6.0 property.
In the UK, Legal & Generals rights issue raised CNP Assurances France 5.4 Prudential UK 5.0 786m and Aviva cut its dividend by 40%.
Companies are Legal & General UK 4.6 in a stronger position going forward but regulation is Protective Life USA 2.3 becoming more demanding, with onerous enquiries into other financials m long term savings, endowment misselling and with profit Slough Estates UK 10.6 bonds.
However, the long-term outlook is supported by the UK Balanced Property Trust UK 2.9 Cousins Properties USA 2.5 need for increased retirement saving by individuals.
With Cheung Kong Hong Kong 1.9 some attractive yields emerging, we added to Legal & preference stocks m General, but reduced Aegon and sold Zurich Financial HBOS 9.25% UK 6.8 Services.
The non-life sector continued to benefit from National Westminster 9% UK 6.4 Abbey National 10.375% UK 5.0 robust premium increases which are forecast to continue in Commercial Union 8.375% UK 3.3 the medium-term.
