Board of Directors Don Argus Charles Goodyear David Brink John Buchanan Don Argus David Brink AO, FAIB, FCPA, FAICD, 65 MSc Engineering Mining, DCom hc, 64 Don Argus brings to the Chairmanship of BHP Billiton considerable Dave Brink brings considerable mining and finance experience to the experience in international business and a strong management Group.
He has over 20 years experience in the mining industry, in background.
particular, shaft sinking, tunnelling and exploration contracting, followed by 12 years as the Chief Executive Officer of a major listed Appointed a Director of BHP Limited in November 1996 and Chairman construction, engineering and manufacturing conglomerate.
Chairman of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Former A Director of Billiton Plc since June 1997 and a Director of BHP Billiton Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the National Australia Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Chairman of the Health, Bank Limited.
He is Chairman of the Brambles Group and a Director of Safety & Environment Committee and a member of the Risk the Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited.
He is also a Management & Audit Committee.
He is Chairman of Murray and member of the International Advisory Council of Allianz Roberts Holdings Limited and Unitrans Limited and Deputy Chairman of Aktiengesellschaft.
ABSA Bank Limited and ABSA Group Limited.
He is also a Director of Sanlam Limited and Sappi Limited and Vice President of the South Charles Goodyear Africa Foundation and the South African Institute of Directors.
During BSc, MBA, FCPA, 45 2001, he completed a postgraduate Diploma in Company Direction.
Before joining the BHP Group as Chief Financial Officer in 1999, John Buchanan Charles Goodyear had extensive financial, corporate restructuring BSc, MSc Hons 1, PhD, 60 and merger and acquisition experience in the United States.
John Buchanan has had a wide international business career gained in A Director since November 2001.
Appointed Chief Executive Officer of large and complex international businesses.
He brings to the Board BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc in January 2003.
A member of experience in the petroleum industry and knowledge of the UK and the Health, Safety & Environment Committee.
Previously held positions international investment community.
He has held various leadership of Chief Development Officer and Chief Financial Officer of BHP Billiton roles in strategic, financial, operational and marketing positions, Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
Former President of Goodyear Capital including executive experience in different countries.
Corporation and former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Freeport-McMoRan Inc. A Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since February 2003.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
The Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc.
A Director of AstraZeneca Plc and Vodafone Group Plc.
He is a former executive Director and Group Chief Financial Officer of BP Plc, Treasurer and Chief Executive of BP Finance, Chief Operating Officer of BP Chemical and was a member of the UK Accounting Standards Board from 1998 to 2001.
28 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Michael Chaney David Crawford Cornelius Herkstrter David Jenkins Michael Chaney Cornelius Herkstrter BSc, MBA, FAIM, FAICD, 53 CA, 66 Mike Chaney brings commercial expertise to the Board, developed over Cor Herkstrter has broad international business experience with many years as the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of special interests in human resources and the environment.
He has held Wesfarmers Limited.
various executive appointments throughout Europe and South East Asia with Billiton and Shell.
A Director of BHP Limited since May 1995 and a Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
He is a Director of A Director of Billiton Plc since July 1998 and a Director of BHP Billiton Gresham Partners Group Limited, a trustee of the Committee for the Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
A member of the Risk Economic Development of Australia, a member of the Business Council Management & Audit Committee.
He is Professor of International of Australia, a Director of the Centre for Independent Studies and Management at Amsterdam University, Chairman of the Supervisory Chairman of the Australian Research Alliance for Children and Youth.
Board of the ING Group, trustee to the Board of the International Accounting Standards Committee Foundation and Chairman of the David Crawford Supervisory Board of DSM.
Former President of the Royal Dutch BComm, LLB, FCA, FCPA, FAICD, 59 Petroleum Company and Chairman of the Committee of Managing Directors of the Royal Dutch Shell group of companies.
David Crawford has extensive experience in risk management and business reorganisation, having acted either as a consultant, scheme David Jenkins manager, receiver and manager or liquidator to very large and complex BA, PhD Geology, 64 groups of companies.
David Jenkins executive career at British Petroleum makes him a A Director of BHP Limited since May 1994 and a Director of BHP Billiton recognised authority on all facets of oil and gas technology.
Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Chairman of the Risk Management & Audit Committee.
Chairman of Lend Lease Corporation A Director of BHP Limited since March 2000 and a Director of BHP Limited and a Director of Fosters Group Limited, National Foods Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
A member of the Limited and Westpac Banking Corporation.
He is former Australian Remuneration Committee and the Risk Management & Audit National Chairman of KPMG, Chartered Accountants.
A Director of Chartwood Resources Ltd, a private company providing consultancy services and business and technology advice to the oil industry.
Former Chief Geologist and Chief Technology Advisor to BP Plc.
He is a member of the Technology Advisory Committee of the Halliburton Company, the Technology Advisory Board of Landmark Graphics and the Advisory Council of Consort Resources.
He also chairs the Energy Advisory Panel of Science Applications International Corporation.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 29 Board of Directors continued Lord Renwick of Clifton Miklos Salamon John Schubert Karen Wood Company Secretary Lord Renwick of Clifton John Schubert KCMG, MA, 65 BC Eng, PhD Chem Eng, FIEAust, FTSE, 60 Lord Renwick has wide international and financial expertise.
He served John Schuberts contribution to the deliberations of the Board comes as British Ambassador to South Africa from 1987 to 1991 and as British from his 23 years experience in the oil industry where he also had Ambassador to the US from 1991 to 1995.
He is currently Vice mining and financial responsibilities.
He has experience in mergers, Chairman, Investment Banking, JP Morgan Plc.
acquisitions and divestments, project analysis and management.
His contribution also comes from six years as Chief Executive Officer A Director of Billiton Plc since June 1997 and a Director of BHP Billiton of Pioneer International Limited, which operated in the building Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
A member of the materials industry in 16 countries.
Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman of Fluor Limited, Director of British Airways Plc, Compagnie A Director of BHP Limited since June 2000 and a Director of BHP Billiton Financiere Richemont, Fluor Corporation, SABMiller Plc and Harmony Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
A member of the Gold Mining Co Ltd.
Deputy Chairman of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, a Director of Qantas Miklos Salamon Airways Limited, the Australian Graduate School of Management and BSc Mining Engineering, MBA, 48 the Great Barrier Reef Research Foundation.
He is also non-executive Chairman of G2 Therapies Limited and of Worley Group Limited.
Mike Salamon is the Senior Minerals Executive of the BHP Billiton President of the Business Council of Australia.
Appointed an executive Director of BHP Billiton Limited and Director and Chief Executive Officer of Pioneer International Limited BHP Billiton Plc in February 2003.
A member of the Health, Safety & and former Chairman and Managing Director of Esso Australia Limited.
Senior Minerals Executive and President of the Aluminium Customer Sector Group.
He is Chairman of Samancor and a Company Secretary Director of Richards Bay Minerals, Cerro Matoso and Escondida.
From Karen Wood July 1997 to June 2001 he was an executive Director of Billiton Plc with BEd, LLB Hons, FCIS, 47 responsibilities for nickel, chrome, manganese, stainless steel and titanium.
Former Executive Chairman of Samancor, Managing Director Karen Wood was appointed Company Secretary of BHP Billiton Limited of Trans-Natal Coal Corporation and Chairman of Columbus.
and BHP Billiton Plc in June 2001.
She is a member of the Takeovers Panel Australia, the Business Regulatory Advisory Group Australia and the JD Juris Doctor Advisory Board of the University of Melbourne.
She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and a member of the Law Council of Australia and the Law Institute of Victoria.
30 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003
