CUSTOMER SECTOR GROUP REVIEW Energy Coal 7 8 6 5 2 1 4 3 Mike Oppenheimer, President US$ million 1 Ingwe South Africa 5 PT Arutmin Indonesia 2 Queensland Coal Australia 6 PT Kendilo Indonesia Turnover 2 089 3 Illawarra Coal Australia 7 New Mexico Coal US EBIT, excluding exceptional items 190 8 Cerrejon Coal Colombia 4 Hunter Valley Australia Capital and investment expenditure 300 Net operating assets 2 193 2, 3 & 5: Marketing agents for energy coal output 6: Infrastructure for third party trading Results Development activities Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT excluding exceptional The focus was on the delivery of approved projects and the items were US$190 million, compared with US$536 million in investigation of opportunities to reinforce our low-cost supply 2002, a decrease of US$346 million or 64.6 per cent.
position and increase access to higher growth markets.
The decrease was due to a significant decline in export prices, The San Juan underground mine was completed on time and the impact of the stronger rand and Australian dollar, inflationary under budget and is now the sole source of supply for the mines pressures and restructuring costs in South Africa.
The integration of the two Cerrejon operations was of PT Arutmin Indonesia in November 2001 also had an successfully concluded and the identified synergy benefits are unfavourable impact on EBIT compared with the corresponding being realised.
The Mount Arthur North project commenced period.
domestic supply in line with contract commitments and the These factors were partially offset by improved New Mexico export program is on schedule and within budget.
The Kwagga Coal EBIT due partly to benefits associated with the San Juan and Boschmanskrans projects are progressing to plan and are underground mine transition, and the inclusion of profits from contributing to Ingwe earnings.
the additional share of the Cerrejon operation in Colombia, Cerrejons joint venture partners approved the next stage of combined with significant cost reductions at this operation.
expansion to 28 million tonnes per year.
In Australia, with the Markets and operations Petroleum CSG, we are pursuing a niche coal-bed methane Notwithstanding the anticipated mid-year price rally, the opportunity to service eastern Australian gas markets.
European market for export coal was relatively weak throughout HSEC the year.
Free On Board FOB prices for sales from South Africa An intensified safety effort resulted in a fatality-free year, averaged around US$25.14 per tonne, a 15 per cent decrease.
a 22 per cent reduction in classified injury frequency rate and The market experienced an increase in short-term volatility and overall improvement in all areas of safety performance.
Zero Harm remains our target and we will continue to focus on We made progress in our strategy of securing greater-thanfatality prevention, behavioural change and safety leadership.
commodity value for our products and a number of innovative Progress was made on critical industrial health issues and the market transactions were concluded in Europe.
Leveraging off management of HIV AIDS in the South African operations.
our European experience, we enhanced our Asian market We have continued to place emphasis on developing and position to support the ramp-up in production from Australias maintaining excellent relationships with our host communities.
Mount Arthur North project and Indonesian agency No significant environmental incidents occurred and all fully commitments.
developed operations achieved ISO 14001 certification.
Production was 81.7 million tonnes, a decrease of 1.4 per cent.
Outlook Production lost as a result of the PT Arutmin divestment and Our challenge is to maintain our competitive position and the closure of certain Ingwe mines, amounting to 6.9 million improve margins in the face of short-term currency appreciation, tonnes, was offset by increases in Colombia, Hunter Valley volatile prices and continued weakness in Asian markets.
The key objectives are continued safety improvement, Cerrejon implemented a business improvement project that restructuring in South Africa, realising cost and production delivered significant cost and capital efficiency benefits.
Ingwe efficiencies globally and delivering on projects in line with launched a wide-ranging initiative aimed at fundamental operational restructuring to ensure that profitability is expectations.
maintained during adverse movements in external economic Our marketing teams will continue to focus on securing a greater conditions.
share of higher value markets.
20 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Switch on any light and it is most likely that the source of power generation will be electricity from thermal coal, perhaps supplied by our Energy Coal CSG.
Think of the value that electric lighting has added to our lives in terms of productivity, enjoyment, safety and security.
Thermal coal is also a major generating source for heating and is used in the production of cement for our homes, offices and many other structures.
Energy Coal Left to Right Shane Hall, Coal Preparation Plant Technician, Mt Arthur Coal, Australia Construction, Mt Arthur Coal, Australia Shift change-over, Douglas Colliery, South Africa BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 21
