CUSTOMER SECTOR GROUP REVIEW Base Metals 2 3 5 7 6 1 1 4 Brad Mills, President 1 Cannington Australia 5 US$ million Antamina Peru 2 Highland Valley Copper Canada 6 Cerro Colorado Chile Turnover 1 954 3 Selbaie Canada 7 Tintaya Peru EBIT, excluding exceptional items 286 4 Escondida Chile Capital and investment expenditure 234 Net operating assets 3 877 Results was approved by the owners enabling Escondida to sustain Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT excluding exceptional copper production at 1.25 million tonnes per year.
items were US$286 million, compared with US$192 million in Feasibility studies are continuing on our other major development 2002, an increase of US$94 million or 49.0 per cent.
projects including Escondida Sulphide Leach and Spence.
Increased production from the Escondida Phase IV expansion, Significant progress in rationalising our existing portfolio to focus completed in October 2002, plus a higher average realised on core growth assets was achieved as exits were made from copper price at US$0.73 per lb, compared to US$0.69 per lb in Lan Ping zinc China, the Tenke copper project Democratic 2002, contributed to the increase.
EBIT also benefited from a full Republic of Congo and the La Granja copper project Peru.
12 months of operations from Antamina.
Lower lead and zinc Additionally, interests were sold in the Crandon deposit in prices and unfavourable exchange rates were partially offset by Wisconsin, US and both the Alumbrera Mine and Agua Rica lower exploration expense relating to the write-off of La Granja deposit in Argentina.
Also, during the year our interests in the Alumbrera mine HSEC and Agua Rica prospect joint ventures in Argentina were sold for The year was marked by a top-to-bottom approach in a gain of US$23 million.
commitment, awareness and personal responsibility for safety.
Markets and operations Tragically, the fatality of a contractor reminded us of the need for Weak economies in the western world resulted in lower than continuing rigour.
Lead indicators were developed to improve the forecast demand growth for base metals.
In copper, the tracking of key management practices.
continued strong growth of Chinese demand has been one of Environmental management plans were implemented for energy, few positive aspects.
We maintained our demand-based greenhouse gases, water, waste and land, and all operations production strategy and produced at an annualised rate of achieved ISO 14001 certification.
290 000 tonnes of contained copper below installed capacity.
Our work towards the sustainable development of host The production curtailment has helped to balance supply and communities continued through the existing foundations at demand, but any significant price improvement is dependent on Escondida and Tintaya and two new foundations at Antamina economic recovery in the mature economies.
The decline in and at La Granja in support of our exit from this project.
exchange warehouse stocks of copper during the year was Outlook positive but has been partially offset by off-exchange stockpiling We are confident about the prospects for our business as markets as announced by Codelco in Chile and by producers in China.
continue to recover and we continue to realise cost improvements In the concentrate markets, the sustained low prices and at existing operations through our Six Sigma Operating Excellence capacity closures in copper have produced unprecedented program.
Treatment and refining charges have fallen to historic Future growth will be achieved through the development of our real lows.
The outlook is for continued tightness to persist until a top tier inventory projects and through the restoration of our price recovery occurs that enables a restart of shuttered capacity operations to full capacity once warranted by market demand.
and investment in new and incremental sulphide mine For example, on 12 August 2003 we announced the restart of production.
idled production at Tintaya Peru.
Development activities Through our commitment to exploration, we aim to be a leader in During fiscal 2003, the Escondida Phase IV expansion project, discovering and developing world-class base metals projects.
designed to increase production by 400 000 tonnes per year of contained copper, was completed on schedule and 10 per cent below the US$600 million approved budget.
Additionally, the US$230 million Escondida Norte project, involving the development of a satellite orebody to the Escondida Mine, 14 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 A tiny laptop is a powerhouse of possibilities, greatly expanding our capabilities and productivity.
Key components in many computers are made from commodities supplied by our Base Metals CSG.
They are also essential for the production of radio and TV sets, electrical appliances and airconditioning: electrical wiring for buildings and vehicles: robotics: scientific instruments: roofing, fences, doors, plumbing, paints and car batteries: as well as jewellery, watches, cutlery, medallions and toys.
Base Metals Left to Right Neil Duffy, Mobile Mechanical Team, Cannington, Australia Julio Escudero, Head of Mine Dewatering, at the port of Antofagasta, Escondida, Chile Copper-zinc mine, Antamina, Peru BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 15
