directors report board of directors non-executive directors from left Bruce Johnston William Berry Bill Jack Lesley Knox Christopher Masters Bruce W M Johnston Chairman CA 64 Lesley M S Knox 49 Joined the board 1991: appointed Chairman 1996 Joined the board 2001: member of the audit and remuneration committees Bruce Johnston was a partner in the chartered accountancy firm, Arthur Young Lesley Knox qualified as a lawyer and worked in the UK and USA advising now Ernst & Young, between 1970 and 1986, where he concentrated on audit companies on a range of commercial matters.
She then worked as a corporate and advisory work for companies and private clients.
He then moved to the finance adviser first with Kleinwort Benson where she became a group director commercial sector and was Executive Chairman of City Centre Restaurants plc, in 1996 and was then a founder director of British Linen Advisers.
She was also where he combined general management with responsibility for finance and Head of Institutional Asset Management at Kleinwort Benson Investment investor relations.
Management which provided investment services to clients world wide.
Other directorships include The Second Alliance Trust PLC and Mid Wynd Other directorships include The Second Alliance Trust PLC, Glenmorangie PLC, International Investment Trust PLC.
Hays PLC, HMV Group PLC, and MFI Furniture Group PLC.
William Berry MA LLB WS 63 Christopher Masters CBE FRSE 55 Joined the board 1994: Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Joined the board 2002: member of the audit and remuneration committees remuneration committee, member of the audit committee Christopher Masters was educated at Kings College, London, and Leeds William Berry is a solicitor and chairman of Murray Beith Murray, an Edinburgh University, where he took his doctorate in Chemistry.
He had a distinguished Law firm which has an important investment presence, managing and careeer in industry, working for Shell Research BV in the Netherlands and then administering funds for many private clients.
He was formerly chairman of Shell Chemicals UK Ltd.
He joined Christian Salvesen as business development Scottish Life Assurance Company and has recently been elected Senior Governor manager in 1979 and in 1982 became director of planning for their US operation.
He was Chief Executive from 1989 to 1997.
In September 1997, he was Other directorships include The Second Alliance Trust PLC, Fleming Continental appointed Executive Chairman of Aggreko PLC, a post he held until January European Investment Trust PLC and The Scottish American Investment Company PLC.
Dr Masters chairs the Scottish Higher Education Funding Council and the Festival City Theatres Trust.
William H Jack 58 Other directorships include The Second Alliance Trust PLC, British Assets Trust PLC and John Wood Group PLC.
Joined the board 2000: Chairman of the audit committee, member of the remuneration committee Bill Jack joined the General Accident Fire & Assurance Company in 1973, and was the managing director of GA Life subsequently CGU Life, with the responsibility for the UK Life and unit trust business, from 1991 to 2000.
Other directorships include The Second Alliance Trust PLC and Skipton Group Holdings.
executive directors from left Gavin Suggett Alan Young Sheila Ruckley David Deards Gavin R Suggett MA MSc FCA 58 Sheila M Ruckley MA LLB DLP 53 Joined the Company 1973: appointed to the board 1987: appointed Chief Joined the Company 1988: appointed to the board 2000 Executive 1995 Sheila Ruckley studied history and philosophy in the UK and USA before Gavin Suggett trained as a chartered accountant before reading economics at qualifying as a solicitor.
After joining the Alliance Trusts she became secretary of Cambridge and studying business administration at the London Business School.
the Company and compliance officer of the savings business before becoming He worked in industry and commerce before joining the Alliance Trusts, where responsible for the introduction and development of the Select Pension.
She he was secretary before becoming a director.
He started the IT capability in the now has responsibility for investor relations within the organisation.
organisation and the deposit taking and savings business and has experience in the investment, treasury, oil and mineral rights, financial, administrative and David A Deards BA ACA 43 investor relations aspects of the business.
Joined the board 2003 David Deards read zoology at Oxford and qualified as a chartered accountant Alan M W Young MA LLB 56 with Arthur Young now Ernst & Young before joining Ansbacher & Co where he Joined the Company 1986: appointed to the board 1992 gained considerable experience in the Corporate Finance and Banking Divisions, Alan Young read law at Edinburgh and worked in London at Buckmaster & becoming a director in 1995.
More recently he was responsible for product Moore, stockbrokers, before joining the investment department at Gartmore as development.
an analyst and fund manager.
He became a director of Gartmores pension and investment trust management arm in 1983.
On joining the Alliance Trusts he managed the UK and European portfolios before becoming the director responsible for investment policy.
The executive directors are also directors of the Companys subsidiaries and the Second Alliance Trust PLC and its subsidiary.
The non-executive directors are also directors of Alliance Trust Savings Limited.
Directors ages are shown as at 18 March 2003.
