directors report results and performance dividend and earnings We anticipate being able to Dividend growth continues to be an important element of maintain our progressive the total returns we provide.
Having increased the interim dividend policy dividend by 1p we are recommending a final dividend of 40.5p, making a total annual dividend of 69.5p, an increase of 1.5% on last year.
The Company has significant revenue reserves and, despite an uncertain economic environment and the possibility of lower dividend increases, or even dividend cuts, from the companies in which we invest, we anticipate being able to maintain our progressive dividend policy.
Earnings, out of which we pay dividends, were lower this year almost entirely due to the absence of a number of special, one-off, dividend receipts which we received last year.
These special receipts masked the growth in the underlying income from our investments.
This growth emanated from net dividend increases on our equity holdings, averaging about 3.5%, and the net effect of reinvesting some of our cash in higher yielding securities, but was offset by falling interest rates on our cash and adverse exchange rate movements.
In particular, the income on our US Dollar denominated securities suffered from the 14% fall in the exchange rate over the year.
At the year end, the net yield on our net assets, after all expenses and tax, was 2.8%.
dividend The Companys expenses, of which 70% relate to staff, increased by 7.6% reflecting inflation and the continued development of our in house investment team.
In addition, having reviewed the position of our staff pension fund, we decided to make an additional contribution this year in the light of changes taking place in pensions, particularly increased life expectancy.
All these costs attract corporation tax relief at 30% and are expensed out of revenue.
We do not write off these expenses against capital, to ensure that the Companys core asset base, from which future income growth and dividend paying capacity emanates, is not depleted.
source: internal 6 Over 10 years, on average, our stocks have barely kept up with capital performance the indices, mainly because of our low exposure to hi-tech The table at the foot of this page shows the returns on stocks: but over the last year stock selection has added various assets and from various markets over the last year 1.8% to performance.
This has come from strong outand over a ten year period.
We do not follow a single performance of our oil and UK domestic portfolios where benchmark as we have a policy of diversifying our we hold a third of our assets, offset by some underinvestments over many areas and assets, but we do performance in our financial and healthcare portfolios where compare the performance for each part of our portfolio with we hold a similar proportion.
The latter two portfolios are the averages for those classes of assets.
The last year more heavily weighted in the UK than the relevant world shows a remarkable divergence in returns between indices and the extra income which we receive as a result equities, wherever listed, and debt instruments in the form goes some way to redressing this under-performance on of bonds and cash.
This has influenced the 10 year capital account.
cumulative figures to such an extent that the capital value of the UK FTSE All-Share Index has not kept pace with capital performance inflation.
Our overall performance needs to be looked at in - attribution analysis 1 year 10 year the light of these numbers.
movement in UK FTSE All-Share Index -31.0% 26.2% We have outperformed the UK equity indices and most of attributable to asset allocation 1.2% 8.0% our peer group.
Our performance over the last year has attributable to stock selection 1.8% -0.2% inevitably been determined substantially by where our movement in net asset value -28.0% 34.0% assets are invested.
We had 5% of our assets in cash and bonds at the beginning of the year and 6% at the end with Over the year our stock price fell by 27.2%, less than the no gearing.
Over 10 years the important driver has been the fall in net asset value reflecting a further tightening of the degree of our diversification overseas, since the UK market discount.
This we attribute to our relatively strong has fallen short of the all-important US market and even performance and cautious reputation in a market which has against Europe.
been dominated by bad news, a greater awareness perhaps of our attributes as a result of our investor relations programme, and to the demand for stock coming through Alliance Trust Savings.
comparative returns to 31 january 2003 capital performance - compound annual % return 1 year 10 year Alliance Trust net assets -28.0% 3.0% Alliance Trust stock price -27.2% 3.0% FTSE All-Share Index -31.0% 2.4% US Standard and Poors 500 Index -34.9% 5.8% FTSE WI Europe ex UK -30.3% 5.0% Tokyo Topix Index -18.9% -5.0% non-equity assets - compound income returns Gross redemption yield on UK gilts before tax 4.0% 8.1% Cash net interest: deposit 25,000: 90 days notice 2.2% 4.0% Retail Price Index 2.9% 2.6% Source: Thomson Financial Datastream Source: Bloomberg Source: AITC Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance.
These asset classes are included in this comparitive table as they form components of the Companys portfolio from time to time.
However, they are not comparable with an investment in the Company as the risks and returns associated with these assets are very different in nature.
7 directors report results and performance savings performance savings products The savings side of our business has two objectives: to Select Investment Plan This general purpose plan remained popular, particularly for regular savings, children provide its customers with ways to enhance the returns on and trusts, attracting 7% more investors and 17m of net their investments and to grow its customer base within the investment.
constraint that it should be financially self sufficient.
Every customer is a stockholder in the Company or the Second Select PEP PEPs have been closed for new subscriptions Alliance Trust, and the intention is that through ATS an for nearly 4 years, but ATS still attracts funds despite a increasing number of investors will come to appreciate the natural progression of deaths and withdrawals.
Net inflows benefits of a core holding in the Alliance Trusts.
increased by 10m, to 27m, helped by a strong flow of transfers from other managers, as investors consolidated The last year was one of the most difficult in the recent plans, originally taken out elsewhere, with ATS.
history of retail equity products, due to the deteriorating economic background, high profile scandals and falling Select ISA Over the year, ISA sales resulted in a 10% stock markets.
Net sales of unit trusts and OEICs fell by increase in the investor base, but, with the gradual increase 11% in 2002 and the AITC reported a 33% fall in combined in withdrawals as the product becomes more mature, net Investment Trust ISA and Savings Plan sales by its member new investment declined by 1% to 54m.
By contrast, ATS reported a 7% increase in net Select Pension As the newest product in the range, this is inflows to 136m, a 3% decline in the equivalent the fastest growing with net inflows up 22%, at 36m, and investment trust sales and a 13.5% increase in the net investor numbers up 39%.
This was the second year of the purchases of stock in the Alliance Trusts.
ATS now has 25% Stakeholder tax rules which extended pensions to nonof the investment trust ISA market although its penetration earners and allows partial concurrency in contributions to of the investment trust savings scheme market, which is occupational and personal pensions.
This has proved heavily subsidised by management groups and trusts, is attractive with our investors, many of whom use it for much lower.
No industry figures are available for pensions.
starting a pension fund for their children or grandchildren.
Financially, ATS also had a good year.
Operating income We are also seeing a considerable number of transfers increased by 3.5% to 4.3m, expenses were virtually from other providers, partly as a result of difficulties unchanged and profits before tax and the additional pension elsewhere and partly for the same reasons that we are contribution increased by 13%.
673,000 was added to receiving PEP transfers: ease, economy and transparency.
reserves which, together with the capital, is all invested We see this product as having considerable potential.
is a trend away from opaque and expensive products and Net purchases of Alliance stock increased by 10.4% to the long-term nature of pensions fits perfectly with our objectives and ability to deliver a high quality service at a 30.2m which, given the lower average purchase prices reasonable cost.
We are not generally recognised as a prevailing through the year, translated into a 17% increase traditional pension provider, but we are beginning to in stock held through ATS which represented 14.7% of our penetrate this market.
During the year, we linked up with capital at the year end.
Witan and the City of London investment trusts in the provision of pension products and further alliances are being discussed.
investors investors assets ATS growth by product over the year to 31 january 2003 numbers change m change Investment Plan 9,188 7% 100 -17% PEP 19,101 -2% 538 -27% ISA 16,071 10% 143 2% Pension Plan 3,786 39% 76 23% Total 35,3355%857-19% These included 158m and 80m of stock in the Alliance Trust and the Second Alliance Trust respectively valued at 31 January 2003 Some investors have more than one Plan.
