directors report how the company works accountability and audit The Compliance Surveillance and Internal Audit Manager, financial reporting the external consultants and the statutory auditor have the The reviews on pages 2 to 11 give the directors opportunity to talk to the committee alone, outwith the assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The presence of all members of the executive.
They also have auditors statement is found on page 43. the opportunity to approach the chairman or other members of the audit committee directly at any time, or directors responsibility for call for a meeting of the committee to be convened.
the accounts The directors are required by law to prepare financial internal control and risk statements which give a true and fair view of the state of management affairs of the Group and the Company at the end of the It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is in financial year and of the revenue and cash flows for the place a sound system of internal control and to review the year.
In addition, the directors are responsible for ensuring effectiveness of this system.
that adequate accounting records are maintained, for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking The Board carries out an annual review of significant reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud business risks and considers the scope and effectiveness of or other irregularities.
the Companys system of internal control.
The Companys risk control procedures seek to identify both financial and The Company and the Group have, in the opinion of the non-financial risks which the businesses face in their directors, adequate resources to continue operation as a markets and operations.
The review takes into account the going concern for the foreseeable future, and the financial nature and extent of risks inherent in the Companys statements of the Company and the Group for the year activities, including any changes identified during the ended 31 January 2003 have been prepared on that basis.
The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies, course of the year, the extent and frequency of reporting consistently applied and supported by reasonable and to, and matters discussed by, the Board and its committees prudent judgements and estimates, have been used in their during the year, including those issues identified in reports preparation and that applicable accounting standards have received from the audit committee.
In addition to this been followed.
annual review, the Board keeps risk issues under scrutiny during the year and seeks to satisfy itself that awareness of audit committee and auditors risk is embedded into the Groups operations and that risks identified are being actively monitored.
William Berry, Bill Jack, Lesley Knox and, since his appointment in November 2002, Christopher Masters form The Board confirms that procedures, which accord with the audit committee.
Nelson Robertson was a member published guidance for directors on compliance with the until April 2002.
Bill Jack is the Chairman.
The committee Combined Code, have been in place for the year under operates under specific terms of reference and meets at review and continue to be in place.
These procedures least three times a year, including prior to the publication of ensure that, at both Board and management levels, the Groups interim and final results.
consideration is regularly given to the nature and extent of risks faced, or likely to be faced.
They also provide One meeting is dedicated to examining issues of internal mechanisms to assess whether further action is required to control.
At this meeting the committee considers reports manage the risks identified.
by the Compliance Surveillance and Internal Audit Manager, the annual internal audit and compliance plans and a report The Company seeks to manage the balance between risk by external consultants on the internal audit and and return in a prudent manner.
The balance achieved need compliance function.
The committee keeps under review not compromise rigorous compliance with statutory and both the scope, authority and resources of the internal regulatory provisions, or adherence to principles of good audit function and the provision, cost effectiveness and business management.
Although no system of internal objectivity of external audit services.
control can give an absolute assurance against 26
