1 CUSTOMER SECTOR GROUP REVIEW Aluminium 6 3 5 2 7 4 Miklos Salamon, President US$ million 1 Hillside Bayside South Africa 5 Alumar Brazil 2 Mozal Mozambique 6 Paranam Suriname Turnover 3 386 3 MRN Brazil 7 Valesul Brazil EBIT, excluding exceptional items 581 4 Worsley Australia Capital and investment expenditure 462 Net operating assets 5 095 Results Development activities Aluminium contributed Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT We have strengthened our position as one of the leading of US$581 million, up from US$492 million, an increase of low-cost producers of aluminium through the expansions at 18.1 per cent compared with the corresponding period.
The increase in EBIT was mainly attributable to improved On 7 April 2003, first metal was cast at Mozal II, five months operational performance resulting from reduced maintenance ahead of schedule.
The expansion will double the smelters costs, lower costs of consumables and increased production.
output to 506 000 tonnes per year of primary ingot.
Construction The weakening of the Brazilian real US$ exchange rate also had of the 132 000 tonne Hillside III project commenced in April 2002. a favourable impact on operating costs.
These factors were First metal production is expected late in calendar 2003, well partially offset by the unfavourable impact of the strengthening ahead of schedule.
of the rand US$ and A$ US$ exchange rates on operating costs HSEC and the effect of inflationary pressure on costs in South Africa.
Behavioural safety programs continue to drive improvement in Markets and operations our safety performance.
The classified injury frequency rate The aluminium market remained weak, reflecting the ongoing improved substantially, particularly for contractors.
Concerns about the rate of new smelter capacity targeting contractor performance at Mozal II achieved an additions weighed on market sentiment, despite the modest outstanding rate of improvement.
recovery in global demand from the low levels in calendar 2002.
Our environmental performance also improved, including The smelter-grade alumina market recovered strongly.
The spot reductions in greenhouse gas intensity and fluoride emissions.
alumina price more than doubled from US$140 per tonne in the A specific program at Bayside smelter achieved substantial second half of calendar 2002 to US$300 per tonne by mid-2003.
improvement in fluoride emissions from our Soderberg lines.
With industry utilisation at historically high levels and ongoing Outstanding results were achieved through our community expansion in smelting capacity, particularly in China, the development programs, particularly through our major prospects for alumina appear sound.
construction projects in southern Africa.
Aluminium production was 1 074 000 tonnes, compared with Malaria and HIV education and support work achieved 992 000 tonnes last year.
Production was higher across all encouraging results.
We also commenced a major program operations, with Hillside, Mozal and our Brazilian operations of baseline health studies.
reporting the most significant increases.
Hillside production Outlook increased to 534 000 tonnes due to its capacity creep program, Our focus continues to be on delivering the Mozal and last years completion of the pot re-lining program and nonHillside expansion projects in line with approved milestones.
recurrence of the September 2001 power outage.
The Brazilian A pre-feasibility study evaluating the expansion of the Worsley operations reached full production of 221 000 tonnes, recovering operations to 3.5 million tonnes per year has concluded and a from a government-enforced power rationing program the final feasibility study is expected to be completed early in previous year.
Mozals production increase to 134 000 tonnes was calendar 2004. mainly due to the start-up of the Mozal II expansion project.
We remain committed to continual cost improvements at our Alumina production increased from 3.9 million tonnes to operations through programs such as the Hillside and Worsley 4.1 million tonnes, due mainly to Alumars return to full capacity creep projects and other business improvement production after having been affected by the governments initiatives.
Worsley production was higher as a result of its capacity creep program.
12 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Taking a carefree ride is a breeze these days on a bicycle fashioned from strong, lightweight materials supplied by our Aluminium CSG.
It is so versatile: aluminium is used in a myriad of everyday items, including tennis racquets, softball bats, beverage cans, foil wrap, saucepans, cutlery, indoor and outdoor furniture, TV and radio components, refrigerators and airconditioners, as well as wires and cables, door and window frames, wall cladding, awnings and roofing.
Aluminium Left to Right Hillside III expansion project, South Africa Muchila Tomo Amisse, Casthouse Operator, Mozal, Mozambique Wally Malajczuk, Senior Mining Engineer, Boddington Bauxite Mine, Worsley, Australia BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 13
