directors report outlook In this section we discuss the threats and opportunities Employing our own staff which confront us in these particularly uncertain times.
and retaining our ability to investment companies respond to change will be The Company has faced major uncertainties many times in as vital in the future as its 115 year history, but it has been able to prosper with remarkably little change to the corporate structure on which they have been in the past it stands.
Unfortunately, the good reputation of investment trusts has been damaged recently by the problems of some of the split capital sector and, although we are not involved in the scandals, we are bound to be affected by regulatory changes proposed.
Proposals for greater disclosure of risks and exposures are sensible, but care needs to be taken where change could damage operational efficiency and investment flexibility.
Employing our own staff and retaining our ability to respond to change will be as vital in the future as they have been in the past.
alliance return and inflation our business over 100 years Our business can be considered as a combination of several elements.
We devote much time and resource developing these areas to achieve better investment performance, a better savings service, and a larger stockholder base whose objectives are well aligned with those of the Company.
Managing this requires many skills and we are continuing to build up a strong, dedicated team financed largely through revenue generated in Alliance Trust Savings.
Nevertheless, the cost of managing the Company itself, expressed as a percentage of net assets, has risen.
The expense ratio has increased, mainly because of our fixed cost base and the falling valuation, but is still about source: internal half of that of our principal competitors.
This is particularly important in times of low inflation and low returns.
investment The US economy remains the main engine of economic growth across the world and the US Dollar a vital element in global trade patterns.
Although economic recovery in the US has been disappointing so far, this has been partly due to a chain of events which has disrupted investment spending: September 11th, the spate of corporate scandals and, most recently, the surge in geopolitical concerns and prospects of war have all increased levels of uncertainty and reduced business confidence.
In the US a significant amount of fiscal and monetary stimuli has already been put into place and may be increased if necessary.
These should provide a considerable boost to activity once the geopolitical situation is resolved and the oil price stabilises.
4 Arguably, an unavoidable cost of the stimuli delivered to those who might otherwise pay higher rate tax on date has been the expansion of both the trade and budget investment returns.
We are continuing to lobby the deficits in the US, and this has put some downward Government on the issue.
However, this may help US exporters Pensions are also expected to change.
The Government win back some market share from their foreign competitors proposes to replace the eight current tax regimes with a and, by easing inflationary pressures elsewhere, should simplified one, in which each individual will be restricted to encourage other central banks, particularly the European a maximum lifetime fund value of about 1.4m.
In most Central Bank, to ease monetary policy further, providing a cases tax relief would be available on contributions up to much needed boost to global economic demand.
100% of earnings, individuals would be able to contribute While geopolitical uncertainty prevails, risk aversion will concurrently to occupational and personal pension funds remain high in both the corporate sector and amongst and the 25% tax free lump sum would remain.
The new regime is scheduled to start in April 2004 and, if long-term portfolio investors.
Although equity valuations implemented as proposed, is likely to alter radically the way have declined to more reasonable levels, there is a danger many individuals will conduct their financial affairs.
It is too that markets could remain subdued until these issues are early to predict the full implications, but we believe it could resolved.
However, it is encouraging that there remain be highly beneficial to ATS, whose Select Pension could be many companies with excellent management, strong cash a blueprint for the new regime.
flow and the potential for good profit growth, especially once a broader economic recovery is confirmed.
Our approach to investment is anchored to individual stock ATS ten year growth selection.
We do not change our holdings frequently and have, in recent times, held to an average holding period of a little under 10 years.
In order to maintain and develop our capacity for independent research and analysis of companies, we have built up our investment team which now numbers 18 active professionals with extensive investment experience.
We are well placed to cover the wide range of opportunities which are likely to arise worldwide over the next few years.
savings Through our subsidiary Alliance Trust Savings ATS the source: internal savings side of our business continues to invest in improving its service, particularly through Internet-based systems and by widening its distribution base.
investor relations Changes to the structure of the market for financial advice We run a comprehensive communications programme to and products in the UK should be beneficial to ATS's improve the external understanding of the Alliance Trusts operations and, given its innovative approach and low cost and to keep us in touch with the concerns and structure, it is in a strong position to deliver the products requirements of stockholders.
This involves seminars, visits which will be required in future.
and meetings with stockholders and related improvements For PEPs and ISAs, the Government does not seem in stockholder communications and PR.
The dialogue disposed to continue the repayment of dividend tax credits generated has been immensely helpful in bringing us closer after April 2004, which will make holding equities less to our stockholders and customers and we expect this effective than bonds in these products from a tax evolving programme to remain as a key component of our viewpoint.
However, ATS offers a very wide choice of overall strategy.
Details of the scheduled seminars for 2003 investments, including bonds, and its PEPs and ISAs should are given on page 47 and further information will be put on remain cost and tax efficient for most investors, particularly the web site - www.
