CUSTOMER SECTOR GROUP REVIEW Stainless Steel Materials 3 2 1 Chris Pointon, President US$ million 1 Samancor Chrome South Africa 2 QNI Yabulu Refinery Australia Turnover 1 106 Cerro Matoso Colombia 3 EBIT, excluding exceptional items 150 Capital and investment expenditure 121 Net operating assets 1 695 Results Development activities Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT excluding exceptional The Ravensthorpe Yabulu Extension project has moved into the items were US$150 million, compared with US$3 million in 2002, final feasibility study, which is due for completion by the end of an increase of US$147 million.
Environmental approvals for the Yabulu extension were received from Australian authorities.
This combined project Major factors contributing to the increase included higher will provide a low-cost, high-grade feed to Yabulu and realised prices for nickel and ferrochrome products, up significantly improve the competitiveness of QNIs operations.
28.6 per cent and 18.9 per cent respectively, and higher production volumes.
These were partially offset by the impact The Samancor Chrome restructuring program is continuing, of the strengthened Australian and South African currencies and with the focus shifting from the furnaces to the mines to increase higher energy costs.
Markets and operations HSEC Stainless steel production grew 7.9 per cent for calendar 2002, Our objective of Zero Harm remains our single greatest challenge despite continued weakness in the global economy and faltering and key focus.
In partnership with DuPont, safety management global industrial production.
Demand for primary nickel and evaluations and leadership training programs were completed at ferrochrome remained buoyant, reflecting the strong stainless all sites.
Overall safety performance improved, with reductions in steel growth and limited availability of scrap.
Nickel prices classified and total injury frequency rates.
Despite this, a continued their upswing from the cyclical low in late 2001, supervisor at our Samancor Chrome Ferrometals operation lost spurred by robust demand for stainless steel, particularly from his life in a tragic accident.
Investigations were completed, China, and a generally tight stock position.
Ferrochrome demand corrective actions implemented and lessons shared throughout has also increased but price improvement has not matched nickel the organisation.
due to the industrys ability to quickly restart idle production Environmental management has shown further improvement, capacity.
with a focus on the development and implementation of water Cerro Matosos ferronickel production of 46 900 tonnes was a and energy management plans.
new record as the ramp-up of Line II was completed.
QNI Yabulu Outlook Refinery built solidly on last years improved operating Although some short-term weakness is likely, growth in efficiencies with higher nickel and cobalt recoveries and the benefits of higher ore grades, and established a new annual underlying demand for stainless steel and committed expansions production record of 31 200 tonnes.
by our major customers make for a positive market outlook.
QNIs increased nickel production and favourable nickel prices With primary nickel production globally running at an estimated were offset by low cobalt prices and high energy costs due to 95 per cent of capacity and low stocks, continuing upward historically high oil and naphtha prices, by price-related nickel pressure on prices should be expected.
The strength of the ore supply costs and by an appreciating Australian dollar.
South African rand against the US dollar is expected to remain a key influence on ferrochrome profitability and price.
Samancor Chrome is benefiting from the impact of a restructuring program, higher capacity utilisation and improved The Ravensthorpe Yabulu Extension project studies are due to be prices.
However, these benefits were offset by the appreciating finalised within the next year, with development commencing if South African rand and higher inflation.
Our focus remains on enhancing our position as a supplier of quality raw materials to the rapidly expanding stainless steel industry, with continuously improving performance and reducing unit costs at all our operations.
22 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 The surgical instruments relied on by many doctors are made with nickel from our Stainless Steel Materials CSG.
It is also a key component in mobile phones, computer hard disks, colour TV tubes, whitegoods, vehicles and turbines.
Chrome is used in electrical appliances, bathroom and kitchen fittings, building cladding, and paint pigments, while you will find cobalt in videotape coatings, heating elements, magnets, jet engines and lithium batteries for mobile phones and laptop computers.
Stainless Steel Materials Left to Right Gordon Strambini, Turbine Operator, and Mark Kelly, Community Relations and Communications Co-ordinator, QNI Yabulu Refinery, Australia Fernando Sanchez, Electrical and Project Engineer, Cerro Matoso, Colombia BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 23 Health, Safety, Environment and Community HSEC Review We deliberately made HSEC part of our strategic framework, because we value our people and we recognise excellence in HSEC is good for our business.
Chip Goodyear, 2003 BHP Billiton is the worlds largest diversified resources company.
and we will continue to seek opportunities to improve.
The The long-term, stable nature of our business affords a number of development of Fatal Risk Control Protocols for nine key areas is advantages.
Within the HSEC arena, this stability translates into a significant step towards achieving this goal.
The Protocols, a capacity to plan for the longer term, while our diversification written by experienced teams drawn from across BHP Billiton, establish minimum performance requirements for managing risk allows us to transfer improvement and innovation across the in areas associated with the majority of our past fatalities.
We are also monitoring significant incidents, including fatalities, Central to our business, as our Charter states, is our overriding that occur from activities related to our business but are not commitment to health, safety, environmental responsibility and under our management control.
We have established processes sustainable development.
Supporting this value is our HSEC to learn from these incidents.
Policy, providing the framework for our aspiration towards Zero Environmental performance across the Company continued to Harm.
In practice, the Policy and Charter are implemented via be sound, reflecting our systematic approach to managing detailed HSEC Management Standards and Protocols, the environmental risk.
No significant environmental incidents were requirements of which must be met at all our operations.
recorded during the period i. e. incidents rated 3 or above on the The implementation of the HSEC Management Standards BHP Billiton Consequence Severity Ranking Table.
Furthermore, continues to progress well, with understanding and conformance in line with our target for sites to achieve certification against to the Standards improving.
The associated audit process for the the international standard for environmental management Standards is proving invaluable in accelerating the rate of ISO 14001, all sites requiring certification are now certified or improvement in all aspects of HSEC management through the have been recommended for certification by their ISO auditor.
identification and communication of leading practices.
Recognising that improving environmental performance will, in During the year, the Health, Safety and Environment Committee many cases, improve our financial returns, plans focusing upon of the Board continued to provide guidance in relation to the driving eco-efficiency gains have been developed at a majority effectiveness of HSEC management systems and strategies.
Members participated in a number of site reviews and audits, In line with our Policy, efforts have continued towards improving as well as acting in an advisory capacity for significant incident our engagement with our host communities.
relations plans are in place at 93 per cent of required sites To better understand and manage HSEC risks that are critical around the world.
to our business, risk registers are now in place at all required Our community contributions of 1.4 per cent of our pre-tax profit, operations and development sites, and at Customer Sector based on a rolling three-year average, once again exceeded the Group and Corporate levels.
With the implementation of the target of 1 per cent.
Many of these contributions support Enterprise-Wide Risk Management process, HSEC risks are now programs that focus on delivering sustained benefits in areas being embedded into core business systems and processes.
such as health, education and training.
No transgressions of the Improving health and safety performance continued to be a principles embodied within the United Nations Declaration of critical focus for the organisation.
Baseline health surveys were Human Rights were reported to have occurred within the Group completed at a majority of sites, incorporating the establishment during the year.
of occupational hygiene monitoring and health surveillance Some of our improvements in HSEC performance have been programs.
A 20 per cent reduction in our injury frequency rate realised through the application of the Operating Excellence was an excellent achievement during the year, reflecting business improvement methodology.
Many of these projects dedicated efforts to safety improvement.
However, we deeply have not only demonstrated HSEC gains, but also importantly regret that three people lost their lives in our controlled delivered sustainable business outcomes.
For example, an energy operations during the year.
efficiency project at EKATI has saved over one million litres of While the number of fatalities 3 in our controlled operations diesel usage per annum and contributed to a 21 per cent was significantly lower than last year 13, each death that occurs reduction in greenhouse gas intensity at that site.
Incorporation has a profound impact on our people and their families.
Our of HSEC into our strategic framework recognises that good HSEC performance delivers good business performance.
resolve to attain our goal of zero fatalities is stronger than ever 24 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Images reflecting our journey towards sustainable development During the year, we have been active in the International Council We have been delighted over the past year to receive external on Mining and Metals ICMM work program.
The ICMM was recognition for our performance in the areas of community established in 2001 as a global leadership body on sustainable partnerships, sustainable development and sustainability development.
An important part of the establishment process of reporting.
Notable events have included our inclusion in the Dow the ICMM has been the development of the Sustainable Jones Sustainability Group Index and the FTSE4Good Global Development Framework, a guiding set of principles, which all Index, and receipt of the Special Award in Environmental member companies have now endorsed.
A gap analysis of our Reporting at the Australasian Reporting Awards, the Banksia HSEC Management Standards and the Framework identified Award for Leadership in Sustainability in the Australian Minerals strong alignment in the majority of areas, with the exception of Industry, the Australian Prime Ministers Award for Excellence in community relocation and human rights training and guidance.
Community and Business Partnerships, and the Corporate As a result we have since committed to implement the World Partnership of the Year Award 2003 at The Australian Financial Bank Guidelines on Involuntary Resettlement and the UK-US Review Magazine Partnership Awards.
Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.
Internally, our HSEC Award program has been highly successful, In June 2003, we reaffirmed our commitment to the United with an increased number of applications received from across Nations Global Compact and associated principles.
The awards have proved to be invaluable in letter to the United Nations is available on our website at recognising excellence in HSEC and transferring those www.
While fully recognising the right of our improvement ideas throughout the organisation.
employees to freely associate and join trade unions, we have a Our full HSEC Report was prepared in accordance with the 2002 number of locations where we have a mix of collective and Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines.
This Report is available for individual arrangements.
Prospective employees are made aware download on our website at www.
A summary of employment arrangements prior to joining the Company.
At all of our HSEC Report is also available from the website or in hard times, our businesses comply with local employment law copy.
requirements and treat employees in accordance with the values Moving forward, our efforts continue to focus on improvement expressed in our Charter.
of HSEC performance, consistent with our belief that this is in the interest of all of our stakeholders.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 25
