1,555m Life achieved operating profit before tax.
8% Worldwide sales through bancassurance were up 8% at 3.5 billion.
Aviva plc 08 Long-term savings Long-term savings Aviva is strongly positioned as one of the largest life and pensions providers to Europe, with competitive businesses elsewhere around the world.
Our clear-sighted strategy is to achieve profitable growth by providing our customers with a choice of high-quality, value-for-money products through a variety of distribution channels.
Aviva plc 09 Long-term savings Delta Lloyd customers in the Netherlands can access a full range of information, products and services Market position via the internet, in addition to a choice of other Aviva is one of the leading life and methods, including the telephone, intermediaries and bancassurance.
We are the largest company in the UK long-term savings market and the Spanish life market.
We are also among the top five in the Netherlands, Ireland, Poland, Turkey and Singapore, among the top 10 in France, Italy, Belgium, Romania, Australia and India, and have significant operations in the United Long-term savings States and Germany.
The markets of Spain and Italy are dominated by the In 2003 Norwich Union regained its bancassurance channel, through which leadership position in the UK, with a over two-thirds of new business is Business strategy market share of over 12% in the third written.
In the developing markets of We continue to make excellent progress quarter and nearly seven million Central and Eastern Europe and China, and in many countries have customers.
Aviva also became the largest our primary method of distribution is strengthened our market position, life insurer in the Spanish market during through a direct sales force.
Our despite 2003 being a difficult year for 2003, having grown considerably over distribution mix continues to evolve long-term savings markets.
Avivas longthe past few years through our success as these markets develop.
term savings business including health with our bancassurance partners.
insurance accounts for 72% of our total Hibernian improved its position to Multi-distribution capability premiums.
Our strategy is to grow this become Irelands number three life and In the UK, independent financial advisers business aggressively and profitably.
pensions company, with a market share IFAs remain our main distribution of 11%.
We also established the channel, producing about 74% of We continue to see significant foundation for our important long-term sales, and we continue to develop opportunities to develop our business.
operations in India and China.
relationships with the largest IFA firms.
We have major positions in many In addition, we have developed a strong markets where governments are Distribution multi-distribution business through our encouraging individuals to save more for We have developed a strong multibancassurance agreement with The their retirement.
We have established distribution capability well suited to Royal Bank of Scotland Group, together operations and are building our market the preferences of customers in with other partnerships, including Tesco position where we see good medium to local markets.
Personal Finance and 20 building longer-term growth opportunities in the societies.
This capability positions us well large, relatively undeveloped markets of Independent advisers continue to as we look towards depolarisation of the Eastern Europe and Asia.
Our size, introduce the majority of our business, IFA market, when more advisers will efficiency and international brand enable providing about 48% of worldwide have greater freedom to sell products us to provide a choice of life insurance, sales.
Bancassurance has become an from a wider choice of providers.
pensions, savings and investment increasingly important source, products through a variety of distribution generating 25% of new business for channels to suit the needs of our the group.
Direct sales represent 23% Imaginative and prominent marketing has helped Aviva become a familiar name in India.
of the total, and partnerships with in more that 90 locations, selling innovative non-banking organisations provide the products through strong bancassurance remaining 4% of our business.
partnerships and a well-trained direct sales force.
Our strategy is to align our distribution model to the channels that dominate local market distribution.
In more developed markets, such as the UK, the There are excellent opportunities to Netherlands and France, we have a develop our strong positions in Europe multi-distribution model which enables and emerging markets through our us to meet customer demand for a multi-distribution capability Philip Scott, group executive director, wider choice of products sold in a variety Aviva life international of ways, including advice through Aviva plc 10 Long-term savings No.
1 in UK We reclaimed our leadership position with a market share of over 12% in the third quarter.
2003 Worldwide new business sales by distribution channels 1 Independent advisers 6,996m 1 2 Bancassurance 3,507m 4 3 Direct 3,355m 3 4 Partnerships with non-banking organisations 575m Total 14,433m 2 Similarly, Aviva France sells through a 2002 Worldwide new business sales by distribution channels mixture of distribution channels, 1 Independent advisers 7,092m 4 1 including tied agents, brokers, a salaried 2 Bancassurance 3,030m sales force, direct operations, a 3 Direct 3,725m partnership with AFER, the largest 4 Partnerships with non-banking organisations 799m Total 14,646m savings association in the country with 3 580,000 members, and our general insurance business, Aviva Assurances.
When it launches in October 2004, our 2 bancassurance partnership with Crdit du Nord will greatly strengthen our distribution mix.
The equally owned joint venture at the heart of the partnership In Ireland, Hibernian products are Bancassurance will enjoy access to the banks 1.3 million predominantly distributed by brokers Bancassurance is an important source customers for the sale of long-term and we aim to increase our market share of new business, having grown savings products.
Our main sales significantly over the past three years.
channel in Australia is independent In some countries, such as the UK Delta Lloyd has enhanced its multiadvisers, with our Navigator online and Netherlands, it forms part of our distribution capability in the Netherlands platform broadening our distribution multi-distribution mix: in others, through a bancassurance joint venture capability.
In the United States we have particularly Italy and Spain, it is the with ABN AMRO, selling life and general a network of 6,000 agents and brokers, dominant sales channel.
insurance products to over five million and have distribution agreements with potential customers through a network several leading banks.
Our partners in Italy UniCredito of 570 branches.
The arrangement Italiano, Banca Popolare di Lodi, Banca complements existing channels through In addition to these more developed delle Marche and Banche Popolari Unite, independent intermediaries using our businesses, we are also improving formerly Banca Popolare Commercio e Delta Lloyd operating brand and direct our multi-distribution capability in Industria provide 86% of our business through our OHRA brand.
in a market where bancassurance signed an agreement in February 2003 accounts for 76% of total sales.
Aviva is with MKB Nederland, the Dutch The majority of sales through our joint one of the most efficient providers in the organisation for small and medium-sized venture in India with Dabur Group come Italian bancassurance market, measured businesses, to advise on pension from bancassurance partnerships with by expenses as a proportion of schemes, which gives us a foothold in ABN AMRO, American Express, Lakshmi premiums.
one of our main target markets.
Vilas Bank and Canara Bank.
We also employ a direct sales force network of In Spain, bancassurance contributes 1,800 specialist financial planning over 96% of our new business sales.
advisers, and have launched Our partnerships already provide access an insurance broking business in to nine million customers across the partnership with Bajaj Capital, Indias country, and we see continued growth Pension reforms should create further premier financial planning and potential from our agreements with opportunities.
In addition, we expect investment advisory company.
Bancaja, Unicaja, Caixa Galicia, continued growth from our efficient Caja Espaa and Caja fide Granada.
Cesare Brugola, chief executive officer, In China, where we have a joint venture Aviva Italy with COFCO, we have applied for We continue to develop our licences to sell life and pensions products bancassurance partnerships with DBS in through banks and direct sales in Beijing Singapore and Hong Kong.
Our existing operation in a leader in the growing independent Guangzhou employs a sales force of adviser sector, building upon our around 2,000 people.
Aviva plc 11 Long-term savings Long-term savings continued Direct sales Business generated through direct sales forces, by phone and over the internet provides a valuable stream of income in many of the countries in which we operate.
"We continue to develop specialist direct sales forces as our main distribution method in Central and Eastern Europe, while looking for viable opportunities The customer service team at Aseval, our ""factory"" company in Spain, produces and administers to diversify distribution throughout products for our bancassurance operations, leading the region."
We made substantial progress on Customer service We also took further steps towards improving customer service through We believe that customer service is one ensuring our service is efficient and greater productivity in 2003. of the key areas where we can streamlined.
For example, in the Gary Withers, chief executive, distinguish our long-term savings Netherlands, Delta Lloyd introduced Norwich Union Life offering.
We recognise that recently in online pensions administration for its the UK we have not always done as well business customers via an internet facility in this area as we need to.
However we called Pension World, which allows are committed to raising our standards, employers to view and make and our service improved during the amendments to their own information.
We are developing solutions tailored to individual customer Performance preferences, making better use of Worldwide long-term savings technology to improve our service new business sales were stable at through banking channels, and are 14.4 billion 2002: 14.6 billion.
driving best practice across our business This was a good overall performance by sharing expertise groupwide.
by the group in difficult but improving market conditions.
Life and pension The substantial improvement in our new business sales were 13.3 billion performance in the UK is reflected in 2002: 13.6 billion, including a 3% Norwich Unions achievement of a threeincrease in continental European sales to star rating at the Financial Services 6.6 billion, mostly driven through Awards in November 2003, compared bancassurance.
Continental Europe new with a one-star rating the previous year.
business now accounts for almost half of We were also voted best life product our total life and pension sales and over provider in the Life & Pensions Money half of life achieved operating profit.
Facts Awards in March, and earned gold awards for the second consecutive year Pre-tax life achieved operating in the protection, investment and profit was 1,555 million 2002: pension provider categories of the 1,524 million, driven by higher new Financial Adviser IFA & Provider Awards business margins and higher operational in May.
Norwich Union Healthcare was profits from existing business, offset by awarded the accolade of best healthcare the impact of anticipated lower levels provider in the UK for the third of investment return on the lower asset successive year at the Money Marketing values at the beginning of the year.
The contribution to profits from new business sales amounted to 621 million We achieved similar successes in other 2002: 578 million.
In Ireland, for example, Hibernian earned the most improved company accolade in the Irish Brokers Association Service Excellence Awards.
Our customer service was also recognised in Spain and Italy, where Our French life business launched a successful we are among the most efficient and series of limited-offer products, such as Puissance 2, during 2003. lowest-cost providers.
From continuing operations, including share of associates premiums.
Aviva plc 12 Long-term savings ourselves who have the scale, brand and financial strength to develop new products, improve distribution and provide reassurance to customers as the Government seeks to reform pension provision and stimulate levels of personal saving.
We are well placed to benefit from a market upturn.
Our equity release business, which enables customers to free up capital Norwich Union continues to play a from their homes, continued its 6.6bn leading role in the debate over pensions strong growth with sales up 39% to UK life new business sales, including reform and product simplification.
We await the results of the fuelled by an ageing population, low Governments decision on price capping investment returns and house price of Sandler savings products.
Norwich Union is the UKs pricing must be based on a realistic largest equity release provider, with a charging structure to be economically market share of 43%.
In the appropriate circumstances, we intend to be a major player in UK life achieved operating profit was this market.
659 million 2002: 699 million, reflecting reduced investment returns on UK Total sales through our joint venture with lower asset values at the beginning of Norwich Union, our largest long-term The Royal Bank of Scotland Group were the year of 104 million, offset by the savings business, produces 45% of our 843 million 2002: 880 million, non-recurrence of a 123 million net total sales.
New business sales including reduced with-profit bond sales being charge for strengthening annuity investment products were 6.6 billion offset by encouraging sales of collective reserves in 2002.
2002: 7.4 billion, having stabilised investments introduced in February during 2003.
Further development of our We reduced our cost base, adjusted our in market volumes from mid-2002 products, increased sales force capacity product mix and realigned product arising from the effect on customer and technology improvements will commissions for IFAs.
Operational confidence of prolonged equity market underpin the growth of this business efficiency measures announced in 2003 falls.
We took early action to lead price and enhance cost-efficiencies in 2004. included a number of job reductions in increases in a number of product areas the UK.
Following a series of feasibility as we focused on improving margins.
Pension sales were lower at 2.6 billion studies in 2003, our intention is to 2002: 2.7 billion, reflecting reduced create about 700 call centre and Investment conditions have improved individual pension sales.
This was offset administrative jobs in India during 2004. and consumer confidence is building.
by good growth in our target sector of We expect a steady recovery in the UK larger group and corporate schemes, We maintained our financial strength in long-term savings market through 2004. with sales up 20% to 829 million.
We led the market in lowering We see the market consolidating Annuities continued to perform well with-profit bonus rates to protect the towards the larger players such as in a competitive market.
long-term interests of policyholders and ensure the continued financial stability Bond and savings sales were lower of our funds.
at 1.9 billion 2002: 2.8 billion, We have made good progress on our reflecting the poor investment climate distribution partnership with Crdit in which market demand for with-profit du Nord which will significantly bonds fell by 77% during 2003.
Unitreinforce our distribution strengths linked bonds sales increased significantly and contribute to our business benefiting from the relaunch of our development from the fourth quarter product range during the second half of of 2004.
2003, and we expect continued growth Bruno Rostain, chief executive, Aviva France in 2004.
Worldwide new business sales billion Life achieved operating profit million 1999 11.2 1999 1,455 2000 13.5 2000 1,533 2001 15.0 2001 1,665 2002 14.6 2002 1,524 2003 14.4 2003 1,555 Aviva plc 13 Long-term savings Long-term savings continued France Aviva France, our second-largest long-term savings business with some 1.6 million customers, reported total sales of 2.0 billion 2002: 1.9 billion.
This reflected underlying growth of 4% after excluding the protection business we sold to Mdric.
"Sales of single premium euro products Norwich Union Life aims to provide a ""one-stop"" through the AFER savings association telephone service for its customers and business increased to 1,157 million 2002: partners."
Paul Taylor pictured is a member of the 983 million.
In October we signed an helpdesk team in Sheffield.
agreement reaffirming our role as the insurer of AFER, and are optimistic about the future prospects for this important Italy sales channel.
Continued growth through our bancassurance network and one-off Sales of unit-linked and other savings direct sales of 187 million 2002: products were 779 million 2002: 126 million resulted in total new 699 million, despite an overall business sales in Italy up 16% to contraction of 15% in the unit-linked 1,453 million 2002: 1,133 million.
A successful series of limitedOperating profit was 70 million We are a strong, dynamic player in the offer products, featuring a one-year 2002: 52 million.
Dutch insurance industry, particularly guaranteed return followed by a choice now that we have a third distribution of long-term investment options at the Bancassurance sales accounted for channel through ABN AMRO Insurance end of the period, were launched during 1,245 million 2002: 964 million, Niek Hoek, chairman, Delta Lloyd the year, with the last of these sales or 86% of new business.
Pension being made during November 2003. reforms should create further opportunities for the private sector.
The Governments proposed reform of pension legislation is the first step in Spain opening up the French pension market.
New business sales in Spain increased to We intend to launch a new pensions 1,464 million 2002: 1,309 million, product later in 2004 and expect gradual including one-off sales of 149 million take-up as consumers adapt to longer- 2002: 177 million.
This reflected the term saving commitments.
continued success of our bancassurance partnerships, with sales of In difficult market conditions we 1,407 million 2002: 1,252 million continued our drive to contain operating accounting for over 96% of the total.
expenses while delivering growth in revenues, resulting in an operating profit Our performance also benefited from of 220 million 2002: 228 million.
the previously low level of life and pensions business sold in the market.
We have created an excellent formula.
Ireland With low interest rates holding back We have ambitious plans for business Hibernian reported total sales of sales of lower-margin traditional savings development to ensure Aviva remains a 250 million 2002: 343 million, products, our emphasis moved to permanent fixture as market leader which reflected continuing difficult higher-margin protection products in Gerardo Arostegui, chief executive, market conditions and non-recurring response to growth in the mortgage Aviva Spain sales in 2002 of the Governments market.
Operating profit was special savings incentive account.
Operating profit was 65 million 2002: 75 million.
Our approach in both Spain and Italy is to have a factory company producing Irish investors had little appetite for and administering products for our equity-related savings products as a bancassurance operations, which leads result of poor economic growth and to scaleable cost advantages.
The low stock market performance.
Strong sales running costs we have achieved in both of group pensions were offset by lower countries underpin the attractive margins demand for individual pension products.
In line with market experience, sales of the Irish Governments personal retirement savings account from April 2003 were slow.
Including share of associates premiums.
Aviva plc 14 Long-term savings The continued integration of ABN AMRO insurance business into our distribution model has resulted in additional opportunities to reduce our cost base through the planned use of a shared back office for all our operations.
Operating profit was 199 million 2002: 203 million.
815m Other European and international Continental Europe accounts for over half of the operations groups life achieved operating profit.
Total new business sales from our other European operations amounted to 239 million 2002: 225 million, reflecting continued testing economic conditions in Central and Eastern Europe.
Our operation in Turkey continues to progress positively, and we launched a personal pensions business in the fourth We are delighted by the strong quarter.
In Lithuania, where we have Sales in Singapore and Hong Kong performance of our new operations achieved a market share of almost 30% through our bancassurance partnership in South East Asia.
Our controlled for new life policies within two years of with DBS were 63 million 2002: growth strategy is working well starting the business, early sales of 121 million as we focused on Charles Anderson, managing director, pensions were also very encouraging.
higher-margin regular premium Aviva Asia Financial Services Owing to the prevailing economic savings business.
conditions in Poland, sales of individual life products remained challenging, Our joint venture life operations in India Netherlands, Belgium, although our new mutual fund business and China both made good progress in Luxembourg and Germany performed strongly, resulting in total their first full year of operation.
In India Delta Lloyd achieved a 15% increase sales of 174 million 2002: 92 million.
we began selling pension products and in total sales to 1,356 million 2002: introduced a new, affordable life 1,069 million.
This performance Life and pensions sales in our insurance product for people on lower was boosted by a contribution of International businesses were incomes in rural areas.
Total sales from 227 million from our new 853 million 2002: 952 million.
our joint venture were 9 million.
bancassurance partnership in the As fixed annuity sales slowed in the Our new joint venture in China Netherlands with ABN AMRO, which second half of the year, our business in produced total sales of 3 million.
under the terms of the agreement the United States reported sales of includes sales from 1 January 2003.
Outlook In Australia, life and pension sales were We are building a successful, costIntermediary and direct sales were 230 million 2002: 239 million.
effective long-term savings business that stable, reflecting tough conditions in Sales of unit trusts were 98 million we believe will continue to prosper in an the Dutch life market.
Significantly 2002: 267 million from our uncertain financial climate.
There are higher sales in Belgium saw us enter the Australian business.
excellent opportunities to develop our top 10 in the life market.
Sales in strong market positions in the UK, other Germany were 163 million 2002: European and emerging markets.
154 million, reflecting difficult We will continue to achieve profitable economic conditions which meant we growth by providing a range of highwere one of the first companies to quality, value-for-money products and reduce our profit share ratio to services through a choice of distribution guarantee long-term profitability.
channels, supported by high standards of customer service.
Our marketing and propositions team in Singapore see significant growth opportunities in the longterm savings market, where we continue to develop our bancassurance partnership with DBS and are a leader in the growing independent adviser sector.
Long-term savings premium income after reinsurance million 1999 13,470 2000 14,848 2001 17,590 2002 18,172 2003 19,035 Aviva plc 15 Long-term savings Fund management Avivas in-house fund management expertise is crucial to our business.
Our aim is to generate superior investment performance on behalf of our shareholders, policyholders and institutional clients.
Aviva plc 16 Fund management 1,141m 5.3bn Total retail investment sales.
New funded external mandates secured by Morley Fund Management.
Aviva plc 17 Fund management Worldwide assets under management billion 1999 208 2000 220 2001 209 2002 208 2003 240 Has not been restated for the effect of Financial Reporting Standard 19 Deferred Tax.
Fund management Performance Total retail investment sales rose 6% to 1,141 million 2002: 1,028 million, with increases in the UK, Netherlands and Poland.
Worldwide assets under management increased to 240 billion 2002: 208 billion, reflecting the benefit of Business strategy new business flows and improved Avivas in-house fund management investment markets.
Operating profit Once again, Aviva Gestion d'Actifs received leading industry awards for investment business aims to generate superior rose to 10 million 2002: 5 million, performance in France, including Corbeille fide investment performance for reflecting the partial recovery across Mieux Vivre Votre Argent and the Victoire des Sicav from La Tribune Standard & Poors.
shareholders, policyholders and global equity markets during 2003. institutional clients.
Our operations in the UK, France and the Netherlands Morley Fund Management support our long-term savings Morley Fund Management is a leading Morley also has one of the worlds businesses by investing funds on their UK-based institutional fund manager, largest and most experienced teams of behalf.
We are developing our presence with staff in London, Dublin, Boston, socially responsible investment fund as a leading international fund manager Melbourne, Singapore, Tokyo and managers and researchers.
In addition, through application of our investment Warsaw, and a presence in Milan we recognise our responsibility as a and research expertise.
major shareholder in the UK stock market and continue our commitment Market position Morley primarily provides fund to take an active interest in the Following continued volatility in the first management expertise for Aviva companies in which we invest, to protect half of 2003, global equity markets companies and leverages this capacity the rights of shareholders.
demonstrated greater stability during the through its own distribution channels in second half of the year, with share prices the UK and Europe.
During 2003 we Morleys achievements have been becoming less volatile and growing signs achieved greater efficiencies within the recognised in the investment market, of investor confidence as most markets business through increased centralisation and we received a number of awards finished the year higher than they of our international equity fund and nominations during the year.
For started for the first time since 1999. management expertise.
This included the example, Standard & Poors placed us Prospects for 2004 remain cautiously integration of Portfolio Partners in first in two sectors over five years for the optimistic.
Australia, and the move to London of Norwich European Equity Fund, and we our Asian equity fund management won the title of best property fund We are the second-largest UK-based operations from Singapore and the manager at the Pensions Management fund manager, among the top five in international equity fund management Provider Awards.
Ireland through Hibernian, the operation from Dublin.
Netherlands, and a top-five master trust New products launched in 2003 in Australia through Navigator.
We are developing our leading position included a European property fund and We also have a significant fund in the UK fixed income market, and a high-income property unit trust, both management business in France.
our European equities team continues reflecting the demand for propertyto deliver strong performance.
We related investment vehicles, and two invested more than 13 billion in UK hedge funds.
As markets recover, our focus will be property, and have developed a number on the core investment classes where of market-leading partnership we have superior expertise arrangements that offer investors Philip Twyman, group executive director, Aviva fund management access to specialist property sectors.
Aviva plc 18 Fund management We are setting up a ground-breaking investment administration service with JPMorgan Investor Services JPM IS.
The new service will combine Morleys operational experience and administration platform with JPMorgans administration infrastructure to form a new business service provided by JPM IS.
This agreement allows us to focus on our core capabilities the manufacture 56% and distribution of investment products Sales of investment fund products in the to our target European markets Netherlands were up 56% at 204 million while JPM IS will concentrate on 2002: 119 million.
Morley secured 3.9 billion of new funded external mandates 2002: 3.7 billion from its combined institutional and retail UK-based businesses.
In addition, it secured 0.7 billion of new funded external mandates for its property partnership Other UK Netherlands and Belgium vehicles, 0.5 billion from overseas In addition to mutual fund sales under Delta Lloyd is among the leading fund operations and 0.2 billion in respect the Morley brand, we sell retail Isas, managers in the Netherlands.
Continued of pooled pension business.
unit trusts, open-ended investment strong demand for investment products, companies Oeics and structured healthy fund performances and thirdMorleys operating profit of 3 million products under the Norwich Union party distribution arrangements 2002: 4 million for its combined and Royal Bank of Scotland Group contributed to increased assets under institutional and retail UK-based RBSG brands.
management of 34 billion 2002: businesses was a good result in 27 billion.
Total investment sales uncertain markets and reflects active Sales through Norwich Union were increased 56% to 204 million management of the underlying cost 577 million 2002: 556 million.
Within the group results are profits The operating loss of 3 million 2002: of 6 million relating to other Morley loss of 16 million benefited from Navigator businesses including our pooled pension changes to commission charges.
Navigator is a top-five master trust and business and overseas operations.
Assets one of Australias largest investment under management for the global Our new collective investment portfolio administration services, with operations rose to 121 billion.
joint venture with RBSG produced 3.5 billion of funds under sales of 103 million.
New sales in 2003 of loss was 6 million 2002: nil, 617 million 2002: 797 million predominantly arising from 7 million reflected investor sentiment in equity of development costs.
markets, although sales showed some improvement in the second half of the Our new, pioneering investment France year.
Sales from our Navigator business administration service with JPMorgan Aviva Gestion dActifs has an enviable in Singapore were 8 million 2002: nil.
Investor Services will allow us to reputation for strong investment In November, Navigator added a number focus on our core capabilities the performance, with over 70% of our of new funds to enhance the range of manufacture and distribution of funds in the top quartile for returns investment choices available to financial investment products to our target over three years.
European markets Keith Jones, chief executive, Our excellent investment performance Outlook Morley Fund Management was once again widely recognised in the We will build on the good progress financial press.
Awards won in 2003 made in 2003 by continuing to improve included best asset manager over five our investment performance and years from monthly financial magazine increasing our sales revenue as markets Mieux Vivre Votre Argent, and best slowly recover.
Our focus will be on performance over three years among those core investment classes where asset managers with a large range of we have superior expertise and which funds from La Tribune Standard & Poors.
satisfy the needs of our customers For the second successive year, we and partners.
received the gold Lauriers award from Investir Magazine for our unit trust performance over five years.
We have 36 billion of assets under management, most of which are invested on behalf of our own This prestigious high street retail property, 139-153 operations, and recorded an operating Grainger Street, Newcastle, was purchased by the Morley Pooled Pensions Fund in September 2003. profit of 13 million 2002: 11 million.
Aviva plc 19 Fund management General insurance We take a focused approach to general insurance, with disciplined underwriting, efficient claims handling and rigorous control of costs.
These strengths enable us to deliver good-quality earnings and give us a solid platform to provide high-quality service, increase access to our customers and broaden our range of propositions.
Aviva plc 20 General insurance 1.6m 100% In 2003 we helped 1.6 million UK customers get An excellent combined operating ratio from their lives back to normal following an incident.
continuing operations, improved for the third consecutive year.
Aviva plc 21 General insurance We are the second-largest insurer in Canada, with a 9% market share, and are among the top five in the Netherlands and Singapore.
We have a significant business in France, serving 1.2 million customers.
We also have an extensive insurance network in Asia, where we operate across seven countries in addition to Singapore.
Our philosophy demands that we Wildfires in British Columbia, Canada, resulted in thousands of people being evacuated from their achieve market-leading positions and homes in August.
Aviva claims staff were superior returns.
As a result, we closed mobilised to offer on-the-spot help.
Marketing representative Scott Preston described the scene or disposed of small-scale operations in including helicopters, air tankers and hundreds of Portugal, Greece, Malta, Switzerland firefighters as mind-numbing and surreal.
Multi-distribution capability General insurance Part of our strength lies in our balanced distribution approach, enabling customers to conduct business with us 911m through a choice of methods to suit Excellent general insurance operating profit from their needs.
Business strategy In the UK we have strong positions Rigorous cost control, disciplined across the broker, corporate partner underwriting and excellent customer and retail direct channels.
Among service are at the core of our general developments in 2003 was our new insurance business.
We aim to deliver three-year partnership with ASDA to high-quality earnings from our marketprovide personal motor, home and travel leading positions in personal insurance insurance products to the supermarket We also have an integrated approach in and selected commercial lines.
We have the Netherlands, with intermediary also announced the closure of our business sold through Delta Lloyd and Our sustained profitability gives us a national broker subsidiary, Hill House direct business through OHRA solid platform from which to deliver Hammond HHH, by the end of 2004, augmented by sales through our new high-quality service, strengthen our and the sale of its commercial business.
bancassurance relationship with ABN relationships with our customers and Personal lines customers will be invited AMRO.
To support intermediaries and broaden our range of propositions.
to transfer to Norwich Union Direct.
We direct customers, Delta Lloyd specialists Our range of distribution channels and remain committed to the broker from general insurance work in a new balanced portfolio of products and channel, which accounts for 59% of our shared service centre.
In addition, services enable us to react flexibly to sales, but this move will allow us to intermediaries have access to changing market conditions and to meet respond to the increasing preference of administrative processes via our Meeting customer needs.
By investing for the our personal lines customers to deal with Point website, which saw the number of future, we ensure that we can deliver us directly.
connections tripled and the number of innovative solutions to our customers online sales doubled.
and sustain our excellent performance.
In France we operate through Aviva Assurances, which sells through a While the Irish market remains Market position network of 910 tied agencies, and dominated by traditional brokers, Aviva is the leading general insurer in Eurofil, the second-largest direct Hibernian is expanding its direct the UK, where Norwich Union has a insurance business in the French market.
capability and recorded a 20% increase 14% market share, and in Ireland, Our partnership with Crdit du Nord, in direct policies in force since the where Hibernian has a 22% share through which we have been selling car prior year.
and household insurance since September 2002, has proved a growing Aviva Canada, which sells a broad source of business for Eurofil.
range of traditional products through a network of independent brokers, launched its first corporate partner We have demonstrated our ability relationship with Loblaws, Canadas to deliver consistent earnings in largest supermarket chain, under a rapidly changing market the highly regarded Presidents Patrick Snowball, group executive director, Aviva general insurance Choice brand.
In Asia we augmented our traditional broker distribution network with a bancassurance partnership to market our products to HSBC customers in Malaysia.
Aviva plc 22 General insurance General insurance net written premiums from continuing operations million 1999 7,699 2000 8,356 2001 7,850 2002 7,805 2003 8,524 The premium discount we have Customer offering introduced for drivers with penalty Customer satisfaction is key to our points-free licences is part of our strategy.
We continue to deliver higheffort to change and improve quality service, fair prices and innovative behaviour on our roads solutions.
Bryan Jenkins, chief executive, Hibernian Our success is evident from the result of independent benchmarking in the UK, which places us in industry-leading positions in most areas of service delivery.
In 2003 we helped 1.6 million UK customers get their lives back to normal following an incident.
Norwich Our ability to provide customers with Union Insurance was named UK general the solutions they need is further insurer of the year at the Insurance demonstrated in the UK by the rapid Times Awards in December, and growth of Norwich Union Rescue, our collected the service provider of the vehicle breakdown service, and the year and insurance provider of the year successful launch of Physiofast, our addtitles at the Insurance Age Awards on to motor policies offering fast-track in November.
Our size enables us to pass on many benefits Key to our strategy is increasing the arising from economies of scale directly Our Quote Me Happy advertising campaign range of services that we offer beyond to our customers.
For example, we offer in the UK underlined our ability to provide insurance, and providing solutions that car purchasing and leasing through competitively priced products, reflecting are increasingly tailored to individual yournucar.
com and the opportunity our values of integrity and progressiveness.
We continue to to buy electrical goods via invest in the development of innovative norwichunion.
com solutions such as digital flood mapping TM, both of which and Pay As You Drive In France, Aviva Assurances continued to will enable us to understand build on its competitive advantages of underwriting risks better and tailor prices quality of service and proximity to the more closely to individual circumstances.
We continue to make good TM is currently in its trial Pay As You Drive use of internet technology, with phase, with this new approach to motor broadband connections having been set insurance being piloted with a limited up at each agency and a dedicated number of customers prior to wider portal made available to give agents marketing.
In conjunction with Norwich swift and easy online access.
Union Insurance, Hibernian plans to TM technology pilot Pay As You Drive Our standards of customer service were in Ireland in 2004. put to the test in Canada when we responded to the fires in British Columbia in August.
We were the first insurer to have staff on the scene, and introduced temporary mobile claims offices to provide an on-the-spot service.
Our Canadian staff also made great efforts to maintain normal service following a massive power cut earlier in the same month.
Aviva plc 23 General insurance General insurance continued We continue to improve efficiency and invest in product development initiatives to maintain our market-leading positions and sustain our operational performance in the future.
Our call and claims processing centre in India became operational during the year.
This will deliver cost and service benefits to our UK business, while the expertise gained is being shared across the group.
For example, Aviva Canada aims to use the Indian claims processing centre to support expected growth from its new corporate partnership with 97% Loblaws.
We expect to create about Hibernian, our market-leading general insurance 1,800 jobs in India in 2004 to service our operation in Ireland, reported a COR of 97% general insurance operations.
We have made announcements regarding job reductions in the UK during the year, some of which arose from an internal operational efficiency Performance review.
As a result of the closure of The personal lines market remains Market conditions continued to be HHH, a further 1,600 jobs will be lost in competitive, with net premiums written competitive during 2003.
Our focused 2004, though some 400 staff will be of 2,987 million 2002: 2,811 million.
approach to disciplined underwriting, redeployed in our UK operations.
However, we continue to increase our pricing, efficient claims handling and In addition, we will create over 450 new rates, and our focused approach to rigorous cost control has enabled us to jobs in the UK to help handle the pricing and cost control means that our benefit from our size and strength in our personal business transferred from HHH.
We delivered a firstlines performance was excellent, with class operational performance for the UK net premiums written of 2,148 million third consecutive year as a favourable Norwich Union Insurance in the UK 2002: 1,929 million.
We have led rating environment persisted in produces 60% of Avivas general the commercial market in achieving commercial lines while personal lines insurance business sales.
Our marketsustained rating increases and volume continued to be competitive.
leading position is based upon a proven growth in our target markets.
We are business model designed to achieve committed to achieving profitable Our success was reflected in an excellent consistent and sustainable performance.
growth in both personal and combined operating ratio COR of Our results are underpinned by a commercial lines.
100% 2002: 102%, underpinned by commitment to deliver customer strong performances in the UK and satisfaction, combined with profitable France Ireland.
COR, which broadly expresses growth, in an increasingly competitive Aviva France achieved an operating the total of claims costs, commission and market.
profit of 35 million 2002: 47 million, expenses as a percentage of premiums, despite the floods in December and is one of our key performance measures.
Our strategy has delivered an excellent lower longer-term investment returns.
An excellent operating profit of COR of 99% 2002: 101% and we Net premiums written were up at 911 million 2002: 881 million was are confident that we can deliver a 515 million 2002: 478 million.
helped by better-than-expected weather target COR of 100% over each of the conditions, offset by anticipated lower next three years.
Our operating profit of We also achieved a COR of 102%, longer-term investment returns.
676 million 2002: 611 million was reflecting our focus on personal and Worldwide net premiums written achieved from net premiums written of small commercial business, where we were 8.5 billion 2002: 7.8 billion.
have a strong presence in the motor, household and health markets.
The increased use of approved repair networks has helped us to keep costs down while ensuring a high standard of service and a quicker claims handling process for our customers.
Our shared telephone-based claims platform, used not only by Eurofil but also by some Aviva Assurances agents, handled motor cases for the first time in 2003, in addition to household claims.
Our ability to provide customers with solutions beyond insurance is demonstrated by the rapid growth of Norwich Union Rescue, our UK vehicle breakdown service.
Aviva plc 24 General insurance Ireland General insurance operating profit before tax from continuing operations million Net premiums written of 611 million 2002: 377 million and an excellent 1999 444 operating profit of 91 million 2002: 2000 330 44 million reflected the impact of 2001 876 significant rating increases, markedly 2002 881 lower motor claims and better-thanexpected weather-related claims for 2003 911 Hibernian, which provides cover for motor, household and small commercial business.
Our Canadian claims operation uses Against a backdrop of the Irish Governments commitment to reduce total incident management systems insurance costs, in November we devised by Norwich Union in the UK to introduced a 10% premium discount for streamline processes, reduce costs by motorists with no penalty points on their using preferred supplier networks, and driving licences.
We also offer reduced improve customer service.
premiums to those who complete our Ignition driver training programme.
Outlook In addition we are using technology to We have demonstrated our ability to help contain costs.
Hibernians e-Claims deliver consistent earnings in a rapidly project has implemented automated changing market.
We have consistently claims processing for all our business Canada kept our performance promises, in Ireland.
In Canada, the groups second-largest including significant savings following general insurance operation, our COR the group merger in 2000 and a COR Netherlands was 108% 2002: 102% and operating maintained at under 102%.
Our new In the Netherlands, Delta Lloyd achieved profit was 12 million 2002: 80 group combined operating ratio target is an operating profit of 35 million 2002: million after strengthening prior year 100% for each of the next three years.
13 million on net premiums written reserves by 70 million in Pilot, one of of 563 million 2002: 412 million.
We have increased our Through our clear strategy we are Our COR was 101% 2002: 105%.
rates to align them more closely with our creating opportunities to broaden our claims experience.
earnings stream, both in our core We introduced several health insurance insurance offering and through wider schemes to help employers reduce staff Concern over motor insurance costs is a propositions.
Our scale and trusted absences.
Sales of a new car insurance major issue in Canada and has resulted brand can be used, wherever we product with an innovative pricing in a challenging regulatory environment, operate, to deliver sustained competitive structure were successful.
A new with several provinces introducing rate advantage and long-term growth.
buildings and contents product was reductions or freezes.
In response, we also launched, with distinctive features have lobbied local government to including competitive premiums, impose limits on court awards for bodily simplified terms and a guarantee against injury claims, so that we can continue to under-insurance.
We met our targets operate profitably in these markets.
for improvements to margins and operational cost-effectiveness, which provides us with a sound base for future profitability.
There is no question our new agreement with Loblaws represents an excellent growth opportunity for Aviva.
This is just the beginning Igal Mayer, president and chief executive officer, Aviva Canada Our Ignition driver training programme in Ireland, which offers reduced premiums to inexperienced drivers, won an international road safety award in 2003.
Aviva plc 25 General insurance Community investment We are committed to supporting community activities and charitable 4.6m causes worldwide.
In 2003 we donated In 2003 we donated some 4.6 million to various some 4.6 million to various initiatives, community initiatives.
according to Business in the Communitys PerCent standard, which in addition to cash recognises gifts in kind, employee time and 1st Corporate social management costs.
Innovest placed Aviva first for CSR performance responsibility among the world's leading insurers for the second Besides making financial donations, consecutive year.
Aviva encourages staff volunteering to support charities.
In 2003, Aviva Australia and Morley Fund Management launched staff volunteering schemes allowing employees to take paid leave Aviva continues to develop its to participate in company-sponsored corporate social responsibility CSR volunteering programmes.
These Union Polska has also set up a staff activities now cover some 98% of community volunteering scheme, which staff worldwide and reflect our the company supports by matching responsibilities as an insurer, volunteers with organisations and employer, investor and consumer.
Payroll giving and matched funding provide other CSR focuses on managing performance opportunities for staff to support Employees in respect of the environment, charitable causes.
We believe that our employees are a community, employees, health and safety, source of competitive advantage, and human rights, standards of business In the UK, Norwich Union continues we encourage and support them in the conduct, suppliers and customers.
to invest in UK Athletics grassroots workplace and in their personal careers.
development programmes, which enable Our group development programmes Environment children of all ages to experience continue to encourage and develop Our environment programme continues athletics and help tackle the growing talented staff for future roles, and help to build on the foundations laid in 1998. problem of obesity among the young.
to bring the company together by We measure, monitor and seek to Further, Norwich Union has entered a building mutual understanding and improve performance in all the areas five-year partnership with NCH, the international networks.
where we have a significant impact on childrens charity, which also offers the environment.
We are also keenly aware of our responsibilities as an equal opportunity For example, 86% of the electricity we employer.
Our commitment was use in the UK comes from renewable recognised in October 2003 when Aviva sources.
Our businesses in the UK, was ranked eighth for reporting on France, Ireland, Canada and the disability in the workplace in the Netherlands include environmental Employers Forum on Disability global performance questions in their supplier inclusion benchmark.
Our CSR programme continues to Change is continually with us in the become more firmly embedded in our modern business environment.
The way business and to deliver clear benefits in which we manage all our business Anthony Sampson, director of corporate change initiatives is guided by the social responsibility Gyllenhammar framework on managing change.
We manage structural change through detailed planning, the early involvement of those affected and, where job losses are unavoidable, by looking for alternative employment opportunities to minimise the personal and social impact.
Aviva plc 26 Corporate social responsibility In connection with the movement of some operational activities to India, we have taken great care to look after the career interests of the UK staff involved.
We have taken account of opportunities for local redeployment or relocation across our UK businesses, and have offered support for re-skilling and life long learning.
In India, we have also been rigorous in our selection of Our partnership with childrens charity NCH in partners with reputations as good the UK provides opportunities for staff corporate citizens.
We work only with teambuilding while making a difference to the those who have transparent policies on community, including this garden makeover at Kings Lynn, Norfolk.
recruitment, progression and procurement, and who have a demonstrable track record in gender equality and a total absence of religious We are delighted to be working with discrimination.
Working with others one of the UK's leading children's Aviva is keen to work with others to charities, NCH, to help us support, Managing customer relations develop further understanding of CSR.
educate and build confidence in the Our businesses are committed to We continue to chair the Forge group UK's most vulnerable young people providing our customers with a service of banks and insurers in the UK, which David Czerwinski, head of sponsorship, hallmarked by integrity, quality and care.
is developing guidance on practices community and event management In Ireland, Hibernians pioneering and behaviours that enhance public products such as Ignition for trust and the development of key CSR inexperienced drivers and RiskASyst performance indicators for the for commercial customers are both financial services sector.
examples of how our businesses innovate to meet customer needs.
In the We have also been instrumental in UK, Norwich Union Insurances ground setting up a UK forum for UN Global breaking digital flood mapping helps to Compact signatories, of which Aviva is link premiums more accurately to one, to develop understanding and individual risk.
practice in embedding the nine principles of the Compact covering External assessment human rights, labour and the Avivas CSR programme continues to be environment.
ranked favourably by specialist research agencies and investment houses.
Further details A copy of the printed summary CSR For the second consecutive year, report is available from the group Innovest has placed Aviva first for CSR company secretary.
The full annual CSR performance among the worlds leading report is available on the group website insurers.
We are still the only UK insurer at www.
com csr included in both the Dow Jones Aviva is included in the DJSI World and STOXX indices and is also a member of the FTSE4Good Sustainability World and STOXX indices.
Aviva is also a member of the FTSE4Good index series.
Aviva plc 27 Corporate social responsibility Key financial objectives Target 2003 2002 2001 1 Return on Capital Employed ROCE 10% inflation 12.7% 9.7% 11.1% 2 COR 102% 100% 102% 103% Proposed ordinary dividend per share increase by around 5% pa 24.15p 23p 38p 3 Dividend cover 1.5-2.0x 1.82x 1.51x 1.07x From continuing operations excluding the results of our Australia and New Zealand general insurance operations which were disposed of in December 2002.
Calculated using after-tax returns and opening equity capital, based on operating profit, including life achieved profit, before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items.
Combined Operating Ratio COR expresses the extent to which expenses and claims cover insurance premiums.
It is the sum of expenses, including commissions, expressed as a percentage of net written premiums, and claims as a percentage of net earned premiums.
Measured on operating earnings after tax, on a modified statutory solvency basis, expressed as a multiple of the ordinary dividend for the year.
Operating profit figure 1 Achieved basis MSSB basis 2003 2002 2003 2002 Year ended 31 December m m m m Pre-tax operating profit, before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items Financial review Life achieved profit 1,555 1,524 Life modified statutory solvency profit 1,138 1,022 Health 61 61 61 61 Introduction Fund management 10 5 10 5 General insurance 911 881 911 881 Business news in 2003 was dominated Non-insurance operations 64 99 64 99 by concerns about the reliability of Corporate costs 160 218 160 218 company accounts, controls and risk Unallocated interest charges 406 434 406 434 management systems, and corporate Continuing operations 1,907 1,720 1,490 1,218 governance.
In my comments below Taxation on operating profit, minorities I will show that Aviva operates under and preference dividends 709 631 499 434 strong corporate governance principles Operating profit which are supported by strict including life achieved operating profit 1,198 1,089 including modified statutory solvency profit 991 784 management disciplines.
I will also Operating earnings per share highlight our more important financial achieved profit basis 53.2p 48.3p measures of performance.
modified statutory solvency basis 44.0p 34.8p Proposed ordinary dividend per share 24.15p 23.0p 24.15p 23.0p Developments in the year The wealth management result has been included within non-insurance result in all periods.
Our major focus in the year has been Operating profit before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items after tax, attributable to equity shareholders on reducing costs and improving in respect of continuing operations.
The modified statutory solvency operating earnings is also stated before the amortisation of acquired additional value of in-force long-term business.
The benefit to the From continuing operations.
profit and loss account for the year from cost savings was 65 million.
In addition we enhanced our capital The UK insurance industry is entering a Performance management position through our highly successful period of unprecedented change, with Key financial objectives 1.6 billion subordinated debt issue in further developments in regulatory, The group strategy is underpinned by September.
This issue was significantly solvency capital and corporate the following key financial objectives: oversubscribed due to high demand governance requirements.
This is in from investors.
addition to the requirement to report Prudent and reliable financial under International Financial Reporting management systems: Standards IFRS for financial years starting 1 January 2005 onwards.
Delivering an after-tax operating profit, including life achieved profit, We welcome many of these changes as equivalent to a 10% net real return we believe they will enhance corporate on opening equity capital: accountability, improve transparency and increase the prospects for stable financial Maintaining a dividend cover between markets, albeit at a significant cost.
1.5 and 2.0 times based on statutory Aviva is well-advanced in its preparations after tax operating profits: and for these new requirements, with strong corporate governance principles already Achieving a combined operating ratio being integral parts of the groups COR, on general insurance business, Philip Twyman Group Executive Director operating model.
of 102% across the underwriting cycle.
In anticipation of these changes we have Basis of preparation invested 60 million into our global The accounts have been prepared on finance transformation programme the modified statutory basis, with during the year.
The group will continue supplementary information using the to make a significant investment in this achieved profit basis.
The main programme over the next two years to difference between the two methods is 2005 to improve the quality and that the achieved profit basis measures effectiveness of our global finance the economic profit on insurance systems and processes.
contracts at the point of sale, whereas the Aviva plc 28 Financial review modified statutory basis measures profits Our operating profit has increased as a The directors and many of our investors that can be distributed to shareholders.
continue to believe that shareholders result of a very strong performance from funds incorporating internally-generated our life and general insurance operations The modified statutory solvency basis AVIF present a more realistic view of notwithstanding the lower contribution of reporting is required by statute.
We have therefore included an to operating profit from investment The statutory operating profit excludes achieved profit basis summarised returns.
Investment returns in 2003 were amortisation of goodwill, amortisation consolidated balance sheet within the lower than 2002 by 188 million in of acquired additional value of supplementary information section of respect of our life, general insurance and in-force long-term business and these accounts.
This combines the health businesses, as a result of lower exceptional items.
modified statutory basis net assets asset values at the start of the year.
In November 2003, the Association of Modified statutory operating profit British Insurers ABI issued a revised All growth rates in the financial review see figure 1 version of its Statement of are quoted at constant rates of exchange.
On a modified statutory basis operating Recommended Practice SORP on profit before tax from continuing accounting for insurance business.
Accounting policies operations showed a 17% improvement This takes effect for accounting periods Other than the change in balance sheet to 1,490 million 2002: 1,218 million.
beginning on or after 1 January 2004. reporting arising from adopting the ABI The directors have chosen to adopt SORP early, there have been no The improvement in modified statutory the SORP early, from 1 January 2003. significant changes in accounting policies operating profit benefited from higher Its main effect is to exclude internallyrequired for the preparation of the life profits driven primarily by strong generated additional value of in-force 2003 accounts.
results from our European businesses, long-term business AVIF from the particularly France, Spain and Poland modified statutory basis balance sheet.
Life achieved operating profit and the excellent general insurance see figure 1 underwriting performance.
The group continues to report The groups operating profit before tax supplementary information using profits from continuing operations, including Profit and loss account measured on an achieved profit basis as life achieved profit, was up 6% to achieved profit basis see figure 2 the directors believe this more closely 1,907 million 2002: 1,720 million.
The strong operational performance and reflects the performance of a long-term positive long-term investment return savings business than that measured on This profit corresponds to an variances of 766 million 2002: negative a modified statutory basis.
Accordingly, improvement in the normalised post-tax variance of 3,504 million and the these financial accounts include return from continuing operations on impact of economic assumption changes supplementary information on achieved opening equity capital to 12.7% 2002: of 11 million 2002: loss of 561 million profit reporting on pages 102 to 110 9.7%.
This continues the steady resulted in a profit on ordinary activities and the groups incentive schemes and increase in total return on equity capital before tax of 2,507 million 2002: internal management reporting are achieved over the last four years.
This reflected the aligned to that basis.
impact of the partial recovery across global equity markets on the groups life embedded value.
Profit loss attributable to equity shareholders figure 2 Achieved basis MSSB basis The tax for the year included a charge of 2003 2002 2003 2002 Year ended 31 December m m m m 561 million 2002: 531 million in Profit loss for the financial year respect of the operating profit from attributable to equity shareholders continuing operations.
The effective rate Pre-tax operating profit, including life achieved of tax on life achieved operating profit operating profit 1,907 1,720 was lower at 29.4% 2002: 30.9%.
Pre-tax operating profit, including modified statutory life operating profit 1,490 1,218 Discontinued operations Australia Profit for the year attributable to equity and New Zealand general insurance 78 78 shareholders improved significantly to 1,907 1,798 1,490 1,296 1,625 million 2002: 2,062 million Amortisation of goodwill 103 135 103 135 loss.
Earnings per share attributable to Amortisation of acquired additional value of in-force long-term business 135 139 equity shareholders reflected this Operating profit before tax 1,804 1,663 1,252 1,022 improvement and was higher at Short-term fluctuation in investment return 212 1,243 72.2 pence 2002: loss per share Variation from longer-term investment return 766 3,504 91.5 pence.
Effect of economic assumption changes 11 561 Change in the equalisation provision 49 57 49 57 The retained profit for the year after Net loss on the disposal of subsidiary undertakings 6 4 6 4 ordinary dividends was 1,080 million Exceptional costs for termination of operations 19 19 2002: 2,581 million loss.
Profit loss on ordinary activities before tax 2,507 2,463 1,390 282 Tax 753 451 367 206 Profit loss on ordinary activities after tax 1,754 2,012 1,023 488 Profit and loss account modified Minority interests and preference dividends 129 50 91 63 statutory basis see figure 2 Profit loss for the financial year The group reported a profit on ordinary attributable to equity shareholders 1,625 2,062 932 551 activities before tax on a modified Ordinary dividends 545 519 545 519 statutory basis of 1,390 million 2002: Retained profit loss 1,080 2,581 387 1,070 282 million loss.
The improvement Earnings per share attributable to equity shareholders arose primarily as a result of the surplus achieved profit basis 72.2p 91.5 p of 83 million 2002: 1,184 million modified statutory solvency basis 41.4p 24.4 p Pre-tax operating profit before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items, in respect of continuing operations.
shortfall in the actual investment return The modified statutory solvency operating earnings is also stated before the amortisation of acquired additional value compared to the groups longer-term of in-force long-term business.
This arises from the Aviva plc 29 Financial review Cost savings see figure 3 Our expense saving initiatives are One of our key objectives for 2003 has expected to deliver total estimated been to focus on reducing costs and to annualised savings of 250 million.
In The net pre-tax benefit to the profit and 2003 we have announced and taken loss account in 2003 was 65 million actions to reduce our cost base through after bearing one-off costs of 66 million a series of initiatives.
We have increased representing the costs associated with hurdle rates on new developments achieving these savings and the and internal projects.
incremental cost of our global financial transformation programme of 34 million.
The following table summarises the benefit to the profit and loss account for The net pre-tax benefit to the profit and 2003 and 2004 relative to the 2002 loss account is shown in figure 3 for expense base.
Benefit to the profit In 2004 the net pre-tax benefit to the Annualised Earned One-off and loss profit and loss account is estimated to savings savings costs account be 85 million.
This represents the m m m m realisation of a substantial part of the Relative to 2002: Financial review 250 million annualised savings 2003 expenses 250 165 100 65 achieved, offset by the remainder of 2004 expenses 250 225 140 85 continued the upfront costs and the increased cost unrealised gains on equities held by In 2003 we announced a series of job in 2004 of our global financial the groups non-life operations and reductions across our UK life and general transformation programme.
reflects the partial recovery in global insurance operations and a total of equity markets.
3,700 new jobs in India to service the The realisation of the actions announced Groups UK life and general insurance in 2003 will deliver estimated annualised The effective rate of tax on operating businesses and our general insurance gross savings of 250 million in 2005. profit from continuing operations was operations in Canada.
This upfront costs incurred on these initiatives decrease reflects an increased proportion were 66 million with an equivalent of profits arising from our overseas amount in 2004. businesses which bear a lower tax charge than that levied in the UK.
Net pre-tax profit and loss benefit by business unit figure 3 The charge for the year was Benefit to the 403 million 2002: 370 million.
Earned One-off profit and savings costs loss account The result for the year attributable to m m m equity shareholders on a modified UK Life 33 8 25 UK General insurance 98 58 40 statutory basis improved significantly Other businesses 18 18 to a profit of 932 million 2002: Corporate costs 16 34 18 551 million loss.
This resulted in 165 100 65 improved earnings per share of 41.4 pence 2002: 24.4 pence loss 1 Long-term savings: new business contribution figure 4 per share.
2003 2002 Year ended 31 December m m Retained profit post-ordinary dividend UK 241 290 on a modified statutory basis improved France 70 69 significantly during the year to Ireland 23 29 387 million 2002: 1,070 million Italy 45 38 Netherlands including Belgium and Luxembourg 62 21 retained loss.
Poland 3 10 Spain 134 87 Ordinary dividends Other Europe 3 5 The directors establish the appropriate International 46 39 level for dividends with reference to Total 621 578 the longer-term trend in business 1.
Excludes retail investment sales and is stated before the effect of solvency margin.
performance, keeping in mind the need to retain earnings to fund future growth.
1,2 Long-term savings new business margin figure 5 2003 2002 Total ordinary dividends for 2003 were Year ended 31 December % % 545 million 2002: 519 million UK 22.6 23.6 representing an increase of 5% to France 29.0 30.9 24.15 pence net per share 2002: Ireland 28.5 28.2 23 pence net per share.
Italy 23.2 24.9 Netherlands including Belgium and Luxembourg 27.7 13.3 Dividend cover Poland 8.5 20.8 The proposed full year ordinary dividend Spain 54.4 45.9 of 545 million is covered by the postOther Europe 3.0 5.4 International 24.6 22.2 tax statutory basis operating profit Total 26.1 24.4 1.82 times 2002: 1.51 times.
The ratio of long-term savings new business contribution to sales measured on an annual premium equivalent basis.
Excludes retail investment sales and is stated before the effects of solvency margin.
Aviva plc 30 Financial review Long-term savings: life achieved operating profit figure 6 from experience variances and operating 2003 2002 assumption changes was largely Year ended 31 December m m unchanged year on year.
New business contribution 472 452 Profit from existing business Long-term savings: modified Expected return 757 849 statutory operating profit Experience variances 12 110 On a modified statutory basis, the profit Operating assumption changes 38 9 Expected return on shareholders net worth 300 324 from long-term business operations Life achieved operating profit 1,555 1,524 before tax was 1,138 million 2002: In 2003, operating assumption changes included the impact of reducing risk margins 1,022 million.
The increase is largely in Poland, the US and Australia in line with the directors views of the risks associated attributed to an improvement in the with this in-force portfolio.
The impact of this change was 27 million.
In 2002, operating assumptions included the impact of reducing risk margins in the US.
results from our European business, The impact of this change was 13 million.
principally France, Poland and Spain benefiting from the recovery in economic General insurance: combined operating ratio figure 7 market conditions and the outcome of 2003 2002 normal year end reserving reviews.
Year ended 31 December % % UK 99 101 Offsetting this was a fall in the UK result France 102 102 driven by lower annual and final bonus Ireland 97 100 rates to our with-profit policyholders.
Netherlands including Belgium and Luxembourg 101 105 Other Europe 103 102 General Insurance Canada 108 102 Worldwide general insurance net Other international 103 101 premium income, from continuing Continuing operations 100 102 operations, increased to 8,524 million Combined Operating Ratio COR expresses the extent to which expenses and claims cover insurance premiums.
It is the sum of expenses, including commissions, 2002: 7,805 million reflecting strong as a percentage of net written premiums, and claims as a percentage of net rating actions particularly in our earned premiums.
General insurance: operating profit figure 8 Although market conditions have 2003 2002 Year ended 31 December m m remained favourable, the achievement of UK 676 611 100% 2002: 102% COR see figure 7 France 35 47 at a group level is an excellent result.
Ireland 91 44 The results include the benefit of Netherlands including Belgium and Luxembourg 35 13 favourable weather-related claims in the Other Europe 32 49 year and although this was partially Canada 12 80 offset by a small increase in UK Other international 30 37 subsidence costs, we saw a net benefit Continuing operations 911 881 of 40 million.
Long-term savings In the UK, we have continued to focus The COR in Canada was impacted by On an annual premium equivalent on strict pricing disciplines particularly for 70 million charged in the first half of APE basis the sum of new regular annuities and pensions.
The beneficial 2003 relating to the prior year premiums and one tenth of new single impact on margins see figure 5 of adjustment to claims case reserves in our premiums total new business sales were pricing and cost control initiatives were Canadian subsidiary, Pilot.
offset by the impact of changes in item, the Canada COR was 101%.
This reflects a fall in sales of primarily economic assumptions resulting in a with-profit bonds in the UK and Ireland.
lower UK new business margin.
We are targeting a group COR of This has been offset by continuing Strengthened new business margins in 100% for each of the next three years.
strong sales through our bancassurance Spain reflected our focus on sales of operations, particularly in Spain and higher margin protection products in the The operating profit from continuing Italy, and in the Netherlands with our second half of 2003.
Margins in the operations see figure 8 comprised an new agreement with ABN AMRO.
Netherlands benefited from our new improved underwriting loss of 54 million Bancassurance sales accounted for joint venture with ABN AMRO.
2002: loss of 145 million and a 23% of life and pension sales on an lower normalised investment return of APE basis in 2003.
Life achieved operating profit was 965 million 2002: 1,026 million.
1,555 million see figure 6 reflecting The normalised investment return We have two main measures for a combination of economic factors.
declined by 61 million in 2003 as a performance in sales volumes as The 2003 expected returns from existing result of the lower start of year asset measured by APE and contribution business and on shareholders net worth values which were depressed by falling being the total economic value added were lower than 2002 by 116 million markets in 2002 partially offset by the based on sales volumes.
due to the application of lower start of impact of appreciation of the euro year economic assumptions to a lower during 2003 and additional returns on New business contribution amounted to opening embedded value.
Improvements assets acquired in the year.
The improved 621 million see figure 4 for the year in new business contribution and underwriting result reflects our with strong growth in Spain and the profits from in-force business more continuing disciplined approach to Netherlands offsetting a fall in the UK than offset this.
risk and strong rating action, with which is largely attributed to lower particularly strong performance in volumes.
Lower new business The net charge of 123 million for the UK and Ireland.
contribution in both France and Ireland the change in UK annuitant mortality reflected the changes in business mix.
assumptions made in 2002 did not recur in 2003.
Excluding this charge, the profit Aviva plc 31 Financial review Corporate costs figure 9 2003 2002 Year ended 31 December m m Global finance transformation programme 60 26 Central costs and share save schemes 176 192 236 218 Allocation of staff profit share and other incentive plans to business unit operating results 76 160 218 Sensitivity analysis figure 10 31 Equities Interest December down rates 2003 10% up 1% Component of shareholders funds bn bn bn 1 Long-term savings 12.4 11.9 12.5 General insurance and other 8.1 7.9 7.8 2 Borrowings 8.4 8.4 8.4 Shareholders funds 12.1 11.4 11.9 1.
Assumes achieved profit assumptions adjusted to reflect revised bond yields.
Comprising internal, external and subordinated debt.
These sensitivities assume a full tax charge credit on market value appreciation falls.
Financial review continued Capital employed by segment figure 11 2003 2002 There is naturally a degree of uncertainty At 31 December m m around the ultimate settlement costs of Long-term savings 12,373 10,379 General insurance and health 4,481 3,917 claims.
Claims reserves are calculated Other business 725 554 within a range of possible outcomes.
Corporate 2,934 2,475 Our actuarial analysis suggests that our Total continuing operations 20,513 17,325 claims reserves across the Group are Discontinued operations now extremely strong, which in the UK Australia and New Zealand enables us to raise the net retention on Total capital employed 20,513 17,325 our UK catastrophe reinsurance program by at least 50 million.
reported a loss of 3 million 2002: Prudential regulation The group expense ratio from continuing operations remained stable at 11.3% loss of 16 million.
The loss of One of the most significant changes in 2002: 11.3%.
This improvement has 7 million reported by our collective the regulatory environment will be the been achieved after absorbing an investments business with RBSG introduction of the Financial Services additional allocation of 43 million reflected set-up costs.
Authoritys FSA Prudential relating to group profit share and Sourcebook PSB which defines the other incentive plan costs which Within the group results are profits of approach for risk-based regulation.
were previously included within 6 million relating to other Morley The group is a leading participant in corporate costs.
businesses including our pooled pensions the industrys dialogue with the FSA business and overseas operations.
to ensure these reforms meet the Fund management requirements of the industry.
Fees for fund management operations Non-insurance are linked to the groups assets under The non-insurance result was a loss of Key to the new regime will be the management which increased at 64 million 2002: loss of 99 million introduction of Enhanced Capital 31 December 2003 to 240 billion due to the non-recurring costs in our Requirements ECR.
This is likely to 2002: 208 billion driven by a partial wealth management operations and a increase the levels of capital required recovery of global equity markets and better result from banking operations to support our UK general insurance new business flows.
The benefit of in the Netherlands.
The loss in the businesses and consequently the capital increased fee levels, cost reductions and period includes an allocation of requirement of the Aviva group.
Given improved operational efficiency across 30 million in respect of group profit Avivas strong capital position it is well the groups major operations were offset share and other incentive plan costs, placed to respond to these requirements.
by set-up costs arising from our new which were previously included within agreement with the Royal Bank of corporate costs.
Further proposals outline new Scotland Group RBSG to sell requirements regarding realistic solvency collective investments.
Corporate costs see figure 9 for UK life insurers.
These proposals are Corporate costs were lower in the year further advanced than those for general Fund management: operating profit at 160 million 2002: 218 million due insurance and we are confident that NU Our UK fund management business to costs arising from bonus plans and Lifes realistic solvency position is robust comprises Morley Fund Management, staff share schemes being allocated to under the proposed rules.
a retail and institutional business, a retail business operations with effect from investment operation operating as 1 January 2003. International Financial Reporting Norwich Union and our new collective Standards IFRS investments business with RBSG.
The Costs from the global finance The European Union requires all combined UK operations reported a loss transformation programme were European listed groups to prepare their of 6 million 2002: loss of 12 million.
60 million in the year 2002: consolidated financial statements using Morleys combined UK operations 26 million.
The main activity of the standards issued by the International reported a profit of 3 million 2002: programme will be in 2004, with costs Accounting Standards Board IASB 4 million, while our UK retail business expected to be up to 100 million, with effect from 1 January 2005. tailing off thereafter.
Aviva plc 32 Financial review The Aviva groups consolidated accounts which has been properly field-tested.
At 31 December 2003, total capital for 2005 will therefore be prepared We continue to believe that the employed in our long-term savings under IFRS, rather than UK GAAP.
achieved profit basis, modified to more operations was higher, predominantly Comparative figures will be required for fully reflect the fair value of guarantees reflecting an increase in the future value 2004, together with reconciliations of and options, is the most meaningful of in-force business.
The total capital income and shareholders equity to the method of accounting for longer-term employed in our general insurance previously-reported UK GAAP figures.
businesses increased due to the impact of stronger equity markets on the asset Based on current proposals, the principal Capital management base and the beneficial impact of foreign effects of reporting under IFRS are an Shareholders funds on an achieved exchange rate movements.
increase in the use of fair value basis have increased to 11,165 million accounting for both assets and liabilities, 2002: 9,668 million largely reflecting Assets available to shareholders to and additional disclosures in the the strong operational performance and finance future growth of the group are accounts.
However, the most significant the benefit of the euro appreciation.
held within the groups UK general aspect of IFRS for the European This corresponds to a net asset value insurance legal entities.
For the purposes insurance sector is the treatment of per ordinary share of 502 pence 2002: of analysing the capital employed by insurance contracts, for which an 433 pence per share after adding segment, these assets are classified as accounting standard is yet to be back the equalisation provision of corporate.
In September 2003, Aviva plc developed.
issued 1.6 billion of subordinated debt which provides cost-effective funding The need to meet the EU deadline has Shareholders funds are sensitive to and is treated as equity for regulatory led to a two phase development with movements in global investment purposes.
Of the 1.6 billion of Phase 1, due to be issued in March markets.
We have sound processes in subordinated debt proceeds, some 2004, providing interim guidance until place to actively manage these risks.
400 million was used to repay senior a comprehensive basis of accounting The need for these processes is debt with the remaining 1.2 billion for insurance contracts is delivered in illustrated by the sensitivity to a 10% fall classified within corporate.
The IASBs interim proposals for in global equity markets or a 1% rise in 2005 require some contracts with the global interest rates see figure 10.
The group also has a number of internal legal form of insurance to be reclassified debt arrangements in place.
These have as investment products with changes in Capital employed see figure 11 allowed the assets supporting technical their valuation, whereas those still The group maintains an efficient capital liabilities to be invested into the pool of classified as insurance contracts remain structure from a combination of equity central capital for use across the group.
valued under local GAAP until the IASB shareholders funds, preference capital, They have also enabled the shareholders has completed its project.
Given the subordinated debt and borrowings, to deploy cash from some parts of the current state of developments and consistent with the groups risk profile business to others in order to fund associated uncertainty in the industry, and the regulatory and market growth.
Although intra-group loans in we are not yet in a position to evaluate requirements of its business.
The group nature, they are counted as part of the fully the impact of IFRS on our group.
presents its capital disclosures on an capital base for the purpose of capital achieved profit basis as this is the basis management.
All internal loans have Our preparations for reporting under on which we measure our performance been negotiated on a basis that satisfies IFRS are well-advanced in all our against key performance indicators.
arms length criteria and all interest businesses and represent a major part payments have been made when due.
of our global finance transformation The groups capital has been allocated Internal debt increased in 2003 as a programme.
The group is actively such that the capital employed by result of the formalisation of intra group engaged, both internally and externally, trading operations is some 5.6 billion arrangements, offset by the use of in understanding and influencing the 2002: 5.7 billion greater than the corporate assets to satisfy the final IASB developments.
Our objective is to capital provided by its shareholders and instalment of the Berkshire Hathaway see the development of a conceptually its subordinated debtholders.
The group premium of 0.5 billion in early January.
robust and economically meaningful is therefore able to earn enhanced basis of accounting for insurance returns on its equity capital.
At the end of 2003, the groups total external borrowings amounted to Deployment of equity shareholders funds figure 12 4.6 billion 2002: 3.2 billion including Full year Full year 2003 2002 subordinated debt see figure 12.
Fixed A significant proportion of these income Other Other borrowings are on a fixed rate basis Equities securities investments net assets Total Total with maturity terms between one and m m m m m m 33 years.
The balance comprises Assets commercial paper and floating rate Long-term savings 604 3,843 924 1,552 6,923 5,726 General insurance, health, bank borrowings.
Interest cover, measuring the long-term business 5,232 4,422 extent to which external interest costs Assets backing total capital employed in continuing operations 20,513 17,325 are covered by achieved operating profit, External debt 1,749 2,053 was 19 times 2002: 14 times.
Internal debt 3,841 3,671 Subordinated debt 2,814 1,190 Our exposure to equities has increased 12,109 10,411 from 3.1 billion at 31 December Minority interests 944 743 2002 to 3.6 billion, which represents Preference capital 200 200 17% of our total capital employed Equity shareholders funds 10,965 9,468 see figure 12.
Aviva plc 33 Financial review General insurance regulatory basis With-profit funds - realistic basis Our principal UK general insurance We measure our realistic strength by the regulated subsidiaries are CGU value of the orphan estate.
The estate International Insurance plc CGUII provides a level of capital that is available and Norwich Union Insurance NUI.
to absorb any unexpected short-term CGUII is the parent company of the impact from adverse experience.
majority of the groups overseas life and It provides a level of investment freedom general insurance subsidiaries.
to improve policyholder returns and enables the operation of the with-profit The combined businesses of the CGUII business and associated features of group and NUI have strong solvency guarantees and smoothing.
On an aggregate basis the estimated excess solvency margin Results below have been calculated representing the regulatory value of in line with the key principles of CP 195, excess available assets over the required for CGNU, CULAC and for the realistic minimum margin was 3.9 billion at the orphan estate of NUL&P.
This makes end of 2003 2002: 2.2 billion after appropriate allowance for all realistic covering the required minimum margin liabilities of the with-profits fund, of 3.3 billion 2002: 3.2 billion.
including provision for future bonus, Financial review The increase in the excess solvency the fair value of guarantees, options and margin is largely attributable to the provisions on a market consistent basis continued benefit of 1.2 billion of subordinatedand the cost of shareholder transfers Our capital position has improved as a debt proceeds injected in the form of and tax associated with future bonus.
result of strong operational performance equity capital.
The estimated value of these is and improving equity markets.
ratings of the groups main operating General insurance realistic basis subsidiaries are AA AAvery strong Capital requirements for the Groups The FAR for the three main companies with a stable outlook from Standard & worldwide general insurance businesses at 31 December 2003 based on the Poors and Aa2 excellent from are assessed using risk based capital statutory basis are set out below Moodys.
These ratings were reaffirmed techniques and results were published together with a comparison of within September 2003, although the rating for the first time in 2002.
Calculations profit free assets on statutory and agencies have indicated that the have been reviewed to reflect recent realistic bases.
insurance sector remains under review.
trends including increasing strength of With-profit free assets Realistic the general insurance business balance Statutory net of orphan Return on capital employed sheets and improving stability and FAR RMM estate see figure 13 continuing reductions achieved in the % bn bn The group achieved an excellent return combined operating ratios, producing a CGNU Life 16.0 0.9 1.3 on capital of 12.7% 2002: 9.7%, revised risk based capital requirement of CULAC 13.6 1.1 1.6 against its target of 10% net real return.
34% of net written premiums 2002: NUL&P 17.7 1.8 1.4 This reflects strong operating results, 36%.
Aggregate 16.2 3.8 4.3 following cost reductions and improved Non-profit funds statutory basis operational efficiency.
At 31 December 2003 the risk-based capital requirement of our worldwide The FAR for NUL&P includes implicit Financial strength of the group and general insurance businesses was items for non-profit business only.
The its principal insurance operations 3.3 billion 2002: 3.1 billion.
realistic orphan estate is quoted before Markets are increasingly looking for The combined general insurance any Risk Capital Margin RCM.
The FSA quality and financial strength, so the businesses of CGUII and NUI hold total is currently consulting on proposals for resilience of the regulatory capital regulated available assets of 7.2 billion.
an appropriate RCM for with-profit position of the group and its principal After deducting the risk-based capital for business.
Based on current guidelines insurance operations is of great the general insurance businesses of the RCM is more than 2.5 times covered importance.
CGUII and NUI of 3.3 billion and by the orphan estate in aggregate.
adding back the claims equalisation At this time there is no single measure reserve of 0.4 billion, the remaining We manage the strength of our of capital strength and resilience so we available capital of 4.3 billion is non-profit fund through a variety of report on the mandatory measures as sufficient to cover the minimum margins different means.
In addition, during well as our own risk-based measures.
of the overseas life businesses by 2004 we continue to use, where approximately 2.2 times 2002: 1.7 times.
appropriate, financial reinsurance and EU Groups Directive securitisation.
In addition, we are Aviva group had an estimated excess UK Life Operations progressing our review to merge the regulatory capital, as measured on the With-profit funds statutory basis legacy non-profit life funds to improve new EU Groups Directive, of some The statutory approach for CGNU Life operational efficiency and consolidate 2.4 billion at 31 December 2003 2002: CGNU and Commercial Union Life solvency margin requirements.
We 0.7 billion including the benefit of Assurance Company CULAC has been continue our review of the potential 1.6 billion of subordinated debt issued modified to include Tiner waivers.
We reattribution of the orphan estate in the in 2003.
This measure represents the did not seek a waiver for Norwich Union interests of both policyholders and excess of the aggregate value of Life and Pensions NUL&P.
regulatory capital employed in our item remains in NUL&P, supported by the business over the aggregate minimum non-profit business.
solvency requirements imposed by local regulators excluding the surplus held in The free asset ratio FAR is the measure the groups UK and Irish life funds.
of the excess of assets over liabilities, expressed as a proportion of liabilities.
Aviva plc 34 Financial review Return on capital employed figure 13 monitored centrally so that material 2003 2002 exposures can be identified and Opening managed appropriately.
The financial Normalised equity strength of reinsurance counterparties after-tax capital Return on Return on 1 1 return restated capital capital is also assessed centrally on an At 31 December m m % % ongoing basis and monitored against Long-term savings 1,082 10,379 10.4 9.4 approved limits.
General insurance and health 641 3,917 16.4 12.5 Other business 44 554 7.9 20.7 Insurance risk Corporate 38 2,475 1.5 2.1 Insurance risk is fundamental to our 1,641 17,325 9.5 7.9 business and as such is controlled at an Borrowings 295 6,914 4.3 4.4 individual BU level, through practices 1,346 10,411 12.9 9.9 such as underwriting guidelines and Minority interests 131 743 17.6 12.7 Preference capital 17 200 8.5 8.5 authorities, pricing guides, reserving and Total continuing operations 1,198 9,468 12.7 9.7 claims processes.
Discontinued operations Australia and New Zealand 20.2 Reinsurance is actively used to limit Equity shareholders funds 1,198 9,468 12.7 10.1 insurance risk and capital requirements in 1.
The return on capital is calculated as the after tax return on opening equity capital, the inherently volatile general insurance based on operating profit, including life achieved profit, before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items.
business and in particular is a key tool in managing our catastrophe exposure.
The group maintains a reinsurance Management of financial and group.
Derivatives trading, except for retention of 250 million for a single non-financial risks these uses, is prohibited.
catastrophic event covering more than The group recognises the importance of one country in Europe.
This cover effective risk management systems and Exchange fluctuation protects the net retentions of our has an established group governance Approximately half of the groups individual business units which have their framework.
The group analyses risk premium income arises in currencies own reinsurance programmes in place.
exposures between financial risks these other than sterling.
Similarly on an being market, liquidity, credit and achieved profit basis, the groups net Non-financial risks insurance risk, and non-financial risks assets are denominated in a variety of Operational, group and strategic risk these being operational, group and currencies, of which the largest are Further details are given in the Audit strategic risk.
Each of these risks areas sterling 43% and the euro 43%.
There is are overseen by a specialist risk also an established process for the committee and or the Group Risk In managing our foreign currency central monitoring of the group capital Committee.
The results of the Group exposures the group does not hedge and solvency positions which reflects Risk Committee, which reviews all revenues as these are substantially both current and expected future financial and non-financial risks reported retained locally to support the growth regulatory capital requirements.
Details at a group level are reported to the of our business and to meet local are contained on pages 33 to 35.
Group Executive Committee, The Group regulatory and market requirements.
Audit Committee and the Board.
The groups net assets and, to a more Financial risks limited extent its solvency, are exposed Conclusion Details of the groups processes to movements in exchange rates.
The Overall, Aviva has sound financial for managing financial risks are groups FX policy is to manage these management policies and systems provided below.
exposures by aligning the deployment of managed by committed and professional capital by currency, with the groups people.
Three years of very difficult Market risk capital requirement by currency.
Limits markets have tested them to the full.
Asset and liability management are set to control the extent to which This report illustrates how well we have Close attention is paid to asset and the deployment of capital is not passed these tests and shows why we liability management which is particularly aligned fully with the groups capital need to continue to invest in our important for our life businesses, given requirement, for each major currency.
the long-term nature of the liabilities Currency borrowings and derivatives are involved.
General insurance funds are used to ensure that exposures are primarily invested in fixed income managed within the limits that have securities to match broadly the duration been set.
The balance of Philip Twyman the portfolio is invested largely in equities.
Liquidity risk Group Executive Director The group has a strong liquidity position Derivatives and through the application of a group Derivative instruments are used within liquidity management policy seeks to guidelines outlined in the Group Derivative ensure that it has sufficient financial Policy for efficient portfolio management, resources available to meet its hedging debt and the outcome of obligations as they fall due.
corporate transactions or to structure specific retail savings products.
In addition, Credit risk the groups Dutch bank trades in The group manages credit risk at derivatives as part of its normal banking business unit BU level within a activities.
This trading is controlled through framework of approved investment the allocation of limits which are very low mandates.
Aggregate group-wide credit in the context of both Delta Lloyd and the exposures are progressively being Aviva plc 35 Financial review DL 64 3.
George Paul Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive director Appointed to the board in May 2000 as deputy chairman.
Joined the Norwich Union board as a non-executive director in 1990, becoming chairman in 1994.
Currently a non-executive chairman of Agricola Group Limited agricultural and of JP Morgan Fleming Overseas Investment Trust plc asset management 6.
Wim Dik 65 and a non-executive director of Notcutts Independent non-executive director Limited horticulture.
A former chairman Appointed to the board in 1999, having and chief executive officer of Harrisons & served as a chairman of Nuts Ohra, a Board of directors Crosfield plc manufacturing.
Chairman Dutch insurer acquired by the group in of the remuneration committee 1999.
Currently chairman of NV Casema and member of the audit and telecommunications, a member of the chairmans committees.
Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO Bank banking and an advisory member of 1.
Anna Catalano 44 the boards of Unilever consumer and a Chairman Independent non-executive director non-executive director of LogicaCMG plc Appointed to the board in 1997, Appointed to the board in May 2003. computer services.
A former chairman becoming chairman in 1998.
Currently Former group vice-president of of Nederlandse Unilever Bedrijven BV vice-chairman, Europe at Rothschild marketing, BP plc oil.
Member of the consumer and former chairman and banking, chairman of Reuters Founders remuneration committee.
chief executive officer of KPN Royal Share Company Limited media and of Dutch Telecom telecommunications.
Swedish Ships Mortgage Bank banking 5.
Guillermo fide la Dehesa 62 A former member of the advisory board and a non-executive director of Independent non-executive director of TNT Post Group mail services and Lagardre SCA media and technology.
Appointed to the board in May 2000. former director of Vos Logistics Former executive chairman of AB Volvo Joined the board of Norwich Union as a transport.
Former Minister for Foreign automotive and former senior adviser non-executive director in 1999.
Currently Trade in the Netherlands.
Member of the to Lazard Freres & Co. LLC banking.
non-executive chairman of Avivas remuneration committee.
Chairman of the chairmans and operations in Spain, non-executive 46 nomination committees.
vice-chairman of Goldman Sachs Europe 7.
Carole Piwnica LLM banking and a director of Campofrio Independent non-executive director FIA 53 2.
Richard Harvey consumer, Unin Elctrica Fenosa Appointed to the board in May 2003.
Group Chief Executive utility, Bank Santander Central Hispano Currently non-executive vice-chairman, Appointed group chief executive in April banking and Telepizza consumer.
governmental affairs, Tate & Lyle plc 2001.
Joined Norwich Union in 1992, Former chief executive and director of agriculture industrial and non-executive holding senior positions in New Zealand Banco Pastor banking.
A former deputy director of SA Spadel NV mineral water.
and the United Kingdom before joining governor of the International Monetary A former chairman of Amylum Group the Norwich Union board in 1995 and Fund and the World Bank and a former agriculture industrial.
A member of the becoming group chief executive of deputy general manager of the Bank of New York and Paris bars, practicing law Norwich Union in 1998.
Chairman of Spain and former Secretary of State of in Europe and the United States the Association of British Insurers.
Member of the audit specialising in mergers and acquisitions, Member of the nomination committee.
Member of the audit committee.
Derek Stevens 65 Independent non-executive director Appointed to the board in 1995.
Currently non-executive chairman of The Airline Group Limited transport, chairman of British Airways Pension Investment Management Limited, non- 12.
Elizabeth Vallance 58 executive director of NATS Holdings Independent non-executive director Limited transport, a member of the Appointed to the board in May 2000.
Philip Scott FIA 50 financial sector committee of the Joined the board of Norwich Union as a Executive director Accounting Standards Board, chairman non-executive director in 1995.
Currently Appointed to the board in May 2000. of The Royal Academy of Arts Pension Fellow of Queen Mary College University Joined Norwich Union in 1973, held a Scheme Board, a member of the Council of London, chairman of the Council of number of senior positions and was of the Institute of Education at the the Institute of Education University of appointed to the board of Norwich University of London, a member of the London, chairman of the Advisory Union in 1993.
Former chief executive Fundraising Advisory Board of VSO Committee on Clinical Excellence, and executive chairman of Norwich charity and chairman of The Travel non-executive director of Charter Pan Union Life Avivas life assurance and Foundation charity.
A former director European Trust plc asset management, long-term savings business in the United and chief financial officer of British a former non-executive director of HMV Kingdom.
Currently responsible for the Airways Plc transport, a former finance Group Limited music retail and former groups continental European and director of TSB Group plc banking and chairman of the NHS Advisory international life assurance and longa former chairman of the Trustees of Committee on Distinction Awards.
Member of the remuneration, Chairman of the audit committee, nomination and chairmans committees.
Patrick Snowball 53 member of the chairmans committee Executive director and chairman of Aviva Staff Pension 13.
Andr Villeneuve 59 Appointed to the board in March 2001 Trustee Limited.
Independent non-executive director as chief executive of Norwich Union Appointed to the board in 1996.
FIA, FIAA 59 Insurance Avivas general insurance 11.
Philip Twyman Non-executive chairman of Euronext operation in the United Kingdom.
Executive director Liffe financial services, a non-executive Previously a director of Norwich Union, Appointed to the board in June 1998. director of United Technologies appointed in October 1999, having Joined the board of General Accident in Corporation aerospace and a director joined that company in 1989.
Currently 1996 as executive director responsible of the Institut Francais fide Relations responsible for the groups worldwide for finance, life and investment Internationales.
A former executive general insurance operations and the operations.
Currently the director chairman of Instinet Corporation provision of shared services across the responsible for Avivas finance and fund securities broker, a former executive United Kingdom.
Mr Twyman director of Reuters plc media and a will retire in March 2004. former chairman of Promethee.
Member of the remuneration and nomination committees.
LLB, FCII Richard Whitaker Group Company Secretary 9 11 8 10 1213 Aviva plc 37 Board of directors 39 Directors report 62 Reconciliation of Group operating 41 Corporate governance profit to profit on ordinary activities 44 Audit Committee report before tax 46 Nomination Committee report 63 Consolidated statement of total 46 Chairman's Committee report recognised gains and losses 47 Directors remuneration report 63 Reconciliation of movements in 55 Independent auditors report consolidated shareholders funds 56 Accounting policies 64 Consolidated Group balance sheet 59 Consolidated profit and loss account 66 Consolidated cash flow statement Technical account long-term 67 Company balance sheet business 68 Notes to the accounts 60 Consolidated profit and loss account 101 Five year review Technical account general business 102 Alternative method of reporting 61 Consolidated profit and loss account long-term business Non-technical account 111 Aviva Group of companies 112 Shareholder information Aviva plc 38 Contents Directors report The directors submit their report and accounts for Aviva plc, together Directors with the consolidated accounts of the Aviva Group of companies, The names of the present members of the Board and their for the year ended 31 December 2003. biographical notes appear on pages 36 to 37.
Sir Michael Partridge retired at the Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2003 and Tony Wyand retired from the Board on A separate document accompanying the Annual report and accounts 31 July 2003 and from service on 30 November 2003 upon contains the notice convening the Annual General Meeting and reaching his normal retirement age.
Mike Biggs resigned as a a description of the business to be conducted thereat.
The Annual director on 31 December 2003.
General Meeting of the Company will be held on 27 April 2004 at The Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS at 11.00am.
Philip Twyman will reach his normal retirement age in March 2004 and will retire as a director of the Company and from service on Principal activities 31 March 2004.
Aviva plc is the holding company of the Aviva Group of companies, On 8 May 2003, Anna Catalano and Carole Piwnica were appointed which transacts life assurance other than industrial life and to the Board as independent non-executive directors.
As these long-term savings business, fund management and all classes of directors joined the Board after the date of the last Annual General general insurance through its subsidiaries, associates and branches Meeting they will, in accordance with the Companys articles of in the United Kingdom, continental Europe and Ireland, North association, retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting America, Asia, Australia and other countries throughout the world.
and, being eligible, offer themselves for election by shareholders.
Details of material acquisitions and disposals made by the Group The directors retiring by rotation in accordance with the articles during the year are contained on pages 78 to 79. of association at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offering themselves for reappointment are George Paul, Philip Scott, Review of operations, current position and future prospects Patrick Snowball and Elizabeth Vallance.
Philip Scott and Patrick Details of the Groups operations for the accounting period, Snowball each have a service contract with a Group company, details its current position and future prospects are contained in the of which can be found on page 50.
Chairmans statement, Group Chief Executives review, business reviews and financial reviews set out on pages 2 to 35.
Other than service contracts between executive directors and a Group company, no director had a material interest at any time Going concern during the year in any contract of significance with the Company After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
that the Company and the Group as a whole have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Directors interests future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern Details of directors interests in the shares of the Company are set basis in preparing the accounts.
out in the Remuneration report on page 54.
Results Substantial shareholdings The Group results for the year are shown in the Consolidated profit As at 24 February 2004, the Companys register of substantial and loss account on pages 59 to 61. shareholdings maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 211 of the Companies Act 1985 showed that the holdings Dividend exceeding the 3% disclosure threshold were those of The directors are recommending a final dividend of 15.15 pence Barclays Plc which held 91,056,515 ordinary shares, representing 2002: 14.25 pence per share which, together with the interim an interest of 4.03%, Legal & General Group Plc which held dividend of 9.00 pence 2002: 8.75 pence per share, produces 83,729,729 ordinary shares, representing an interest of 3.70% and a total dividend for the year of 24.15 pence 2002: 23.00 pence per Fidelity Investments which held 74,856,224 ordinary shares, share.
The total cost of dividends for 2003, including preference representing an interest of 3.32% of the issued ordinary share capital dividends, will amount to 562 million 2002: 536 million, leaving of the Company.
387 million to be transferred to reserves 2002: 1,070 million transferred from reserves.
Corporate governance The Companys statement on corporate governance is set out on The final dividend for 2003 will be paid on 17 May 2004 to all pages 41 to 43. holders of ordinary shares on the Register of Members at the close of business on 26 March 2004.
The Companys Dividend Reinvestment Group employees Plan will be available to shareholders in respect of the payment The Group is committed to continuing communication and dialogue of the final dividend.
In addition, a local currency payment service will with employees.
It believes there is a strong link between informed, be available to shareholders residing in certain participating countries motivated staff and operational effectiveness.
News from business outside the United Kingdom.
Further details of these arrangements units and the Group is provided using a variety of media.
For can be found within the shareholder information on page 112. example, employees across the Group can listen to regular Aviva Radio newscasts on major developments.
Arena, the Group-wide Share capital intranet, provides a daily source of information on strategic and Details of the share capital and shares under option as at operational issues.
Local intranets provide a route for staff publicly to 31 December 2003, and shares issued during the year which raise issues of interest and concern.
These approaches all contribute ended on that date, are given in note 31 on pages 86 to 87. to a better quality of dialogue.
However, the fundamental communication and feedback tool remains face-to-face briefings.
Authority to purchase own shares Staff report regularly in surveys that this is how they prefer to hear At the Annual General Meeting held on 7 May 2003, members key messages.
renewed the Companys authority to make market purchases of up 3 to 225 million ordinary shares, up to 100 million 8 4% preference In addition, employees are encouraged to say how they view the 3 shares and up to 100 million 8 8% preference shares.
This authority Company and their employment through confidential staff opinion was not used during the year and at the forthcoming Annual surveys.
Results are fed back to staff and action plans are put in place General Meeting shareholders will be asked to renew these to address concerns.
Through their participation, staff help to shape authorities for another year.
Details are contained in the Notice future employment developments.
Regular discussions also take place of Meeting.
with the staff representative bodies, where appropriate.
Aviva plc 39 Directors report Directors report continued The Company encourages and promotes employee development.
Standards of Business Conduct Support includes the building of relevant competencies, encouraging The Group operates a Standards of Business Conduct Policy which staff to gain appropriate professional qualifications and assistance provides guidance for every employee, Group-wide, to act with with wider personal development.
The Group is developing its integrity in all business relationships.
electronic based training applications and increasing numbers of staff Charitable donations have access to a very wide range of development materials and are Aviva has continued to support community initiatives and charitable taking increasing ownership of their own learning.
causes worldwide and the total Group commitment during the year The Groups operations in the United Kingdom have established was 4.6 million 2002: 5.9 million.
employee career and recognition frameworks, which draw together In 2003, the Groups community investment in the United Kingdom, Aviva values, competencies, and performance management systems.
as measured using the Business in the Communitys benchmarking These are linked to appropriate rewards and benefits.
At the 2001 template, totalled 3.2 million 2002: 4.9 million of which Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved the establishment 1.3 million 2002: 2.3 million was direct donations to charitable of an All Employee Share Ownership Plan as a way for employees to organisations.
The Companys policy regarding charitable giving in participate further in the Groups fortunes through share ownership.
the United Kingdom is to support local charities and community The Group operates two elements of the plan in the United organisations particularly in the areas of the country in which the Kingdom.
The partnership element allows eligible employees to Group has major operations.
In addition, it provides a significant level purchase Aviva shares at the prevailing market price from their pre of support to a small number of national charities.
The second element enables staff to receive free shares, these included Cruse Bereavement Care, The Princess Royal Trust for at the Boards discretion, based on the performance of the Carers, Breakthrough Breast Cancer, The Lymphoma Association and Companys operations in the United Kingdom.
The Group also Multiple Sclerosis.
operates a savings related share option scheme, which provides employees with an opportunity to save over a fixed period and Political donations acquire share options at a discount.
No political donations were made in the United Kingdom or elsewhere during the year 2002: nil.
It is the Companys policy Corporate Social Responsibility CSR not to make donations to political organisations or for political Aviva defines CSR as embracing corporate performance in causes, and it has no intention of changing this policy.
environmental management, community, employees, human At the 2003 Annual General Meeting, shareholders passed a rights, health and safety, suppliers, customers and standards of resolution authorising the Board to make expenditure, up to an business conduct.
aggregate limit of 100,000, on activities which fall under the Respecting the guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers, Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act PPER.
This piece the governance of Avivas CSR programme is subject to both a of legislation introduced a very broad definition of EU political regular schedule and continual review.
High level progress is reviewed expenditure in the European Union, such that some of the activities internally throughout the year by a CSR Steering Group which undertaken throughout the Groups businesses in the EU could now includes senior executives from the Groups principal businesses.
The Board examines progress and plans annually.
The Groups There is a requirement for companies to seek shareholders approval businesses undertake a self assessment of their performance for expenditure falling under the PPER and therefore, at the annually which is subject to an external assurance review every year.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, shareholders will be asked Regular dialogue is maintained with a number of external agencies to renew the authority to permit political expenditure, as defined by to help ensure that the CSR programme remains focused and in line the PPER, up to 100,000 per annum.
The Board does not believe with emerging best practices.
Representatives from these agencies that the Group has made any EU political expenditure in the past join members of senior management annually to undertake a review year.
However, in view of the broad definitions contained in the PPER, of the Groups performance.
it is seeking to renew the authority so as to avoid any inadvertent breaches of the legislation.
Further clarification on this issue can be More CSR information can be found on pages 26 and 27.
Aviva also found in the Notice of Meeting for the Annual General Meeting prepares a separate CSR report each year which includes full details which accompanies this report.
of the Groups CSR programme and the progress achieved during the year.
A copy of the printed summary of the CSR report is available Creditor payment policy and practice from the Group Company Secretary and the full report may be It is the Groups policy to pay creditors when they fall due for viewed on www.
Terms of payment are agreed with suppliers when negotiating each transaction and the policy is to abide by those Employee practice terms, provided that the suppliers also comply with all relevant Aviva Group companies are committed to providing equal terms and conditions.
opportunities to all employees, irrespective of their sex, sexual orientation, marital status, creed, colour, race, ethnic origin or The Company has no trade creditors.
In respect of Group activities disability.
The commitment extends to recruitment and selection, in the United Kingdom, the amounts due to trade creditors at training, career development, flexible working arrangements, 31 December 2003 represented approximately 29 days of average promotion and performance appraisal.
In the event of members of daily purchases through the year 2002: 29 days.
staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and to provide specialised Auditor training where this is appropriate.
In accordance with Section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the Health and Safety reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company.
The health and safety of staff is a priority and is reviewed at regular intervals.
Each business unit has an appointed health and safety By order of the Board.
representative, whose role is to bring to the attention of senior management any areas of concern that should be addressed within the health and safety programme.
Information on health and safety matters is communicated to staff through the normal communication channels.
Under the Groups Richard Whitaker Health and Safety Policy, the Group Chief Executive is accountable Group Company Secretary for health and safety.
24 February 2004 Aviva plc 40 Directors report Corporate governance Application of the Combined Code Against the above background Aviva announced in May 2003 the The directors report on the Companys compliance with the appointment of two new independent non-executive directors.
applicable provisions of the Combined Code during 2003 is Anna Catalano has a background in marketing and brand set out below.
development and is a Mandarin speaker with experience of managing operations in China, a country where the Group has a new and The Financial Services Authority requires listed companies to disclose, expanding life assurance business.
Carole Piwnica is a non-executive in relation to Section 1 of the Combined Code produced by the director of Tate & Lyle plc and a member of the New York and Paris Committee on Corporate Governance in June 1998 the Combined bars and practices law in the United States and Europe specialising in Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they have mergers and acquisitions, and EU regulatory matters.
These new complied with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
In July directors bring additional diversity to the Board in terms of skill, 2003, the Financial Reporting Council issued a revised Combined international perspective and age.
In accordance with the Companys Code taking into account reviews concerning the role and articles of association Anna Catalano and Carole Piwnica will stand effectiveness of non-executive directors the Higgs Report and audit for election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
This revised Combined Code takes effect in respect of reporting years beginning on or after 1 November George Paul and Elizabeth Vallance fall due for retirement in 2003 and accordingly, does not apply to the year under review.
accordance with the Companys articles of association at the The directors have however reviewed the Companys corporate forthcoming Annual General Meeting and submit themselves for governance arrangements in the light of the revised Combined Code re-election.
Both directors joined the Companys Board when CGU and have included in this report details of the extent to which the merged with Norwich Union in 2000 and, therefore have, in legal Company would have complied with the revised Combined Code terms, served as directors of the Company for three years although, had it been in force for the 2003 financial year.
when their service as directors of Norwich Union is included, they have been connected with the Group for 13 and nine years The Board of Directors respectively.
The Board has therefore considered the independence The Board has eight scheduled meetings each year and meets more of these directors with particular care.
Both directors contribute frequently as required.
It currently comprises the Chairman, eight significantly through their individual skills, their considerable independent non-executive directors and four executive directors.
knowledge of both the Company and the insurance industry and Each non-executive director serves for a fixed term of three years, they currently provide continuity and an overall balance to the Board.
which may be renewed by mutual agreement and, subject to In particular, they both continue to demonstrate a strong the Board being satisfied as to the directors performance and independence of management in the manner in which they independence, there is no specified limit regarding the number of discharge their responsibilities as directors.
Accordingly, the Board has terms a director may serve.
The Companys articles of association decided that, in the absence of any other relevant factors, George require that following appointment by the Board, directors submit Paul and Elizabeth Vallance are independent non-executive directors.
themselves for election by shareholders at the next Annual General However, being mindful of the programme to refresh the skills and Meeting.
The articles also provide that one-third of directors shall experiences of the directors, it is the Boards intention that subject retire by rotation each year, but are eligible to submit themselves to being re-elected by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, for re-election by the shareholders, and that directors shall not George Paul and Elizabeth Vallance will retire from service by serve longer than the third Annual General Meeting following 31 December 2005. their election without being re-elected by shareholders.
Details of Philip Scott and Patrick Snowball, being respectively the executive the directors retiring by rotation and seeking re-election at the directors responsible for the Groups continental European and forthcoming Annual General Meeting are set out below and in international life assurance and long-term savings business, and the the Notice of Meeting.
In accordance with the revised Combined Groups worldwide general insurance operations, will also retire at Code any non-executive directors who serve on the Board of the the Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-election.
Company for nine years or more will in future submit themselves for re-election annually.
To ensure that the non-executive directors are able to exercise an independence of judgement, the Nomination Committee undertakes The Board has appointed George Paul, the Deputy Chairman, an annual review of directors interests in which all potential or to be the Companys senior independent non-executive director.
perceived conflicts and issues relevant to their independence and During 2003 the Board met on eight occasions and all directors commitment are considered.
Based on the December 2003 review, attended every meeting.
Wim Dik was unable to attend the Annual the Board has agreed that all of the current non-executive directors General Meeting.
The directors bring to the Board a wide range of are independent of management and free from any relationship or experiences and skills and participate fully in decisions on circumstances that could affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of the key issues facing the Group.
The Board is also satisfied that the non-executive directors are able to devote sufficient time to their In respect of the composition of the Board it is necessary to retain duties to the Company.
directors possessing a sound understanding of both the Group and the financial services industry whilst at the same time The principal commitments of the directors are summarised in the maintaining a programme to refresh the Board through the biographical details on pages 36 and 37.
Pehr Gyllenhammar acquisition of new skills and experience.
In addition to the strengths resigned as a senior adviser to Lazard Freres in July 2003 and was of skill, diversity and an international perspective, the Board also appointed Vice Chairman, Europe at Rothschild in September 2003. seeks to comply with the requirements of the revised Combined This change has had no effect on his time commitment to the Code as they relate to the independence of directors.
Aviva plc 41 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Board process The Board believes strongly in the development of all its employees, The duties of the Board and its committees are set out clearly in including its directors, and it is a requirement of directors formal terms of reference.
This document is reviewed annually appointments that they commit to continue their development.
by the Board and was updated during the year to reflect the The form which this development takes varies depending upon each requirements of the revised Combined Code.
The terms of reference director and the quality relevance of the training available, but address a wide range of corporate governance issues including directors have attended a range of courses, seminars, workshops and those items which are specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
lectures on issues relevant to the Groups business and or their roles These include the approval of the Groups strategy, business plans, and responsibilities.
During the year three directors attended courses acquisitions and disposals outside delegated limits, significant designed specifically for non-executive directors of major companies.
financial decisions and the approval of key business policies including Following attendance on a course, directors report briefly to the the remuneration policy.
Matters which are not specifically reserved Board on its content and relevance.
The 2004 work plan for the to shareholders by applicable legislation or regulation or by the Board includes two specific training topics.
The Board undertook Companys articles of association, or to the Board and its committees two site visits during the year in order to gain a closer understanding under the Boards terms of reference, are delegated to the Group of the businesses visited.
The two non-executive directors who Chief Executive.
joined the Board during the year have completed a detailed induction programme which was conducted over a seven-month period The Boards terms of reference describe the procedure whereby comprising 14 sessions including visits to the Groups main operating directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, seek independent businesses and meetings with the external auditor and one of the professional advice at the Companys expense if considered Companys corporate brokers.
No director obtained any such independent professional advice during 2003.
The document also sets out the separate roles Relations with shareholders and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
The Company places considerable importance on communication Directors are fully briefed in advance of Board and committee with shareholders and engages with them on a wide range of issues.
meetings on all matters to be discussed and, at Board meetings, As and when considered appropriate, the Company seeks the views directors receive regular reports on the Groups financial position, key of major investors, particularly on remuneration issues, both directly areas of the Groups business operations and other material issues.
and through consultation with the Association of British Insurers.
The Companys Investor Relations Department is dedicated to The Group Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, facilitating communication with institutional investors.
The Group through the Chairman, on governance matters and ensuring that has an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings between the Board procedures are followed.
All directors have access to his advice executive directors and its major institutional shareholders, where and services.
a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, The Board has established a number of standing committees, management and governance are discussed within the constraints including Remuneration, Audit, Nomination, and Chairmans of the information already known to the market.
Each committee operates within defined terms of the Chairman met with a number of major shareholders.
For 2004, reference and the minutes of their meetings are circulated to the arrangements have been made, in accordance with the best practice Board.
Details of the work of the respective committees, including recommendations set out in the revised Combined Code, for the their membership and duties, are set out in the reports of the senior independent non-executive director to attend meetings committees on pages 44 to 54. with shareholders in order to gain a fuller understanding of shareholders issues and to make the other members of the The Company has an established formal performance review process Board aware of these.
to assess how well the Board, its committees and directors are performing.
The process is conducted over a two year period.
The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a valuable Directors complete, in confidence, a detailed questionnaire in which opportunity to communicate with private investors.
At the meeting, they assess Board and committees processes and their effectiveness the Company complies with the Combined Code as it relates to and suggest areas where such may be improved.
The completed voting, including votes withheld, the separation of resolutions and questionnaires are returned to the Group Company Secretary who the attendance of committee chairmen.
The Notice of the Annual prepares a report for the Chairman and feedback for the Board.
General Meeting is sent out to shareholders at least 20 business days The following year interviews take place between each individual before the meeting, to ensure that they have sufficient time in which director and the Chairman in which a range of issues, including their to consider the items of business.
Details of the voting by own and other directors performance are discussed.
The conclusions shareholders at general meetings are made available on request and of the process are fed back to the Board.
As part of this process the are placed on the Companys website.
Whenever possible all directors Chairman leaves the Board meeting whilst the directors, under the attend the Annual General Meeting and shareholders are invited to chairmanship of the senior independent non-executive director, ask questions during the meeting and have an opportunity to meet discuss the performance of the Chairman.
The next review is due to with the directors after the conclusion of the formal part of the be undertaken in Spring 2004 when the Board will also consider its meeting.
current practice in line with the Combined Code.
The Companys Annual report and accounts and Annual review, During the year, the directors met without the Chairman being together with the Companys interim reports, trading statements present to consider his performance and the Chairman and nonand other public announcements are designed to present a balanced executive directors met in the absence of the executive directors.
and understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects.
The Chairmans statement, Group Chief Executives review and business and financial reviews on pages 2 to 35 provide an assessment of the Groups affairs and will be supported by a presentation to be made at the Annual General Meeting.
Aviva plc 42 Corporate governance Institutional investor Morley Fund Management Limited, the Groups asset management company believes that good governance leads to better performance and practices.
Therefore, as a major investor, the Group monitors the governance of the companies in which it invests.
To this end Morley holds regular meetings with the senior management of companies where it will raise all relevant matters which may affect the future performance of those companies.
Morley operates a Corporate Governance and Voting Policy in respect of the voting rights it holds in United Kingdom companies and always votes its shares in line with that policy unless clients instruct otherwise.
The policy also extends to cover social, environmental and ethical issues.
Details of how Morleys voting discretion has been used on any particular issue are available to clients upon request.
In addition, Morley engages with the management of the companies in which it invests on contentious matters, and its policy is applied flexibly after careful consideration of all relevant information.
Directors responsibilities Directors are required to ensure that accounts are prepared for each accounting period which comply with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 1985, and which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the accounting period and of the profit or loss for the period.
Suitable accounting policies have to be used and applied consistently in preparing accounts, using reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
Applicable accounting and financial reporting standards also have to be followed, with any material departures being disclosed and explained.
The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records which are intended to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group.
They are also ultimately responsible for the systems of internal control maintained by the Group for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Further details of the systems of internal controls maintained by the Group are more fully described in the report of the Audit Committee on page 44.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Company has complied fully throughout the accounting period with the provisions set down in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The auditors report on page 55 covers its review of the Companys compliance with the relevant provisions of the Combined Code as applicable to the Company during the year under review.
Had the revised Combined Code been in force for the 2003 financial year the Company would have complied with its provisions save for the fact that Board performance reviews are conducted over a two year cycle rather than annually as recommended by the revised Combined Code and there was no formal process in place during the year for the senior independent director to meet with major shareholders and communicate their views to the Board.
From 2004 the Audit Committee will, in line with the revised Combined Code put in place annual reviews covering the effectiveness of both the internal and external audit functions and the implementation of the policy concerning the use of the external auditor.
Aviva plc 43 Corporate governance Audit Committee report This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and With effect from 2004, the Committee will, in line with the the work it has undertaken during the year.
recommendations contained in the revised Combined Code, undertake an annual review covering the effectiveness of both The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in discharging the internal audit function and the external audit process.
its responsibilities for the integrity of the Companys financial announcements, the assessment of the effectiveness of the systems Each of the Groups major business units have formally constituted of risk management, internal control and regulatory compliance and audit committees which provide an oversight role for their business.
to oversee the objectivity and effectiveness of the internal and All such committees include some members who are independent of external auditors.
A copy of the Committees terms of reference is the relevant business.
The Group Business Risk Director reviews the available from the Group Company Secretary and can be viewed on business unit audit committee papers and minutes on behalf of the the Companys website.
Group Audit Committee and all significant matters are brought to the Committees attention.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises the following independent The Committee receives regular reports from the external auditor as non-executive directors, appointed by the Board: well as reports of significant issues raised at the audit committees of the Groups principal businesses.
The Committee also meets regularly Derek Stevens Chairman with both the internal and external auditors in the absence of Guillermo fide la Dehesa management.
In order that the Board is kept fully appraised of George Paul the Committees work, its chairman reports at the next following Carole Piwnica meeting of the Board and the Board receives a copy of the minutes Appointed to the Committee in September 2003. of each meeting of the Committee.
The Committee met on four occasions during the year and all External auditor members attended each meeting.
Ernst & Young LLP was appointed as auditor of the Company in 2001 following a competitive bid process between the firms which Sir Michael Partridge served as a member of the Committee until had acted as auditors of CGU and Norwich Union prior to their his retirement at the close of the Companys Annual General Meeting merger in 2000.
Ernst & Young had been the auditor of Norwich in May 2003.
During 2002, the audit signing partner changed as part of Derek Stevens is a Chartered Accountant and served as the a rotation process.
Ernst & Young LLP audit the whole of the Group Chief Financial Officer of British Airways Plc for 13 years until other than Delta Lloyd, the Groups subsidiary in the Netherlands, his retirement from service in 2001.
In addition to his other which is audited by  LLP PwC.
To fulfil its non-executive appointments, he is also a member of the Group reporting responsibilities Ernst & Young LLP reviews the work Financial Sector and Other Special Industries Committee of the of PwC in accordance with standard auditing practices.
Accordingly the Board is satisfied The Company has established a policy, approved by the Board, aimed that Mr Stevens has recent and relevant financial experience.
at safeguarding and supporting the independence of the auditor by The Group Finance Director, Group Business Risk Director avoiding conflicts of interests.
The policy sets out the approach to Head of Internal Audit, Group Company Secretary and external be taken by the Group when using the services of the auditor and auditor normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of the Committee.
distinguishes between those matters where the Company requires Other senior members of management are also invited to attend an independent view, such as audit and assurance work, from other meetings in order to present reports to the Committee as necessary.
In addition to statutory audits, audit and assurance In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the services of work includes statutory returns, actuarial assurance, regulatory advice the Group Business Risk Director and the Group Company Secretary which requires auditor reporting, due diligence associated with and their resources, as well as access to external professional advice.
acquisitions and disposals, fraud investigations and control and audit reviews.
The auditor cannot be used for any other purpose, although, The Committee undertakes its duties in line with an agreed annual the policy recognises that there may be a small number of areas work plan.
It reviews, with members of management and the where, for pragmatic or historical reasons, it may be in the internal and external auditors, the Companys formal financial Companys interests to use the external auditors for this work.
announcements including the Annual report and accounts to Such appointments are subject to a transparent approval process.
shareholders and associated documentation, with a particular Over a number of years Ernst & Young LLP has provided support to emphasis on their fair representation and the reasonableness of the the Company in respect of advice concerning senior executive judgemental factors and appropriateness of significant accounting remuneration.
Management has now appointed KMPG LLP to policies used in their preparation.
Twice each year, the Committee provide this service in respect of a major remuneration review to be receives reports from the Groups reporting actuary regarding the undertaken during the current year.
From 2004 the Committee will, adequacy of the Groups life assurance and general insurance in line with the best practice recommendations contained in the reserves.
At each meeting, the Committee receives a report from revised Combined Code, review annually the implementation of the the Group Business Risk Director covering internal audit, risk policy concerning the use of the external auditor.
management, fraud, anti money laundering and corporate governance matters to help it assess the effectiveness of the risk management and control frameworks.
These reports include material notifications arising under the Group policy on whistleblowing.
The Committee also reviews annually the operational plan for the Groups internal audit function.
The Group Compliance Director reports to the Committee regularly on the Groups compliance with rules and regulations and any regulatory developments and compliance issues which have arisen.
Aviva plc 44 Committee reports The total fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP in 2003 were 13.3 million Businesses report residual risk profiles, based on local materiality of which 3.6 million related to non-audit work.
Further details are levels on a regular basis.
A consolidated Group risk report, is provided in note 13 to the Report and Accounts on page 74. reviewed regularly by the Group Business Risk Committee, under the chairmanship of the Group Finance Director.
Each quarter, material The Committee reviews, annually, a formal letter provided by the items in the Group risk report are reported to the Group Executive external auditor confirming its independence and objectivity within Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board, who consider the context of regulatory requirements and professional standards.
whether residual risks are within risk appetite and the adequacy Internal controls of the risk mitigating actions.
Local business unit boards, audit The Board has the ultimate responsibility for the systems of internal committees and management also consider local risk reports in control maintained by the Group and for reviewing the effectiveness a similar way.
These regular reports are supported by escalation of those control systems.
The systems of internal control are intended procedures for new or deteriorating risks that are classified at the to provide reasonable assurance, but not an absolute guarantee, highest impact levels.
against material financial misstatement or loss, and include the In addition, all business unit heads and Group functional heads safeguarding of assets, the maintenance of proper accounting provide to the Group a formal certificate every six months confirming records, the reliability of financial information, compliance with compliance with the Groups risk management framework and the appropriate legislation, regulation and best practice, and the terms of their delegated authority.
They are also required to specify identification and containment of business risks.
any risks or control issues not already reported through the regular During the year, the Committee, acting on behalf of the Board, has risk management processes.
reviewed the effectiveness of the framework for the Groups systems Control procedures and monitoring systems of internal control and has received regular reports on the status The Group has a well-developed system of planning and monitoring, of major finance systems development projects.
In the Boards view, which incorporates Board approval of a rolling three year Group Plan.
the information received was sufficient to enable it to review Performance against the Plan is subsequently monitored and reported the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control in to the Board each time it meets.
This report also includes reports on accordance with the Guidance on Internal Control the Turnbull risk, audit, compliance, solvency and liquidity.
The principal features of the control framework are reported formally through the publication of Group results, and as follows: accounting policies are applied consistently throughout the Group.
Control environment Operational management report frequently to the executive directors The Group has an established governance framework.
The key and the Board receives regular representations from management features of the control environment within the framework include: responsible for each principal business operation.
the terms of reference for the Board and each of its committees: This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on a clear organisational structure, with documented delegation of 24 February 2004. authority from the Board to executive management: a Group policy framework, which sets out risk management and control standards Derek Stevens for the Groups operations worldwide: and defined procedures for Chairman, Audit Committee the approval of major transactions and capital allocation.
The Group is also preparing for future changes to the regulatory regime impacting on governance.
In particular, the Group has an established plan in place to implement the Prudential Sourcebook, which is the Financial Services Authoritys new risk-based framework for integrating and embedding risk and capital management.
Risk identification, assessment and management The Group has an established system of business risk management, which is integrated into the Groups business planning and performance monitoring processes.
The Groups risk management and control framework is designed to support the identification, assessment, monitoring and control of risks that are significant to the achievement of the Groups business objectives.
There is an established risk management network across the Group, with dedicated risk management teams within Head Office and within each of the businesses in the United Kingdom.
The overseas businesses also have risk management functions, a number of which are combined with either compliance or internal audit.
These teams use a consistent methodology, and are responsible for assessing and reporting the potential impact and probability of the most significant risks identified across the Group and the adequacy of the mitigating action programmes.
These impact assessments are based on financial, reputational and operational criteria and take into account social, ethical and environmental risks as well as business risks.
Aviva plc 45 Committee reports Nomination Committee report This report provides details of the role of the Nomination Committee directors appointments.
No member of the Committee takes part in and the work it has undertaken during the year.
any discussions concerning their own circumstances.
In assessing a directors conflicts of interests, the Committee attempts to identify The Committee comprises the following directors, appointed by relationships between Group companies and those companies in the Board: which the relevant director has an interest.
The Group is one of the Pehr Gyllenhammar Chairman United Kingdoms largest institutional investors and holds shares in Guillermo fide la Dehesa most of the countrys major companies.
The Committee does not Richard Harvey believe that this situation compromises the independence of those Elizabeth Vallance non-executive directors who serve on the boards of companies in Andr Villeneuve which the Group invests.
Appointed a member of the Committee in September 2003.
During the year, the Board undertook to widen its base of skills and experience by appointing two new independent non-executive In 2003 the Committee met on six occasions and all the members directors.
In addition to the acquisition of specific skills, the Board recorded a full attendance other than Guillermo fide la Dehesa and was seeking to diversify its composition in terms of international Richard Harvey who were absent from three, and one, meeting experience and age.
With the assistance of search consultants, respectively.
the Committee prepared a shortlist of suitable candidates for The terms of reference of the Committee require it to deal with consideration.
Following meetings with the candidates, the the constitution of the Board, evaluating the balance of skills and Committee made a recommendation to the Board that two new experience of the directors and anticipating the skills and knowledge non-executive directors, Anna Catalano and Carole Piwnica, join the requirements for the future.
The Committee identifies, assesses and Board with effect from 8 May 2003.
These recommendations were nominates to the Board the appointments of new directors as and unanimously approved by the Board.
A copy of the Committees terms of reference is The Committee is keeping the constitution of the Board under available from the Group Company Secretary and can be viewed review and continues to work with executive search consultants on the Companys website.
The Committee also keeps under review and advises the Board This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on on matters relating to the independence of each non-executive 24 February 2004. director and directors other interests with a view to monitoring any conflicts or perceived potential conflicts of interests including Pehr G Gyllenhammar directors time commitments.
The matters of independence and Chairman conflicts of interest are reviewed formally each year and, based on this and the Boards performance review, the Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding the renewal of individual Chairmans Committee report This report provides details of the role of the Chairmans Committee On two occasions during the year, the Committee reviewed the and the work it has undertaken during the year.
Group Chief Executives performance against the written objectives considered by the Remuneration Committee and approved by The Committee comprises the following directors, appointed by the Board.
the Board: This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on Pehr Gyllenhammar Chairman 24 February 2004.
George Paul Derek Stevens Pehr G Gyllenhammar Elizabeth Vallance Chairman The main duties of this Committee are to review the performance of the Group Chief Executive and the succession planning for the executive director group of management.
The Committee has two scheduled meetings each year and makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
Aviva plc 46 Committee reports Directors remuneration report This report sets out the remuneration policy for the Companys Against this broad policy, the Committee has set the content of the directors and senior executives, outlines the various elements of their senior executives total remuneration package by reference to a remuneration and sets out the amounts of remuneration paid to the variety of factors, including market practices for companies of similar directors in 2003.
Shareholders will be invited to approve this report size, type and standing.
It also considers the current economic and at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 27 April 2004. prevailing operating conditions within both the Group and the financial services industry generally.
The Committee considers the The Remuneration Committee level of earnings of the Groups employees and the skills and The Remuneration Committee comprises the following independent management capabilities which the Group must secure in order to non-executive directors, appointed by the Board: attain its strategic objectives.
George Paul Chairman The Boards philosophy is that the senior executives own interests Anna Catalano should be aligned with those of the Companys shareholders.
It Wim Dik therefore believes that, whilst paying a competitive basic salary a Elizabeth Vallance substantial proportion of the targeted total remuneration package Andr Villeneuve should be closely linked to the performance of the business and delivered in the form of shares.
The policy seeks to provide an Appointed to the Committee in September 2003. appropriate balance between the delivery of the annual business plan The Committee met on four occasions during the year and all and the long-term profitable growth of the Company.
The Board members recorded a full attendance other than Wim Dik who believes that the executive directors should build and maintain a was absent from one meeting.
personal stake in the equity of the Company and to this end, each director is required to defer 50%, and is encouraged through share The Group Chief Executive is normally invited to attend the meetings matching to defer 100%, of their annual bonus into shares and is of the Committee, except when his own remuneration is being further required to retain these for three years.
The share interests discussed, as is the Group Human Resources Director.
of the directors are set out on page 54.
The Committee considers all aspects of remuneration paid to the In their 2002 review, New Bridge Street Consultants confirmed Groups senior executives, and makes recommendations to the Board that overall the Companys remuneration policy and levels of on the remuneration policy, strategy and framework for this group of remuneration were broadly in line with market practice for employees.
The remuneration policy is reviewed by the Committee companies of similar size.
Two areas in relation to the long-term on a regular basis to ensure that it remains appropriate within the incentive plans, where the Companys approach differed from that market and for the achievement of its objectives.
Within the scope preferred by institutional investors, were noted and these are of the policy, which is approved by the Board, the Committee commented upon below.
determines the level of remuneration paid to each of the executive directors and the Chairman.
The Committee also exercises discretion The Committee continues to review and develop the remuneration on behalf of the Board in relation to the operation of the Groups policy in order to reflect market conditions and changes in best various share schemes and incentive plans.
No material changes have been made to the remuneration Committees terms of reference is available from the Group Company policy or packages during the year and none are planned in 2004.
Secretary and can be viewed on the Companys website.
However, from 1 April 2004 those members of the defined benefit section of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme, including the executive Mike Pemberton, the Group Human Resources Director, has provided directors, who currently do not make a contribution will be required material assistance to the Committee during the year advising on to contribute 2.5% pa of their gross pensionable salary, increasing to market trends, practices and appropriate levels of remuneration.
As mentioned above, a review of the He has been supported by Ernst & Young LLP who has advised on senior executives remuneration practice will be undertaken in 2004, remuneration benefits generally, including salary levels, bonus and with any proposed changes taking effect from 1 April 2005.
Deloitte & Touche has advised on the review will include a response to the Governments proposals on calculation of total shareholder return for the purposes of the longpension reform and the effect of those changes on the pension term incentive plans.
In addition, the Committee has taken into arrangements for the Groups United Kingdom based senior account the views of Pehr Gyllenhammar, Chairman, and Richard executives.
Harvey, Group Chief Executive, on performance assessments.
Ernst & Young LLP is the Companys auditor and has provided audit and Non-executive directors assurance services to the Group as disclosed in the report of the The Companys articles of association provide that the total Audit Committee on page 44 and note 13 on page 74.
KPMG LLP aggregate fees paid to directors shall be determined by the Board has now been appointed by Management, in place of Ernst & Young within the limits set by shareholders.
The current limit is 1 million LLP, to assist it with a thorough review of senior executive pa as approved at the 2002 Annual General Meeting.
Executive remuneration to be undertaken during the current year.
Deloitte & directors receive no fees for serving as directors.
Touche provide no other material services to the Group.
The fees paid to the non-executive directors are set by the Board It is the Committees current practice to commission every three years after considering a recommendation from the executive directors.
its own independent review of the remuneration policy and the It is the Companys policy to set the fees paid to its non-executive packages paid, to ensure that the policy reflects good practice and directors at the median level for international companies of similar that the packages remain competitive and in line with the market.
Non-executive directors receive a basic annual New Bridge Street Consultants, who provide no other services to the fee in respect of their Board and Board committee duties, with a Group, were appointed by the Committee to undertake such a further fee being paid to those directors other than the Chairman review during 2002.
In light of a wider review of the Companys and Deputy Chairman who have the additional responsibility of executive remuneration to take place in 2004, the Committee will chairing meetings of Board committees.
These fees are reviewed, but seek a further independent review.
not necessarily increased, annually and are set by the Board to attract individuals with the broad range of skills and experience appropriate Remuneration policy for a major international company.
Executive directors The Companys remuneration policy seeks to provide remuneration packages appropriate for each particular market in which the Company operates, which attract and retain high calibre employees and encourage and reward superior performance in a manner which is consistent with the interests of shareholders.
The policy is aimed at ensuring senior executives are rewarded fairly for their individual and collective contributions to the Companys performance.
Aviva plc 47 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued In determining the level of fees, the Board considers a Basic salaries recommendation of the executive directors who take into account In determining the level of basic salaries, the Committee gathers the duties and responsibilities of the non-executive directors, the time data from a number of independent sources concerning the level of commitment required in preparing for and attending meetings, and salaries paid to senior executives performing comparable functions the amounts paid by competitors and similar-sized companies.
Other within the largest 50 listed companies in the United Kingdom, with than the Chairman who receives a car allowance, non-executive an additional focus on leading United Kingdom and European directors receive no benefits in addition to their fees nor do they financial services companies.
participate in any incentive or performance plans.
When reviewing basic salaries the Committee takes into account The basic fee payable to each non-executive director was increased both market data and each senior executives performance.
The from 38,000 pa to 42,000 pa from July 2003 and that payable to Companys policy is to set basic salaries for competent performance the chairman of the Audit Committee from 15,000 pa to 25,000 at the median level.
Salaries are targeted towards the upper quartile pa.
The fee paid to the Chairman was increased from 275,000 pa for those executives who display sustained superior performance.
to 300,000 pa from July 2003 and no increase was made to the Cash bonuses Deputy Chairmans fee of 160,000 which includes acting as Senior executives participate in a discretionary annual cash bonus chairman of the Remuneration Committee and as the senior plan that provides for the payment of cash bonuses.
For executive independent non-executive director.
directors the bonus for Target performance is 35% of basic salary and for achieving Stretch performance a payment of up to 50% Remuneration package can be made.
Of the potential payment, 70% is dependent upon The remuneration package for the Companys senior executives financial targets and the remaining 30% is based upon the directors comprises the following elements: attainment of personal objectives.
a basic salary: For the executive directors, shared Group-wide financial objectives an annual bonus plan to encourage executives to meet annual are based on financial measures relevant to the business, including targets relating to business and personal performance: new business contribution, combined operating ratio and operating profit.
For the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, a deferred bonus plan linked to the annual bonus plan to Group-wide targets are the relevant performance measures encourage executives to take all of their bonus in the form of for annual bonus purposes.
For the other executive directors, shares and retain them for a period of three years: Group-wide targets represent about 40% of their overall financial a long-term incentive plan to align executives longer term target with the remainder represented by targets pertaining to the interests with those of shareholders: businesses for which they have responsibility.
a defined benefit pension entitlement and other benefits.
A fundamental part of the annual bonus plan is the requirement that a stated proportion of any cash bonus awarded under the plan The balance of these elements is such that, for directors achieving be taken in the form of shares through the Deferred Bonus Plan.
Target performance, basic salary represents approximately 40% Executive directors are required to defer 50%, and may elect to defer of the potential total remuneration package, with the annual up to 100%, of their cash bonus.
In respect of bonuses deferred, bonus deferred bonus plan representing 35% and the long-term participants are granted an award of shares of equal value to the incentive plan 25%.
At Stretch performance, basic pay represents amount of cash bonus deferred and this is matched on a one for one approximately 28% of the potential total remuneration package, basis with a further award of shares.
The shares granted under the plan with the annual bonus deferred bonus plan representing 36% and are held in trust and vest automatically after three years.
Upon vesting the long-term incentive plan also representing about 36%.
Stretch the particpants are entitled to receive additional shares representing performance would represent the achievement of business results the dividends paid on the shares during the deferral period.
significantly better than the business plan target.
If a participant leaves service during the deferral period for reasons of The relative value of the elements of executive ill-health, retirement or redundancy, the matching shares are released directors remuneration 000 in full at the end of the deferral period.
In all other cases, the 400 matching shares normally lapse.
350 The Committee has considered carefully the suggestion of certain 300 institutional investors that the vesting of the matching awards should be subject to the attainment of performance conditions.
The award of 250 matching shares can only be made in relation to bonuses actually 200 earned, ie the performance conditions attaching to the annual bonus plan must have been met.
The plan makes it compulsory for 150 LTIP participants to defer 50% of their bonus into shares and encourages 100 Cash deferred bonus participants to invest the whole of their bonus into shares, thereby Basic pay strengthening further the alignment of their interests with those of 50 shareholders.
The Committee believes that the imposition of additional 0 performance conditions would be detrimental to achieving this.
As a Target Stretch result of benchmarking the Companys remuneration package, the For the purposes of this diagram, the following assumptions have been made: Committee is aware that the maximum amount which a participant At Target performance the annual bonus is 35% of basic pay and the executive can earn under the Companys annual cash bonus plan, and hence director chooses to defer the whole of his bonus, which is matched.
The Return on defer being 50% of basic salary, is at the bottom decile of the market Capital Employed ROCE performance condition on the long-term incentive plan is range.
Taking the above into account, the Committee believes that the met in full and the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR position is median, absence of performance conditions is reasonable.
However, the resulting in the vesting of 50% of the shares awarded.
The share price growth during the three-year performance deferral period averages 5% per year.
Companys incentive plans fall for renewal by shareholders at the 2005 Annual General Meeting and therefore during 2004 the plan will be At Stretch performance the annual bonus is the maximum 50% of basic pay and the executive director chooses to defer the whole of his bonus, which is fully reviewed when all relevant matters, including the above issue and matched.
The ROCE performance condition on the long-term incentive plan is met emerging best practice, will be taken into account.
in full and the Companys TSR position is upper decile, resulting in the vesting of 100% of the shares awarded.
The share price growth during the three-year Long-term incentives performance deferral period averages 10% per year.
The Aviva Long Term Incentive Plan is a discretionary share plan.
It is the Committees policy to make an annual award of shares to executive directors with a value equal to 100% of their basic salary as at 31 December of the previous year.
Aviva plc 48 Directors remuneration report All awards are made subject to the achievement of stretching Four year total shareholder return comparison performance conditions which contain two elements.
The first 120 element compares the Total Shareholder Return TSR produced by the Company over the performance period with the TSR of 110 companies in a chosen comparator group 70% of award.
The second element of the performance condition measures the Return 100 on Capital Employed ROCE within the Company against a target return 30% of award.
The Committee believes that this 90 combination is the most appropriate way of incentivising executives 80 since it takes into account both the returns to shareholders and the Aviva Companys underlying performance.
70 Comparator Group Median Achievement of median TSR performance within the comparator FTSE 100 Return Index 60 group triggers the vesting of 20% of the shares, which rises to 70% if the Companys performance is in the upper decile of the comparator 50 group.
Recognising the Companys position as one of the largest Dec 1999 Dec 2000 Dec 2001 Dec 2002 Dec 2003 providers of life and pension products in Europe, the comparator Pension arrangements group for the TSR part of the plan comprises 19 European financial The remuneration package for senior executives in the United services companies, namely Abbey, AEGON, Allianz, AXA, Barclays, Kingdom includes company contributions into the Groups staff CNP Assurances, Ergo, Fortis, HBOS, HSBC, ING, Legal & General, pension scheme.
All executive directors are members of the defined Lloyds TSB, Prudential, Royal Bank of Scotland, Royal & Sun Alliance, benefit section of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme.
Skandia, Swiss Life and Zurich.
Under the Scheme, executive directors have a normal retirement age The other 30% of the award vests if the Company achieves of 60 and accrue pensions at a rate of one-thirtieth of their final a given return in excess of inflation on the ROCE over the three-year pensionable salary for each year of service since they became a senior performance period.
Awards under this performance condition will executive, subject to a maximum pension of two-thirds of their final begin to vest if the cumulative ROCE over the performance period is pensionable salary.
No pension benefits are accrued on bonuses or 24% in excess of the rate of inflation, with the full 30% vesting if other benefits.
The Scheme provides a lump sum death-in-service the ROCE is 30%, or higher.
benefit of four times the members basic salary at the date of death If the performance targets have not been met at all at the end of the and a spouses pension equal to two-thirds of a members actual or three year performance period they will be retested at the end of five prospective pension.
Post-retirement, pensions are reviewed annually years, the ROCE performance condition being adjusted accordingly and increases are guaranteed at a rate equivalent to the annual i. e. the cumulative ROCE would need to be at least 40% in excess of increase in the Retail Prices Index up to a maximum of 10% pa. the rate of inflation over the extended performance period for any During the year, the majority of members of the defined benefit awards under that part of the plan to vest.
section of the Scheme, including executive directors, have been The Committee is conscious that certain institutions are not in favour members on a non-contributory basis.
From 1 April 2004, all of performance conditions being retested.
From a benchmarking members, including executive directors, who do not currently exercise the Committee is aware that the Companys performance contribute will be required to pay 2.5% pa of their total gross conditions ie upper decile TSR and ROCE exceeding 30% real return pensionable salary, increasing to 5% pa from 1 April 2005. over the performance period, are very demanding compared with The benefits paid from the Scheme are subject to Inland Revenue such plans generally.
The Committee believes that it is important to limits.
There is in place an unfunded pension top-up arrangement to strike a balance between setting challenging performance conditions ensure that senior executives receive the benefits promised by the and retaining the motivational incentive which is the fundamental Scheme notwithstanding an Inland Revenue limit relating to their purpose of the plan.
The Committee is also conscious of the cyclical level of earnings, which, in some cases, caps the amount of pension nature of its general insurance operations and believes that one retest that can be paid from a tax-approved scheme.
Where this limit allows performance to be measured over a larger part of the cycle.
applies, additional benefits are provided from the unfunded After careful consideration it believes that this is best achieved by arrangement.
Richard Harvey and Philip Twyman are affected by this retaining the demanding conditions but allowing one retest at the end limit and therefore will, at retirement, receive some of their pension of five years.
No retesting takes place if any part of the performance benefits from the unfunded arrangement.
condition has been met at the end of the three-year performance period.
The Companys incentive plans fall for renewal by shareholders Other benefits at the 2005 Annual General Meeting and therefore during 2004 the In addition to the benefits described above, senior executives are entitled plan will be fully reviewed when all relevant matters, including the to the benefit of a company car allowance and private medical insurance.
above issue and emerging best practice, will be taken into account.
The Company operates a number of Inland Revenue approved allWhether or not the performance conditions have been met is employee share plans in the United Kingdom.
Senior executives are determined by the Committee.
The rules of the plan require the entitled to participate in these plans on the same basis as other Committee to request an independent consultant to determine the eligible employees.
These include the Free Share element of the Aviva relevant TSR positions.
In respect of the ROCE calculation, the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP.
Under this plan, eligible Committee requests that the Groups auditor expresses a formal employees can receive up to a maximum of 3,000 pa in the form of opinion on the basis of the calculation used.
shares from the profits of the Company, free of tax, subject to a retention period.
The Partnership element of the AESOP allows The following graph compares the TSR performance of the Company participants to invest up to 125 per month out of their gross salary with the TSR of the FTSE 100 index.
The period covered is the four in the Companys shares.
years since the beginning of 2000, the year in which CGU and Norwich Union merged to form Aviva.
The graph also includes the The Aviva Savings Related Share Option Scheme allows eligible median TSR of the companies in the comparator group which is employees to acquire options over the Companys shares at a discount included as it is the group with which performance is measured of up to 20% to their market value at the date of grant.
In order to for the purposes of the Long Term Incentive Plan.
exercise the options, participants must have saved the consideration through either a three, five or seven year approved savings contract, subject to a maximum savings limit of 250 per month.
Aviva plc 49 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Service contracts During the year, the Committee reviewed the terms of the service Service contracts agreed with each executive director incorporate contracts and except in a few areas, the current contracts comply their terms and conditions of employment.
Executive directors have with much of what has come to be regarded as best practice.
rolling service contracts which came into effect from 1 June 2000 and In respect of appointments made following the review, the contracts which can be terminated by the Company giving 12 months notice include provisions to allow the Company to phase any termination and by the director giving six months notice.
payments over a 12 month period and include a specific requirement for employees to mitigate their losses.
It is the Companys policy to In respect of the early termination of a service contract, the notify to the market the terms offered to executive directors upon Company would, depending upon the circumstances, either seek appointment.
to make a payment in respect of damages less an amount for appropriate mitigation, or would invoke a provision in the service The non-executive directors, including the Chairman, have letters of contract allowing it to terminate the contract by making a payment appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
Such of one years basic salary in lieu of notice.
appointments are for three years and, subject to performance, may be renewed by mutual consent.
The Company may terminate these Under the Companys discretionary redundancy arrangements, appointments at any time upon giving one months written notice which apply to United Kingdom based employees, an executive without the payment of compensation.
director may, depending on his length of service, receive an ex gratia payment of up to one years basic salary should he leave employment Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available on the grounds of redundancy.
No special arrangements would apply for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal hours should there be a change in the control of the Company.
Directors remuneration in 2003 This section of the report on pages 50 to 54 which has been subject to audit sets out the remuneration paid to the directors during the year to 31 December 2003.
From the date of appointment: Anna Catalano and Carole Piwnica 8 May 2003.
Notes 1 Bonuses include amounts earned under the Annual Bonus Plan including amounts deferred under the Aviva Deferred Bonus Plan in respect of performance in 2003, and the value of shares granted under the free share part of the Aviva All-Employee Share Ownership Plan in respect of 2003 performance.
All the executive directors received the benefit of private medical insurance and, along with the Chairman, a car allowance.
The disclosure also includes, in respect of Mike Biggs, Richard Harvey and Philip Twyman, charges relating to the cost of insuring their pension entitlements which cannot be provided from the pension scheme as a result of the earnings cap, and in the case of Mike Biggs, the cost of providing accommodation in London and the payments for holiday entitlements not taken by his date of leaving.
In 2002, awards were made to participants in the CGNU Integration Incentive Plan and the Norwich Union Restricted Share Plan.
Full details were disclosed in the Remuneration report for that year.
These were one off awards and the plans are now closed.
The benefits disclosed for Pehr Gyllenhammar refer to a car allowance.
The fee for George Paul reflects his duties as Deputy Chairman, which includes chairing the Remuneration Committee and acting as the senior independent non-executive director.
The fee for Derek Stevens includes an additional amount for serving as the Chairman of the Boards Audit Committee and of the trustee of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme.
The fee for Guillermo fide la Dehesa includes an amount for serving as the non-executive Chairman of the Groups operations in Spain.
No non-executive director accrued retirement benefits during the year.
5 No compensation for loss of office was made to any director, or former director, during the year and no compensation for such will be paid to Mr Biggs who resigned with effect from 31 December 2003.
6 For the purposes of the disclosure required by Schedule 6 of the Companies Act 1985 the total aggregate emoluments of the directors in respect of 2003 was 5.1 million 2002: 6.6 million.
7 Mr Wyand was the only executive director to serve on the board of an external company in a personal capacity during the year.
He was a director of Grosvenor Estate Limited and during the year to his retirement from the Board on 31 July 2003 he received fees totalling 17,500.
Aviva plc 50 Directors remuneration report Pension benefits During the year, each of the executive directors accumulated pension benefits under the defined benefits section of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme, the Groups pension scheme for its United Kingdom employees.
Increase Transfer value in pension of previous Increase Pension Increase 2003 column at Transfer value Transfer value of transfer Age at accumulated in pension net of 31 December of pension of pension value 31 December 2003 2003 inflation 2003 2003 2002 2003 2003 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Mike Biggs 51 150 27 23 246 1,579 1,150 429 Richard Harvey 53 452 49 38 469 5,613 4,536 1,077 Philip Scott 49 272 31 25 237 2,624 2,109 515 Patrick Snowball 53 158 32 29 359 1,979 1,431 548 Philip Twyman 59 115 21 18 365 2,306 1,803 503 Tony Wyand 60 323 5 1 11 6,504 6,311 193 Disclosed for each director is the Pension accumulated 2003, being Payments to former directors the amount of pension to which the directors would have been Mr Wyand retired from the Board on 31 July 2003 and served as an entitled had they left service at 31 December 2003.
The Increase in employee until 30 November 2003 when he retired at his normal pension columns relate to the difference between the accumulated retirement age.
Between retiring from the Board and leaving service pensions at the end of 2003 on both gross and net of inflation basis.
his remuneration including salary, bonuses and benefits was Also disclosed is the transfer value of the accumulated pensions at 241,711.
Mr Wyand has agreed to serve as a consultant following 31 December 2002 and 2003.
The Increase of transfer value 2003 his retirement and to join the boards of the Groups operations in is the difference between these values.
The transfer values disclosed Spain, Italy and France.
The terms of the consultancy arrangement represent an obligation on the pension fund where funded or the are that the Company will pay a per diem rate for approximately Company where unfunded they are not sums paid or due to 40 days per year, subject to a maximum payment of 120,000 pa. the director.
This agreement took effect from 1 January 2004.
No former directors received any increase in retirement benefits in excess of the amount to which they were entitled on the later of the date when the benefits first became payable or 31 March 1997.
Aviva plc 51 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Incentive plans Details of the directors who held executive office for any part of the financial year, and hold or held options to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company or hold or held awards over shares in the Company, pursuant to the Companys share-based incentive plans, are set out below.
Current plans is determined on a straight-line basis.
For any options to vest under Savings related options are options granted under the Inland the ROCE condition, the Companys ROCE would have to exceed Revenue-approved Save As You Earn SAYE share option schemes.
24% in excess of RPI over the three-year performance period when Options are normally exercisable during the six month period 10% of the awards would vest, rising to 30% if the ROCE exceeded following either the third, fifth or seventh anniversary of the relevant 30% over the same period.
At the end of the performance period savings contract.
relating to the options granted in 2000, the Company was ranked 12th out of the 20 companies in the comparator group and the Closed plans ROCE, net of inflation, was 24.3%.
Accordingly, none of the options Executive options are those granted to former CGU directors under vested under the TSR condition but 11% of the options vested under the CGNU Executive Share Option Scheme, or predecessor schemes.
The options are exercisable at 960 pence per Options, granted on various dates from 1994 to 2000, are normally share.
Under the rules of the Scheme options which have not exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of their date of vested lapse.
No options have been granted to executive directors under these schemes since 2000.
Bonus Plan options are the options granted in 1999 and 2000 under the CGU Deferred Bonus Plan.
Participants who deferred their Options granted after 1997 are only exercisable if certain annual cash bonus and instead received an award of shares also performance conditions have been met.
The exercise of options received a matching award over an equivalent number of options.
is subject to the attainment of performance conditions over a These options, which are not subject to performance conditions, are three-year performance period.
The three-year performance condition normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of relating to the options granted in 2000 fell due for testing during the their grant.
For any options to vest under the Total Shareholder Return TSR condition, the Companys TSR, when compared with the TSR of a The mid-market price of an ordinary share in the Company on comparator group of European financial services companies see 31 December 2003 was 490 pence, and the mid-market prices page 49, would need to at least match median performance.
during the year ranged from 335 pence to 591 pence.
No director At median performance, 20% of the options become exercisable and exercised any options during the year and therefore no gains on at upper decile performance 70% would become exercisable.
Based on the performance of Mr Biggs during his notice period, the Committee exercised its discretion to allow him to retain the benefits of his matched awards which will vest at the end of their deferral period.
As at the date of ceasing to be a director 31 July 2003.
Aviva plc 53 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued The Aviva Long Term Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders the awards would vest, rising to 30% if the ROCE exceeded 30% at the 2001 Annual General Meeting.
Awards under the plan are over the same period.
At the end of the performance period relating made on an annual basis and the 2003 award was made in March.
to the awards granted in 2000, the Company was ranked 12th out Awards are subject to the attainment of performance conditions over of the 20 companies in the comparator group and the ROCE was a three-year performance period as described on pages 48 and 49.
Accordingly none of the awards vested.
Under the rules of The three-year performance condition relating to the awards granted the Plan, there will be one further test of the performance condition in 2000 fell due for testing during the year.
For any awards to vest in 2005 measured over five years.
under the TSR condition the Companys TSR, when compared with The Aviva Deferred Bonus Plan was approved by shareholders at the the TSR of a comparator group of European financial services 2001 Annual General Meeting.
The awards disclosed include those companies see page 49, would need to at least match median made in lieu of some or all of the cash bonus earned under the performance when 20% of the awards become exercisable.
At upper Companys Annual Bonus Plan in 2003 and deferred, and also the decile performance 70% of the options would become exercisable.
matching awards granted on a one for one basis.
The awards are Between median and upper quartile the number of awards vesting is not subject to performance conditions and vest on the third determined on a straight-line basis.
For any awards to vest under the anniversary of their grant.
ROCE condition, the Companys ROCE would have to exceed 24% in excess of RPI over the three-year performance period when 10% of Directors interests in Aviva shares The interests held by each person who was a director at the end of the financial year in the ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the Company is shown below.
The table also summarises the interests in shares held through the Companys various share and incentive schemes.
Details of the options, deferred bonus awards and long-term incentive awards are shown on pages 52 and 53.
Awards held by Mike Biggs under the Long Term Incentive Plan lapsed on 1 January 2004 following his resignation taking effect on 31 December 2003.
Notes 1 Shares are the directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company.
All the interests disclosed are beneficial interests.
The table includes shares purchased by directors under the partnership element of the Companys All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP and shares granted under the free share element of the AESOP and the employee profit sharing scheme.
2 Deferred Bonus Plan Awards relates to an entitlement to shares arising through the Aviva Deferred Bonus Plan.
Half of the number of the shares disclosed relate to the deferral of some or all of the directors annual cash bonuses and therefore represent a directors investment in the Company.
The remaining half are shares granted on a one for one matching basis and, normally, will only be received if the director remains in employment until the vesting date.
Upon vesting the participants are entitled to receive additional shares representing the dividends paid during the deferral period.
3 Long Term Incentive Awards are awards granted under the Aviva Long Term Incentive Plan which vest subject to the attainment of performance conditions.
4 Options are options over shares granted under the CGNU Executive Share Option Scheme, CGU Deferred Bonus Plan or Save As You Earn share scheme.
The exercise of some of these options is subject to the attainment of performance conditions.
The following changes to directors interests during the period 1 January 2004 to 24 February 2004, which relate to shares acquired through dividend reinvestment, have been reported to the Company: Number of shares Richard Harvey 62 George Paul 34 Philip Scott 45 Patrick Snowball 45 This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 24 February 2004.
George Paul Chairman, Remuneration Committee Aviva plc 54 Directors remuneration report Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc We have audited the Groups accounts for the year ended We read other information contained in the Annual report and 31 December 2003 which comprise the Accounting policies, consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
the Consolidated profit and loss account, Reconciliation of Group This other information comprises the Highlights of the year, operating profit to profit on ordinary activities before taxation, Chairmans statement, Business overview, Group Chief Executives Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses, review, Operating review, Corporate social responsibility, Financial Reconciliation of movements in consolidated shareholders funds, review, Directors report, Corporate governance statement, Audit Consolidated Group balance sheet, Consolidated cash flow committee report, Nomination committee report, Chairmans statement and Company balance sheet, and the related notes committee report and the unaudited part of the Directors 1 to 50.
These accounts have been prepared on the basis of the remuneration report.
We consider the implications for our report accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material information in the Directors remuneration report that is described inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Basis of audit opinion in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Companys members those matters we are required to state to them includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the have formed.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Directors remuneration report and the accounts in accordance with information and explanations which we considered necessary in order applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance in the Statement of directors responsibilities on page 43. that the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing in the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Equalisation provision Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly Our evaluation of the presentation of information in the accounts has prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also had regard to the statutory requirement for insurance companies to report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent maintain an equalisation provision.
The nature of the equalisation with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting provision, the amount set aside at 31 December 2003 and the effect records, if we have not received all the information and explanations of the movement in the provision during the year on the general we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the business technical result and profit on ordinary activities before tax, Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with are disclosed in accounting policy T and note 40 to the accounts.
the Group is not disclosed.
Opinion We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the In our opinion, the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 December 2003 Code issued in June 1998 that are specified for our review by the and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended and have Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 24 February 2004 Aviva plc 55 Auditors report
