Business overview Long-term savings Our strategy is to grow this business aggressively Our credentials and profitably by building strong positions in our chosen markets.
Aviva is one of the leading life and pensions providers to Europe.
We are the largest company in the UK long-term savings and Spanish life markets.
We are among the top five in the Netherlands, Ireland, Poland, Turkey and Singapore, among the top 10 in France, Italy, Belgium, Romania and Australia, and have significant operations in the United States and Germany.
We have also established businesses with great long-term potential in India and China.
Performance Operating profit before tax from continuing 1,555m operations, including life achieved profit 1 UK 9,212m Geographical analysis of net premium and 3 1 2 Continental Europe 9,882m investment sales from continuing operations 3 Rest of world 1,007m Total 20,101m Including health premiums of 1,066 million.
2 Worldwide long-term savings new business sales Five-year trend for performance billion 16 12 8 4 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Strengthened our market position in many Developments in 2003 countries, becoming the largest life insurer in Spain after considerable growth in just a few years.
Life and pension new business sales were 13.3 billion, including a 3% increase in continental European sales to 6.6 billion, mostly driven through bancassurance.
Bancassurance joint venture with ABN AMRO in the Netherlands became operational, contributing 227 million to total sales.
Joint ventures in India and China both made good progress in their first full year of operation, in markets with huge long-term growth potential.
Substantial improvement in customer service in the UK reflected in a three-star rating at the Financial Services Awards and other industry accolades.
Aviva plc 04 04 Business overview Fund management General insurance We continue to develop our presence as a leading Rigorous cost control, disciplined underwriting and international fund manager, with worldwide assets excellent customer service are at the core of our under management of around 240 billion.
We are general insurance business.
We aim to deliver highthe second-largest UK-based fund manager, among quality earnings from market-leading positions in the top five in Ireland and the Netherlands, and a personal insurance and selected commercial lines.
top-five master trust in Australia through Navigator.
Our sustained profitability gives us a solid platform to We also have a significant business in France.
provide high-quality service, strengthen relationships This in-house expertise aims to generate superior with our customers and broaden our range of investment performance for shareholders, propositions.
Aviva is the leading general insurer in policyholders and institutional clients, and supports the UK and Ireland, the second-largest in Canada, our long-term savings businesses by investing funds and among the top five in the Netherlands and on their behalf.
We also have a significant business in France and an extensive insurance network in Asia.
10m 911m 1 UK 680m 1 UK 5,135m 1 1 3 2 Continental Europe 363m 2 Continental Europe 1,915m 3 3 Rest of world 98m 3 Rest of world 1,474m Total 1,141m Total 8,524m 2 2 Worldwide assets under management Combined operating ratio from continuing operations billion % 240 115 230 110 220 105 210 100 200 95 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Greater efficiencies achieved within Morley Third consecutive year of improvements as we Fund Management through increased achieved a combined operating ratio from centralisation of our international equity fund continuing operations of 100%.
Continued investment in the development of Ground-breaking investment administration innovative, tailored propositions such as digital TM service being set up by Morley with JPMorgan and Norwich flood mapping, Pay As You Drive Investor Services.
Union Rescue vehicle breakdown service.
Excellent investment performance in France again Shared service initiatives helped keep costs down earned a large number of awards from the and improved claims handling and standards of financial press.
customer service across the group.
Healthy fund performances, strong demand and Aviva Canada launched its first corporate partnership with supermarket chain Loblaws, third-party distribution arrangements contributed to increased assets under management of under the highly regarded Presidents Choice brand.
Call and claims processing centre in India became Navigator added new funds to enhance the operational, delivering cost and service benefits to range of investment choices available to financial our UK business and other operations.
advisors and their clients in Australia.
Aviva plc 05 Business overview We took a number of tough but clear-sighted decisions to protect and grow our business during 2003 Group results Our pre-tax operating profit of 1,907 million 2002: 1,720 million and an improved return on capital of 12.7% 2002: 9.7% employed We achieved the operational reflects the continued strength of both our long-term savings and general targets we set ourselves at the start insurance businesses.
of the year Given the uncertain financial climate, we were pleased that our worldwide long-term savings new business sales Group Chief were 14.4 billion 2002: 14.6 billion.
On a modified statutory basis, group Sales in continental Europe improved by operating profit before tax was Executives review 5% to 6.9 billion 2002: 6.0 billion.
We continue to benefit from our On an after tax basis, this operating bancassurance distribution agreements profit covers the proposed full year as they develop across Europe and South ordinary dividend of 545 million East Asia, with worldwide total sales of 1.82 times, in line with our dividend 3.5 billion 2002: 3.0 billion.
The group delivered an overall Overview seeing signs that investment market profit before tax of 1,390 million The Aviva group delivered a strong conditions are improving and customer 2002: 282 million loss.
performance against a challenging confidence is recovering in equity commercial backdrop in 2003.
Life achieved operating Cost management committed ourselves to applying our profit was 1,555 million 2002: We continue to improve our operational strategy clearly and consistently in the 1,524 million.
efficiency by reducing costs and face of slow worldwide economic capitalising on economies of scale.
growth, stock market volatility and We made an excellent operating profit We endeavour to align costs to revenues of 911 million 2002: 881 million increasing pace of regulatory change.
We have from our general insurance business, continued to apply rigorous financial In particular, we achieved the which reaped the benefits from strict targets for new developments and operational targets we set ourselves at underwriting and pricing disciplines for internal projects.
We improved the third consecutive year, in addition productivity, to keep our costs in line to favourable weather conditions.
The net pre-tax benefit to the profit and with revenues.
We continued to apply We achieved a combined operating loss account for the year was 65 of 100%.
rigorous financial management to ratio COR million, which is in line with our maximise returns from our valuable indication at the half year.
This operational performance, combined capital resources.
We generated cashflow from our general insurance with improvements in global investment Senior management responsibilities business and from our focus on capital markets and a strengthened euro, A realignment of responsibilities among # increase to management disciplines and costs.
saw shareholders funds the executive directors took effect from We committed ourselves to improving 11.2 billion 2002: 9.7 billion.
July 2003 to support our strategy and customer service by sharing best Net asset value per share was up 12% structure more effectively.
Most importantly, our combination of strong and diversified long-term savings operations and cash-generative general insurance business delivered consistent and reliable financial results.
Richard Harvey Group Chief Executive From continuing operations, including life achieved operating profit before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items.
From continuing operations, including share of associates premiums.
From continuing operations, before amortisation of goodwill, amortisation of acquired additional value of in-force long-term business and exceptional items.
#On an achieved profit basis.
Aviva plc 06 Group Chief Executives review Our powerful presence in our chosen markets is aided by the Aviva brand, which has been successfully launched in more than 20 countries worldwide.
Our long-term savings business is I was delighted to be appointed focused on profitable growth, supported chairman of the Association of British by well-managed general insurance Insurers in July 2003.
During my time in operations where our investment in 12.7% office I intend to ensure that the ABI improved efficiency, claims handling and An improved return on capital employed of continues to provide effective and distribution is generating consistent 12.7% 2002: 9.7% reflects the continued strength influential leadership for the insurance and sustainable earnings.
Our employees continue to adapt, as we We have a big task to explain the full face more challenging competition and value of the industrys contribution to market forces.
I thank them for their the social and economic health of the willingness and capability to embrace country.
We need to communicate more change in the pursuit of our cost effectively with governments, regulators effectiveness and customer service and consumers on issues that concern all ambitions.
There is also more we can do to In addition to my duties as group chief build trust with our customers through We took a number of tough but clearexecutive, I became non-executive greater openness and better service.
sighted decisions to protect and grow chairman of Norwich Union Life in the our business during 2003.
We will UK, with Gary Withers continuing as Outlook continue with clarity of purpose and chief executive.
Our continental Investment markets are showing signs action to develop our distribution European and international long-term of recovery and there is evidence that channels, improve standards of customer savings businesses now report to investors are regaining confidence.
service, increase efficiency and maintain Philip Scott.
Patrick Snowball, chief The groups longer-term prospects capital disciplines.
We remain financially executive of Norwich Union Insurance remain excellent.
strong and we believe we are the bestin the UK, also took on responsibility for positioned life company in Europe to our general insurance businesses in Having invested around 2 billion in benefit as consumer confidence returns.
strategic long-term businesses and savings partnerships since 2000, we are Philip Scott will become non-executive beginning to gain rewards in terms of chairman of Morley Investment sales volumes, profitability and market Holdings, in addition to his existing share.
Many of our bancassurance Richard Harvey responsibilities, after Philip Twymans partnerships worldwide are still at a Group Chief Executive retirement on 31 March 2004.
We look relatively early stage of development and forward to welcoming Andrew Moss as we expect further growth as these group finance director, following the relationships mature.
Furthermore, as departure of Mike Biggs.
one of the leading providers of life and pension products to Europe, Avivas Association of British Insurers potential to grow remains strong, As a leading insurance and investment particularly given Europes ageing provider, Aviva plays an active role in populations and widespread pension advising and consulting on government reform.
We are well placed to capitalise policy and regulatory reforms as they on this growing demand for private affect our industry in countries around provision as the European Union expands.
