Directors Andrew Barker Richard Brewster Richard Killingbeck James Morley Michael Moule Francis Sumner David Thomas Andrew Barker Chairman Age 58 was part of his career was spent with Cazenove & Co and a director from 1987 to 1991.
For the past ten appointed as a director in 1979 and became on the North American desk.
He subsequently years until his retirement he has been a director of Chairman in 1983.
He has been involved in moved to Morgan Grenfell Asset Management and investment trusts at Henderson Global Investors and investment management for more than 30 years was seconded for most of this period to Morgan served on the board of Henderson plc from 1996 to having joined Foreign & Colonial Management Ltd in Grenfell Capital Management in New York.
He was also responsible for managing the 1970.
He was a director of Foreign & Colonial return to the United Kingdom he joined River & investment portfolio of Law Debenture from 1987 to Ventures, which is a provider of private equity finance, Mercantile Investment Management as a director 2003.
He is currently a director of Lowland from 1980 to 1998.
He was responsible for Foreign with responsibility for the management of the North Investment Company plc and Old Mutual South & Colonial's North American investments from 1985 American Investment Trust.
In 1994 he joined Africa Trust plc.
until he retired from Foreign & Colonial in 2000.
His Singer & Friedlander Investment Management.
In former directorships include Foreign & Colonial 2001 he was appointed as Chief Executive of the Francis Sumner Age 61 was appointed as a Investment Trust PLC, Graphite Enterprise Trust PLC investment management company, whereupon he director in 1997.
"He has spent most of his working and the National Provident Institution ""NPI""."
He is a relinquished his day to day responsibilities for the life as a City solicitor specialising in corporate past chairman of the Association of Investment Trust management of client portfolios.
He was for many years a partner in Norton Companies.
He is currently the chairman of Rose, Bankers having been one of his plc clients.
International Biotechnology Trust plc and of British James Morley FCA Age 54 was appointed as a He is currently the deputy chairman of the Crown Portfolio Trust plc.
He is a director of F&C Smaller director in 1994.
After qualifying as a chartered Agents, joint honorary secretary and a council and Companies plc and of Utilico Investment Trust plc.
accountant with Arthur Andersen, he has spent most executive committee member of the City and Guilds of the last 27 years in the travel and financial services of London Institute and a council member of the Richard Brewster FCA Deputy Chairman Age industries, firstly with Avis Europe and then with Assessment and Qualifications Alliance.
58 was appointed as a director in 1991, chairs the Guardian Royal Exchange, the international composite Audit Committee and became Deputy Chairman in insurance company, in both cases as Group Finance David Thomas FIA Age 59 was appointed as a 2003.
Having qualified as a chartered accountant Director.
Following the acquisition of GRE by AXA in director in 2000.
He was Director and General he has spent the last 30 years in industry.
From 2000, he left to become Group Finance Director of Manager Investments of The Equitable Life 1983 he was CEO of D. S. Smith plc until 1991 Arjo Wiggins Appleton.
In June 2002 he was Assurance Society until April 2001.
For two years when he became CEO of Jarvis Porter plc until appointed Group Finance Director of Cox Insurance from August 1996 he was Chairman of the 1998.
Since then he has extended his interests in Holdings.
He is also a non-executive director of Investment Committee of the Association of British corporate finance and private equity investment and W S Atkins plc, where he is Chairman of the Audit Insurers and at that time was also a member of the is currently CEO of Interbrandpro Holding GmbH, Committee.
Hampel Committee on Corporate Governance.
In an international promotional print and speciality addition he sat on the Institutional Investors board business.
His other non-executive interests Michael Moule Age 57 was the manager of Advisory Group of The Stock Exchange for several are as a consultant to Pridie Brewster Corporate Bankers from 1977 to June 2003 and joined the years and was a member of the Lord Chancellor's Finance and as Deputy Chairman of 3i Smaller Board in 1982.
He has worked in the investment Honorary Investment Advisory Committee which Quoted Companies Trust plc.
world since 1963 and has been involved with assisted the Public Trustee.
Currently, he is a investment trusts since 1967 when he was a trainee trustee of the pension fund for the staff of analyst with the Standard Trust.
From 1970 to 1993 Richard Killingbeck Director Age 41 was Westminster Abbey and is Chairman of the Abbey's he worked for Touche Remnant, a leading manager appointed as a director in December 2003.
He has Investment Committee, as well as being an of investment trusts.
He was the manager of The City been involved in the financial services industry for investment adviser to the Staffordshire County of London Investment Trust plc from 1982 to 1991 20 years, primarily as a fund manager.
The early Council Pension Fund.
Independent director and Member of the Management Engagement Committee and Nomination Committee Member of the Audit Committee Management Alex Crooke Tim Dieppe Tim Stevenson Antony Gifford Michael Wood-Martin Nicole Monir The portfolio is managed by Alex Crooke who is engaged full time in investment trust management.
He is assisted by Tim Dieppe, the deputy manager, and by Tim Stevenson Europe, Antony Gifford North America and Michael Wood-Martin Japan.
Nicole Monir acts as the Company Secretary and is the representative of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, the corporate secretary to the Company.
