2 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 What we do and our brands Specialist Lender Mortgage Express is the specialist lending arm of the Group that offers a range of innovative mortgages for individual niche markets.
It is the market-leading buy-to-let lender and is rapidly developing a reputation as a leading lender in other specialist segments of the mortgage market.
Mortgage Express products are available through intermediaries throughout the UK, with whom it has built a close working relationship, and also through Mortgage Express Online.
We provide Property Finance to Our Housing Finance business is some of the largest investors in the responsible for the Groups lending to UK, always secured on income housing associations throughout the producing property or on pre-let UK.
Housing associations are nondevelopment schemes.
Our lending profit organisations which provide team has many years experience in affordable rented homes for people this sector and has strong relationships unable to satisfy their housing needs with key people in the industry.
3 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 The Bradford & Bingley Groups strategy is distinctive.
We concentrate on profitable segments of mortgage and property lending markets, providing a range of savings deposit accounts, property related and personal financial services.
Diverse Retailer Our Retail division offers choice and independent advice on a range of financial products.
We are the largest mortgage broker and independent financial adviser on the high street.
The MarketPlace proposition offers product choice and advice at over 500 locations across the country in both our Estate Agency and Bank branches, on mortgages, investment and insurance products.
Bradford & Bingleys own savings products are also available at MarketPlace outlets, with Bradford & Bingley International in the Isle of Man providing offshore accounts.
Our Charcol brand offers independent advice online, on the telephone and in a number of branches around the country.
New acquisitions, Charcol Holden Meehan and Charcol Aitchison & Colegrave, offer specialist advice on investment products, savings and pensions.
Our nationwide Estate Agency SecureMove offers a wide range of business provides customers with property services including local knowledge backed by national residential valuations and surveys, expertise.
Independent financial commercial valuations, property advice is also available through these management, corporate property branches to provide customers with services and conveyancing.
choice and advice at the time they need it most.
