British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Investment Managers Review Rue fide la Rpublique pictured is at the heart of Rue Impriales property estate in Lyon.
In addition to one million sq.
ft. of property in Lyon, the company owns a portfolio of 3 million sq.
ft. in Marseilles and a 48% holding in Eurazeo.
During the year, British Empires NAV rose 25.6% to 217.59p, and the share price rose 27.0% to 204.5p, both new highs.
The NAV outperformed the MSCI World by 9 percentage points and the FTSE All Share by 13 percentage points.
One would not necessarily expect a deep value fund to outperform during one of the more vigorous rallies in recent years.
One reason for the out-performance may be the extreme level of risk aversion that was evident at the beginning of the reporting period.
This meant that discounts on investment trusts and investment holding companies were at historically wide levels.
The combination of wide discounts and equity markets that seemed more reasonably valued, having fallen roughly 40-50% from their peaks, was enough to tempt us to re-invest our liquidity back into the markets.
We became roughly fully invested at the beginning of 2003.
We subsequently enjoyed the rally in the markets and a narrowing of discounts in our investment trust and investment holding company shares.
The three and five year performance is as reported in the Chairmans Statement.
In the 18 years since the rights issue in 1985, NAV total return has shown a 845% gain, compared to an AITC Global Growth average of 419% and a return on the MSCI World of 390%.
We believe the long term results bear out our belief that the investment philosophy implemented by AVI over nearly 20 years, that is to buy quality assets at a discount to estimated value, is appropriate in most market circumstances.
The exception was the period 1997 8 when almost all the traditional measures for valuing equities were forgotten in the imperative to beat indices whose constituents had become grotesquely weighted towards stocks on valuation extremes.
This phenomenon, which caused us discomfort at the time, subsequently worked to help our performance and the results 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 are shown over the past five years during which the NAV has beaten the major indices by between 85% and 100%.
We have always strongly recommended that Shareholders take a long term view of their investment and bear in mind that, as in 1997 and 1998 stated net asset value can lag, while underlying asset values move ahead.
One might have assumed that this tendency would have again come into play in the recent `echo boom during which many of the former bull market `fallen recovered spectacularly to resume gravitydefying ratings.
However, having moved to a fully invested position as to liquidity if not as to use of debt the portfolio has outperformed and strong gains have been made in European investment holding companies which often lag markets, Japanese holdings, mining shares and investment trusts.
Corporate activity has been helpful, and in two or three cases we have been an active participant.
The major gainers have been as follows: Dejima Fund Japan 149%, Oxus Gold 113%, Lionore Mining 88%, Wheelock 80%, Lion Selection Group 77%, Wendel Investissement 57%, JPMF Japan Smaller Companies 47%, Fleming Japan 44%, Active Capital Trust 43%, Capital Opportunities Trust 42%, Atlantis Japan 42%, Investor A 41%, Boosey & Hawkes 41%, Aberdeen New Dawn 38%, Jardine Strategic 37%, Blakeney Investors 35%, Aberforth Capital Shares 34%, FCC 34%, Advance UK 34%, Baillie Gifford Japan 34%, European Asset Value Fund 31%.
Losers have been fewer: -African Lakes -100%, Fimalac -35%.
The attractions of equity markets cannot be viewed in isolation but must be judged in relation to other asset classes that compete for investors money.
In the last year, weak CNP is an investment holding company economies and the fear of deflation sent interest rates to extremely low levels.
with headquarters near Equities could be found yielding in excess of government bonds in many countries.
Charleroi, Belgium This is unsustainable in an environment in which Central Banks are determined to pictured.
The company trades on a reflate asset prices and devalue debt.
Whether one believes the actions of the discount of 36% to monetary authorities to be prudent insurance against deflation or serial bubbleits NAV.
Through group companies blowing, the effect is the same.
Hard assets are set to do well, fixed interest investments CNP has significant less well.
economic interests in Total, Suez, Imerys The low interest rate policy has major implications for other asset classes.
property assets have risen across much of the Western, and specifically, Anglo-Saxon world.
The yields on property had to come down, and valuations go up, in the context of lower borrowing costs.
Commodity prices have started to re-adjust to the new environment after a long period of depressed prices.
Emerging markets are beneficiaries of low rates as liquidity flows out of developed markets searching for a higher return.
Lastly, Japan is one of the biggest potential winners from a successful reflating of assets.
Our investment style lends itself well to a focus on hard assets and, of course, we are trying to buy them on the widest possible discount.
11 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Investment Managers Review continued Portfolio Review Commodity Resources 10.39% We believe there is a new bull market in gold and base metals after a long period of neglect.
As commodity prices have been depressed for the better part of 20 years, there has been little new capacity built to supply most sectors.
Capital discipline has been imposed on the resource sector as the stockmarket was not willing to allocate new money to mining operators.
Although growth in global GDP is moderate at the moment, it may be becoming more resource intensive as China industrialises.
The supply demand equation looks better for most commodities than it has for many years.
In addition, central banks have adopted reflationary policies which should increase commodity prices in terms of developed market currencies.
The Company has made significant profits on a series of investments in gold and base metal mining shares, and we remain positive on this sector while the US Dollar undergoes a material devaluation to correct the major US current account deficit, now running at 5.5% of GDP.
Merrill Lynch World Mining This trust has delivered well-managed exposure to precious and base metal mining equities and was bought on a discount of 15%.
Lion Selection Group An Australian investment company which invests in small and medium Australian resource companies with gold and base metal activities.
The company made a substantial profit on the sale of its holding in East Africa Gold Mines during the year, and owns shares in a number of other companies whose shares could be revalued through a flotation or takeover.
Encana Strong growth in US Rocky Mountain natural gas production should allow the company to meet its targets of 10% growth in annual production.
The company is well placed to feed an increasingly tight North American gas market.
Japan 12.1% Natural gas prices have We believe Japanese equities are undervalued in a global context.
Japan is a market been firm as a lack of where we have made tactical investments during the 13 year secular bear trend.
The new production in North America and the long most recent was in 1997 8 when it was clear that chronic despondency had taken lead time required to Japanese smaller company trust valuations to absurd levels.
The subsequent scale of build LNG terminals the profit surprised us and we were fortunate to beat a retreat having taken material confronts increasing demand.
A Japanese visit about a year ago engendered the feeling that while so much is one of the few seemed wrong at a macro level, at the company level there was an unmistakeable energy companies wellplaced to increase improvement in the outlook.
Balance sheets had been strengthened.
Many Japanese production of natural companies now have the free cash flow to increase dividends, buy back shares or reduce gas to take advantage debt.
Japanese companies with decent dividend yields and share buy back programmes of the higher prices.
12 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 seemed especially interesting in the context of a Japanese bond market that was yielding under 1% per annum for 10 year bonds.
We raised our exposure as a result.
Our trust holdings are focused on managers who will be able to exploit pricing inefficiencies in the Japanese market - either by buying quality small cap stocks valued on modest PERs or heavily depressed value stocks, neglected for no good reason.
Sumitomo Warehouse The company operates warehousing and freight transportation businesses primarily in Wendel Investissement Osaka, Japan.
The company also owns real estate that has been redeveloped for office has an interesting use.
The company trades on a price book of 0.6x and we are showing a significant portfolio of substantial profit on cost.
stakes in unlisted companies including 37.4% of Legrand, Prospect Japan 100% of Wheelabrator An investment trust focusing on investment in smaller Japanese companies.
The trust Allevard and 33.3% has been a very good long term performer and is looking for less well-known of Bureau Veritas pictured, a provider companies with growth prospects that are not recognised by the markets.
of certification and control services.
JPMF Japan Smaller Companies Another Japanese investment trust specialising at the smaller end of the market.
We believe that the Japanese market is not as efficient as other large equity markets and that stock pickers can add value, especially in smaller companies.
We bought the trust on a discount of 15% which has subsequently narrowed as the market has rallied.
Emerging Markets 9.01% A third area of opportunity - offered by the undervaluation of most emerging markets - has also delivered substantial gains especially in Central and Eastern Europe and the Far East.
Such markets continue to provide an enticing fundamental background of above average growth linked to low PERs.
Aberdeen New Dawn One of the better performing Asian investment trusts over most periods.
The fund is managed with a value bias by Hugh Young and his team in Singapore.
Eastern European Trust The fund has been a very strong performer over the past year as the Russian equity market rallied to a new all-time high.
The fund trades on a discount of almost 16% and will hold a continuation vote in 2004.
Investment Holding Companies 27.8% Turning to Europe, which is still down 45% from its peaks, the past year has provided an ideal backdrop for our style of investment.
Previous sales of Rue Impriale and Wendel, to give two examples, gave us liquidity to buy both companies at around one third of previous peaks.
13 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Investment Managers Review continued The discount on Rue Impriale Hansa Trust has Post its merger with Immobilire Marseillaise, Rue Impriale has made a return as our narrowed over the past year but still stands at top holding.
We were able to build our stake following a share price decline that was approximately 18% to surprising in its severity given the importance of its property portfolios, and the NAV.
The NAV relative stability of the Eurazeo assets.
Rue Impriale sells on an estimated discount performance has been strong over the year, of 40%, yet the companys assets comprise firstly two very distinctive property estates helped by a recovery in Lyon and Marseilles, both of which have considerable potential for appreciation in the share price of its largest holding, Brazilian over the next few years, possibly with the benefit of REIT status.
Secondly, the ports and tugboat company has a holding in Eurazeo whose stated strategic aim is to focus on private operator Ocean Wilsons equity.
Currently, the two most important assets of Eurazeo are Danone and Lazard, pictured.
but ultimately we believe these two investments representing about 50% of assets will be used as a source of cash.
We anticipate the discount to NAV to narrow materially as the transformation of Eurazeo to a private equity focus continues.
Wendel Investissement Since we sold our holding in Marine-Wendel in 2000 when Cap Gemini represented approximately 60% of look through assets, the Company has merged with its controlled subsidiary CGIP and declared its intention to focus on private equity investments.
The Company recently took control of Legrand alongside KKR.
Family ownership has declined from outright control of Marine-Wendel to 35% of the merged entity.
During this process, the family were responsive to minority shareholder wishes.
Wendels successful strategic private investments currently include Bureau Veritas, Bio Merieux and Orange-Nassau, which permit the company to pay attractive dividends and will ultimately represent 100% of assets and, we believe, result in a lower level of discount.
CNP and GBL CNP is Albert Freres holding company which, via an association with the Canadian Desmarais family, controls Pargesa and ultimately the diversified holding company GBL.
Both companies sell on discounts of between 30% and 40% free of capital gains tax.
Simplification of the group has added value and we expect the process to continue and discounts to narrow materially.
Corporacion Financiera Alba The Spanish investment holding company Alba has carried out two recent shareholder-friendly initiatives, a buyback of 7% of the equity at a considerable premium to the market price and a distribution to Alba shareholders of Vodafone shares at a discount.
The portfolio retains its bias towards Carrefour which now looks reasonable value as do other quoted assets including ACS, Prosegur and Acerinox.
FCC FCC has been a very successful investment and substantial partial profits have been taken.
Part of the proceeds have been invested in Acciona, another Spanish construction 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 company, which has recently taken a 10% stake in FCC from Albert Freres CNP.
Even after the acquisition, cash represents about 25% of Accionas market capitalisation and a successful investment of the cash position will transform earnings.
Investor A Investor recovered strongly towards the end of the year as Ericsson and ABB rallied from depressed levels.
Astra Zeneca represents 30% of assets, and although there is some uncertainty about the 3G joint venture with Hutchison in Scandinavia, we believe the discount is too wide.
However, some non-family shareholders remain frustrated by further investments at full market value, when buybacks at current discount levels would significantly increase NAV per share.
Investment Trusts 34.7% Hansa Trust A and Ordinary Of our Investment Trust holdings, Hansa most closely resembles an investment holding company.
Family ownership represents about one quarter of the aggregate capital.
Three years ago the strategic stake in Rea Brothers was sold to Close Brothers at an advantageous price providing a significant uplift to NAV.
Latterly the historic holding in Ocean Wilsons has been performing spectacularly following the rally in the Brazilian Real against the Dollar.
At year end, the discount was 18%.
Henderson Electric and General Investment Trust During the year we built a 6% stake in Henderson Electric and General on an average Lionore Mining is a growing nickel and gold mining company with operations in Australia and Botswana.
Nickel has enjoyed the strongest price rise amongst the base metals this year and the Lionore share price has benefited as a result.
15 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Investment Managers Review continued discount of 18%.
Electric & General had performed well in the 90s but poorly through the collapse of growth and technology shares.
We believed that this represented a good contrarian play, especially if the Board recognised that the abnormally wide discount gave the opportunity to boost shareholder value by a material buy-back of stock, thereby also improving the supply demand balance.
We have made representations to the Company, both privately and at the recent AGM, and while buy-backs are proceeding, we feel that a more robust activity is required.
Property-related, Hotels and Leisure 8.6% European Asset Value Fund A fund investing in European listed property companies.
A weighting of over 50% in France has helped deliver strong performance, following the introduction of legislation allowing tax efficient real estate investment structures.
Placer Dome is a ING Office Fund gold and copper mining company that was An Australian listed property investment trust owning office buildings in Sydney, trading at a substantial Melbourne and Brisbane.
Long leases provide secure and visible cash flow over the discount to the rating of its peer group when we medium term and underwrites a dividend yield of over 9%.
The copper production Beni Stabili arguably was the reason Since we acquired a holding in this company at its IPO, it has taken an entrepreneurial for the low rating but stance to its assets and now has a chance to create value through a joint venture has become less of an impediment to a reinitiative with major owners of property such as Telecom Italia and Banca Intesa.
rating as copper prices Property values in Italy remain low in relation to replacement cost.
The discount at are now moving up.
Liquidity 9.3% Liquidity began the year at 18% of total assets and was reduced to 9% by the year end, thereby matching our debt.
Geographical Profile Gross assets of 382 million were distributed on a look-through basis as follows: UK 25%: Continental Europe 31%: North America 6%: Japan 12%: Other Pacific 10%: EMEA 7%: liquidity 9%.
Outlook Economic growth has begun to pick up in every region of the global economy.
Undoubtedly, this has been anticipated by equity markets which have risen sharply over the last 6 months.
We believe that continued global growth should provide a positive backdrop for equity investors next year, although gains will likely be more muted than they were in the past year.
One year ago, investors were deeply pessimistic 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Net Asset Value Total Returns: % Change Since 30 06 85 10 years 5 years 3years 1 year British Empire 845 165 95 11 27 AITC Global Growth 419 65 7 -32 18 MSCI World 390 66 6 -34 19 Source: AITC, Fundamental Data and Datastream about the prospects for equity markets.
Consequently, the markets offered good value and discounts on our universe of holding companies and investment trusts were especially wide.
The unwinding of the bear case for equities, as the worst failed to materialise, allowed the markets to rise.
Central banks flooded the system with liquidity which helped to support markets.
The low rates have had the effect of borrowing some growth from the future as consumers have been enticed to bring purchases forward and rising residential property prices have increased household wealth.
Central banks in the UK and Australia have recently begun the tightening cycle and it is likely that others will follow next year.
Higher rates will be a challenge for the equity markets but we believe that liquidity conditions will remain favourable and earnings should push higher.
A reflationary environment will continue to favour investments in commodities, Japan and the emerging markets.
We remain wary of the US equity markets, where valuations are less attractive, and a weaker US$ could depress returns.
John Pennink Asset Value Investors 18 November 2003 Beni Stabili Facade of office building on Corso di Porta Nuova, Milan, that was part of a portfolio purchased in 2002 from Banca Intesa.
