British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2003. Review of the Business A review of the Companys activities is given in the Chairmans Statement on page 4 and the Investment Managers Review on page 10.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Results and Dividends The income of the Group for the year amounted to 8,162,000.
After expenses, interest and taxation, there remains a balance of 2,726,000 which the Directors have appropriated as follows: Company Group 000 000 Revenue available for dividends 2,741 2,726 Interim dividend of 0.40p per Ordinary Share paid on 13 June 2003 640 640 Recommended final dividend of 1.15p per Ordinary Share to be paid on 9 January 2004 to Shareholders on the register on 5 December 2003 1,841 1,841 Transferred to revenue reserve 260 245 Principal Activity and Status The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in terms of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company is an investment company under Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
Status The Company is an investment trust company and a member of the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
The Company has been approved as an investment trust company under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 30 September 2002.
The Directors are of the opinion, under advice, that the Company has conducted its affairs for the year ended 30 September 2003 so as to be able to obtain approval as an investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for that year.
The Company is a qualifying trust for the purposes of Personal Equity Plans and Individual Savings Accounts.
Subsidiary Companies The Company owns one active dealing subsidiary, BEST Securities Limited.
In the year to 30 September 2003, BEST Securities Limited made a loss before taxation of 26,703 2002 - profit 50,111.
Directors The present members of the Board are listed on page 23.
Mr W. G. Fossick and Mr C. M. Gilchrist retired as Directors at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 19 December 2002.
Following their appointments to the Board on 19 December 2002, Mr P. R. Allen, and Mr P. S. S. Macpherson and Mrs R. Blomfield-Smith will retire at the Annual General Meeting and being eligible, offer themselves for election.
The Board, 24 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 having reviewed these nominations, supports the election of these Directors on the grounds of the valuable contribution each of them has made to the Boards stewardship of the Company during their first year of appointment.
Mr J. C. Walton and Sir David Kinloch will retire at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr J. C. Walton being eligible, will offer himself for reelection at the Meeting.
The Chairman sets out in his statement on page 6 the Boards rationale for supporting Mr J. C. Waltons re-election.
After 12 years of service to the Company Sir David Kinloch has decided not to stand for re-election and so will therefore retire at the conclusion of the Meeting.
The interests of the current Directors and their families in the securities of the Company as at 30 September 2003 are set out below: Equities Index Equities Index Ordinary Ordinary Unsecured Unsecured Shares Shares Loan Stock Loan Stock 30 9 03 1 10 02 30 9 03 1 10 02 I. S. Robertson 25,000 25,000 Sir David Kinloch P. Allen 5,000 - R. Blomfield-Smith - - P. S. S. Macpherson - - J. C. Walton 363,937 354,241 Mr J C Waltons holding includes 249,000 Ordinary Shares 2002: 200,000 held for his benefit in the Asset Value Investors Limited Pension Scheme Throughout the year ended 30 September 2003 the Manager operated under the terms of an agreement with the Company.
Sir David Kinloch is Deputy Chief Executive of Caledonia Investments plc which owns 19.9 per cent of the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
Mr J. C. Walton is Chairman and a shareholder of Asset Value Investors Limited AVI, the Companys investment manager.
Mr J. C. Walton has a service contract with AVI subject to twelve months written notice of termination given by either party.
Save as aforesaid, no Director was a party to or had an interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company.
Substantial Interests in Share Capital At 14 November 2003 the following holdings representing more than 3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital had been reported: Number of Percentage Shares held Held Caledonia Investment plc 31,856,530 19.90 Scottish Widows 16,588,893 10.36 Funds under the management of Axa Investment Management 14,030,153 8.76 Legal and General 5,949,320 3.72 Millenium Partners LP 5,616,000 3.51 Funds under the management of ISIS Asset Management 5,561,739 3.47 The Cayzer Trust Company Limited is deemed to be interested in a total of 32,556,530 Ordinary Shares representing 20.34per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital in consequence of its interest in Caledonia Investments plc.
25 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Report of the Directors continued The Investment Manager AVI is the Companys appointed Investment Manager.
Under the terms of an agreement dated 21 June 1991 amended by a supplemental agreement dated 3 December 1998 the Investment Managers remuneration is performance related and measured by the increase or decrease in the net asset value per Ordinary Share of the Company compared to the increase or decrease in the net asset index of investment trusts as published by Datastream International Limited.
The resultant figure of such calculation determined the percentage rate which ranges from 0.4 per cent.
and applied to the value of net assets of the Group attributable to the Shareholders plus long-term loan capital as shown by the audited Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Company as at the accounting reference date immediately preceding the period of management, but excluding the value of the Companys investment in funds managed by the Aberdeen Group owner of AVI until 30 September 2003.
The performance element of management costs deemed to be the amount payable at a fee rate in excess of 0.4 per cent.
is wholly charged to capital reserves.
The agreement can be terminated by either party giving not less than one years prior notice.
As outlined in the Chairmans Statement, the Board is discussing a new agreement with AVI and will make any necessary announcement on the terms of such agreement following the conclusion of the Boards discussions with both AVI and the Companys advisors.
We expect any such agreement to conform with the Investment Management Associations standards of best practice.
Corporate Governance The Board consists of non-executive Directors the majority of whom are independent of the Companys Investment Manager.
Arrangements to ensure the appropriate level of corporate governance have been put in place by the Board which it believes are appropriate to an investment trust and, taking account of the matters referred to below, enable the Company to comply with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
The Board notes the Association of Investment Trust Companies introduction of a code of corporate governance for investment trusts.
The Board welcomes the contribution of this document and adheres to its principles and recommendations except where otherwise disclosed.
The investment management agreement between the Company and AVI sets out the matters over which the Investment Manager has authority and the limits above which Board approval must be sought.
All other matters are reserved for the approval of the Board of Directors.
The Board receives full details of the Companys assets, liabilities and other relevant information in advance of Board meetings.
The Board meets formally at least nine times a year, however, the Investment Manager and Company Secretary stay in more regular contact with Directors on a less formal basis.
Individual Directors have direct access to the Company Secretary and may, at the expense of the Company, seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of their duties.
After making enquiries and bearing in mind the nature of the Companys business and assets, the Directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
26 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 The Directors welcome the views of all Shareholders and place great importance on communications with Shareholders.
Board representatives and the Investment Manager meet with the Companys major Shareholders throughout the year.
The Board recommends that Shareholders attend the Companys Annual General Meeting on 15 December 2003 to use the opportunity to ask questions of their Board and the Investment Manager, either formally at the Meeting or informally at the subsequent buffet luncheon for Shareholders.
At the Annual General Meeting the Investment Manager will make a presentation to Shareholders covering the investment performance and strategy of the Company.
Owing to the short period of time between the Companys annual report and accounts becoming available and the calendar year end, the Company is unable to comply with the recommendation that the accounts be sent out at least 20 working days prior to the Annual General Meeting.
In relation to the use of the Companys voting rights in respect of investee companies, the Investment Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to exercise discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights.
The underlying aim of exercising such voting rights is to protect the return from an investment.
Since all Directors are non-executive, the Company is not required to comply with the principles of the Code in respect of executive Directors remuneration.
Instead, the Board has appointed a Management Engagement Committee which comprises three independent Directors, Mr I. S. Robertson Chairman, Mrs R. Blomfield-Smith and Mr P. S. S. Macpherson.
The function of this committee is to ensure that the Investment Manager complies with the terms of the Companys investment management agreement and the provisions of the agreement follow industry practice and remain competitive and in the best interests of Shareholders.
A senior non-executive Director has not been appointed as all the Directors are non-executive and the Board considers that each of the Directors has different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead.
The Nomination Committee comprises the full Board and is convened for the purpose of considering the appointment of additional replacement Directors.
During the year the Board appointed three new independent non-executive Directors, Mr. P. R. Allen, Mrs R. Blomfield-Smith and Mr P. S. S. Macpherson.
The Nomination Committee engaged the services of an external recruitment agency to search and select suitable candidates that met the criteria set out by the committee following discussions with the Board.
Following interviews with prospective candidates and recommendations from the Committee, the Board appointed the new Directors on 19 December 2002.
All newly appointed Directors receive any necessary training and induction.
The Board considers that, in view of its non-executive nature, it is not appropriate for the Directors to be appointed for a specified term of no more than three years as recommended by the Code.
The Articles of Association require that one third of the Directors retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and the Board intend to abide by the spirit of the Code and ensure that each Director stands for re-election at least once every three years.
The Board is not of the view that serving as a Director for nine or more years automatically causes that Director to lose their independence.
However, after nine years of service a Director will be subject to annual re-election.
The Audit Committee operates within clearly defined terms of reference and comprises Mr P. R. Allen Chairman, Mrs R. Blomfield-Smith, Mr P. S. S. Macpherson and Mr I. S. Robertson.
In summary the Audit Committees main functions are: 27 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Report of the Directors continued To review and monitor the internal financial control systems and risk management systems on which the Company is reliant.
To consider annually whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function.
To monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial statements of the Company by reviewing, and challenging where necessary, the actions and judgements of the Investment Manager and Administrator.
To meet with the external Auditors to review their proposed audit programme of work and the findings of the Auditors.
The Committee shall also use this as an opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the Audit process.
To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external Auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external Auditor.
To monitor and review annually the external Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Following publication of Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, and is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and policies by which these risks are managed.
The significant risks faced by the Company are as follows: financial: operational: compliance: and risk management.
The key components designed to provide effective internal control are outlined below: The Investment Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance: The Board and Investment Manager have agreed clearly defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including performance statistics and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Board.
The Investment Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies concerned include detailed appraisal and due diligence: As a matter of course the Investment Managers compliance department continually reviews the Investment Managers operations.
Written agreements are in place which specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Investment Manager and other third party service providers: The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but, because of the compliance and internal control systems in place at the Investment Manager, has decided to place reliance on the Investment Managers systems and internal audit procedures: and At its November meeting, the Audit Committee carried out an annual assessment of internal controls for the year 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 ended 30 September 2003 by considering documentation from the Investment Manager, including their internal audit and compliance functions and taking account of events since 30 September 2003.
The results of the assessment were then reported to the Board at the next Board meeting.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against mis-statement and loss.
Creditor Payment Policy The Companys payment policy is to settle investment transactions in accordance with market practice and to ensure settlement of supplier invoices in accordance with stated terms.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
Special Business Resolution 10 - Increase to limit on Directors Fees Please see the Directors Remuneration Report on page 47 for the relevant explanation.
Resolution 11 - Directors Authority to issue Shares The Directors are seeking a limited authority to allot Shares.
This authority will be limited to issues of new Shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 800,400, being 5 per cent of the total capital in issue on 17 November 2003.
The Directors would only issue new Shares pursuant to this authority if they believe it is advantageous to the Companys Shareholders to do so and in no circumstances would result in a dilution of net asset value per Share.
Resolution 12 - Share Buy-Back Facility A resolution will be proposed to renew the Directors authority to make market purchases of the Companys Shares in accordance with the provisions contained in the Companies Act and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Accordingly, the Company will seek authority to purchase up to a maximum of 23,996,005 Ordinary Shares representing 14.99 per cent of the current issued Share capital at a minimum price of not less than 10p per Share being the nominal value and a maximum price of not more than 5 per cent above the average market values of the Shares for the preceding five business days.
The Directors do not intend to use this authority to purchase the Companys Shares unless to do so would result in an increase in the net assets per Share and would be in the best interests of Shareholders generally.
The authority being sought would last until 31 January 2005 but the Board intends to seek a renewal of the authority at the Annual General Meeting in 2004.
By Order of the Board, For and on behalf of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC One Bow Churchyard, London Secretary 18 November 2003 29
