12 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 Report of the Board on Corporate Social Responsibility For the year ended 31 December 2003 Cattles is a people business, providing a Board.
Individual policies have been personal and flexible service to over reviewed and formal plans developed for 700,000 customers in local the groups employee, environment and communities throughout the United community programmes.
The Board is committed to the principles of Corporate Social Responsible Lending Responsibility CSR and to the development of these principles in the Cattles is committed to responsible groups activities.
Cattles actively business practices and in particular to supports national CSR schemes responsible lending.
We support the through Business in the Community and recommendations outlined by the DTI is also a member of FTSE4Good, a Taskforce on Over-indebtedness and global CSR performance standard.
follow the codes of practice of our trade associations FLA, CCA and CCTA and As responsible lenders, we seek to the General Insurance Standards develop an open and honest relationship Council.
The group supports further with our customers and encourage our balanced regulation of the consumer employees to become involved in local credit industry and continues to play a community projects aimed at improving role through its trade associations in the the quality of life in the areas where we development of national policy.
We also seek to reduce any adverse impact that our operations may We are aware that there has been a have on the wider environment.
significant increase in consumer borrowing in the UK in recent years.
The Individual elements of the groups CSR vast majority of this increase has programmes are implemented through occurred in areas where we do not our operational businesses: this is focus our lending operations, such as co-ordinated by the Cattles CSR the remote activities of first mortgage Committee, headed by Greg Stevens, and credit card providers.
Our products Director of Corporate Affairs, who are focussed on a few key markets, reports directly to our Chief Executive, principally smaller unsecured and Sen Mahon.
secured loans and hire purchase for cars.
A home collection service is During 2003, the CSR Committee has provided for small, short term advances.
established a clear CSR strategy which Such tight control of our product range has been approved by the Cattles allows us to formulate appropriate Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 13 screening criteria for lending throughout the programme countrywide during Our People our business.
At Cattles, we believe that 2004, with the aim of reaching 70,000 Our recently developed culture responsible lending helps our customers young people to help them improve their document, Working Together, sets out without creating additional financial understanding of money management.
our corporate values and objectives and problems for them.
the shared commitments of the Our Customers company and our staff to achieving Cattles also believes in raising standards success.
This updated document will be in financial education and providing Establishing and maintaining strong launched to our employees during 2004, helpful information to our customers to relationships with our customers is one together with related training.
Working ensure they are able to make an of our key goals.
We seek to achieve this Together sets out our approach to our informed choice.
In support of this aim, by offering customers a high quality working environment, how we should Cattles is a Fair Share partner of the service.
Our employees are trained in behave with each other and the groups Consumer Credit Counselling Service our core values and codes of practice policies for: CCCS who provide further free advice and, in particular, customer care.
seek to employ people who enjoyRecruitment and Training working with our customers and toReward and Recognition We have made an on-going financial structure our business systems andHealth and Safety pledge to support the development of products to anticipate and meet theirCustomer Care Credit Action a national money changing needs.
Personal Development education charity working to improveEquality and Diversity financial literacy throughout the country.
Our operating procedures outlineEnvironmental Protection Credit Action write and disseminate a minimum standards for customer series of Money Management guides for service, employee behaviour and our We believe that the continuing success a variety of audiences.
Their work sales and marketing activities.
We of the Cattles group is a direct result of primarily focuses on the principles of measure the on-going effectiveness of the professionalism and dedication of responsible borrowing and lending and our performance through independently our employees.
With around 5,000 on the prevention of financial difficulties.
obtained customer and employee employees, we are committed to feedback, customer retention data and making Cattles an employer of choice During 2003, Cattles provided 20,000 through external benchmarking and to providing a positive and in support of the advancement of Credit schemes.
In addition, a national supportive environment for our Action activities and a further 30,000 customer services helpline is available to employees to develop their careers with towards DebtCreds development of our customers which provides additional the group.
their financial education module, as part feedback and important input to the of the school curriculum on Citizenship.
development of our products and Our training and development DebtCred successfully piloted this services.
programmes are set out in our internal module during 2003 and will promote 14 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 Report of the Board on Corporate Social Responsibility continued publication Aspire Training Towards appropriate standards are met across Excellence and are designed to help our our businesses.
employees achieve their full potential.
Cattles aims to provide appropriate The group is also supportive of open opportunities for our staff to develop communications with our employees their careers and progress within the and of obtaining regular feedback from group, whilst at the same time them.
We operate a consumer division encouraging individuals to take charge staff newsletter entitled Connect, which of their own personal development.
outlines news and views from across the consumer credit business.
We also hold Employee success and promotions are Managers Visits on a regular basis at recognised through a variety of our consumer credit head office in company awards, employee bonuses Nottingham, together with question and and share ownership.
In addition, answer sessions with directors, the Cattles currently operates a Share results of which are then published in Incentive Plan and Sharesave Scheme Connect.
A formal employee attitude to encourage further employee survey is carried out on an annual basis, ownership of the business and a share which over the past three years has in our future prosperity.
suggested above average employee satisfaction throughout the group.
The Cattles Board takes full responsibility for Health and Safety Local Communities H&S.
The groups policies and procedures for maintaining a safe and Cattles is committed to playing a part in healthy environment for our employees improving the lives of the people who are developed and implemented by a live in communities we serve, by group-wide H&S management addressing the issues of social committee.
In 2003, we identified four disadvantage, where it is practicable for key areas for action covering: car fleet us to help.
In particular, our community safety, safety at our business sites, programmes are focussed on working personal security of employees with community partners to improve the throughout the business and the financial skills and general welfare of development of intranet based H&S young people.
A formal H&S audit programme has been implemented to ensure that Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 15 Employee Volunteering encourages The Cattles 50 50 Club is an During 2003 we have reviewed and employees to volunteer for community incentivised employee payroll-giving developed our environmental policy, work, particularly in those areas that scheme matched pound for pound by which outlines our commitment to address issues of education and welfare company contributions.
Employees are protecting the environment.
The scheme, which surveyed annually to determine the now assessed our environmental impact has been piloted at the groups head recipient charities, choosing from a list of across the company and have identified office, matches employee volunteering organisations working in education and priority areas and action plans to take us time with company time and is welfare.
This year, employees voted to through to March 2005.
These will focus recognised as part of an employees support National Childrens Home on achieving improvements in: personal development programme.
NCH, The Cancer and Leukaemia in Energy used in our buildings: Childhood Trust CLIC, The Salvation Usage of materials and Cattles is an active member of Business Army, Barnardos and Child Poverty consumables, such as paper: in the Community BITC and has been Action Group.
Waste generated through our heavily involved in BITCs Leeds Cares activities: initiative.
Since 1999, under the Cash Match, launched in Spring 2004, is Fuel consumed by our transport chairmanship of our Chief Executive, an incentivised employee fundraising fleet, particularly company cars.
Sen Mahon, Leeds Cares has brokered scheme, which gives every employee the over 8,000 volunteers giving over opportunity to apply to the company for Cattles is committed to improving its 100,000 volunteering hours of their time pound for pound matching against their environmental performance.
To recognise personal fundraising efforts.
Employee performance in the Yorkshire & Humber this achievement, Leeds Cares were applications are submitted prior to their BiE Index of Environmental Engagement presented with BITCs national award for intended activity and approved where has improved by 10% over the last year, Example of Excellence for Collaborative the cause or beneficiary meets the scoring 55% in 2003.
We look forward Action in September 2003. groups community objectives.
This year, our employees have The Environment supported a variety of initiatives and community partners, in both team and Although Cattles is not a significant individual activities.
The InterGen project contributor to pollution since most of its brought together local primary school activities are office based, we children and pensioners from Action for understand that our activities do have Sen Mahon Gipton Elderly AGE in West Yorkshire.
some impact on the environment.
We Chief Executive Its aim to break down barriers and aim to minimise this impact and to 11 March 2004 create understanding between the older comply with the relevant legislation and and younger generations in Gipton has regulations placed upon us.
