16 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 Directors and Secretary Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 17 6 8 42 5 7 3 1 1 Barrie Cottingham, FCA, ATII.
Appointed to the Treasury & Risk Director.
Appointed Chairman Joined the company in 1996 and independent non-executive director.
Non-executive chairman appointed to the Board 1998.
CBI Non-executive director of SIG plc of SIG plc and non-executive director council member for Yorkshire and and Cyberes plc.
From 1991 until his of Vp plc and Dew Pitchmastic PLC.
Prior to joining the company retirement in 1995 he was the Formerly a senior partner of Coopers was finance director of Brooke managing partner of the London & Lybrand.
8 Patrick J Doherty, MA Oxon, Executive.
Joined the company and Solicitor.
Appointed Chief appointed to the Board 2001.
Joined the company 1991 Executive May 2001.
Chairman of joining the company was finance and appointed Company Secretary Leeds Cares and member of the director of Polypipe plc.
Prior to joining the company National Cares Leadership Team.
held senior finance positions in a held legal advisory and company Previously a member of the UK board variety of listed and private secretarial positions in the steel and and chairman and senior partner of companies.
5 Ian S Cummine, Chief Operating Independent non-executive and Officer Consumer Division.
Age 50. member of the Audit, Remuneration Joined the company in 1994 when and Nomination Committees Welcome Financial Services Limited was acquired.
Appointed to the The independence of the non-executive Board 1998.
Prior to the setting up directors, including the Chairman, has of Welcome, of which he was a been considered in accordance with co-founder, held senior positions in the Combined Code of Corporate the credit industry.
Governance appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 6 Norman N Broadhurst, FCA, FCT.
Authority, which applied during the Age 62.
Appointed to the Board accounting period.
Chairman of Chloride Group plc and Freightliner Limited and also a non-executive director of Old Mutual plc, Tomkins plc and United Utilities plc.
Previously finance director of Railtrack Group plc.
