2 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 Profile of the Group Consumer Division addition, a home collection service is provided for small value, short term The consumer division comprises advances.
Welcome Financial Services, Welcome Car Finance, Progressive Insurance Welcome Car Finance provides direct Company, Dial4aloan, Shopacheck distribution motor finance.
Progressive Financial Services, Ewbanks Mail Order Insurance Company manages the and The Lewis Group.
The division groups insurance portfolio consisting serves more than 700,000 customers principally of payment protection, from around 300 separately located warranty and mechanical breakdown business centres and 36 Local insurance.
Dial4aloan brokers consumer Collection Units, throughout the UK.
credit applications to both external lenders and the consumer division.
The The divisions product range includes Lewis Group provides a full debt unsecured and secured personal loans, recovery service for external clients and hire purchase credit facilities and the consumer division.
merchandise related products sold through leaflets and catalogues to consumer credit customers.
Amounts Corporate Division advanced to our customers are typically The corporate division provides working small unsecured loans 1,200, hire capital finance to small and medium purchase for cars 4,000, secured sized enterprises in the business loans 7,500 and short term home community.
Loans are repayable over periods ranging from Cattles Commercial Finance and Cattles 23 weeks to 3 years, or longer in the Commercial Leasing, based in Hull, case of secured advances.
provide asset backed leasing, hire purchase and block discounting A variety of repayment methods are facilities.
Cattles Invoice Finance, based available to our customers including in Manchester, Leeds, Oxford and monthly, fortnightly or weekly direct Glasgow provides invoice factoring and debits through the banking or post office sales ledger management services.
systems and over the counter payments at one of our local business centres.
In Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 3 Serving Local Communities in the UK Showing 5 & 10 mile radius of business centre locations
