Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 21 Report of the Board on Corporate Governance For the year ended 31 December 2003 The Board of Cattles plc aims to maintain the highest standards of corporate governance in the belief that such standards are essential to the process of delivering long term growth in profits and dividends.
The following statement describes how the principles of good corporate governance are applied to the company and the companys compliance with the provisions set out in the Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued in 1998 and appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Code which applied during the accounting period.
In addition the Board is considering the further governance provisions of the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 which will apply for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 November 2003, including the appointment of additional non-executive directors.
The Board will continue to review recommendations and guidance on Corporate Governance as they emerge and to comply or explain in line with the new Combined Code, taking into account the practical considerations and needs of the company.
Board of Directors The company is managed through the Board of directors, which comprises four executive and three non-executive directors.
Brief biographical details of the directors are shown on page 17.
Individual written personal objectives are prepared at the beginning of the financial year by each executive director.
After agreement with the Chief Executive, and in the case of the Chief Executive with the Chairman, these objectives are submitted to the Remuneration Committee for consideration and approval on behalf of the Board.
The Chief Executive conducts an annual appraisal of the performance of the other executive directors which includes an assessment of their individual performance against their personal objectives set at the beginning of the accounting period and a formal interview.
The same process is conducted by the Chairman in respect of the Chief Executive.
The extent to which executive directors personal objectives have been achieved is determined during this review process, the results of which are submitted to, and taken into account by, the Remuneration Committee in nalising the executive directors bonuses for the year.
Normally, there are seven regular Board meetings a year, with other meetings being held as required.
All directors attended each of the seven meetings held during 2003.
There are a number of matters specifically reserved for Board approval, which include approval of the groups overall business strategy, planning and annual budgets, assessment of internal controls and risk management, senior management appointments, approval of major contracts and significant acquisitions, investment and capital expenditure decisions and corporate governance practices, as well as the groups nancing and dividend policies.
At each regularly scheduled Board meeting, there is a full financial and business review and discussion, which includes the comparison of trading performance to date against the annual budget and any other financial plan which has been previously approved by the Board for that year.
Each Board member receives a comprehensive Board Pack prior to each meeting, which incorporates a formal agenda, separate reports from the Chief Executive and each of the executive directors on their specic areas of responsibilities, together with supporting papers for items to be discussed at the meeting.
Board papers are usually sent out one week before the meeting to enable a comprehensive review of the relevant issues.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and their responsibilities are clearly dened.
The Chairman is mainly responsible for the running of the Board whilst the Chief Executives responsibilities focus on co-ordinating the groups operations and leading and implementing group strategy.
The role of the non-executive directors is to ensure that the strategies and policies proposed by the executive directors are fully discussed, critically examined and rened as appropriate, not only with regard to the best long term interests of the shareholders, but also having regard to the companys relationship with its employees, customers and suppliers.
During 2004, the Board intends to introduce a process for the formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual directors.
The non-executive directors are considered to be independent in that they neither have any involvement in the day-to-day management of the company or its subsidiaries nor represent a major shareholder group.
They each hold, or have held, senior positions in other major UK organisations, thus bringing a range of experience to the Board, and participate in all key decisions facing the group.
D A Haxby has been appointed the senior independent director.
The executive and non-executive directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who has responsibility for ensuring that the Board procedures are followed and for assisting the Board in ensuring that the company is in compliance with its legal obligations.
In addition, the Board has an established procedure whereby any director may, in the furtherance of their duties, take independent professional advice at the companys expense.
In accordance with the Code, all directors must submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
22 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 Report of the Board on Corporate Governance Standing Committees of the Board The Board has established three standing Committees, each with formal terms of reference, being the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
A review of the terms of reference for each of these Committees is currently being undertaken with a view to incorporating recent changes in Corporate Governance requirements.
The terms of reference resulting from this review will be published on the companys website and will be available on application to the Company Secretary at the companys registered ofce.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises the three non-executive directors under the chairmanship of N N Broadhurst who is a Chartered Accountant FCA and a Fellow of the Institute of Corporate Treasurers and has significant relevant and up to date financial and accounting knowledge and experience.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include monitoring the appropriateness of accounting policies, financial reporting and internal controls and keeping under review the scope, results and cost-effectiveness of the external and internal audits and the independence of the groups external auditors.
The Committee calls upon the external auditors, the internal auditors and risk assurance advisers and the executive directors to attend formal meetings as required.
These meetings are held at least three times each year at which the matters referred to below under the heading Accountability and Audit are considered.
The external and internal auditors are given the opportunity to raise any matters or concerns they may have in the absence of executive directors at separate meetings with the Audit Committee.
All members of the Audit Committee attended each of the three meetings held during the accounting period.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration of the executive directors.
The Committee comprises only the non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of the senior independent director, D A Haxby.
The Remuneration Committee held five meetings in the accounting period, each of which was attended by all members of the Committee.
The Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration set out on pages 25 to 33 contains further information on the Remuneration Committee and the groups remuneration policy for executive and non-executive directors.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the three non-executive directors and the Chief Executive, under the chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board, B Cottingham.
The Nomination Committee meets on an ad hoc basis to propose to the Board any new appointments of executive or non-executive directors and also to review the succession plans for the groups Board and senior management.
The Nomination Committee has access to recruitment consultants to ensure it receives objective and independent advice.
The Committee is currently undertaking a search, assisted by an external consultancy, for a suitable candidate to be recommended to the Board for appointment as an additional independent non-executive director.
Relations with Shareholders The Board maintains a close relationship with its major shareholders.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and Treasury & Risk Director maintain regular contact with major institutional shareholders, who are offered a personal meeting with the Chief Executive and other executive directors at least twice each year.
The Chairman and senior independent director attend the presentations to analysts of the companys Interim and Final Results and all major shareholders are offered a personal meeting with the Chairman and senior independent director, if they so require.
Major shareholders are also offered the opportunity to provide non-attributed feedback to the Board through discussions with the groups stockbrokers, HSBC Bank plc.
The annual general meeting is seen as an opportunity to communicate with other shareholders and all directors are expected to attend.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the annual general meeting.
Information relating to this years annual general meeting can be found on pages 64 to 66.
In addition to regular financial reporting, significant matters relating to the trading or development of the group are disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements.
co. uk, includes a section focusing specifically on investor relations.
All company announcements are accessible on the website once made.
Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 23 Accountability and Audit Financial Reporting The directors believe that the annual report presents a balanced and understandable assessment of the groups financial position and future prospects.
The Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review, which can be found on pages 4 to 11, together provide a detailed assessment of the groups affairs.
The directors responsibilities for the financial statements are described within the Report of the Directors on page 19.
The companys financial statements are reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to being submitted to the Board for approval.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the groups internal control system, which embraces all risks faced by the group, including business, operational and compliance risks.
The directors recognise, however, that there are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and as such the controls can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The group has continued to comply with the guidance provided by the Turnbull Committee in a document entitled Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull guidance, through an on-going process to identify and evaluate key areas of risk, both financial and non-financial, the groups perceived tolerance or commercial appetite towards such risks and the policies and procedures which should be adopted in order to manage the likely exposure.
This process, which has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this annual report, is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the internal control system on at least a six monthly basis.
Such reviews have been conducted during the financial year.
The principal features of the groups internal control system can be summarised as follows: A clearly dened organisational structure with lines of responsibility and delegation of authority to divisional executive management supported by established policies and procedures.
Primary responsibility of the Board to ensure that the major business risks facing the group are identied and that appropriate policies are developed for the management of those risks.
The Board, however, recognises that the internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Risks are identied and evaluated by reference to impact and likelihood through a series of structured, high level interviews and facilitated risk management workshops.
The engagement of a leading rm of professional advisers for the provision of a complete range of internal audit and risk assurance services, with a direct reporting link to the Audit Committee and the Risk Management Group.
The work of the groups external risk assurance provider focuses on the groups most significant areas of risk and, by a formal process of six monthly risk monitoring and reporting, allows the Audit Committee and the Risk Management Group to assess whether key control objectives are achieved.
A Risk Management Group, comprising the executive directors, the groups external risk assurance providers and other key members of senior management, reviews key group risks together with the effectiveness of the groups controls to manage and reduce the impact of these risks.
The Risk Management Group meets twice yearly, reporting to the Audit Committee.
Delegation of the responsibility for on-going maintenance of the system of internal control procedures to the executive management, specifically designated Risk Champions for all business areas and appropriate working parties.
The system ensures that successive assurances are provided to ascending levels of management and changes in the risk proles for all business areas are monitored and reported on a monthly basis.
The group is continuing to develop its risk management framework further to ensure that risk monitoring and reporting is embedded at all levels of management and throughout all areas of the groups operations.
Arrangements by which staff of the company may in confidence raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters, together with arrangements for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action and reporting to the Board.
Operation of a comprehensive planning and financial reporting system, which covers income, expenditure, cash ows and balance sheets.
Annual budgets and medium term plans are approved by the Board and monitored against actual performance on a monthly basis to identify any significant deviation from approved plans.
The annual budget is reviewed and reforecast on a regular basis.
Adoption of a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the approval of the Board ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate financial, strategic, organisational and compliance issues.
As described on page 21, the Board has identied a number of key areas, which are subject to regular reporting to the Board.
The Board also reviews the role of insurance in managing risks across the group.
24 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 Report of the Board on Corporate Governance Independence of Auditors Both the Audit Committee and the external auditors, , have in place safeguards to avoid the auditors objectivity and independence being compromised.
The groups policy with regard to services provided by its external auditors, is as follows: Statutory audit services: The external auditors, who are appointed annually by the shareholders, undertake this work.
The external auditors also provide regulatory services and formalities relating to shareholder and other circulars.
The Audit Committee reviews the auditors performance on an on-going basis.
Further assurance services: Further assurance services include work relating to due diligence and other non-regulatory reporting.
The groups normal policy is to appoint the external auditors to undertake this work because of their knowledge and experience of the business.
However, the Board reviews their independence and expertise on every assignment.
Tax compliance and tax advisory: Tax compliance involves dealing with the groups corporation tax returns and this work is carried out by .
Tax advisory services include tax planning and structuring advice for direct and indirect taxes.
The groups policy is for each individual assignment to be assessed separately and awarded depending on which professional services rm is considered best suited to perform the relevant work.
Other non-audit services: The external auditors are not permitted to provide internal audit, risk management, litigation support, remuneration advice and information technology services.
The provision of other non-audit services is awarded on a case-by-case basis, depending on which professional services rm is considered best suited to perform the work.
These safeguards, which are monitored by the Audit Committee, are regularly reviewed and updated to ensure they remain appropriate.
The appointment of the external auditors to provide non-audit services requires Board approval for any assignments with fees above a set financial limit.
The external auditors report to the Audit Committee each year on the actions they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence, including the rotation of key members of the external audit team.
 have formally confirmed their independence to the Board, in respect of the period covered by these financial statements.
The disclosure of the non-audit fees paid to the external auditors during the year is included in note 2 to the financial statements, on page 41.
Combined Code Compliance The directors consider that throughout the accounting period the company complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority which applied during the accounting period.
Going Concern Under company law, the directors are required to consider whether it is appropriate to prepare financial statements on the basis that the company and the group are going concerns.
As part of its normal business practices, the group prepares annual budgets and longer term financial and business plans.
In reviewing this information, the directors are satisfied that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the groups financial statements.
By order of the Board Patrick Doherty Company Secretary 11 March 2004
