Portfolio Managers Report Investment Background FTSE All-Share Index from 30.06.02 to 30.06.03 rebased to 100 During the first eight months of the period under review, 105 the UK stock market fell sharply.
Overcapacity in many 100 industries and weak demand led to disappointing corporate profits for many companies.
The rising tension 95 in the Middle East adversely affected the confidence of 90 investors and the high oil price increased costs for both industry and consumers.
The spread of the SARS virus 85 added to the nervous atmosphere.
The weakness of the 80 equity market led to pressure on life assurance companies to switch into bonds in order to meet the 75 solvency ratios required by regulators.
70 J J A S O N DJ F M A M J In January, the Financial Services Authority relaxed its Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream FTSE All-Share Price Index solvency ratios so as to prevent a downward spiral of UK equity selling by life assurers.
In response to rising deflationary pressure, the Bank of England, at the beginning of February, cut interest rates from 4% to 3.75%.
It was not until 12 March that the nadir of the equity market was reached at this point the dividend FTSE All-Share Yield & 10 Year Gilt Yield from 30.06.02 to 30.06.03 yield on UK equities was greater than the ten year British 5.5 Government bond yield for the first time since 1959.
The fall from the peak at the end of 1999 was 50.8%.
5.0 We overestimated the extent to which the many negative 4.5 factors were already priced into shares after the two 4.0 previous declining years and the overall level of gearing worked against us.
3.5 The catalyst for the change in direction of the equity 3.0 market was the start of the Iraq war and the fall in the oil price.
Against a background of a cheap valuation equities 2.5 rose sharply.
By the end of June the market had risen by J J A S O N DJ F M A M J FTA Brit Govt 10 Yr Avg Gross Red.
Yield 23.7% from its lowest point and the Trusts gearing had Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream FTSE All-Share Dividend Yield fallen back to 12.3%.
8 Portfolio Managers Report continued record of steady earnings and dividend growth.
Three Portfolio Activity companies in support services were sold: Interserve due In contrast with the previous two years, the to disappointment with the trading conditions at its Telecommunications sector outperformed the rest of the international plant hire division: South Staffordshire on market in the year to 30 June 2003.
This was principally concern about its acquisition strategy: and Michael Page due to an improved performance from Vodafone.
as recovery in recruitment appeared to be taking longer The portfolios holdings in the Telecommunications sector, than the market expected.
The sales of Interserve and including Vodafone, were less than the average for the South Staffordshire were badly timed whilst the sale of index despite Vodafone being one of the five largest Michael Page added value.
holdings in the portfolio throughout the year.
We did not foresee the shift from pay-as-you-go to subscription In the Food Retail sector, Safeway, which was held in the services which led to an improvement in Vodafones portfolio, attracted takeover interest from a number of revenues.
Going forward, call charges are likely to face companies.
Some profits were taken in view of the pressure in the medium term from competitive and uncertainty as to the outcome of the Competition regulatory forces.
The low dividend payout ratio would Commission investigation into the potential bids.
In seem to suggest that the risk remains of the company addition, in general retailing, the holding in Debenhams making further value-destroying acquisitions.
also rose sharply on takeover interest.
Elsewhere in the Telecommunications sector, In Speciality and Other Finance, a holding in Provident Cable and Wireless was sold due to the severe Financial, the international home credit company, was problems with its data communications division.
The market seemed to be underestimating in Telecom Italia saving shares was purchased on an the improved growth outlook for Provident Financials attractive dividend yield of 7%.
The company should operations in Eastern Europe and from its recently provide steady growth from its dominant position in the acquired UK car lending business.
A profit was taken Italian fixed and mobile telecommunications markets in hedge fund manager Man Group which had grown where the regulatory climate is more welcoming for strongly but we were concerned about its valuation.
Asset manager Amvescap was sold on account of the adverse effect of the lower level of equity markets The Media sector was volatile during the year but ended on its profitability.
Exposure to the sector was reduced through sales of advertising and In contrast to share prices, insurance rates were very firm marketing group WPP which was adversely affected by throughout the year with capacity shortages in weak demand for advertising: and United Business insurance markets.
The purchase of Hiscox, a UK Media which was hit by the weakness in its magazines insurance underwriter, enabled the portfolio to derive and exhibitions for the technology industry.
The holding in some benefit from the conditions in the insurance Reuters was reduced given the tough competition it markets.
A new purchase was also made in Johnson faces.
We added to our holding in the publisher Reed Matthey, which is a world leader in making catalysts for Elsevier which continued to grow steadily in the legal, cars.
This is a growth market as environmental standards scientific and educational markets.
In addition, Johnson Matthey manufactures ingredients for medicines and is a leading marketer of Significant changes were made in the Support Services platinum products.
In the Transport sector, BBA was sector during the year.
Rexam, one of the worlds top purchased on account of the recovery potential of its five consumer packaging groups, was purchased.
The aviation division, which is a leader in the USA in providing valuation of the shares was attractive relative both to services for aircraft such as refuelling, cargo handling, comparable companies and the market generally.
Rexam is a strong free cash flow generator and has a 9 Portfolio Managers Report continued Two holdings in the portfolio had rights issues during HSBC and therefore the portfolios investment in the the year: Kingfisher, the retailer, which purchased the company was increased.
Large holdings in domestic minority shareholding in its French subsidiary: and banks were maintained with Royal Bank of Scotland Legal and General, which boosted its financial strength ending the period as the portfolios sixth largest holding in order to take market share in the UK life assurance and Barclays the seventh largest.
Both banks have had market.
In both cases, significant gains were made from a relatively benign experience of bad debts during the the rights issue level, at which City of London subscribed current economic downturn and their share price ratings for new shares.
Amongst the bankassurers, i. e. those banks that own a life assurance company, HBOS In a period of low interest rates, companies with high and is preferred given its leading position in the UK mortgage growing dividend yields would appear to be particularly market through Halifax.
Exposure to Lloyds TSB was attractive investment propositions and in Europe we increased during the year as its core strengths did not found some opportunities of a type that are unavailable seem to be reflected in its share price valuation.
Some 1.5% of the portfolio was invested in three Dutch real estate companies Rodamco Europe, The portfolios exposure to the Oil & Gas sector is Corio and Wereldhave on dividend yields of 7%, 8.5% through BP the portfolios largest holding and Shell and 8.5% respectively that have an advantageous tax third largest.
Both companies are amongst the three status with respect to rental income and the payment of global leaders the other being Exxon Mobil of the USA dividends.
We also invested in Silic, a French property in an industry that is still vitally important to the world company, which would benefit from legislation currently economy.
Both BP and Shell benefited from the strength being proposed in the French parliament to give French of the oil price in the run-up to the Iraq war.
Although the property companies a similar tax status to those in oil price has retreated from its pre-Iraq war peak, it may Holland.
The portfolios holdings of European companies stay at relatively high levels because the reconstruction are expected to remain at relatively low levels but the of Iraq and its oil industry may take longer than is Euro income stream helps offset dividends paid in dollars currently expected by the market.
Both BP and Shell by large UK companies, such as HSBC, BP, Rio Tinto, have made progress in Russia during the last twelve BHP Billiton and AstraZeneca.
months: BP through a joint venture with the Russian oil company TNK and Shell through the commitment to Outlook develop a large gas field off the western coast of Siberia.
Some 45% of City of Londons portfolio is invested in four sectors: Banks 19.1% of the portfolio, Oil & Gas The portfolio is underweight in Pharmaceuticals as 12.1%, Pharmaceuticals 7.9% and Telecommunications companies in this sector are threatened by patent expiries 5.9%.
In the Portfolio Activity section above, our view of and competition from manufacturers of generic drugs.
In the issues affecting the Telecommunications sector and addition, discovery of new medicines has proved Vodafone, its biggest component, has been outlined.
The disappointing for many of the large companies.
The strategy towards Banks, Oil & Gas and Pharmaceuticals portfolios two holdings in the sector are will now be covered.
GlaxoSmithKline, which is the fourth largest holding, and AstraZeneca, which is the ninth largest.
These two large The Banks sector can be divided into three: international, companies are currently an interesting contrast.
The second largest holding GlaxoSmithKline is on an attractive valuation but lacks in the portfolio, HSBC, is an international bank with new medicines to be launched in the next three years.
substantial operations in the Far East, the UK and AstraZeneca has recently won approval for promising new Europe and the USA.
During the last twelve months, cancer and cholesterol medicines and therefore has a HSBC increased its exposure to the USA through the significant premium rating over GlaxoSmithKline and other acquisition of Household International, a consumer credit comparable international pharmaceutical companies.
This was, in our view, a well-timed move by 10
