Shareholder information continued Taxation A summary of the principal tax consequences for certain beneficial holders of Ordinary shares of BOC and ADSs representing Ordinary shares is set out below.
This summary applies to citizens or residents of the UK or US, or otherwise who are subject to UK tax or US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect of such securities.
It is not intended to be a comprehensive analysis of all of the potential tax consequences of holding Ordinary shares or ADSs and does not purport to deal with persons who hold their Ordinary shares or ADSs in special circumstances, such as financial institutions, tax exempt organisations, insurance companies, dealers in securities, persons who own, directly or indirectly or by attribution, ten per cent or more of the outstanding share capital or voting stock of BOC, persons holding Ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a hedge, straddleor other risk reduction transaction, or who acquired such Ordinary shares or ADSs through the exercise of an employee stock option or otherwise as compensation.
All holders and investors are advised to consult their tax advisors on the tax implications of their particular holdings, including the consequences under applicable state and local law.
The statements of tax laws set out below are based on the laws in force at the date of this report unless otherwise noted, and are subject to any subsequent changes in UK and US law, or in any double tax convention between the UK and the US.
UK shareholders The following information applies to individuals who hold Ordinary shares and who are resident or ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax purposes UK resident holders.
Taxation of capital gains A UK resident holder will be liable to UK tax on the gain from the disposal of Ordinary shares.
For the purposes of calculating the gain from the disposal of Ordinary shares, a UK resident holder who held Ordinary shares prior to 31 March 1982 may substitute the market value of such shares as at that date for the original cost of such shares.
The market value of Ordinary shares on 31 March 1982 was 168.75p per Ordinary share.
A UK resident holder may also be entitled to indexation relief and taper relief when selling shares.
Indexation relief is calculated on the market value of shares held at 31 March 1982 and on the cost of any subsequent purchases from that date.
Indexation relief is not available for periods after 1 April 1998.
Taper relief provides UK resident holders with relief from tax on gains accrued on the disposal of Ordinary shares held or acquired after 5 April 1998.
The amount of taper relief available depends on the length of time such shares have been held and on the UK resident holders individual facts and circumstances.
Taxation of dividends 1 A UK resident holder is entitled to a tax credit on receipt of a cash dividend.
The tax credit is a fixed proportion of the dividend and is currently th of the 9 cash dividend received.
The income subject to UK income tax is the sum of the dividend and the attached tax credit, with the tax credit being available as a deduction against any resulting tax liability.
Special rates of tax apply to dividend income:the ordinary rateis ten per cent and applies to individuals liable to tax at the basic or lower rates of tax:the upper rateis 32.5 per cent which applies to the extent that income exceeds the basic rate band.
For a UK resident holder liable to income tax only at the basic or lower rates of tax, there will thus be no further tax liability in respect of the dividend received.
If, however, the UK resident holder is subject to income tax at the higher rate there will be a further tax liability on the sum of the cash dividend received and the associated tax credit.
Where a UK resident holders tax liability is less than the associated tax credit, no refund is available.
By way of example, the payment by BOC of a cash dividend of 90 would have an associated tax credit of 10 and a UK resident holder is treated as receiving a gross dividend of 100.
The upper rate tax of 32.5 per cent on the gross dividend is 32.50.
Therefore the UK resident holder liable to tax at the upper rate will have a tax liability of 22.50, being the tax liability on the gross dividend of 32.50 less the tax credit of 10.
Stamp duty Stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5 per cent of consideration payable is normally payable on the purchase price of shares.
Inheritance tax Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the transfer of Ordinary shares.
Inheritance tax may be charged on the amount by which the value of a shareholders estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by way of gift or other gratuitous transaction made by them or treated as made by them.
US holders For the purposes of this summary, a US holder is a beneficial owner of ADSs who is an individual citizen or resident of the US, a corporation or other entity organised under the laws of the US or any state thereof, an estate whose income is subject to US federal income tax regardless of its source, or a trust if a court within the US is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more US persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
US holders should be aware that a new UK-US Income Tax Convention, as amended by a Protocol to the Convention signed on 19 July 2002, came into force on 31 March 2003 the New Convention.
The New Convention generally will have effect in respect of dividends paid on or after 1 May 2003.
However, a US holder entitled to benefits under the US-UK Income Tax Convention that came into force on 25 April 1980, as amended by Protocols the 1980 Convention may elect to have the provisions of the 1980 Convention continue in their entirety for an additional 12 months if the election to apply the 1980 Convention would result in greater benefits to the holder.
If a US holder were to make an effective election, the discussion below with respect to dividend payments made pursuant to the 1980 Convention would continue to apply to dividends paid by the company prior to 1 May 2004.
The discussion below notes the instances where the relevant provisions of the New Convention will produce a materially different result for a US holder.
US holders should note that certain articles in the New Convention limit or restrict the ability of a US holder to claim benefits under the New Convention and that similar provisions were not contained in the 1980 Convention.
US holders should consult their own tax advisors concerning the applicability of both Conventions.
US holders of ADSs are treated as owners of underlying Ordinary shares for the purposes of the New Convention, the 1980 Convention and the convention relating to estate and gift tax the Estate Tax Convention and for the purposes of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended the Code.
126 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Taxation of dividends Under current UK tax legislation, no tax will be withheld from dividend payments made by BOC.
Under the 1980 Convention US holders of ADSs are treated as receiving dividend income equal to the sum of the dividend and the associated tax credit, reduced by UK withholding tax at a rate not exceeding 15 per cent 1 of the amount of the dividend and the associated tax credit.
As the tax credit is equal to th of the dividend the withholding tax is equal to the tax credit.
9 This will be the case where the holding is not effectively connected with a permanent establishment or fixed base in the UK and provided that the shareholder is not subject to the special rules of the 1980 Convention such as those applying to US tax-exempt entities and certain investment or holding companies where 25 per cent of the capital is held directly or indirectly by persons who are not individual residents or nationals of the US.
Thus, under the 1980 Convention, a US holder receiving a dividend of 90 will be treated as receiving taxable income of 100 less UK withholding tax of 10.
No refund of UK tax is available.
Dividends received by a US holder will be foreign source income for US federal income tax purposes in the amount equal to the US dollar value of the gross dividend that is the sum of the dividend and the associated tax credit, on the date of such payment.
Generally dividends will not be eligible for the dividends receiveddeduction allowed to US corporations under the Code.
Subject to certain limitations, the UK tax treated as withheld from payments will be available as a credit against US tax.
Under the New Convention which generally applies with respect to dividends paid on or after 1 May 2003 unless an effective election is made to extend the applicability of the 1980 Convention a US holder has no right to receive the associated tax credit with the dividend payment made by BOC.
US holders should consult their own tax advisors to determine whether they are eligible for benefits under the 1980 Convention and the New Convention, whether, and to what extent, a foreign tax credit will be available with respect to dividends received from BOC, and whether it may be advisable in light of the holders particular circumstances to elect to have the provisions of the 1980 Convention continue in force until 1 May 2004.
Recent United States tax law changes applicable to individuals Recent US tax legislation the 2003 Tax Act generally has reduced the rates of tax payable by individuals as well as certain trusts and estates on many items of income.
Under the 2003 Tax Act, the marginal tax rates applicable to ordinary income generally have been lowered with effect from 1 January 2003.
In addition, for capital assets held for over one year and sold or exchanged on or after 6 May 2003 but in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2009, the maximum applicable US federal rate of tax generally will be 15 per cent rather than the higher rates of tax generally applicable to items of ordinary income.
Furthermore, qualified dividend incomereceived by individuals in taxable years beginning after 31 December 2002 and beginning before 1 January 2009, generally will be taxed at a maximum US federal rate of 15 per cent rather than the higher rates of tax generally applicable to other items of ordinary income provided certain holding period requirements are met.
For this purpose, qualified dividend incomegenerally includes dividends paid on stock in US corporations as well as dividends paid on stock in certain non-US corporations if, among other things, i the shares of the non-US corporation including ADSs are readily tradable on an established securities market in the US, or ii the non-US corporation is eligible with respect to substantially all of its income for the benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty with the US which contains an exchange of information program.
The New Convention has been identified by the US Treasury as a qualifying treaty.
BOC currently anticipates that dividends paid with respect to Ordinary shares and ADSs should constitute qualified dividend income for US federal income tax purposes and that US holders who are individuals should be entitled to the reduced rates of tax, as applicable.
However, the precise extent to which dividends paid by non-US corporations will constitute qualified dividend incomeand the effect of such status on the ability of a taxpayer to utilise any associated foreign tax credits is not entirely clear at present.
It is anticipated that there will be administrative pronouncements concerning these provisions in the future.
In the meantime, US holders are urged to consult their own tax advisers regarding the impact of the provisions of the 2003 Tax Act on their particular situation.
Taxation of capital gains Generally, a US holder who is not resident or ordinarily resident in the UK for tax purposes should not be subject to UK tax on any gain from the disposal of ADSs, but will be subject to US tax on any capital gain realised on the sale or other disposal of ADSs.
US information reporting and backup withholding Dividend payments with respect to ADSs and proceeds from the sale or other disposal of ADSs may be subject to information reporting to the US Internal Revenue Service and backup withholding at a current rate of 28 per cent.
Holders should consult their own advisors as to the application to them of the information reporting and backup withholding rules.
Stamp duty In practice no UK stamp duty is payable on the transfer of an ADS, provided that the separate instrument of transfer is not executed in, and always remains outside of, the UK.
No stamp duty reserve tax is payable on an agreement to transfer ADSs.
Estate and gift tax Under the Estate Tax Convention, a US holder generally is not subject to UK inheritance tax.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders There are currently no exchange controls or other limitations in the UK affecting security holders.
127 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003
