Research, development and information technology Research and development Research and development R&D is conducted around the world with key sites located in north America, the UK and Japan.
The Group Technical Center GTC in Murray Hill, New Jersey, is a primary R&D location for market applications for Process Gas Solutions and for electronic materials for BOC Edwards.
Process Gas Solutions delivers technology through internal development, the formation of alliances and partnerships with universities and customers, licensing or acquisition of technologies from third parties and by participating in technology-based ventures.
BOC now has access through Linde BOC Process Plants to much broader technology and product offerings, especially in hydrogen and syngas.
The development of ceramic-based technologies for the production of hydrogen and syngas continues.
BOC has acquired proven technology from Eco-Snow for precision cleaning using carbon dioxide CO snow.
2 It also recently acquired ultra violet ozone-based technology from RGF Environmental to provide additional food safety solutions by preventing the growth of listeria and extending product shelf life.
BOC joined Sumitomo Electric Industries and Intermagnetics General Corporation to demonstrate high temperature superconducting cable technology in Albany, New York with substantial government and state funding.
The European Union is funding further development, with other companies and universities, into ceramic-based oxygen separation to enhance CO sequestration.
2 BOCs investments in hydrogen energy include vehicle fuelling demonstrations, very high pressure gaseous hydrogen fuelling stations and participation in Chrysalix, a hydrogen energy venture capital fund.
Industrial and Special Products has developed the LASOX laser cutting technology jointly with partners.
Through internal developments and participation in ventures it has invested in new opportunities in the medical sector.
It has also used advanced techniques to drive operational and distribution efficiencies.
BOC Edwards uses joint development agreements with original equipment manufacturers and end users, along with guidance from the International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors SIA, to prioritise its investments in semiconductor technology.
Programmes draw on a combination of BOC technologies in gases, vacuum, purification, delivery and systemisation.
An example is supercritical CO technology for cleaning wafers with small features.
2 A new reconfigurable control system for chemical dispense equipment dramatically reduces set-up time, and allows for easy and flexible process changes.
Enhancements have also been made to slurry delivery, including point of use delivery.
An important development area is high capacity abatement technology for flat panel applications.
The Zenith line of integrated pumping and abatement systems are smaller and give reduced cost of ownership for customers in both silicon and compound semiconductor facilities.
BOC Edwards continues to focus on products for sub-90 nanometre integrated circuit fabrication.
Pumping systems designed for 300mm fabs form the basis for a range of solutions for flat panel manufacturers, including the latest generation 7 factories in Asia and Japan.
BOC Edwardsadvanced systems for copper technology include flexible, high accuracy blending technology for chemicals and chemical mechanical planarization CMP slurries, along with novel technology to address the waste generated by these advanced processes.
Load cell technology increases blend accuracy, improves control over slurry distribution to the CMP tools and enhances equipment stability.
Patented metal removal technologies are being applied to the treatment of electro-less plating bath waste streams.
Similarly, copper CMP slurry waste streams can now be abated using a process which removes copper from a stream of suspended solids without removing the solids.
Development programmes continue on materials designed to meet increasing purity requirements for the storage and delivery of gases and liquids.
In situ sensors have been introduced for enhancing manufacturing productivity in semiconductor fabs.
Continuing work with a leading manufacturer of lithography tools aims to solve vacuum problems for extreme ultraviolet lithography tools, projected to be needed for sub-45 nanometre integrated circuit technology.
Development continues on ultra-pure gas systems for 157 nanometre lithography tools.
Pumps have been developed with improved hydrogen performance for key applications in the dielectric deposition market.
Development continues on low noise and vibration pumps, and to improve motors and drive mechanisms.
For the scientific sector, the range of pumps has been expanded to bring dry pumping technology to the life sciences, primarily users of mass spectrometry.
Kachinas technology has developed from high purity cleaning of semiconductor chamber parts to the broader requirement of providing technology-based solutions that reduce the cost of ownership of the customers operations.
BOC Edwards Pharmaceutical Systems continues to focus on developments in automated handling systems for aseptic packaging, driven by the industrys increasing requirement to separate potent drugs from human operators: and in-line product inspection, which is now receiving the support of the US Food and Drug Administrations Process Analytical Technology initiative.
Its most recent inspection product uses nuclear magnetic resonance to weigh the contents of vials in high-speed motion down a packaging line.
Total R&D expenditure in 2003 was 39.9 million, compared with 47.0 million in 2002 and 59.7 million in 2001.
Information technology The number of countries running the SAP business computing system grew again this year when the system was further extended to the Process Gas Solutions and Industrial and Special Products business units in the US, Canada and Poland.
Deployment throughout BOC Edwards worldwide also began.
The global data centre, which provides a central facility for managing all SAP transactions from around the world, continued to function well.
A fully-equipped back-up centre was established capable of instantaneous operation in the event of a failure.
The Webcentric project in the south Pacific demonstrated the feasibility of running all office-based software on remote computers, accessed by users as and when needed from simple terminals on their desktops.
A number of new technologies were also deployed to support improved business processes and to offer competitive advantage in some key markets.
28 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003
