Board of directors 01 02 03 Rob Margetts CBE 01 57, chairman.
He is chairman of Legal & General Group plc, a non-executive director of Anglo American plc, chairman of the Natural Environment Research Council and a governor of Imperial College, London.
Previously he was with ICI PLC for 31 years, becoming a main board director in 1992 and vice chairman in 1998.
He is a fellow of both the Royal Academy of Engineering and the Institution of Chemical Engineers.
04 05 06 Tony Isaac 02 Julie Baddeley 04 61, chief executive.
Appointed an executive director in October 1994 and became chief Appointed in May 2001.
She was an executive director of Woolwich plc executive in May 2000.
He was previously finance director of Arjo Wiggins until October 2000, responsible for e-commerce, information technology Appleton plc, which he joined shortly before the fide-merger from BAT and human resources, and was previously head of change management Industries p. l. c. in 1990.
Prior to that he had been finance director of for Maritime Region, Accenture.
She is a non-executive director of the GEC Plessey Telecommunications Ltd since its formation in 1988.
He is a Yorkshire Building Society, the Government Pensions Group, and chairman non-executive director of International Power plc and Schlumberger Ltd. of three venture capital trusts.
She is also an Associate Fellow of Templeton College, Oxford and a Companion of the Institute of Management.
Fabiola Arredondo 03 She has an MA honours degree in zoology from Oxford University.
She is the managing partner of FRA John Bevan 05 Holdings LLC, a private investment firm, and was previously the managing 46, chief executive, Process Gas Solutions.
Europe, a director of BBC Worldwide and held senior Appointed an executive director in December 2002.
He joined BOC executive positions at BMG Entertainment.
She is a non-executive director in 1978 as a graduate in the Australian gases business and has held of Intelsat Corporation, Bankinter SA and the World Wildlife Fund UK various positions in general management in Australia, Korea, Thailand and is also a member of the US Council on Foreign Relations and the and the UK and was formerly chief executive Asia, based in Singapore.
She has a BA in political science from Stanford He has a degree in commerce marketing from the University of University and an MBA from the Harvard Business School.
He is senior vice-president and chief financial officer of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
He qualified as a chartered accountant in South Africa, working for Price Waterhouse, before joining SmithKline Beecham in 1990 and rising to become chief financial officer in 1999.
He joined BG Group plc in 2001 as executive director finance before assuming his current role at Bristol-Myers Squibb Company in September 2002.
08 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 07 08 09 Ren Mdori 07 46, group finance director.
Appointed an executive director in July 2000.
He joined BOC in 1987 and has held several finance appointments in the Group.
He was appointed finance director of BOCs gases business in the Americas in 1997.
Before joining BOC, he worked for Accenture and Schlumberger Ltd.
He is a finance graduate of the Universit fide Paris-Dauphine and has a doctorate degree in economics.
He is a non-executive director of Scottish & Southern Energy plc.
He is a founding partner of Integrated Finance Ltd, the non-executive chairman of Egg Plc, and a board member of Prudential Plc, Reuters Plc and Vitro S. A.
He joined J. P. Morgan in 1967 and served as vice chairman of the board from 1990 to 2000.
He was a managing director of Goldman Sachs & Co from 2000 until 10 11 12 he resigned to co-found Integrated Finance Ltd in 2001.
He was born in Cuba, obtained a BA in history from Yale and an MBA with high Sir Christopher ODonnell 10 distinction from the Harvard Business School.
He is chief executive of Smith & Nephew plc.
Matthew Miau 09 Previously he held senior positions with Davy Ashmore, Vickers Limited 57, non-executive director.
He has an honours degree in mechanical engineering Appointed in January 2002.
He is chairman of MiTAC-Synnex Group, one from Imperial College, London and an MBA from the London Business of Taiwans leading high-tech industrial groups.
He is also a Convenor of School.
He is a chartered engineer and a member of the Institution of Civil Advisory Committee of National Information and Communications Mechanical Engineers.
Initiatives NICI and a member of the Board of Supervisors of the Industrial Technology Research Institute ITRI and the Board of Directors Dr Raj Rajagopal 11 of the Institute for Information Industry III, Taiwan.
He obtained a BS in 50, chief executive, BOC Edwards.
electronic engineering and computer science from U. C. Berkeley, an MBA Appointed an executive director in July 2000.
He joined BOC in 1981 degree from Santa Clara University and holds an honorary doctorate and has held several positions in BOC Edwards.
He was appointed degree from the National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan.
managing director, Edwards Vacuum Products in 1993 and managing director, vacuum technology division in 1996.
He was appointed a non-executive director of FSI International Inc in January 2001.
He has a PhD in mechanical engineering from the University of Manchester.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineers as well as the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Mechanical Engineers and the Chartered Institute of Management.
Dr Rajagopal was awarded the Sir Eric Mensforth International Manufacturing Gold Medal in March 2003.
John Walsh 12 48, chief executive, Industrial and Special Products.
Appointed an executive director in July 2001.
He was previously president, Process Gas Solutions, north America.
He joined BOC in 1986 as vice president, special gases and has held various senior management positions in the Group, including president, BOC Process Plants.
He has a BA in economics and an MBA, both from Harvard Business School.
Board committees Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Pensions committee Executive management board Investment committee 09 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003
