Group profile Introduction The BOC Group began its business life over 100 years ago as the Brins Oxygen Company.
The company was incorporated in England in 1886 and adopted its present name on 1 March 1982.
A technology to extract oxygen from the air in commercial quantities had just been developed and in 1886 the Brin brothers started production at a factory in Westminster, London.
Two uses had already been found for oxygen.
One was to intensify limelight, which was then used in theatres.
The other was to assist patientsbreathing during and after surgery.
New technology was soon developed that allowed air to be separated into all its major components nitrogen, oxygen and argon.
By 1960, industrial gases were in widespread use and BOCs business was firmly established.
Tonnage plants were supplying steelworks with oxygen and the customer base had been broadened to extend from metal cutting and welding to food and medicine.
The business had also spread overseas with subsidiaries or associated companies as far away as Australia and South Africa.
During the 1980s, BOCs South African subsidiary began to invest in private hospitals.
This diversification was the basis of the current Afrox hospitals segment.
BOC acquired the vacuum equipment company Edwards High Vacuum International Limited in 1968 and this formed the basis of what was to become the BOC Edwards line of business today.
The BOC Distribution Services business now called Gist was first established in 1970, initially providing a chilled food distribution service for Marks & Spencer and relying upon distribution skills and liquid nitrogen chilling technology, acquired as a result of BOCs involvement in gases.
In 1978, BOC completed the acquisition of Airco Inc in America, a predominantly gases business that doubled the Groups size and brought BOC for the first time into the US gases market.
In the period from 1970 to 1990 The BOC Group significantly increased its presence in the Asia Pacific region through participation in several joint ventures or associated companies.
BOC established strong market positions in Thailand, Indonesia, Taiwan, the Philippines, China and Korea.
An investment in 1982 gave BOC effective management control of the Japanese gases company Osaka Sanso Kogyo KK OSK.
Conversion of loan stock and subsequent purchases of shares raised BOCs holding in OSK to 97 per cent.
In September 2002 BOC and Air Liquide announced a conditional agreement to merge their industrial and medical gases businesses in Japan.
The merger became effective in January 2003 and BOCs subsidiary in Japan has retained a 45 per cent interest in the combined company called Japan Air Gases Limited.
In the period from 1998 to 2001, BOC increased investments in its gases companies in Thailand, Indonesia and the Philippines by acquiring the interests of joint venture partners or minority shareholders.
The BOC Group has an international portfolio of companies operating as three lines of business.
These are Process Gas Solutions PGS, Industrial and Special Products ISP and BOC Edwards.
In addition there are two separately managed specialist businesses, Afrox hospitals and Gist.
Operating results are reported separately for these five segments.
The main exports of the Group in 2003 were special products from the UK and vacuum equipment and semiconductor manufacturing equipment from the UK, the US and Japan.
Trade between Group undertakings is conducted at fair market prices.
Although BOC Process Plants was combined with Linde Engineering in the US with effect from September 2002, BOC retains an interest in the manufacture of industrial gas equipment though its Cryostar business based in France.
Cryostar makes specialist cryogenic pumps and expansion turbines that are used by most manufacturers of industrial gas plant.
Over the last two years Cryostar has also developed a strong position in the market for shipboard compressors and heat exchangers used aboard liquefied natural gas LNG tankers.
Management believes that Cryostar is the leading manufacturer of its product range worldwide.
Analysis of results by business including share of joint ventures and associates Turnover Operating profit Adjusted operating profit million % million % million % Process Gas Solutions 1,242.7 29 177.1 40 184.0 36 Industrial and Special Products 1,751.2 40 238.2 54 242.7 48 BOC Edwards 684.1 16 7.9 2 18.5 4 Afrox hospitals 353.4 8 46.1 11 46.1 9 Gist 291.8 7 29.2 7 29.2 6 Corporate 59.9 14 14.9 3 4,323.2 100 438.6 100 505.6 100 Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items.
See also pages 31 and 32 of the operating review.
The BOC Group contributes to the economies of some 50 countries throughout the world.
The US is the largest single source of sales revenue for the Groups products and services, followed by the UK.
Other major geographic areas for the Group are Australia, South Africa, Japan and other markets in the Asia Pacific region.
The business therefore operates from a broad geographical base with local manufacturing in most of the key overseas markets.
14 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Analysis of results by region including share of joint ventures and associates Turnover Operating profit Adjusted operating profit million % million % million % Europe 1,154.4 27 137.0 31 144.3 29 Americas 1,238.8 29 42.7 10 91.8 18 Africa 585.5 13 85.0 19 85.0 17 Asia Pacific 1,344.5 31 173.9 40 184.5 36 4,323.2 100 438.6 100 505.6 100 Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items.
The UK accounts for the largest part of the Groups activities in Europe but BOC has significant gases subsidiaries in Ireland and Poland, vacuum products manufacturing in France and a pharmaceutical packaging machinery operation in the Netherlands.
Gist, BOCs supply chain solutions business, operates principally in the UK but also has operations in other countries.
Subsidiaries in the US are engaged in the Groups three lines of business.
The Groups other principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in the Americas are located in Canada, Venezuela, Colombia, Chile and Mexico.
The largest Group subsidiary in Africa is African Oxygen Limited Afrox, a South African public company in which the Group owns 56 per cent of the equity.
The largest shareholder, other than BOC, holds less than 15 per cent of the equity.
Afrox, primarily through wholly-owned subsidiaries, is engaged in the manufacture and sale of products within the PGS and ISP lines of business.
Afrox also has interests in private hospitals, clinics and other health care services in southern Africa, primarily through its 69 per cent holding in Afrox Healthcare Limited.
There are other Group or Afrox subsidiary companies in Africa located in Botswana, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Swaziland, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
These companies are engaged primarily in the manufacture and or sale of products in the ISP line of business.
BOC has businesses in most of the Asia Pacific markets, including Japan, Korea, Thailand, Taiwan, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, China, the Philippines, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Australia and New Zealand.
In Australia, the Groups business is conducted by BOC Limited.
This company, as well as its subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates, is engaged in the manufacture and sale of products in the PGS and ISP lines of business.
BOC participates in the liquefied petroleum gas market in Australia through a 50 per cent shareholding in Elgas Limited.
Elsewhere in the Pacific region, the Group conducts its business through subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies.
Management organisation BOCs management structure is based on three global lines of business and two specialist businesses.
Each line of business serves a clearly defined type of customer and each pursues its own strategy for growth and performance at a local level.
The organisation is designed to maximise BOCs global as well as local strengths.
The lines of business have global responsibility to set strategy and prioritise investment.
They include operational business units and these local units are responsible to the Group chief executive for delivering financial, safety and operational performance.
The business units contribute to the development of the strategies of the lines of business and customise and implement them in local markets.
The business unit heads collaborate in order to share best practice and to maximise growth and profit opportunities wherever they may appear.
Process Gas Solutions PGS manages all aspects of BOCs business with customers requiring bulk supplies of industrial gases from on-site plants or by pipeline as well as deliveries of liquefied gases.
Typical customers are found in the oil and chemicals, food and beverage, metals, and glass sectors all round the world.
Marketing, business development and the execution of investments to provide customer specific solutions for the supply of industrial gases are handled by Process Systems, which forms part of PGS.
Until 2002, Process Plants, another unit forming part of PGS, was responsible for supplying air separation technology within the Group with plants of its own design or acquired from alliance partners and others.
In March 2002 BOC announced plans to merge its Process Plants operations with Linde Engineering in the US to form a new company, Linde BOC Process Plants LLC.
The transaction was completed just before the end of 2002.
BOC owns 30 per cent of the combined company and Linde Engineering has become the principal supplier of industrial gases plant to BOC worldwide.
Industrial and Special Products ISP covers BOCs business with customers in the fabrication, medical and leisure sectors as well as the special products and liquefied petroleum gases businesses.
15 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Group profile continued BOC Edwards embraces all aspects of business with semiconductor industry customers worldwide including the supply of bulk gases and electronic materials, vacuum and abatement technology, chemical management systems and  services.
BOC Edwards also serves general vacuum markets around the globe and manufactures pharmaceutical freeze-drying and packaging machinery.
The segment reporting as Afrox hospitals operates through Afrox Healthcare Limited, which is quoted on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
It owns and manages private hospitals and clinics in southern Africa.
Additional services include a direct medicines service for chronic medication, occupational health services, nursing training, pharmacy management and laboratory services.
BOCs majority-owned subsidiary, African Oxygen Limited Afrox, holds 69 per cent of Afrox Healthcare Limited AHealth.
In July 2003 Afrox announced that it was in the process of considering its strategic options with regard to its shareholding in AHealth.
On 17 November 2003, Afrox announced that it had agreed to sell its entire holding in AHealth to a consortium of Black Economic Empowerment investors.
The sale remains subject to certain conditions including clearance from the relevant competition and other regulatory authorities.
During 2001, BOC Distribution Services was re-named Gist to reflect the changing nature of its business.
Gist operates as a separate business unit outside the lines of business structure.
It remains focused on developing business with major customers, including Marks & Spencer, and has developed capability in supply chain consultancy, managed solutions, and electronic commerce fulfilment services.
Corporate development Over the last three years BOC has continued to invest in its core businesses at the same time as divesting assets and businesses that were no longer consistent with its strategy.
In 2001 BOC assumed full ownership of two south American hydrogen plants.
BOC purchased the interests from Foster Wheeler Power Systems in joint ventures already operating in Chile and Venezuela.
As a result of a successful tender offer, BOC increased its shareholding in Osaka Sanso Kogyo KK OSK in Japan from approximately 55 per cent to over 93 per cent with effect from 8 May 2001.
The holding was further increased during 2002 to 97 per cent.
In June 2001, BOC increased its holding in Thai Industrial Gases Public Company Limited TIG from approximately 60 per cent to over 90 per cent and launched a tender offer for the outstanding shares leading to 99 per cent ownership.
In October 2001 BOC Edwards agreed terms for the acquisition of the vacuum and pressure business of the Smiths Group.
These businesses are located in the UK, north America and continental Europe and typically serve customers in the metallurgy, water treatment, food, power and chemical industries.
Hydromatix and Semco were also acquired during 2002 with the intention of positioning BOC Edwards in those market segments expected to deliver the fastest growth.
These two companies, based in the US, are involved principally in semiconductor wet processing technology including chemical blending delivery and collection systems as well as liquid waste abatement systems.
BOC Edwards sold its glass coating business, based in the US, in April 2002 but retained its Temescal business that supplies technology for compound semiconductor manufacturing.
The acquisition of the turbomolecular pumps business from Seiko Instruments Inc in Japan was announced in February 2002 and completed in March 2002 with the principal objective of enhancing the ability of BOC Edwards to develop vacuum sub-systems to satisfy the growing trend to on-tool pumping in the semiconductor industry.
In April 2002 BOC purchased Matheson Gas Products Canada Inc, thereby adding an important special products capability to BOCs Industrial and Special Products range in Canada.
In May 2002 BOC acquired Unique Gas and Petrochemicals Public Company Limited UGP, in Thailand.
UGP is a leading supplier of liquefied petroleum gas LPG and packaged ammonia in the industrial and special products markets.
The transaction was completed at the end of September 2002.
BOCs associated company in Malaysia acquired 35.6 per cent of the gases company Nissan Industrial Oxygen Inc NIOI in March 2002 and increased its holding to 100 per cent in September 2002 following a tender offer.
Each of BOCs three lines of business has absorbed a part of NIOI.
At the end of August 2002, BOC announced an agreement to purchase Praxairs Polish gases business.
The transaction was completed at the end of January 2003 following approval by the Polish competition authority.
The business acquired includes a high proportion of industrial and special products sales.
In October 2002, BOC acquired Environmental Management Corporation EMC, a privately owned water services company based in St Louis, Missouri.
EMC manages water and wastewater treatment facilities for both industrial and local municipal customers around the US.
EMC forms part of the PGS line of business, which intends to expand the range of solutions offered to its industrial customer base.
At the end of January 2003, BOC acquired the partial oxidation syngas plant at Clear Lake, Texas, from Celanese.
Under the agreement BOC fulfils a significant proportion of the industrial gas requirements for the Celanese chemical facility at Clear Lake.
In March 2003 BOC announced an agreement to purchase the Canadian packaged gas and related welding equipment business of Air Products.
The acquisition was completed in April 2003 following approval from the Canadian regulatory authority.
16 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Industrial gases The BOC Group is one of the major producers of industrial gases in the world.
Its products include the atmospheric gases nitrogen, oxygen and argon produced by air separation plants as well as hydrogen, carbon monoxide and syngas a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide made by technologies including steam-reforming or partial oxidation of hydrocarbons.
The Group also markets carbon dioxide, helium and liquefied petroleum gas.
These are generally derived as by-products from chemical processes or from natural sources and are also purchased from other producers.
In addition, the Group markets dissolved acetylene and a wide range of special gases, medical gases, gas mixtures and gaseous chemicals.
Industry structure and consolidation The industrial gases business is capital-intensive, with increasing demand, together with economies of scale, leading to the need for large production units and distribution networks.
The need for fixed asset investments, the trend towards global customers and the benefits from the transfer of applications technology worldwide have resulted in the business being handled by a relatively small number of companies internationally.
One or more other major international producers compete in each of the industrial gases markets served by the Group, and in many of the markets there are smaller local producers as well.
International competitors include Air Liquide, Praxair, Air Products and Chemicals, Linde, Messer, Airgas and Nippon Sanso.
The world market for gases and related products is estimated to be over 20 billion a year.
On 13 July 1999 the board of The BOC Group agreed the terms of a pre-conditional cash offer at 14.60 per share to be made jointly by Air Liquide and Air Products.
Making the offer was conditional upon those companies obtaining satisfactory regulatory clearances in Europe, Canada and the US by 13 March 2000.
Following an extension to the pre-conditional offer period to conclude discussions with the Federal Trade Commission FTC in the US, the bidders allowed the offer to lapse on 10 May 2000.
Principal industrial gas products Nitrogen possesses two key characteristics that make it the worlds most widely used and versatile industrial gas.
Nitrogen is almost inert and when liquefied it is intensely cold.
This makes liquid nitrogen a highly effective, versatile and non-polluting agent for freezing and chilling.
Under normal conditions nitrogen is chemically inactive.
This makes it an important purging and blanketing gas in the chemical and refining industry as well as in the electronics industry.
Oxygen, in contrast to nitrogen, is useful for its reactivity.
It supports combustion and it supports life.
Oxygen has been used in welding and medicine for over 100 years and in steel production since the 1950s.
Iron and steel producers use oxygen to accelerate melting and to improve metal quality during the refining process.
It is also used by the oil and chemicals industries and many others for a variety of oxidation processes.
Mixed with fuel gases, oxygen provides a heat source for many welding, cutting and metal fabrication processes.
Argon makes up less than one per cent of the atmosphere but it is the most abundant truly inert gas.
It is used to provide a shielding atmosphere in welding, metal fabrication, aluminium processing, microelectronics, glass coating, advanced ceramics and other industrial processes.
It is also used in the steel industry, principally in the production of stainless steel.
Hydrogen is typically produced by steam reforming or partial oxidation of natural gas, petroleum gas, or liquid or solid hydrocarbon feedstocks.
Hydrogen may also be recovered from by-products purchased by BOC from external suppliers.
Hydrogen is used primarily in the oil and chemicals industries for applications aimed at upgrading crude oil through hydrocracking to form lighter fractions and to remove sulphur in the production of cleaner fuels.
The chemicals industry also uses hydrogen where it is required as an active ingredient in many large-scale processes.
Helium is extracted from natural gas deposits.
Only a few sources in the world contain a sufficient proportion of helium to justify its separation.
The Groups supplies now come from the US, Poland and Russia and are secured by long-term contracts.
In June 2003, BOC announced an agreement to obtain half the output from a new helium extraction facility to be constructed in Qatar.
Deliveries from this new source are expected to begin in July 2005.
Because of its high value, helium is the only major industrial gas to be extensively traded internationally.
Helium is used in welding, leak detection, hospital MRI scanners and increasingly in the production of optical fibres.
Helium gas mixtures are used in balloons.
Carbon dioxide supplied by BOC is obtained as a by-product from other  processes, from natural sources or recovered in the generation process for hydrogen or syngas and put to constructive use.
Solid carbon dioxide is, like liquid nitrogen, used for chilling and freezing in the food industry.
As a gas it is used to carbonate and dispense beverages of all kinds.
Acetylene is normally supplied in cylinders and used together with oxygen in metal cutting and welding applications.
BOC is a major manufacturer of dissolved acetylene.
Liquefied petroleum gas LPG is a fuel gas with a wide variety of domestic, industrial and transport applications.
BOC is a major distributor of LPG in South Africa and Thailand, and its joint venture company Elgas Limited is a major distributor in Australia.
BOC has smaller market positions in several other countries.
17 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Group profile continued Production of industrial gases Oxygen was first extracted from the atmosphere by a chemical process.
This was superseded over 80 years ago by the cryogenic low temperature process involving the liquefaction and distillation of air.
The cryogenic process is still by far the most widely used, but non-cryogenic techniques pressure swing adsorption and membrane diffusion, which were first developed during the 1970s, are becoming increasingly significant for smaller or less demanding on-site applications.
Cryogenic air separation is a mature and stable technology, although incremental technical advances are still yielding improvements in capital cost, operating cost, ease of operation and reliability.
The only significant raw material, apart from the air itself, is electricity, which is used in large quantities to drive compressors, pumps and other equipment.
The production process in modern air separation plants is highly automated, and remote operation of BOCs plants from control centres is becoming increasingly common.
The production of hydrogen and syngas uses steam reforming or partial oxidation of hydrocarbon feedstocks such as natural gas, petroleum or coal to separate the hydrogen and carbon compounds.
The choice of feedstock is related to their prices in local markets.
Distribution of industrial gases Industrial gases may be supplied to customers in a variety of ways:through pipelines from on-site or nearby cryogenic or non-cryogenic plants, by deliveries of liquefied gases in road or rail tankers, in portable cryogenic containers or in cylinders also called compressed or packaged gases.
Distribution is an important competitive factor in the industrial gases business and the methods of distribution vary according to the nature of the products themselves and the customers volume requirements.
Most gases have to be stored and distributed either under great pressure, which requires them to be carried in heavy and bulky cylinders, or at extremely low temperatures in specially insulated tankers, which limits how far they can be transported before carriage costs become unacceptable.
Pipeline delivery involves high capital costs and the routing is inflexible.
As a result, there is little international trade in industrial gases.
Production has to occur in or near the market being served and there is a trend towards production at customersown sites.
Business segments The BOC Group reports financial results for the three lines of business and for Afrox hospitals and Gist separately.
Process Gas Solutions PGS This line of business covers BOCs business with larger-scale industrial customers worldwide, typically in the oil and chemicals, food and beverage, metals, and glass sectors.
Gases and services are supplied as part of customer-specific solutions that create the most value for customers at the lowest cost to BOC.
These range from supply by pipeline or from dedicated on-site plants to the largest users, to supply by road tanker in liquefied form to others.
Tonnage pipeline customers are usually supplied on the basis of long-term contracts, typically containing a fixed facility charge together with a variable charge for product supplied in excess of a set minimum quantity.
Revenues from these contracts thus have a measure of stability with respect to changes in demand for product.
Tonnage plants are often built to produce merchant gases in addition to those required by the tonnage customer and these gases can be sold to other customers.
The BOC Group has substantial positions in the tonnage markets of the UK, the US, Australia, South Africa and Asia as well as in some smaller markets.
The products supplied to tonnage customers have traditionally been the atmospheric gases oxygen, nitrogen and argon.
More recently, hydrogen and syngas are becoming significant tonnage products as are associated utilities including steam and power.
The delivery of liquefied gases by road or rail to the customers site is normally limited by transport costs to a radius of about 200 miles.
Product for this market is supplied either from merchant plants or from tonnage plants incorporating liquefiers.
Larger users are typically supplied with product in liquid form delivered in cryogenic tankers into special storage vessels installed at customer premises.
Tankers and vessels are often BOC Group owned.
Liquefied gases are usually supplied on the basis of contracts with terms of one to five years.
Revenues are generally based upon the actual quantity of gas consumed, with an additional fixed charge for the use of storage equipment.
The growth of sales and profit in this line of business is driven by investment in new production facilities.
Such investment is predominantly the result of opportunities to satisfy long-term supply contracts with one or more heavy industrial customers for each plant.
Marketing, business development and the execution of investments to provide customer-specific solutions for the supply of industrial gases are handled by Process Systems, which forms part of PGS.
18 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Business development During the early part of 2001, BOC reached full commercial operation of an integrated refinery and merchant gases facility in Brisbane, Australia, significantly ahead of schedule.
The facility supplies hydrogen, using partial oxidation technology, for BPs mild hydrocracker and has an air separation complex supplying oxygen to help upgrade the capacity of the refinerys catalytic cracker unit.
In addition the facility produces oxygen, nitrogen, argon, hydrogen and carbon dioxide for BOCs merchant market, replacing and increasing capacity over previous and less-efficient production facilities.
In 2001, BOC took full ownership of two hydrogen joint ventures already operating at refineries in Chile and Venezuela.
This was done by purchasing the interests of the other partner, Foster Wheeler Power Systems.
BOC started the supply of up to 800 tonnes per day of oxygen to Mitsubishi Materialscopper and electrical component recycling facility at Onahama, Japan in 2001.
A number of hydrogen supply plants were completed during 2001, including those supplying Dow Corning and Roche in the UK.
A plant to supply OneSteel at Whyalla in South Australia was commissioned in November 2001 also replacing and increasing capacity over previous and less efficient merchant plants in Adelaide.
Shortly afterwards in January 2002 a new plant began supplying Huntsman on Teesside in the UK with hydrogen to be used for the production of aniline.
In April 2002, BOC established a joint venture in Nanjing with Yangtze Petrochemical Corporation YPC, which is a subsidiary of Sinopec, Chinas leading petrochemical company.
BOC purchased existing air separation assets with effect from May 2002 and construction of new air separation capacity is underway.
BOCs joint venture will be a supplier to a new BASF and YPC joint venture plant also under construction and scheduled to begin production in 2004.
Additional liquefaction capacity was added to the existing air separation facility during 2003.
These investments give BOC a strategic position as a key supplier in the Nanjing area, which is being developed through foreign investment as a leading centre for chemical production in China.
In the US a new plant began to supply WCI Steel in Ohio in May 2002 and a plant at Midland, North Carolina, began production in June 2002.
EMCs management services extend to steam systems, cold and chilled water systems and wastewater treatment.
Customers include small to medium municipalities and industrial customers, many of which are in the food sector.
EMC forms part of the PGS line of business and BOCs strategy is to expand the range of solutions offered to its industrial customer base.
The Celanese facility is located on the Houston ship canal, and includes a world scale vinyl acetate monomer plant and the worlds largest acetic acid plant.
These require large quantities of oxygen and nitrogen as well as carbon monoxide.
A new hydrogen and carbon monoxide HyCO plant supplying the Thai Polycarbonate Company for the manufacture of plastic resins began production in 2003 and in August 2003, BOC announced that a new plant at Rayong would double its carbon dioxide capacity in Thailand before the end of calendar 2003.
The plant will supply the local poultry and prawn industries as well as providing carbonation gas to the beverage industry.
In October 2003, BOC commissioned a new hydrogen plant supplying Citgos oil refinery at Lemont, Illinois.
The hydrogen will be used in the removal of sulphur to produce clean fuels.
Industrial and Special Products ISP Gases for cutting and welding, hospitality, laboratory applications and a variety of medical purposes are mainly distributed under pressure in cylinders.
The ISP line of business covers products and services provided to this section of the market together with sales of packaged chemicals and liquefied petroleum gas LPG.
Customers are typically in the fabrication, engineering, automotive, refrigeration, hospitality or medical sectors.
The customer base is therefore broad and varied.
The number of separate customers served by ISP is much greater than the other two lines of business and the quality of service is often the key factor in securing existing or obtaining new customers.
In order to raise service standards at the same time as reducing costs, national customer service centres have been successfully established in all the major markets.
In addition to supplying gases, BOC also supplies a range of associated equipment in many of its major markets.
This includes cutting and welding products and, in some markets, associated safety equipment.
19 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Group profile continued BOC has devoted considerable attention over the last three years to understand the requirements of different types of customer in its major markets and to provide the required service at an appropriate price.
Such customer segmentation programmes have been implemented in the UK, South Africa, Australia, Asia, Latin America and are in progress elsewhere.
The cutting and welding applications are a relatively mature part of the industrial gases business and growth opportunities are principally in other segments of the market such as medical applications, packaged chemicals, hospitality and services.
BOC is pursuing these opportunities by the development of new products, packages and services as well as by marketing initiatives to take advantage of BOCs global capabilities by introducing existing products to new regions.
Electronic commerce has also become an important tool for sustaining and growing sales by making it easier for customers to manage their business with BOC as a supplier.
BOC is a leading supplier of helium and has liquid helium distribution centres, or transfills, in many markets around the world.
With 42 helium transfills worldwide, management believes that this is the largest global network of its kind.
Helium has a broad range of applications, including medical imaging and welding, and is vital to the production of optical fibres, semiconductors and special alloys.
It is also used for leak detection, underwater breathing mixtures and lifting.
Business development In April 2002, BOC acquired Matheson Gas Products Canada Inc, one of Canadas leading providers of special gases and equipment.
Unique Gas and Petrochemicals Public Company Limited UGP, a leading distributor of liquefied petroleum gas LPG and ammonia in Thailand, was acquired in May 2002.
BOCs associated company in Malaysia acquired 35.6 per cent of the gases company Nissan Industrial Oxygen Inc NIOI in March 2002 and, following a tender offer, increased its holding to 100 per cent in September 2002.
The transaction was completed in January 2003 following approval by the Polish competition authority.
During 2002, BOC continued its global roll-out of a light-weight medical cylinder with an integrated valve and regulator for homecare patients and emergency services.
Heliox, a helium and oxygen mixture formulated to ease the respiratory effort associated with airway obstruction, was launched in the UK.
Capacity at BOCs Otis, Kansas, helium plant was expanded in 2002 to match market demands.
In addition, BOC has access to helium produced by other US plants, as well as to product from Poland and Russia.
In 2003 BOC and KRIO, a division of the Polish Oil and Gas Company, entered into a new helium supply agreement.
BOC will purchase for export all of KRIOs helium that is not sold to its domestic customers in Poland.
BOC has been KRIOs sole customer for bulk liquid helium since the original agreement was signed in 1972.
Magnetic resonance imaging MRI systems use liquid helium to cool superconducting magnets.
BOC provides helium as well as a liquid nitrogen filling service to meet MRI operatorstotal requirements.
In 2002, ISP signed a major helium supply scheme with Oxford Magnet Technology in the UK.
BOC continued to invest in refrigerant filling facilities during 2002 and in 2003 new filling facilities were installed in Hong Kong, Malaysia and the Philippines.
Each of these was built to a standardised global design.
BOC now supplies refrigerants in 19 countries compared with six countries in 1999.
In June 2003, BOC announced a global alliance with Hudson Technologies to promote technology for cleaning and recycling used refrigerants.
Significant progress in developing web-based customer portals was made in 2002.
Amongst others, ISP launched customer portals in the UK, Australia and New Zealand.
Thousands of customers are now able to access detailed material on BOCs product service offers, manage and settle their accounts and place orders on-line.
BOC acquired the Canadian packaged gas and related welding equipment business of Air Products in April 2003.
20 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 BOC Edwards This line of business specialises in gases, services and equipment for the semiconductor industry as well as vacuum products for a range of other industries.
It is organised into four customer-facing divisions for sales and marketing and into four manufacturing divisions.
The customer-facing divisions are Asia Pacific, Japan, the US and Europe and the manufacturing divisions are Vacuum and Exhaust Management, Chemical Management, Bulk Gases and Electronic Materials.
Kachina semiconductor process tool component management service, Coating Technology and Pharmaceutical Systems were managed separately in the period 2001 to 2003.
The major markets for BOC Edwardsproducts are in Asia, north America and Europe.
Management believes that BOC Edwards has a unique position as a fully integrated supplier of gases, vacuum, chemical, slurry and exhaust management products, as well as services to the global semiconductor industry and is a leader in the design and manufacture of vacuum pumps, instrumentation and systems for both general vacuum and semiconductor applications.
The vacuum and exhaust product ranges are manufactured or assembled primarily in the UK, with additional manufacturing and assembly in the US, Japan and Korea.
They include vacuum pumps, coating systems, exhaust management systems, temperature control systems and heat exchangers, instrumentation and controls, vacuum accessories and leak-detection equipment.
The range also includes specially designed systems for specific applications, depending on customer requirements.
In addition to the semiconductor industry, the leading customers are in the chemicals, scientific instruments and other industries, as well as in educational and research establishments.
General vacuum products are sold to such customers by a separate sales force.
Chemical Management Division specialises in the design, manufacture and installation of the systems used to deliver liquid process chemicals, including planarisation slurries to the point of use within semiconductor fabrication facilities.
BOC Edwardschemical management products are manufactured mainly in the US, while electronic materials plants are located in the US and in Asia.
BOC Edwardsservice facilities, including plants for cleaning semiconductor process tool parts, are located near concentrations of semiconductor fabrication facilities around the world.
Technology is important to maintain a competitive edge in this business, and considerable resources are committed to enable the business to address new applications and markets.
A new exhaust management laboratory was opened in Japan during 2001.
Over 250 staff are employed in development project teams worldwide.
The Groups vacuum products are sold directly by Group companies to end users and also through distributors and agents.
Management believes that the Group is a leading manufacturer of the types of vacuum products that it makes and provides.
The business is highly competitive, with product design and quality, leading to the lowest cost of ownership, being very significant factors.
Sales opportunities for much of BOC Edwardssemiconductor equipment business are dependent upon capital investment by the semiconductor industry.
Management believes that semiconductor production remains on a long-term growth trend but capital investment by semiconductor manufacturers has been subject to sharp variations for a number of reasons, some of which arise from advances in technology.
The products of BOC Edwards Pharmaceutical Systems are tailored specifically to individual customer requirements in the pharmaceutical industry and are used mainly for injectable products.
Freeze-drying systems are made in Tonawanda, New York, US.
Filling, sterilising and packaging lines for the pharmaceutical industry are made at Dongen in the Netherlands.
Business development In the period 2001 to 2003, new ranges of dry pumps for the semiconductor industry were introduced as well as a comprehensive new range of exhaust management products.
These new products meet the needs of new 300mm wafer and flat panel manufacturing facilities.
A new range of turbomolecular pumps and an innovative dry pump were introduced for scientific customers as well as new dry pumps for industrial customers over the same period.
New single axis on-tool pumps for semiconductor manufacturing and a range of liquid ring pumps for industrial applications were introduced in 2003.
During 2003, an enhanced range of gases and vacuum products for lithography was offered to semiconductor manufacturers.
Narrower line widths are requiring new technology including a supercritical carbon dioxide process for wafer cleaning.
In July 2000, BOC Edwards acquired Kachina Semiconductor Services, a US company specialising in the cleaning of process tool chamber parts.
In the same year a new facility and divisional headquarters was established in Phoenix, Arizona, followed by a new facility in Portland, Oregon.
Additional facilities were opened in France and China during 2002.
21 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Group profile continued Production of nitrogen trifluoride gas NF for the semiconductor industry was started at a plant in South Africa 3 during 2000 and production capacity was further increased during 2003.
This product is an important etchant that is also used for in-position cleaning of semiconductor process equipment.
In September 2001, BOC acquired Fluorogas Limited, a UK based company with expertise in the development and operation of low pressure on-site fluorine generators.
The acquisition was made to assist in BOC Edwards development of alternative cleaning systems for semiconductor process tool chambers.
As a result of a jury verdict against Fluorogas Limited in a US litigation action, Fluorogas Limited was placed in administration.
Further details of the litigation are given in the financial review on page 50.
During 2001, a decision was taken to concentrate electronic materials production into fewer locations and to close some existing facilities in the UK and the US to increase efficiency and reduce costs.
These closures were completed in 2002.
These businesses are located in the UK, north America and continental Europe and typically serve customers in the metallurgy, water treatment, food, power and chemicals industries rather than semiconductor manufacturing.
The acquisition of the turbomolecular pumps business from Seiko Instruments Inc in Japan was completed in March 2002 with the principal objective of enhancing the ability of BOC Edwards to develop vacuum sub-systems to satisfy the growing trend to on-tool pumping in the semiconductor industry.
Afrox hospitals Afrox Healthcare Limited owns 63 hospitals and clinics and has a minority interest in a further seven hospitals managed by others.
In addition it also manages the Lifecare group of chronic-care hospitals.
In addition to hospitals and clinics, which are the core business, Afrox Healthcare Limited also includes Afrox Healthcare Services, which facilitates a direct medicines service for chronic medication, and provides occupational health services, nursing training and laboratory services.
Management believes that Afrox Healthcare Limited is the leading provider of private health care in southern Africa.
During 2000, African Oxygen Limited Afrox increased its holding of Afrox Healthcare Limited to 82 per cent.
During 2001, the 55 per cent interest in Lifecare Special Health previously held by Afrox was bought by Afrox Healthcare Limited.
In January and July 2002, Afrox sold parts of its holding in Afrox Healthcare Limited but retains a 69 per cent interest.
This disposal was in accordance with the terms of the transaction between Afrox and PresMed that took place in 1999.
In July 2003 Afrox announced that it was in the process of considering its strategic options with regard to its shareholding in Afrox Healthcare Limited.
On 17 November 2003, Afrox announced that it had agreed to sell its entire holding in Afrox Healthcare Limited to a consortium of Black Economic Empowerment investors.
Gist formerly BOC Distribution Services Gist is a provider of specialist supply chain solutions.
The name Gist was adopted during 2001 to reflect both the continuing focus on supply chain operations and an increased emphasis on supply chain consulting, managed solutions and logistics support to e-fulfilment opportunities.
This realignment of the business followed a planned withdrawal from most non-Marks & Spencer primary temperature controlled operations in the period 1999 to 2000.
High quality supply chain operations remain at the core of the business.
Gist manages a range of supply chains on behalf of retailers, mainly in the UK, as well as some overseas.
For over 30 years Gist has been the largest supply chain provider for Marks & Spencer.
Gist currently handles all of its UK food distribution and the consolidation and dispatch of all overseas shipments to subsidiaries and franchised operations.
During 2003, Gist ceased to operate general merchandise logistics and garment stockholding operations on behalf of Marks & Spencer.
Gist has provided supply chain consultancy services to major supermarket and catalogue retailers in the UK and demonstrated its capabilities in managing international supply chains.
In addition an on-line wholesaling operation has extended the range of Gists skills offered externally.
22 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003
