Directors Report Business and Status Directors Liability Insurance The company carries on business as an investment The company maintains insurance in respect of trust for the purpose of the Income and Corporation directors and officers liabilities in relation to their Taxes Act 1988 and has been approved as such by the acts on behalf of the company.
Inland Revenue for the period ended 31 January 2002.
The company has subsequently conducted its affairs so Payments Policy as to enable it to continue to seek such approval.
The companys payments policy is to ensure settlement of suppliers invoices in accordance with The company is an investment company, within the the stated terms.
In certain circumstances, settlement terms of Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985. terms are agreed prior to business taking place and it is the companys policy to abide by those terms.
Review of Activities During the year the company followed the normal Going Concern activities of an investment trust.
Details of these are The companys directors believe that the company given in the Chairmans Review and the Investment has adequate resources to continue its operational Managers Review.
existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Dividends preparing the accounts.
An interim dividend of 2.20p was paid on 27 September 2002.
The directors recommend that a Corporate Governance final dividend of 4.80p 20024.60p per share be Compliance paid on 25 April 2003 to shareholders on the The board is accountable to the companys register at the close of business on 4 April 2003, shareholders for a high standard of governance and making a total of 7.00p 20026.75p per share for this statement describes how the governance the year ended 31 January 2003.
The ex-dividend provisions which are identified in the Combined date is 2 April 2003.
Code appended to the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules are applied by the company.
The directors propose that the companys revenue surplus for the year of 137,000 2002193,000 The board confirms that the company has complied be transferred to the revenue reserve.
throughout the accounting period with the provisions which are relevant to it.
Directors In accordance with the articles of association, Max Directors Ward, Jean Matterson and Ruaridh Budge retire The board, which meets at least six times each year, from the board by rotation and will be proposed for has overall responsibility for the companys affairs.
re-election at the annual general meeting.
Ordinary Shares The names of the directors and their holdings in the held at 31 January companys shares are shown in Table 1 opposite.
2003 2002 Nature of interest Max Ward 60,000 50,000 Beneficial The company has not been notified of any other Ruaridh Budge 10,004 9,791 Beneficial changes in directors holdings between 31 January 2003 and 5 March 2003.
Robert Douglas Miller 65,000 65,000 Beneficial Jean Matterson 17,128 17,128 Beneficial No contract or arrangement existed during the year in John Scott 10,770 10,770 Beneficial which any of the directors was materially interested.
Directors have no service contracts with the company.
Table 1 Directors and their holdings in the company PAGE 15 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors Report It delegates, through an investment management Accountability and audit agreement and through specific instructions, the day The board confirms that as at 31 January 2003 to day management of the company to the manager, there is an ongoing process for identifying, Edinburgh Fund Managers plc.
The company has no evaluating and managing the companys significant executive employees.
business and operational risks, that it has been in place for the year ended 31 January 2003 and up to The board consists of five non-executive directors, the date of approval of the annual report and including the chairman.
Each of the directors is accounts, that it is regularly reviewed by the board considered by the board to be independent.
and accords with the internal control guidance for directors on the Combined Code.
Information on the directors appears on page 14 of this report.
Each director has the requisite business The board has overall responsibility for ensuring and financial experience to enable the board to that there is in place a system of internal control and provide effective strategic leadership and proper for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system of internal governance of the company.
The senior independent control is designed to manage rather than eliminate director is Jean Matterson.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Appointments of new directors are considered by the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
whole board taking into account the need to maintain a balanced board.
When a new director is appointed to The manager is responsible for the design, the board, he or she is provided with all relevant implementation and maintenance of controls and information regarding his or her duties as a director.
procedures to safeguard the assets of the company and to manage its affairs properly.
The system A director appointed during the year is required to extends to operational and compliance controls and retire and seek election by shareholders at the next risk management.
Clear lines of accountability have annual general meeting.
All directors are required to been established between the board and the submit themselves for re-election at least once every manager.
The board receives regular reports covering three years.
key performance and risk indicators and considers control and compliance issues brought to its There is a procedure for directors to take attention.
In carrying out its review, the board has independent professional advice, if necessary, at the had regard to the activities of the manager, the companys expense.
managers internal audit and compliance function and the external auditors.
Communication with shareholders The directors place great importance on The external auditors are responsible for reviewing communication with the companys shareholders.
the accounting systems and controls surrounding the accounting systems to the extent necessary for them At the annual general meeting all shareholders have to form their opinion on the truth and fairness of the opportunity to put questions to the board and a the financial statements.
presentation from the manager covers the investment performance and strategy during the The board meets as an audit committee twice a year financial year and the outlook for the year ahead.
and considers reports from the internal and external The board hopes that as many shareholders as auditors, as well as from the manager.
The audit possible will be able to attend the meeting.
committee keeps under review the scope and Shareholders have direct access to the manager at effectiveness of the external audit.
The independence any time through the freephone shareholder and objectivity of the external auditors are also information service.
Shareholders have the PAGE 16 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors Report opportunity at each annual general meeting to vote Annual General Meeting Special Business on the appointment of the external auditors for the At the annual general meeting to be held on 22 April forthcoming year.
2003, the following special resolution will be proposed: Corporate governance and socially responsible investment policy Special resolution 9 will be proposed to authorise The companys manager recognises the increasing the company to make purchases of its own shares.
influence of social and environmental factors on The maximum number of ordinary shares which companies financial performance.
In order to may be purchased pursuant to the authority shall be monitor company policies effectively the manager 14.99% of the issued share capital of the company subscribes to the Proxy Voting and Environmental as at the date of the passing of the resolution Screening service offered by Manifest, an approximately 24 million ordinary shares.
The organisation which provides specialist research minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary information in both areas.
The maximum price for an ordinary share exclusive of expenses shall be an Proxy voting as an institutional shareholder amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle Responsibility for actively monitoring the activities market quotations for the companys ordinary of investee companies has been delegated by the shares for the five business days immediately board to the manager.
The manager is responsible preceding the date of purchase.
The exercise of this for reviewing, on a regular basis, the annual authority, if conferred, will be designed to enhance reports, circulars and other publications produced the net asset value per share and to further the best by the investee company, and for attending interests of shareholders generally.
The manager, in the absence of explicit instruction from the board, is empowered The directors recommend that shareholders vote in to exercise discretion in the use of the companys favour of resolution 9. voting rights.
The managers policy is to vote all shares held by the company.
By order of the board, Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Auditors Secretary Resolutions are to be proposed at the annual general Edinburgh, 5 March 2003 meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
Holder No of ordinary shares % Standard Life Investments 6,196,030 3.87 Substantial Share Interests At 5 March 2003, the beneficial interests in the D C Thomson & Co Ltd 6,075,000 3.79 ordinary share capital had been notified to the Table 2 Substantial share interests company as shown in Table 2.
PAGE 17 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
