Investment Managers Review The chairman has highlighted how difficult a year this has been for equity markets.
Some comfort can be taken from the fact that our underlying portfolio has outperformed its benchmark and this has done a little to offset the negative impact of DIGITs gearing, but nevertheless this has been a painful year for DIGIT shareholders and equity investors in general.
Portfolio Review The value of the portfolio, before allowing for capital charges, fell by 26.7 % compared to a fall of 31.0% in the FTSE All-Share Index in capital terms, Only two sectors rose in absolute terms, tobacco ie excluding dividends re-invested.
The negative with a rise of 4.6%, and personal care which rose effect of gearing in a falling market meant that the 2.6%.
Defensiveness and strong profit growth were net asset value fell 33.0%.
This outperformance of features of both.
A number of other defensive the portfolio owed something to successful stock sectors also did relatively well, notably utilities, food selection within sectors and something to an element producers, beverages and transport.
House builders of resilience among the more defensive areas of the held up well thanks to the continued strength of the market, to which the trust is well exposed.
housing market, low interest rates and the low valuations that are still given to these stocks.
There are several factors to which the markets fall can be attributed.
The world economy is sluggish Portfolio Activity and corporate profits are depressed and, although The holding in BP was significantly increased during these have not deteriorated any further recently, the the year and although Shell was reduced somewhat market had perhaps expected a healthier rebound by there was a net rise in exposure to the oil sector.
Accounting scandals, such as those concerning Exposure to mining was reduced to underweight by Enron and WorldCom in the US, further selling some Rio Tinto.
undermined confidence in the system.
The growing The trust continues to hold a large overweight position expectation of war in the Middle East and perhaps in building and construction, although this was scaled other conflicts to come have also weighed heavily back by reducing Persimmon.
Another cyclical sector, with investors, creating a need for greater clarity in engineering, saw some switching, with reductions to world affairs before confidence can return.
Another Weir and IMI being more than offset by the purchase factor that has affected the UK in particular is the of FKI and the take-up of Cookson rights.
forced selling of equities by life assurance companies and pension funds whose capital ratios have been Among the more defensive parts of the market, in severely weakened by the market fall.
beverages both Diageo and Scottish & Newcastle were reduced.
In the health sector SSL was sold and Among the worst performing sectors were insurance in pharmaceuticals there were significant additions and life assurance.
The larger companies here are to GlaxoSmithKline and, later in the year, to themselves heavily invested in the stock market, AstraZeneca, although this still leaves the portfolio making falling share prices doubly bad news for underweight in the sector.
In tobacco, rights were them.
Another weak area, for the third year in a taken up in Imperial but there were also some row, was technology and this now represents less reductions to this holding during the year which still than 1% of the market.
The pharmaceutical sector left an overweight position in the sector.
also underperformed, more surprisingly in view of its defensive characteristics, owing to negative news Among the service sectors there was a lot of activity on individual drugs, especially for AstraZeneca.
in general retail and leisure and in both sectors the PAGE 5 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Investment Managers Review net effect was to reduce overall exposure.
New A British Land convertible bond was added but in holdings included Matalan and HMV, although the speciality financials Amvescap was sold and Cattles latter was later sold.
A large holding in Next was was reduced.
In the technology sectors small sold, Debenhams was increased while GUS was holdings of Misys and The Innovation Group were reduced.
Whitbread and Rank were disposed of and consolidated into a larger holding in Logica.
Outlook In media, EMAP and Reuters were sold and Reed was The chairman has highlighted the uncertainties but reduced for a net reduction to the sector.
Two new also the potential attractions of equity investment at holdings in support services were Hays and Aggreko present.
When the outlook becomes more predictable while the holding in Rexam was reduced.
The the current level of the stock market may start to transport sector saw the addition of BAA and, later, look a very cheap one.
the disposal of P&O as well as a reduction in the large holding in Associated British Ports.
Tesco was reduced The economic outlook appears relatively benign, to leave an underweight position in food retail.
Considerable media attention There were net additions to telecommunications with has been devoted to predictions of a collapse in UK increases to both BT and Vodafone, though this still house prices, which would obviously hurt the left an underweight sector position.
However, with interest rates and reduced overall with the sale of AWG and reductions unemployment low, it is by no means certain that to Scottish and Southern Energy and United Utilities.
these predictions will be fulfilled.
National Grid Transco was increased.
The outlook for profits is unexciting in the The weighting in banks, the largest sector in the FTSE immediate future, but should gradually improve in All-Share Index, was increased by adding Lloyds TSB the course of this year.
Following on from that, and Royal Bank of Scotland, although this was partly dividend growth is expected to be quite low and offset by reductions to Northern Rock and HSBC.
more companies are likely to cut their payouts, Elsewhere among the financials the holding of Royal perhaps quite significantly in some cases.
and Sun Alliance was sold while Old Mutual was added.
Legal and General was partially switched into However, we believe that in general the stock market CGNU now called Aviva.
UK share prices are around half the peak levels of three years ago and the rating Table 1 Analysis of capital performance year to 31 January 2003 applied to some high quality companies appears eminently reasonable.
The markets yield is high in % relation to the yields available on government Decrease in Net Asset Value 33.0 bonds, another factor in favour of equities.
While Decrease in FTSE All-Share Index 31.0 the short term movements in share prices cannot be predicted, it seems to us that on a longer term view Underperformance 2.0 the current level of the market represents an attractive level at which to buy equities.
Analysis of performance % UK listed equities 3.8 In particular DIGIT has a well balanced portfolio of Stock selection 2.2 high quality companies and we believe that over the longer term these will provide an attractive return to Sector allocation 1.6 shareholders.
Borrowings -5.7 Cash 1.3 Edinburgh Capital charges -1.4 5 March 2003 PAGE 6 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
