Managers Review Market Background The FTSE All-Share Index recorded one of the sharpest one-year falls in its history over the twelve months to the end of March 2003.
It shed 32% of its value during the period, as hopes of a firm recovery in the global economy and corporate earnings faded whilst geopolitical risks increased.
Investors were very sensitive to any new developments and the daily fluctuations of the Simon Fraser Peter Yarrow index reached historically high levels during the Chief Investment officer of Senior Investment Director period.
In this environment, many of the sectors Fidelity International Limited that were most dependent on an improvement in economic conditions were weakest.
TechnologyAs 2002 drew to a close, equity markets staged a related sectors such as information technology brief rally, as corporate earnings showed signs of hardware, software and electronic electrical stabilising, but this proved short-lived as new worries equipment registered the most significant falls, about a possible conflict in the Middle East troubled declining by 76%, 71% and 61% respectively.
Tensions between the US and Iraq in life assurance and insurance companies, where mounted during the fourth quarter, although the capital levels are affected by equity market values, Iraqi government subsequently permitted UN also witnessed steep declines.
With corporate weapons inspectors back into the country.
In earnings continuing to disappoint, companies with addition, North Korea moved to restart a nuclear resilient earnings found favour.
Utilities, tobacco and facility, mothballed under an earlier agreement with food producers were amongst the best performing the US.
However, as 2003 began, the prospect of war areas of the market during the period, although each in Iraq became increasingly likely and investors sector did decline in absolute terms.
worried about the effect higher oil prices and The decline over the period succeeded two previous prolonged hostilities might have on the global years of negative returns.
Optimism early in the economy.
The FTSE All-Share Index reached its reporting period soon gave way to new concerns.
lowest point for the review period on 12 March, The discovery of large-scale accounting irregularities eight days before the conflict actually began.
Despite at several high-profile US companies Enron, a sustained recovery on hopes of a short military Worldcom and Tyco International was deeply campaign, the Index finished the reporting year unsettling to investors and cast doubt on both the significantly lower at 1,736. credibility of international accounting standards and Portfolio review on reported earnings figures themselves.
It was Capital return against this backdrop of investor unease that In overall terms, the twelve months to the end of economic data in the US and Europe continued to March 2003 represented a poor period of disappoint, suggesting that the interest rate performance for the companys investment portfolio.
reductions made by monetary authorities in the wake The net asset value per share fell by 42.5% compared of 11 September 2001 had not been sufficient to with a 32.1% decline in the FTSE All-Share Index stimulate economic activity.
This was also echoed in over the same period.
Gearing accounted for more weaker than expected corporate earnings than one-half of the portfolios underperformance in announcements.
Investors on both sides of the this twelve-month period.
Atlantic suspected that the global economic recovery was faltering.
The third quarter of 2002 saw the In analysing the performance of the company, it is value of the UK equity market fall by over 20%.
The helpful to divide the twelve-month period into three FTSE All-Share Index hit 1,782 during September, its stages, reflecting the changeover in the management lowest point for 2002.
Page 6 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Managers Review of the company from Edinburgh Fund Managers underweight position in Royal Bank of Scotland, EFM to Fidelity Investments International Fidelity.
which proved to be one of the sectors strongest performers in this period, rising in absolute terms.
During the period prior to Fidelitys appointment as Overweight positions in Lloyds TSB and Abbey manager 1 April to 31 July, the portfolio was not National also detracted from returns.
A dividend cut defensively positioned for a falling market and from Abbey National and the decision by Lloyds TSB underperformed the FTSE All-Share Index by 2.2% not to increase its payment helped to depress on a capital return basis excluding gearing and investor sentiment towards both companies.
Fidelity was officially named as area of weakness was the food producers processors manager of the company with effect from 1 August sector, where the portfolio owned a number of 2002.
The structure of the portfolio on that date companies which underperformed.
The detrimental represented about 60% of Fidelitys target portfolio.
effect from these stocks more than offset the positive The transition process took place in August and performance of Unilever, which rose in absolute September in difficult market conditions, which were terms.
Unilever is currently in the process of a major characterised by low market volumes and extreme restructuring to focus on its 400 core brands.
The realignment of the portfolio to the process has seen it rationalise its production facilities desired structure was largely completed by the end of and enabled it to increase marketing spending on September.
The efficiency and cost effectiveness of these brands.
However, the earnings growth potential the transition process was monitored by Inalytics, a of this restructuring has yet to be fully appreciated professional organisation which specialises in by the market and it is starting to bear fruit.
analysing transition costs, and Gordon Bagot, an Elsewhere, exposure to the support services sector investment and actuarial consultant.
Their proved negative primarily due to a holding in calculations showed the costs of the transition to be Chubb, the security services firm.
The company around 9.3 million or 1% of the portfolio value, continues to experience slower demand for its which was considered to be highly acceptable given products in its Asian markets and appointed a new the prevailing market conditions.
However, some CEO during the first quarter.
An underweight holdings inherited by Fidelity proved to be highly position in the mining sector also worked against the illiquid and continuing to hold these stocks detracted portfolios relative performance.
On the positive side, a further 1.5% from the portfolios relative being underweight in beverages benefited relative performance during the transition period.
In performance whilst stock picking decisions in the addition, it was found that had Fidelitys target aerospace defence sector also proved effective, as the portfolio been in place during August and portfolio had relatively less exposure than the September, it would have outperformed the FTSE benchmark to BAE Systems and Rolls Royce which All-Share Index.
registered significant declines, but held an overweight position in Cobham which rose strongly.
In the six months since 1 October 2002, the performance of the stocks held in the portfolio has Table 1 on page 8 breaks down the various elements been weaker than expected.
On a capital return - equity holdings, gearing, cash, charges and share basis, the company recorded a decline of 8.1% buybacks - which have contributed to the companys against a fall of 3.7% for the FTSE All-Share Index performance relative to the FTSE All-Share Index over the same period.
The effect of the companys over the reporting period.
It shows inter alia that the borrowings during this period accounted for a portfolios holdings have underperformed the FTSE substantial proportion of the underperformance All-Share Index by 5.2% during the period.
The table 2.2% out of the total underperformance of 4.5%.
also shows how gearing has increased the scale of Within the equity portfolio, stock picking in the this underperformance, detracting a further 6.7% banking sector was the primary source of from relative performance.
The company had an Page 7 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Managers Review Period 1-Apr-02 1-Aug-02 1-Oct-02 1-Apr-02 and the provision of security services.
Since the 31-Jul-02 30-Sep-02 31-Mar-03 31-Mar-03 transition period was completed at the end of EFM Fidelity Fidelity September 2002, the companys exposure to Management Transition Management 1 Year investment companies has decreased moving to an Change in Net Asset Value % -25.0 -16.6 -8.1 -42.5 underweight stance versus the sectors weighting in the FTSE All-Share Index.
The companys largest Change in FTSE All-Share % -19.8 -12.2 -3.7 -32.1 underweight sector positions at the end of the review Relative Change % -5.2 -4.4 -4.5 -10.4 period were in the areas of beverages, investment companies and utilities.
The structure of the portfolio EFM Fidelity Fidelity requires that the asset split is periodically rebalanced Management Transition Management 1 Year to maintain equal weightings between the fund UK Equities % -2.2 -2.1 -3.1 -5.2 managers.
Borrowings % -3.7 -2.9 -2.2 -6.7 Purchases Cash % 0.7 0.7 0.8 1.6 Since the transition was completed, holdings in a Charges % -0.1 -0.1 -0.3 -0.3 broad spectrum of sectors have been added to the portfolio, which reflects the bottom-up stock picking Share Buybacks % 0.0 0.0 0.3 0.2 style of the fund managers.
Key positions that were Relative Change in NAV % -5.2 -4.4 -4.5 -10.4 purchased included retailers Kingfisher, Debenhams Table 1 Analysis of capital performance and Dixons Group, packaging materials maker 1 All figures are calculated ex income: similarly the FTSE All-Share price Index Rexam, building materials firm BPB, British Airways 2 The effect of the dividends is not attributed in this breakdown Excludes the attributable effect of stock selection and sector allocation.
Sales Portfolio activity A large number of holdings in investment companies The portfolio is managed using a multi-manager which were held through the transition period were approach with the companys assets split across four sold during the last six months.
Other sales during individual Fidelity portfolio managers.
By adopting the same period included oil & gas company this structure, the risk profile of the company is BG Group, Waste Recycling Group, building reduced, as the performance risk of each portfolio materials company Hanson and leisure group Six manager is offset by the performance of the others.
In addition, the portfolio managers sold The Fidelity fund managers involved with this holdings in support services company Serco Group, company have been selected because their brewer SABMiller and advertising and marketing firm investment styles tend to be complementary in this Aegis Group.
As a stock picking investment management house, each Fidelity fund manager constructs their Gearing portfolio using a bottom-up approach, where The board is responsible for the balance sheet attractive companies are identified first and the structure of the company and any decision to take on portfolio is constructed to reflect these choices.
As a new debt or restructure the balance sheet.
Short-term result, the sector positioning of the fund is purely a tactical decisions on how much of the debt is by-product of the stock picking process.
At the end invested in equities is left to the investment manager.
of March 2003, the companys key overweight sector positions were in the areas of food producers The manager gave serious consideration as to processors, tobacco and support services.
The fund whether the companys gearing level was appropriate managers have identified a number of companies in given the volatile and difficult market conditions the food producers and tobacco sectors where they experienced over the last twelve months.
When believe earnings growth is robust but undervalued by markets are rising, gearing can be employed to other investors.
The support services sector contains provide an additional source of positive return.
companies involved in a wide range of activities.
However, the reverse is also true in times of falling Specific areas of interest amongst these stocks equity values.
Then, the company must not only bear include companies active in outsourcing, recruitment the capital losses from its holdings but also must Page 8 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Managers Review meet the costs associated with its borrowing.
As the At 31 March 2003 Portfolio Index last 12 months have witnessed a steep fall in equity %% values, the companys gearing level has been an FTSE 100 78.2 86.2 additional source of underperformance, detracting 6.7% from relative returns.
However, after careful FTSE 250 19.6 11.1 deliberation it was felt that to reduce borrowings FTSE Small Cap 1.9 2.7 when equity market sentiment appeared to be Other 0.3 0.0 strengthening would not be in shareholders 100.0 100.0 interests, as it would reduce the companys ability to maximise returns should equity values begin to move Table 2 Size analysis of the UK equity portfolio.
Index is the FTSE All-Share Index higher.
The manager believes that gearing will prove to be beneficial for shareholders over the long-term.
good shape relative to other major markets.
As ever, the key to the continued health of the economy Future portfolio strategy remains the consumer.
Whilst more recent data has The equity portfolio will continue to reflect the suggested a slowdown in consumer activity, it seems strongest investment ideas of Fidelitys fund likely that domestic spending should continue to management team.
This team is supported by one of grow in 2003 though possibly at a slower pace than the largest research departments of any global before.
Mortgage lenders expect house price growth investment firm.
The investment process is based on to continue and most observers forecast fundamental company research where frequent unemployment to remain largely unchanged this meetings with company management teams play a year.
The Bank of England expects inflation to stay key role in determining and reviewing the above its 2.5% target level over the short term, but investment case for each stock.
The fund managers the future direction of interest rates is uncertain.
do not focus on macro-economic forecasts and the portfolio is not constructed with any specific Fidelity Investments International expectations for equity market and economic 20 May 2003 performance in mind.
Rather, the fund managers develop their economic and industry perspectives through the process of company meetings.
As such, the holdings in the portfolio represent stocks where the fund managers believe the companys future potential is being undervalued by other investors.
In terms of market capitalisation, the equity portfolio has greater exposure to medium-sized companies than the FTSE All-Share Index and holds proportionally fewer of its assets in larger companies.
This reflects the managers belief that greater value can be added by stock selection amongst companies that are less intensively researched by other investors, rather than amongst larger companies where Fidelitys estimates are less likely to be materially different from the consensus.
Market outlook In response to slowing global conditions, Chancellor Gordon Brown has scaled back his estimate for economic growth in 2003 to between 2% and 2.5% from a previous forecast of 2.5% to 3%.
Nevertheless, the UK economy remains in reasonably Page 9 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
