Directors Report this is included within the definition of soft Business and status commissions by the Financial Services Authority.
In The company carries on business as an investment the year to 31 December 2002 3.7% of FILs total trust.
The Inland Revenue has approved the commissions was used for such research.
companys status as an investment trust under s842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for Interfunding the years ended 31 March 2001 and 31 March 2002, The company participates in the managers interfund although this approval may be subject to review programme whereby Fidelitys traders, on occasion, should there be any subsequent enquiry under identify situations where one fund is buying the Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
In the opinion of same security that another fund is selling.
If a trader the directors, the company has subsequently can confirm that it would be in the interests of both conducted its affairs so as to enable it to continue to accounts to execute a transaction between them obtain such approval.
rather than in the market, then an interfund The company is not a close company and has no transaction is executed.
It is registered as an investment company requirement on the manager to obtain best execution as defined in Section 266 Companies Act 1985 and and no individual deal is entered into which prevents operates as such.
Review of activities Political and charitable donations During the year the company followed the normal The company has not made any political or activities of an investment trust.
Details of these are charitable donations in the year 2002: nil.
given in the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Share capital Review.
"During the year the company bought back 4,025,000 Companys manager ordinary shares of 25p each representing 1.6% of The manager, Fidelity Investments International, a the issued share capital as at 31 March 2002 on the subsidiary of Fidelity International Limited ""FIL"", London Stock Exchange for cancellation."
The total provides management, accounting, administrative cost of these shares was 11,935,000. and secretarial services to the company under an The principal purpose of such share buybacks was to agreement which was effective from 1 August 2002. address the imbalance between the supply and The manager also provides certain services, including demand for the companys ordinary shares and marketing and administration, in connection with thereby reduce both the scale and volatility of the the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan and the discount at which the shares trade in relation to the Fidelity Individual Savings Account under the same underlying net asset value whilst at all times agreement.
enhancing the net asset value for the remaining shareholders.
Commissions FIL has a series of arrangements with the brokers Dividends through whom trades are executed by FIL and its The directors recommend that a final dividend of subsidiaries to ensure that FILs managed funds pay 8.95p 20018.65p per share be paid on 3 July the lowest possible commissions and obtain the 2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of maximum benefit for those commission flows.
None business on 6 June 2003, making a total of 13.15p of the commissions generated by trades on behalf of 200212.75p per share for the year ended the company is used for market data services and 31 March 2003.
4.88m has been transfered from similar soft dollar benefits used by FIL.
the manager does use commission flows from trades on behalf of the company to pay for research Directors received from those brokers with which it does not In accordance with the articles of association, Sir Gavin trade, but whose research capabilities it values, and Laird will be retiring at the conclusion of the annual Page 18 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors Report general meeting and will not be seeking re-election.
apply as the company has no executive directors.
The Eileen Mackay and Ian Inglis retire by rotation at the whole board acts as a nomination comittee, as and annual general meeting and offer themselves for rewhen required, to consider appointments to the board.
Resolutions in respect of the foregoing will be Directors proposed at the annual general meeting.
The board has overall responsibility for the The chairman, having served as a director since companys affairs.
It delegates, through an investment 1992 and as chairman since 1994, will be retiring at management agreement and through specific the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General instructions, the day to day management of the Meeting.
company to the manager, Fidelity Investments International.
The company has no executives or The names of the directors and their holdings in the employees.
companys shares are shown in Table 1 below.
The board presently consists of seven non-executive No contract or arrangement existed during the year directors, one of whom is chairman.
in which any of the directors had a material interest.
No director had a service contract with the company.
All of the directors are considered by the board to be There have been no related party transactions independent of management and free from any requiring disclosure under FRS8.
business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent Corporate Governance judgement.
Compliance The company is committed to high standards of Biographies of the directors appear on pages 16 and corporate governance.
The board is accountable to 17 of this report.
Each director has the requisite the companys shareholders for good governance and business and financial experience which enables the this statement describes how the company applies board to provide effective strategic leadership and the principles identified in the Combined Code proper governance of the company.
The senior appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial independent director is Scott Dobbie.
The board meets at least nine times each year.
There The board believes that the company has complied is an annual cycle of board meetings which is throughout the accounting period with the designed to address, in a systematic way, overall provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code except as strategy, review of investment policy, investment detailed below.
performance, marketing achievements, budgets, dividend policy and communication with The provision which relates to the combination of the shareholders.
roles of the chairman and chief executive does not Ordinary shares held at 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Nature of interest The Earl of Eglinton and Winton 4,350 4,350 Beneficial 4,969 4,885 Non beneficial Richard Barfield 4,257 2,289 Beneficial Scott Dobbie 111,603 108,523 Beneficial 2,416 2,281 Non beneficicial Ian Inglis 5,000 5,000 Beneficial Sir Gavin Laird 5,617 5,460 Beneficial Eileen Mackay 2,573 2,552 Beneficial Roy Summers 22,991 22,492 Beneficial 3,679 3,522 Non beneficial Table 1 Directors and their holdings in the company Page 19 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors Report Appointments of new directors are considered by the and the outlook for the year ahead.
The board hopes whole board taking into account the need to that as many shareholders as possible will be able to maintain a balanced board.
When a new director is attend the meeting.
appointed to the board, he or she is provided with Proxy voting as an institutional shareholder all relevant information regarding the company and The manager instructs proxy voting on behalf of the their duties and responsibilities as a director.
In company in accordance with the managers existing addition, a new director will also spend some time guidelines and policies.
with representatives of the manager whereby he or she will become familiar with the various processes Accountability and audit which the manager considers necessary for the The respective responsibilities of the directors and performance of its duties and responsibilities to the the auditors in connection with the financial company.
There is no formal training programme for statements appear on pages 22 and 25 to 26. directors.
However, the directors receive regular The board is responsible for the companys system of briefings from inter alios the AITC, the auditors and internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
the company secretary regarding any proposed Such a system is designed to manage rather than developments or changes in law or regulations that eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business could affect the company and or the directors.
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not A director appointed during the year is required to absolute assurance against material misstatement retire and seek election by shareholders at the next or loss.
The articles also require that The board confirms that there is an ongoing process one third of the directors retire by rotation each year for identifying, evaluating and managing the companys and seek re-election at the annual general meeting significant business and operational risks, that it has and also that every director submit himself or herself been in place for the year ended 31 March 2003 and for re-election at least every three years.
Subject to up to the date of approval of the annual report and these requirements for re-election, directors are accounts, that it is regularly reviewed by the board and appointed to the board for a specified period, accords with the internal control guidance for directors initially for three years and subsequent extensions on the Combined Code.
are, in each case, at the discretion of the board.
The manager is responsible for the design, There is a procedure for directors to take implementation and maintenance of controls and independent professional advice, if necessary, at the procedures to safeguard the assets of the company companys expense.
This is in addition to the access and to manage its affairs properly.
The system which every director has to the advice and services extends to operational and compliance controls and of the company secretary, Fidelity Investments risk management.
Clear lines of accountability have International, which is responsible to the board for been established between the board and the manager ensuring that board procedures are followed and that and regular reports on controls and compliance applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
issues are provided to the board.
In carrying out its review, the board has had regard to the activities of Communication with shareholders the manager, the managers compliance and risk The directors place great importance on function and the external auditors.
The boards communication with the companys shareholders.
review also includes consideration of FRAG 21 and The company carries out a programme of regular similar reports issued by the manager and other dialogue and individual meetings with institutional service providers.
The audit and management engagement committee, At the annual general meeting all shareholders have of which Ian Inglis is chairman, meets at least four the opportunity to put questions to the board and a times a year and considers reports from the internal presentation from the manager covers the investment and external auditors, as well as from the manager.
performance and strategy during the financial year Page 20 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors Report The audit and management engagement committee Holder No of ordinary shares % keeps the scope and effectiveness of the external Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd 17,385,435 7.16 audit under review.
The independence and The Standard Life Assurance Company 16,638,876 6.85 objectivity of the external auditors are also Prudential plc 9,054,108 3.73 considered on a regular basis, with particular regard Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 8,392,758 3.46 to the level of non audit fees.
Shareholders have the opportunity at each annual general meeting to vote Table 2 substantial share interests on the election of the external auditors for the present or future financial position or conflict with forthcoming year.
the managers ability to manage and develop our The board has reviewed the need for an internal investments.
The board has decided that the Payments Policy systems and procedures employed by the manager, The companys payment policy is to ensure including their internal audit function and the work settlement of suppliers invoices in accordance with carried out by the companys external auditors, the stated terms.
In certain circumstances, settlement provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of terms are agreed prior to business taking place.
internal control, which safeguards shareholders investment and the companys assets, is maintained.
Auditors An internal audit function, specific to the company, Resolutions will be proposed at the annual general is therefore considered unnecessary.
meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company and to authorise the Going concern directors to fix their remuneration.
The directors believe that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Annual General Meeting - special business foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to At the annual general meeting of the company to be adopt the going concern basis in preparing the held on 2 July 2003, special resolution 8 will be financial statements.
proposed to renew the companys authority to make Substantial share interests market purchases of its own shares.
At 20 May 2003 the substantial interests in the The maximum number of ordinary shares which ordinary share capital which had been notified to the may be purchased pursuant to the authority shall be company are shown in Table 2 opposite.
14.99% of the issued share capital of the company as at the date of the passing of the resolution.
The Corporate Governance and Socially minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary Responsible Investment Policy share shall be 25p.
The maximum price for an The companys manager actively encourages investee ordinary share exclusive of expenses shall be an companies to adhere to best practice in the area of amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible market quotations for the companys ordinary shares Investing.
The manager believes that this can best be for the five business days immediately preceding the achieved by entering into a dialogue with company date of purchase.
This authority, if conferred, will be management to encourage them, where necessary, to exercised only if to do so would enhance the net improve their policies.
asset value per share and is in the best interests of The managers ultimate responsibility however is to shareholders generally.
invest in companies that appear to have the potential for superior investment return.
Investment decisions By order of the board, are based primarily on business and financial Fidelity Investments International considerations.
The manager also takes into account Secretary political, environmental and social issues if they are likely to have a material impact on a companys 20 May 2003 Page 21 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
