Managers Review Edinburgh US Tracker Trust is the only UK companies, Nortel Networks, Alcan, Barrick Gold, investment trust to track the performance of Placer Dome and Inco were removed from the index the S&P Composite Index, the primary and replaced by United Parcel Services, Goldman benchmark for measuring the returns from the Sachs, Prudential Financial, eBay, Principal US equity market.
The index is calculated on Financial, Electronic Arts and Sungard Data the basis of the market capitalisation of its 500 Systems.
Also in July, Immunex was acquired by constituents which are drawn from companies Amgen and replaced in the index by North Fork listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Bancorp while Conseco was removed on the American Stock Exchange and NASDAQ.
The grounds of size and replaced by Anthem.
strategy employed by the company to track the index is full replication of the index In August, Monsanto and Travelers Property constituents.
This means that the company Casualty entered the index following divesture from holds every stock making up the index in an their parent companies, Pharmacia and Citigroup amount that equals the stocks proportionate respectively, and, to accommodate these new weight in the index.
entrants, Palm and Vitesse Semiconductor were removed from the index.
Also in August, Conoco The level of activity within the portfolio was merged with Phillips Petroleum and was replaced in relatively low last year and reflected mainly changes the index by RJ Reynolds Tobacco.
to the constituents of the index.
The constituents of the S&P Composite Index are controlled by the The final change in the portfolio, due to corporate Standard & Poors Index Committee and the activity, occurred in December when Northrop company bought and sold shares during the year to Grumman acquired TRW and Quest Diagnostics reflect any changes initiated by the Committee.
In February, Willamette Industries was acquired by Additional portfolio activity was generated from the Weyerhaueser and replaced in the index by Marshall investment of 1.3 million arising from the from the & Ilsley.
The acquisition by Hewlett Packard of issue of 200,000 shares during the year, at a Compaq Computers in May led to First Tennessee premium to net asset value.
The total value of National being added to the index.
Also during that purchases in the year amounted to 21.2 million month, Sapient was replaced by American Standard while sales totalled 19.4 million.
while WorldCom and US Airways were removed from the index, after having filed for bankruptcy, Investor sentiment remains depressed in the US and were replaced in the index by Apollo Group and following three years of poor returns from equity BJ Services respectively.
Further cuts in interest rates, low bond removed from the index in June on the grounds of yields, modest economic growth and low inflation size and replaced by Simon Property Group.
have failed to rebuild investor confidence.
The current geopolitical tensions surrounding Iraq have The most significant changes to the structure of the added to the level of uncertainty and external rather S&P Composite Index occurred in July following than domestic factors are likely to influence returns the decision of the Index Committee to replace from US equities in the year ahead.
non-US companies in the index to ensure that the index reflected the performance of US companies Edinburgh Fund Managers plc only.
Two European companies, Royal Dutch Petroleum and Unilever, and five Canadian 4 March 2003 PAGE 5 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
