Directors Report Business and Status Directors Liability Insurance The company carries on business as an investment The company maintains insurance in respect of trust and, for the purpose of the Income and directors and officers liabilities in relation to their Corporation Taxes Act 1988, has been treated by acts on behalf of the company.
the Inland Revenue as approved as such for the year ended 31 January 2002.
The company has Corporate Governance subsequently conducted its affairs so as to receive Compliance such approval.
The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The board is accountable to The company is an investment company within the the companys shareholders for good governance and terms of Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985. this statement describes how the company applies the principles identified in the Combined Code appended Review of Activities to the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
During the year the company followed the normal activities of an investment trust.
Details of these are The board confirms that the company has complied given in the Chairmans Statement and the throughout the accounting period with the Managers Review.
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Share Capital Directors During the period 1 February 2002 to 31 January The board consists of three non-executive directors, 2003 the company issued 200,000 shares at a of whom Sir Angus Grossart is the chairman.
premium to net asset value at a price of 644.0p.
The Mr Wilson has been appointed as the senior total consideration for these shares was 1,288,000. independent director.
All directors are considered by the board to be independent of the company and the Dividends investment manager, Edinburgh Fund Managers plc, The directors recommend that a dividend of 2.85p and free of any material relationship with the per share be paid on 29 May 2003 to shareholders manager which could interfere with the exercise of on the register at the close of business on their independent judgement.
2 May 2003, making a total of 4.85p 20024.85p per share for the year ended 31 January 2003.
Profiles of the board members appear on page 10.
Each director has the requisite high level and range Directors of business and financial experience which enables The names of the directors and their holdings in the the board to provide clear and effective leadership companys shares are shown in Table 1.
The and proper stewardship of the company.
company has not been notified of any changes in directors holdings between 31 January 2003 and The board meets at least four times each year and 4 March 2003.
more frequently where business needs require.
The board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for In accordance with the articles of association, William Wilson retires by rotation at the Ordinary Shares held at Annual General Meeting and will be proposed for 31 January 2003 31 January 2002 Nature of interest re-election.
Sir Angus Grossart 1,000 1,000 Beneficial William Wilson 1,000 1,000 Beneficial No contract or arrangement existed during the year James Ferguson in which any of the directors was materially appointed 12 March 2002 1,000 Beneficial interested.
Directors have no service contracts with the company.
Table 1 Directors and their holdings in the company PAGE 11 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors Report decision and the requirement for board approval on accounts are widely distributed to other parties who these matters is communicated directly to the senior have an interest in the companys performance.
Such matters include strategy, Shareholders and investors may obtain up to date borrowings, treasury and dividend policy.
Full and information on the company through the managers timely information is provided to the board to freephone information service and the company enable the board to function effectively and to allow responds to letters from shareholders on a wide directors to discharge their responsibilities.
board also reviews the financial statements, The notice of the Annual General Meeting included performance and revenue budgets.
within the annual report and accounts is sent out at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
All The board considers that the post of chief executive shareholders have the opportunity to put questions officer is not relevant for an investment trust at the companys Annual General Meeting.
company as this role has effectively been delegated to Edinburgh Fund Managers plc under the terms of Proxy voting as an institutional shareholder the Investment Management Agreement.
Responsibility for actively monitoring the activities of investee companies has been delegated by the board to There is an agreed procedure for directors to take the manager.
The manager is responsible for reviewing, independent professional advice if necessary and at on a regular basis, the annual reports, circulars and the companys expense.
This is in addition to the other publications produced by the investee company.
access which every director has to the advice and The manager, in the absence of explicit instruction services of the company secretary, Edinburgh Fund from the board, is empowered to exercise discretion in Managers plc, which is responsible to the board for the use of the companys voting rights.
ensuring that board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Socially responsible investment policy The companys manager encourages companies to Appointments to the board of directors are adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate considered by the whole board.
Possible new Governance and Socially Responsible Investing.
directors are identified against the requirements of They believe that this can best be achieved by the companys business and the need to have a entering into a dialogue with company management balanced board.
External search consultants may be to encourage them, where necessary, to improve used to ensure that a wide range of candidates can their policies in both areas.
Every director is entitled to receive appropriate training as deemed necessary.
Accountability and audit The respective responsibilities of the directors and A director appointed during the year is required, the auditors in connection with the financial under the provisions of the companys articles of statements appear on pages 15 and 16. association, to retire and seek re-election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The board is responsible for the companys system The articles also require that one third of the of internal control and for reviewing its directors retire by rotation each year and seek reeffectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage election at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve all directors are required to submit themselves for rebusiness objectives and can only provide reasonable election at least every three years.
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Relations with shareholders The directors place a great deal of importance on The board confirms that there is an ongoing communication with shareholders.
The report and process for identifying, evaluating and managing PAGE 12 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors Report the companys significant business and operational Substantial Share Interests risks, that it has been in place for the year ended At 4 March 2003, the interests in the ordinary share 31 January 2003 and up to the date of approval of capital which had been notified to the company are the annual report and accounts, that it is regularly shown in Table 2. reviewed by the board and accords with the Holder No of ordinary shares % internal control guidance for directors on the Combined Code.
Legal & General Investment Management 2,735,353 3.1 Table 2 Substantial share interests The responsibility to ensure compliance with regulations and company law to provide effective and efficient operation and investment management Payments Policy has been delegated to the manager under the terms The companys payment policy is to ensure of the management agreement.
settlement of suppliers invoices in accordance with the stated terms.
In certain circumstances, settlement The manager is responsible for the design, terms are agreed prior to business taking place.
implementation and maintenance of controls and procedures to safeguard the assets of the company Auditors and to manage its affairs properly.
The system Resolutions are to be proposed at the Annual extends to operational and compliance controls and General Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG risk management.
Clear lines of accountability have Audit Plc as auditors of the company and to been established between the board and the manager authorise the directors to determine their and regular reports on controls and compliance remuneration.
issues are provided to the board.
In carrying out its review, the board has had regard to the activities of Annual General Meeting special business the manager, the managers risk and compliance Resolutions relating to the following items of special function and the external auditors.
business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting:- The directors have appointed audit and management engagement committees, both chaired by Mr i Continuation of the company Wilson.
The audit committee considers reports from As required by the companys articles of association, the external auditors as well as from the manager.
shareholders are asked to release the board of The scope and effectiveness of the external audit is directors from the obligation in the companys also kept under review.
The independence and articles of association to convene an extraordinary objectivity of the external auditors is also considered general meeting at which an ordinary resolution will on a regular basis, with particular regard to the level be proposed requiring the company to be wound up of non-audit fees.
The non-audit fees for the year to voluntarily.
The management engagement committee reviews the terms of the ii Limited disapplication of Pre-emption Provisions management agreement.
A special resolution will be proposed to give the directors power to allot ordinary shares up to an Going Concern aggregate nominal amount of 2,209,529, being The directors believe that the company has adequate 10% of the current issued share capital of the resources to continue its operational existence for the company, for cash other than to existing shareholders foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to pro rata to their holdings.
Under this authority, adopt the going concern basis in preparing the ordinary shares would only be issued for cash at a accounts, notwithstanding that the company is price not less than the net asset value per share.
A subject to an annual continuation vote.
maximum of 7,365,097 of unissued ordinary share PAGE 13 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
