Mark Nancarrow Chief Operating Officer, director Age 43 Mark was appointed a director on 26 September 2003.
Mark joined Egg Banking plc in October 1998 as Chief Operating Officer, becoming accountable for the UK business in 2000.
Before joining Egg, Mark spent 10 years with Midland Bank in a variety of positions, including responsibility for its consumer card business.
Roberto Mendoza Chairman, non-executive director Age 58 has also included finance roles at Unilever and Shell.
Chairman of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees 6.
Ronnie Baird Roberto has been a director and the Chairman Non-executive director Age 64 since 10 May 2000.
He is a non-executive director of Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Prudential plc, Reuters Group plc and The BOC Group plc.
Remuneration and Nominations Committees He is also Chairman of Integrated Finance Limited and Ronnie was appointed a director on 21 October 2003. a member of the World Bank-IFC Bank Advisory Group.
He has held a range of prominent senior appointments He was previously Vice Chairman and director and a throughout his career including heading up the finance member of the Corporate Office of JP Morgan & Co. Inc. functions of International Banking and UK Retail Banking and a managing director of Goldman Sachs.
He held the position of Head of Quality 2.
Michael Harris Assurance at the Bank of England.
He is a former founding member of the Financial Services Authority.
As Director, Executive Vice-Chairman, director Age 54 Quality Assurance & Internal Audit and working with Mike has been a director since 29 October 1999.
Sir Howard Davies, he helped build the new operating Mike joined Prudential plc as Chief Executive Officer model for the FSA.
His independent review of the regulation of Egg Banking plc in July 1995.
On 1 January 2001 he of the Equitable Life Assurance Society by the FSA was stepped down as Chief Executive Officer of Egg plc and published by HM Government in October 2001. took on the role of Executive Vice-Chairman of the Board.
Previously, he served as Chief Executive Officer of Mercury Communications Limited from 1991 to 1994, and as 7.
Jonathan Bloomer Chief Executive of First Direct from 1988 to 1991.
He was Non-executive director Age 49 Chairman of Lost Wax Media Limited until October 2002.
Member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees 3.
Paul Gratton Chief Executive Officer, director Age 44 Jonathan has been a director since 31 March 1999 and a non-executive director of Egg Banking plc since March Paul has been a director since 26 January 2000.
He has been Group Chief Executive of Prudential plc Egg Banking plc in January 1996 as Operations Director, since March 2000.
He also served as Group Finance becoming Chief Operating Officer in August 1998.
Director of Prudential plc from 1995 to May 1999, when he He served first as Chief Operating Officer, then as Deputy became Deputy Group Chief Executive.
He is Chairman of Chief Executive, of Egg from its launch in October 1998 the Practitioner Panel of the Financial Services Authority and until December 2000.
On 1 January 2001, he became a member of the Association of British Insurers Board.
Chief Executive Officer of Egg.
Before joining Egg, he He is a chartered accountant.
worked at First Direct, where he served in a variety of positions, including Financial Services Director, from 1989.
David Doyle Chief Financial Officer, director Age 37 David was appointed a director on 10 October 2003.
Prior to Egg, David worked for Prudential plc where, for the past three years, he has served as Head of Corporate Finance with responsibility for the groups mergers and acquisitions activity.
During his time with Prudential, David led numerous merger, acquisition and disposal transactions, directed the project to list Prudentials shares on the New York Stock Exchange and was responsible for managing a small private equity portfolio.
David joined Prudential plc in 1996 from Arthur Andersen.
22 Egg plc Annual Report 2003 Your Board 10.
Leslie Priestley Non-executive director Age 70 Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees Leslie has been a director since 10 May 2000 and non-executive director of Egg Banking plc since 13 August 1996.
He was Chief Executive of TSB England and Wales plc and a director of TSB Group plc from 1986 to 1989, following thirty five years at Barclays Bank where he held senior appointments relating to Banking, Insurance and Credit Cards.
He has also been Secretary General of the Committee of the London Clearing Bankers, a member of the Monopolies and Mergers Commission, a director of London Electricity plc and the Civil Aviation Authority.
Pascal Cagni He was, until recently, Chairman of the Civil Aviation Non-executive director Age 42 Authority Pension Scheme.
He is currently Vice Chairman Member of the Remuneration and of the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
He is Nominations Committees a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
Pascal was appointed as a director on 29 April 2003.
Juan Rada He is Vice President and General Manager Europe, Middle Non-executive director Age 51 East and Africa at Apple where he has been instrumental Member of the Audit, Remuneration and in developing Apples increasing presence across these Nominations Committees geographies.
During his career, Pascal has held senior Juan has been a director since 19 November 2002. positions at leading international technology companies He is Senior Vice President of Oracle Industries for Europe, including NEC Computer International, Packard Bell, Middle East and Africa.
During his career, Juan has held Compaq and Booz Allen Hamilton.
senior roles at leading international companies, including 9.
Sir Derek Higgs Digital Equipment Corporation and AT&T.
Prior to these Non-executive director Age 59 roles, he was Professor of Technology Management and Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Dean of the International Management Institute IMD in Nominations Committees Switzerland.
He is Chairman of the Lombard Odier Darier Hentsch Infology Fund Advisory Board, and a board Sir Derek has been a director since 17 May 2000 and he member of Earth Energy Utility, LEAD International, and was a director of Prudential plc between February 1996 and of the Council of the World Conservation Union IUCN.
Prior to joining Prudential plc, Sir Derek spent 24 years with the S. G. Warburg Group, from 1987 as a member of the parent company board.
He is Chairman of Partnerships UK plc, Deputy Chairman of The British Land Company plc and a non-executive director of Allied Irish Banks plc and Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.
He is also a member of the Financial Reporting Council and a Senior Adviser in the UK to UBS Investment Bank.
During 2002, Sir Derek was asked by the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry and the Chancellor of the Exchequer to conduct a review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors which resulted in the publication, in July 2003, of a revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Sir Derek was awarded a knighthood in the 2004 New Years Honours List.
23 Egg plc Annual Report 2003 I know everything about my money Its a very transparent relationship 24 Egg plc Annual Report 2003 He makes sense of it all 25 Egg plc Annual Report 2003 I really understand my money
