Overview Board of Directors Sir Brian Williamson CBE Left to right Ronald Armstrong Professor Sir George Bain Lord King of Bridgwater Michael Walton Peter Williams 8 Electra Investment Trust PLC Overview Board of Directors Sir Brian Williamson CBE Lord King of Bridgwater Chairman Aged 70, was appointed a Director Aged 58, was appointed a Director in 1992. in 1994.
A Member of Parliament from 1970 until A member of the Supervisory Board of 2001, he held a variety of senior Cabinet Euronext NV, Sir Brian was previously posts and was Secretary of State for Chairman of the London Financial Futures Defence from 1989 to 1992.
He has been a & Options Exchange.
He is a nonmember of the Nolan Committee and executive Director of HSBC Holdings and Chairman of the Intelligence and Security a senior advisor to Fleming Family & Committee.
In the USA he was a former Governor of the National Association of Before entering Parliament he was a senior Securities Dealers and Chairman of manager in DRG, the printing and Nasdaqs International Markets Advisory packaging group, and subsequently Board.
He is currently non-executive Chairman of London He was formerly a member of the Financial International Exhibition Centre Holdings.
Services Authority, Chairman of Gerrard Group, and a Member of the Court of the Michael Walton Bank of Ireland.
Aged 60, was appointed a Director in July 2000.
Ronald Armstrong Aged 59, was appointed a Director He was previously on the Board of the in 1994.
He was Managing Director of Gartmore Private Most of his career has been spent in Capital until 1996 and has subsequently companies in which the application of been a Director of NatWest Equity technology is critical to success and he Partners.
He has served on the Council of has considerable experience of this the British Venture Capital Association.
process across a wide range of industries and countries.
He is a Director of Elderstreet Millennium Venture Capital Trust, Bridgepoint Capital He is a Director of JP Morgan Fleming and a number of private companies.
Worldwide Income Investment Trust, a Director of E-Synergy, which specialises in Peter Williams venture funding for early-stage technology Aged 61, was appointed a Director companies, and Chairman of Prism Risk in 1994.
He is Chairman of RPC Group, one of Professor Sir George Bain Europes largest producers of plastic Aged 64, was appointed a Director packaging and of Eposs, a specialist in 1998. deliverer of electronic products to the mobile phone industry.
He was formerly a He is currently President and ViceDirector of Reed International and Chief Chancellor of The Queens University of Executive of David S. Smith Holdings.
Belfast, having held senior academic posts at the London Business School and the University of Warwick.
He was also Chairman of the Low Pay Commission and is on the Boards of Bombardier Aerospace Short Brothers and the Canada Life Group UK.
Member of the Remuneration Committee.
All Directors are members of the Audit Committee.
