Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in submitting the annual report of the Company and its subsidiaries to the shareholders, together with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Principal activities The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings has remained housebuilding in the UK.
More details of the trading performance during the year and its prospects are included in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives operational review and the Financial review.
Results and dividends Profit after taxation amounted to 86.5 million 2002: 73.5 million.
An interim dividend of 5.3 pence net per share was paid on 21 November 2003 and it is proposed to pay a final dividend of 11.1 pence net per share on 21 May 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 23 April 2004.
Directors Details of the directors are shown on pages 38 and 39.
Details of directors emoluments, pension rights, service contracts and directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are included in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 53 to 63.
In accordance with the Articles of Association two directors, Mr Stephen Harvey Brazier and Mr Timothy David Melville-Ross retire from office at the Annual General Meeting on Wednesday 5 May 2004.
Mr Stephen Harvey Brazier and Mr Timothy David Melville-Ross being eligible offer themselves for re-appointment.
Having been appointed on 4 July 2003, in accordance with the Articles of Association Mrs Lesley Anne MacDonagh offers herself for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting on Wednesday 5 May 2004.
Substantial shareholdings At 5 March 2004, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital had been notified to the Company: Ordinary shares of 50p each Number of % of issued shares held share capital Schroder Investment Management Ltd 15,395,205 13.08 Aviva plc 6,967,210 5.92 Legal & General Investment Management 6,917,397 5.88 Employees The Groups employment policies do not discriminate between employees, or potential employees, on the grounds of sex, sexual orientation, colour, creed, ethnic origin or religious belief.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons who become disabled whilst employed by the Group where the requirements of the job may be adequately covered by these persons and to comply with any current legislation with regard to disabled persons.
It is the policy of the Group to train and develop employees to ensure they are equipped to undertake the tasks for which they are employed, and to provide the opportunity for career development equally and without discrimination.
Information about the Groups performance and other matters is provided regularly by a news magazine, notice board bulletins and by consultations at staff meetings.
The Group operates both a defined benefit pension scheme and a defined contribution pension scheme.
The Company has a Share Incentive Plan, a Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme, an Executive Share Option Scheme and a Long Term Incentive Plan to motivate employees and encourage strong involvement with the Group.
See note 20 to the accounts for details of the option schemes.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 45 Report of the directors continued Corporate and environmental policy The Group, in carrying out its business activities, is pursuing its commitment to sustainable development and transparent corporate conduct in ethical and social matters, corporate governance, health and safety and the environment.
Details of environmental policy are included in the Groups free-standing Corporate Social Responsibility report dated 5 March 2004 which include key targets and performance data.
Donations The Group made charitable donations in the year amounting to 4,615 2002: 6,500.
No political donations were made in either year by the Group or Company.
Suppliers The Groups payment policy in respect of all suppliers is to settle agreed outstanding accounts in accordance with terms and conditions agreed with suppliers when placing orders.
Creditor days relating to trade creditors at the year end in respect of goods and services supplied in the normal course of trade amounted to 38 days 2002: 18 days.
The calculation excludes land purchase creditors.
The aggregate amount owed to trade creditors by the Company was nil throughout 2002 and 2003.
Annual General Meeting Notice of the 2004 Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 5 May 2004 is set out on pages 90 to 92.
Members wishing to vote should return the form of proxy to the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Shareholders with internet access may register their voting instructions via the internet by going to www.
At a meeting on 5 March 2004, the Board resolved that a resolution be submitted to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting proposing the renewal of the authority to enable the Company to purchase up to 10% of its own shares.
At the present time, the directors have no wish to exercise the authority to purchase any of the shares of the Company, but consider that it is appropriate to have the flexibility to do so.
Any shares purchased would be cancelled.
Auditors The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, resolutions concerning their re-appointment and remuneration will be placed before the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board M T D Palmer Company Secretary 5 March 2004 Page 46 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
