Other financial issues Critical accounting policies For complicated offshore exploration discoveries, it is not unusual BP prepares its financial statements in accordance with UK to have exploration wells remain suspended on the balance sheet generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP.
The groups for several years while the company performs additional appraisal more significant accounting policies are summarized on drilling and seismic work on the potential oil and gas field.
There have been no changes in accounting policy with licence and property acquisition costs, there is no periodic during 2003. impairment assessment of suspended exploration well costs.
All Inherent in the application of many of these accounting policies such carried costs are subject to regular technical, commercial and in the preparation of financial statements is the need for BP management review to confirm the continued intent to develop, or management to make estimates and assumptions that affect otherwise extract value from, the discovery.
If this is no longer the the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the case, the costs are immediately expensed.
accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses Once a project is sanctioned for development, the carrying values during the reporting period.
Actual outcomes could differ from of licence and property acquisition costs and exploration and appraisal the estimates and assumptions used.
costs are transferred to production assets within tangible assets.
The following summary provides further information about the The capitalized exploration and development costs for proved critical accounting policies that could have a significant impact on oil and gas properties which include the costs of drilling the results of the group and should be read in conjunction with unsuccessful wells are amortized on the basis of oil-equivalent the Notes on Accounts.
barrels that are produced in a period as a percentage of the The areas that require the most significant judgements and estimated proved reserves.
The estimated proved reserves used estimates are in relation to oil and natural gas accounting, including in these unit-of-production calculations vary with the nature of the estimation of reserves: impairment: and provisions for deferred the capitalized expenditure.
The reserves used in the calculation taxation, decommissioning, environmental liabilities, pensions and of the unit-of-production amortization are as follows: other post-retirement benefits.
a proved developed reserves for producing wells b total proved reserves for development costs Oil and natural gas accounting c total proved reserves for licence and property acquisition costs Accounting for oil and gas exploration activity is subject to special d total proved reserves for future decommissioning costs.
accounting rules that are unique to the oil and gas industry.
In The impact of changes in estimated proved reserves is dealt the UK these are contained in the Statement of Recommended with prospectively by amortizing the remaining book value of Practice SORP Accounting for Oil and Gas Exploration, the asset over the expected future production.
If proved reserve Development, Production and Decommissioning Activities.
estimates are revised downwards, earnings could be affected by The group follows the successful efforts method of accounting higher depreciation expense or an immediate write-down of the for its oil and natural gas exploration and production activities.
propertys book value see discussion of impairment of fixed The acquisition of geological and geophysical seismic information, assets and goodwill below.
prior to the discovery of proved reserves, is expensed as incurred, Given the large number of producing fields in the groups similar to accounting for research and development costs.
portfolio, it is unlikely that any changes in reserve estimates, Licence and property acquisition costs are initially capitalized year on year, will have a significant effect on prospective charges as unproved properties within intangible assets.
are amortized on a straight-line basis until such time as either exploration drilling is determined to be successful, at which point Oil and natural gas reserves the costs are transferred to proved properties not yet sanctioned BPs oil and natural gas reserves are estimated by the groups within intangible assets, or it is unsuccessful and all costs are petroleum engineers.
These reserves are reassessed on an annual written off.
Licence and property acquisition costs are not subject basis.
Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities to periodic assessments for impairment.
of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas that geological For exploration wells, drilling costs are temporarily capitalized and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty within intangible fixed assets, pending determination of whether to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under potentially economic oil and gas reserves have been discovered existing economic and operating conditions and using planning by the drilling effort.
This is usually made within one year after assumptions.
Accordingly, these estimates do not include probable well completion, but can take longer, depending on the complexity or possible reserves.
Estimated oil and gas reserves are based on of the geologic structure.
If the well did not encounter potentially available reservoir data and are subject to future revision.
Significant economic oil and gas quantities, the well costs are expensed as a amounts of the groups undeveloped reserves, principally in dry hole and are reported in exploration expense.
Exploration wells offshore areas, require the installation or completion of related that discover potentially economic quantities of oil and gas and infrastructure facilities such as platforms, pipelines and the drilling are in areas where major capital expenditure e. g. offshore platform of development wells.
or a pipeline would be required before production could begin, Proved reserves do not include reserves that are dependent and where the economic viability of that major capital expenditure on the renewal of exploration and production licences unless there depends upon the successful completion of further exploration is strong evidence to support the assumption of such renewal.
work in the area, remain capitalized on the balance sheet as long as As discussed below, oil and natural gas reserves have a direct additional exploration appraisal work is under way or firmly planned.
impact on certain amounts reported in the Accounts.
32 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill Decommissioning costs BP assesses its fixed assets, including goodwill, for possible The group holds provisions for the future decommissioning of impairment if there are events or changes in circumstances that oil and natural gas production facilities and pipelines at the end indicate that carrying values of the assets may not be recoverable.
The largest asset removal obligations Such indicators include changes in the groups business plans, facing BP relate to the removal and disposal of oil and natural changes in commodity prices leading to unprofitable performance gas platforms and pipelines around the world.
The estimated and, for oil and gas properties, significant downward revisions discounted costs of dismantling and removing these facilities are of estimated proved reserve quantities.
The assessment for accrued on the installation of those facilities, reflecting our legal impairment entails comparing the carrying value of the incomeobligations at that time.
Most of these removal events are many generating unit and associated goodwill with the recoverable years in the future and the precise requirements that will have to amount of the asset, that is, the higher of net realizable value be met when the removal event actually occurs are uncertain.
Value in use is usually determined on the basis Asset removal technologies and costs are constantly changing, of discounted estimated future net cash flows.
as well as political, environmental, safety and public expectations.
Determination as to whether and how much an asset is impaired Consequently, the timing and amounts of future cash flows are involves management estimates on highly uncertain matters such subject to significant uncertainty.
as future commodity prices, the effects of inflation and technology The timing and amount of future expenditures are reviewed improvements on operating expenses, production profiles and annually together with the interest rate to be used in discounting the outlook for global or regional market supply-and-demand the cash flows.
The interest rate used to determine the balance conditions for crude oil, natural gas, commodity chemicals and sheet obligation at year end 2003 was 2.5%, the same as at the refined products.
The interest rate represents the real rate i. e. adjusted For oil and natural gas properties, the expected future cash flows for inflation on long-dated government bonds.
are estimated based on the groups plans to continue to produce and develop proved and associated risk-adjusted probable and Environmental costs possible reserves.
Expected future cash flows from the sale or BP also makes judgements and estimates in recording costs and production of reserves are calculated based on a Brent oil price establishing provisions for environmental clean-up and remediation of $20 per barrel and a Henry Hub gas price of $3.50 per mmBtu.
costs, which are based on current information on costs and These represent 10-year historic average prices.
The net present expected plans for remediation.
For environmental provisions, values of cash flows are determined using a discount rate of 9%, actual costs can differ from estimates because of changes in which represents BPs pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
The laws and regulations, public expectations, discovery and analysis estimated future level of production is based on assumptions about of site conditions and changes in clean-up technology.
future commodity prices, lifting and development costs, field decline The provision for environmental liabilities is reviewed at least rates, market demand and supply, economic regulatory climates and annually.
The interest rate used to determine the balance sheet other factors.
obligation at 31 December 2003 was 2.5%, the same as at the Charges for impairment are recognized in the groups results previous balance sheet date.
from time to time as a result of, among other factors, adverse changes in the recoverable reserves from oil and natural gas fields, Pensions and other post-retirement benefits low plant utilization or reduced profitability.
If there are low oil Accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benefits involves prices or natural gas prices or refining margins or chemicals judgement about uncertain events, including estimated retirement margins over an extended period, the group may need to recognize dates, salary levels at retirement, mortality rates, rates of return significant impairment charges.
on plan assets, determination of discount rates for measuring plan obligations, healthcare cost-trend rates and rates of utilization of Deferred taxation healthcare services by retirees.
These assumptions are based on The group has approximately $4,500 million of carry-forward tax the environment in each country.
Determination of the projected losses in the UK, which are available to offset against future taxable benefit obligations for the groups defined benefit pension and income.
To date, tax assets have been recognized on $285 million post-retirement plans is important to the recorded amounts for of those losses i. e. to the extent that it is regarded as more likely such obligations on the balance sheet and to the amount of benefit than not that suitable taxable income will arise.
It is unlikely that expense in the income statement.
The assumptions used may the groups effective tax rate will be significantly affected in the vary from year to year, which will affect future results of operations.
near term by utilization of losses not previously recognized as Any differences between these assumptions and the actual deferred tax assets.
Carry-forward tax losses in other taxing outcome also affect future results of operations.
jurisdictions have not been recognized as deferred tax assets, Pension and other post-retirement benefit assumptions are and are unlikely to have a significant effect on the groups tax discussed and agreed with the independent actuaries in December rate in the near term.
These assumptions are used to determine the projected Deferred taxation is not generally provided in respect of liabilities benefit obligation at the year end and hence the liability or asset that may arise on the distribution of accumulated reserves of recorded on the groups balance sheet, and pension expense for overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings.
33 The pension and post-retirement costs charged or credited The expense was previously determined either as the intrinsic to income for the year ended 31 December 2003 and the value or, where purchases of shares had been made by an ESOP prepayments and provisions for unfunded pension and posttrust at fair value, by reference to the cost or book value of shares retirement schemes at 31 December 2003 have been determined that were available for the award.
The effect of adopting Abstract on the basis of Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 17 is to reduce BP shareholders interest at 31 December 2003 No.
24 Accounting for Pension Costs SSAP 24.
With effect from by $96 million: the impact on profit before taxation for 2003 1 January 2004 BP has adopted a new UK accounting standard, is negligible.
FRS 17 requires that the assets and liabilities arising from an Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards employers retirement benefit obligations and any related funding An International Accounting Standards Regulation was should be included in the financial statements at fair value and that adopted by the Council of the European Union EU in June 2002. the operating costs of providing retirement benefits to employees This regulation requires all EU companies listed on an EU stock should be recognized in the income statement in the periods in exchange to use endorsed International Financial Reporting which the benefits are earned by employees.
This contrasts with Standards IFRS, published by the International Accounting SSAP 24, which requires the cost of providing pensions to be Standards Board IASB, to report their consolidated results recognized on a systematic and rational basis over the period with effect from 1 January 2005.
The IASB published 15 revised during which the employer benefits from the employees services.
standards in December 2003 and intends to complete its The difference between the amount charged in the income development of IFRSs to be adopted in 2005 by 31 March 2004. statement and the amount paid as contributions into the A process of endorsement of IFRSs has been established by pension fund is shown as a prepayment or provision on the the EU for completion in sufficient time to allow adoption balance sheet.
BP has established a project team involving representatives Accounting policy changes in 2004 of businesses and functions to plan for and achieve a smooth BP has changed its accounting policies for pensions and other transition to IFRS.
The project team is looking at all implementation post-retirement benefits and for shares held in employee share aspects, including changes to accounting policies, systems impacts ownership plans for the benefit of employee share schemes.
and the wider business issues that may arise from such a The effect of adopting FRS 17 is to increase profit before taxation fundamental change.
We expect that the group will be fully for 2003 by $354 million and to reduce BP shareholders interest prepared for the transition in 2005.
However, the implementation at 31 December 2003 by $5,523 million.
Cost recognized for plan is dependent upon the completion of the standard-setting providing pension and other post-retirement benefits on a process by the IASB and the endorsement of such standards FRS 17 basis in 2003 is $582 million: in 2004 it is expected to by the EU.
The group has not yet determined the full effects of adopting Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 38 Accounting for Employee IFRS.
Our preliminary view is that the major differences between Share Ownership Plan ESOP Trusts Abstract 38 changes the our current accounting practice and IFRS will be in respect presentation of an entitys own shares held in an ESOP trust from of hedge accounting, accounting for embedded derivatives and requiring them to be recognized as assets to requiring them to other items falling within the scope of the financial instruments be deducted in arriving at shareholders funds.
Transactions in standards, accounting for business combinations, deferred tax an entitys own shares by an ESOP trust are similarly recorded and share-based payments.
as changes in shareholders funds and do not give rise to gains or losses.
This treatment is in line with the accounting for purchases Financial risk management and sales of own shares set out in Urgent Issues Task Force The group co-ordinates certain key activities on a global basis in Abstract 37 Purchases and Sales of Own Shares Abstract 37. order to optimize its financial position and performance.
These Abstract 37 requires a holding of an entitys own shares to be include the management of the currency, maturity and interest accounted for as a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds, rate profile of finance debt, cash, other significant financial risks rather than being recorded as assets.
Transactions in an entitys and relationships with banks and other financial institutions.
own shares are similarly recorded as changes in shareholders International oil, natural gas and power trading and risk funds and do not give rise to gains or losses.
Abstract 37 applies management relating to business operations are carried out by where a company purchases treasury shares under new legislation the groups oil, natural gas and power trading units.
that came into effect in December 2003.
The main financial risks faced by the group through its normal Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 17 Employee Share business activities are market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Schemes Abstract 17 was amended by Abstract 38 to reflect These risks and the groups approach to dealing with them are the consequences for the profit and loss account of the changes discussed below.
in the presentation of an entitys own shares held by an ESOP trust.
Amended Abstract 17 requires that the minimum expense Market risk should be the difference between the fair value of the shares Market risk is the possibility that changes in currency exchange at the date of award and the amount that an employee may be rates, interest rates or oil, natural gas and power prices will required to pay for the shares i. e. the intrinsic value of the award.
adversely affect the value of the groups financial assets, liabilities 34 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 or expected future cash flows.
Market risks are managed using The group uses derivatives to manage the balance between a range of derivatives.
The group also trades derivatives in fixed and floating rate debt.
conjunction with these risk management activities.
All derivative activity, whether for risk management or trading, Oil, natural gas and power prices is carried out by specialist teams who have the appropriate skills, BPs trading function uses financial and commodity derivatives experience and supervision.
These teams are subject to close as part of the overall optimization of the value of the groups equity financial and management control, meeting generally accepted oil production and as part of the associated trading of crude oil, industry practice and reflecting the principles of the Group of products and related instruments.
They also use financial and Thirty Global Derivatives Study recommendations.
A trading risk commodity derivatives to manage certain of the groups exposures management committee has oversight of the quality of internal to price fluctuations on natural gas and power transactions.
control in the groups trading function.
Independent control functions monitor compliance with BPs policies.
The control Credit risk framework includes prescribed trading limits that are reviewed Credit risk is the potential exposure of the group to loss in the regularly by senior management, daily monitoring of risk exposure event of non-performance by a counterparty.
The credit risk arising using value-at-risk principles, marking trading exposures to market from the groups normal commercial operations is controlled by and stress testing to assess the exposure to potentially extreme individual operating units within guidelines.
In addition, as a result market situations.
of its use of derivatives, to manage market risk, the group has For market risk management and trading, conventional credit exposures through its dealings in the financial and specialized exchange-traded derivative instruments such as futures and oil, natural gas and power markets.
The group controls the related options are used, as well as non-exchange-traded instruments credit risk through credit approvals, limits, use of netting such as swaps, over-the-counter options and forward contracts.
Counterparty credit Where derivatives constitute a hedge, the groups exposure validation, independent of the dealers, is undertaken before to market risk created by the derivative is offset by the contractual commitment.
opposite exposure arising from the asset, liability, cash flow or transaction being hedged.
By contrast, where derivatives Concentrations of credit risk are held for trading purposes, changes in market risk factors The primary activities of the group are oil and natural gas give rise to gains and losses, which are recognized in earnings exploration and production, gas and power marketing and trading, in the current period.
oil refining and marketing and the manufacture and marketing of petrochemicals.
The groups principal customers, suppliers and Currency exchange rates financial institutions with which it conducts business are located Fluctuations in exchange rates can have significant effects on throughout the world.
The credit ratings of interest rate and the groups reported profit.
The effects of most exchange rate currency swap counterparties are all of at least investment grade.
fluctuations are absorbed in business operating results through The credit quality is actively managed over the life of the swap.
changing cost-competitiveness, lags in market adjustment to movements in rates, and conversion differences accounted for Liquidity risk on specific transactions.
For this reason the total effect of Liquidity risk is the risk that suitable sources of funding for the exchange rate fluctuations is not identifiable separately in the groups business activities may not be available.
The group has groups reported profit.
long-term debt ratings of Aa1 and AA assigned respectively The main underlying economic currency of the groups cash by Moodys and Standard and Poors.
The group has access to flows is the US dollar.
This is because BPs major products are a wide range of funding at competitive rates through the capital priced internationally in US dollars.
BPs foreign exchange markets and banks.
It co-ordinates relationships with banks, management policy is to minimize economic and significant borrowing requirements, foreign exchange requirements and transactional exposures arising from currency movements against cash management centrally.
The group believes it has access to the US dollar.
The group co-ordinates the handling of foreign sufficient funding and also has undrawn committed borrowing exchange risks centrally, by netting off naturally occurring opposite facilities to meet currently foreseeable borrowing requirements.
exposures wherever possible, to reduce the risks, and then dealing At 31 December 2003, the group had substantial amounts of with any material residual foreign exchange risks.
Significant residual undrawn borrowing facilities available, including committed non-dollar exposures are managed using a range of derivatives.
facilities of $3,700 million expiring in 2004 $3,600 million In addition, most group borrowings are in US dollars or are expiring in 2003.
These facilities are with a number of international hedged with respect to the US dollar.
banks and borrowings under them would be at pre-agreed rates.
The group expects to renew these facilities on an annual basis.
Interest rates Certain of these facilities support the groups commercial The group is exposed to interest rate risk on shortand long-term paper programme.
floating rate instruments and as a result of the refinancing of fixed rate finance debt.
The group is exposed predominantly to US dollar Insurance LIBOR London Inter-Bank Offer Rate interest rates as borrowings The group generally restricts its purchase of insurance to situations are mainly denominated in, or are swapped into, US dollars.
where this is required for legal or contractual reasons.
This is 35 because external insurance is not considered an economic means discounted basis, as required by Financial Reporting Standard of financing losses for the group.
Losses will therefore be borne No.
12, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
as they arise rather than being spread over time through insurance Further details of our environmental and decommissioning premia with attendant transaction costs.
The position will be provisions appear in Note 29 on Accounts on page 66.
provisions for decommissioning in 2003 include increases in respect of reassessment of existing provisions and new provisions Environmental expenditure for certain fields on installation of facilities.
Operating and capital expenditure on the prevention, control, abatement or elimination of air, water and solid waste pollution is Creditor payment policy and practice often not incurred as a separately identifiable transaction.
Instead, Statutory regulations issued under the UK Companies Act 1985 it forms part of a larger transaction that includes, for example, require companies to make a statement of their policy and practice normal maintenance expenditure.
The figures for environmental in respect of the payment of trade creditors.
operating and capital expenditure in the table below are therefore In view of the international nature of the groups operations estimates, based on the definitions and guidelines of the there is no specific group-wide policy in respect of payments to American Petroleum Institute.
Relationships with suppliers are, however, governed by the groups policy commitment to long-term relationships founded $ million on trust and mutual advantage.
Within this overall policy, individual 2003 2002 operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms and Operating expenditure 498 485 conditions for their business transactions and ensuring that Clean-ups 45 49 suppliers are aware of the terms of payment.
These terms are Capital expenditure 546 548 adhered to when payments are made, subject to terms and New provisions for conditions being met by the supplier.
environmental remediation 515 312 BP p. l. c. is a holding company with no business activity other New provisions for decommissioning 1,159 308 than the holding of investments in the group and therefore had no trade creditors at 31 December 2003.
Environmental operating and capital expenditures for 2003 were broadly in line with 2002.
Similar levels of operating and capital expenditures are expected in the foreseeable future.
In addition to operating and capital expenditures, we also create provisions for future environmental remediation.
Expenditure against such provisions is normally in subsequent periods and is not included in environmental operating expenditure reported for such periods.
The charge for new provisions in 2003 includes $236 million resulting from a reassessment of environmental remediation provisions and $255 million in respect of new environmental remediation provisions.
Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up is probable and the amount reasonably determinable.
Generally, their timing coincides with commitment to a formal plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
The extent and cost of future remediation programmes are inherently difficult to estimate.
They depend on the scale of any possible contamination, the timing and extent of corrective actions and also the groups share of the liability.
Although the cost of any future remediation could be significant and may be material to the result of operations in the period in which it is recognized, we do not expect that such costs will have a material effect on the groups financial position or liquidity.
We believe our provisions are sufficient for known requirements: and we do not believe that our costs will differ significantly from those of other companies engaged in similar industries, or that our competitive position will be adversely affected as a result.
In addition, we make provisions over the useful lives of our oiland gas-producing assets and related pipelines to meet the cost of eventual decommissioning.
Provisions for environmental remediation and decommissioning are usually set up on a 36 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003
