Provide the greatest benefit to the broadest constituency 6.
The nature of our business requires us to participate actively in choices, low-impact drilling and the launch of new, cleaner fuels a global marketplace serving around 13 million customers, each in advance of regulatory requirements.
with their own constantly changing needs, desires and dreams.
But why should an oil and gas company be a force for human These diverse and evolving demands create a constant tension progress?
What is the business case for social responsibility between what we as a society can live with and what we cannot and environmental sensitivity?
The first answer is that, for any live without.
And they have led us at BP to think beyond the company with the scale and reach of BP, responsible conduct expected to the ways in which we can most responsibly support is a requirement.
At BP, we make this requirement a business human needs and fuel the worlds progress.
practice as well as a corporate principle.
Secondly, we expect our conduct to be measured by responsible standards.
Our publicly stated aspiration is to be numbered among the worlds Already, we see that living up to high standards for behaviour, great companies.
The idea actually, the ideal of economic, environmental policies and human rights opens doors to new social and environmental sustainability has for years influenced relationships and resources.
It sparks innovation and permits corporate-level policies.
At BP, it permeates the group, from the investment.
And it fosters constructive debate and co-operation quality of corporate governance and the transparency of our rather than confrontation.
For BP, that is the way we want to reporting down to such project-level decisions as our partnership conduct our business.
20 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 7.
Engage thousands: act as one In our industry, the evidence is that value can be created and relationships, and a consistently expressed brand.
Larger assets and markets generate better returns.
integration permits us to develop cross-segment knowledge, Controlling multiple assets saves money.
Owning a diverse leverage our trading strength, combine technical, commercial set of assets spreads risk.
But scale is only a means to an end.
and marketing capabilities and, ultimately, make value-maximizing Winners in this industry need integrated know-how and a business decisions.
This mindset is critical to achieving success one-company mindset to overcome the challenges of complexity in big projects and managing their inherent risk.
and distance that come from scale and reach.
We are operating the groups businesses in an increasingly Today, the BP group has more than 103,000 people working in coherent and optimized manner.
At the same time, we are over 100 countries within four main business segments.
Yet we embedding within BP a new management framework that are all guided by one strategy.
By encouraging our people to think codifies the way in which we operate and defines authorities and perform as one company rather than as a collection of and accountabilities for all managers and their teams.
It brings heritage companies, BP is aligning internal understanding of the together the best of our business segment, regional and functional brand and unlocking the groups vast human potential as a leadership in a way that focuses on higher-value activities and competitive advantage.
provides mechanisms for centralized and integrated activities.
Guided by one strategy, performing and acting as one company, When we approach the BP groups operations in a more unified we intend our management culture to be a distinctive and manner, value is added through the sharing of knowledge, services sustainable resource.
