Financial and business operating review Business performance Exploration and Production Segment operating result $ million Strategy Create new profit centres by accessing areas with the potential for large oil and natural 15,977 gas fields: exploring successfully and pursuing only the best projects for development.
Manage the performance of producing assets by investing only in the best available opportunities and optimizing operating efficiency.
12,005 Sell assets that are no longer strategic to us and have greater value to others.
Focus BP invests in a portfolio of large, lower-cost oil and natural gas fields chosen for their potentially strong return on capital employed, and seeks to manage those assets safely with maximum capital and operating efficiency.
We are currently developing six new profit centres in which we have a distinctive position: Trinidad, Angola, Azerbaijan, Gulf of Mexico, Asia Pacific gas and Russia.
These new profit centres augment the production assets in our existing profit centres, providing greater reach, investment choice and 2003 2002 opportunity for growth.
Exploration and Production production from the Valhall South shipping via the Bosporus Straits.
Also in The result for the year of $15,977 million platform.
We replaced reserves in our 2003, construction began on the platform was an improvement of 33% over 2002, North American gas business, approved to develop the Shah Deniz field, which is reflecting increased production, higher the developments of the Rhum field in the expected to produce its first gas in 2006. oil and gas prices and a reduction North Sea and North West Temsah in the In the Gulf of Mexico, the Na Kika field in exploration expense, partly offset by Nile Delta, and discovered the Saqqara field started production and the Mardi Gras increases in our depreciation charge.
transportation system commenced Our volume performance was made Each of our six new profit centres met operation.
At the Holstein field, where possible principally by incremental or exceeded expectations for performance oil production is expected to begin in late contributions from our TNK-BP joint venture in 2003.
2004, the spar is now on the Gulf Coast for in Russia and growth in the Gulf of Mexico In Trinidad, from where BP has prime the final stage of construction.
Other Gulf and in our gas business in Trinidad.
These access to US and European liquefied of Mexico fields Mad Dog, Thunder Horse production gains were partly offset by natural gas LNG markets, we continued and Atlantis are on track to follow Holstein decline in our existing profit centres and to build on our integrated position in 2003. into production over the next few years.
Train 3 started production in April, two In Angola, a number of other new fields Across our portfolio, we advanced months ahead of schedule, and we began producing and we progressed several projects from the build stage to received government approval for the several significant projects.
The Jasmim the production phase.
We also made construction of Train 4, which is now under and Xikomba fields began producing, the significant progress on a number of other way.
In July, the Kapok field in Trinidad Kizomba A tension leg platform arrived projects.
Capital spending was down began production, supplying gas to Train 3, on site and the Dalia and Greater Plutonio slightly compared with 2002 as we and we sanctioned the Cannonball gas projects were sanctioned.
continued to exercise capital discipline development.
During the year, we completed a across our portfolio.
In 2003, the operating In Azerbaijan, construction is now programme of asset disposals that efficiency of our assets actual production well advanced on the development of improved our return on capital employed.
as a percentage of production capacity theAzeri field, and construction of the The programme generated total proceeds improved to 88% from 87% in 2002.
1,760-kilometre Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan BTC exceeding $4.9 billion and included assets We continued to make progress in our pipeline began in May.
When complete, in the US, North Sea, Norway, Malaysia, existing profit centres.
We increased which we expect to be in the first half of China and Algeria.
production in Alaska from a combination 2005, the BTC pipeline will export crude New oil and gas discoveries announced of improved drilling and operational oil from the Caspian to world markets, in 2003 included finds in Angola, the Gulf efficiency, and in Norway we started avoiding the creation of additional maritime of Suez and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
26 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Gas, Power and Renewables Segment operating result $ million Strategy Capture distinctive world-scale market positions ahead of supply.
472 Expand gross margin by providing distinctive products at lowest cost of goods sold to selected customer segments.
384 Build a sustainable solar business and continue to assess the application of renewable and alternative energy sources.
Focus In line with changing demand patterns for cleaner fuels, BP seeks to participate at scale in the fast-growing markets for natural gas, gas liquids and solar energy.
We currently hold market leadership positions in North American gas and natural gas liquids NGLs and significant strength in both the liquefied natural gas LNG and solar markets.
We are expanding our LNG business by accessing import terminals in China, North America and Europe.
2003 2002 Recoverable oil and gas from these finds cash costs that compare favourably with a customer-focused approach and a is expected to be around one billion barrels the average of our portfolio.
favourable trading environment in 2003 of oil equivalent.
BP continued to lead its saw gross margins improve.
As we grow major competitors in giant field discoveries Gas, Power and Renewables our business, we continue to access a and reserves replacement ratio.
The Our result was $472 million, an increase wide portfolio of infrastructure across reserves replacement ratio for the year of 23% over 2002 73% when adjusted North America.
Optimization of this was 122%, with 1,321 billion barrels of for the Ruhrgas divestment in 2002.
The portfolio benefits our group production oil equivalent booked through discoveries, improved performance was underpinned by and results in a lower cost of goods sold.
extensions, revisions and improved gross margin growth in our gas marketing To support our LNG presence in the US, recovery.
Reserve replacement exceeded businesses, including LNG.
Facing the we applied for regulatory permits to build production for the 11th consecutive year.
poorest trading environment in recent and operate an LNG terminal in New Including equity-accounted entities and history, the NGLs business was able Jersey.
Completion of the facility is the effect of acquisitions and disposals, partially to mitigate the effect of reduced targeted for 2008.
In addition, we and our additions to the year-end reserves were volumes and margins through a continued partners have signed an initial agreement 158% of 2003 production.
focus on cost, 98.8% availability of our with Sempra LNG Corp. for a 20-year In August, BP and the Alfa Group and plants, up from 98.5% in 2002, and the supply of LNG from Indonesia to markets Access-Renova completed the creation implementation of our new marketing in the US and Mexico.
We also delivered of the TNK-BP venture, establishing our programme.
We also repositioned our to the US both the first cargo from the newest profit centre and the third largest solar business to be able to improve newly commissioned Train 3 of the Atlantic integrated oil company operating in Russia, performance, which resulted in a LNG facility in Trinidad and Tobago and in which BP owns a 50% interest.
In restructuring charge of $45 million.
the first cargo delivered to the Cove terms of its scale, TNK-BP is comparable Overall gas sales volumes rose 22%, Point regasification terminal, which in production size to the former Amoco with unit gas marketing margins stronger was recommissioned after 23 years.
Oil production than we experienced in 2002.
Contributing In Europe, LNG marketing activities from TNK-BP grew by about 14% in 2003, to this result were higher gas sales are primarily focused on Spain and the contributing in excess of 650,000 barrels volumes in North America and an UK.
In Spain, we made the first delivery of oil a day in the fourth quarter of 2003, increase in LNG marketed directly by BP.
of LNG to the recently completed import and holds the possibility of further strong In North America, we are the number and regasification facility in Bilbao, growth.
We expect TNK-BP to offer finding one wholesale gas marketer on the Europes first integrated regasification and development costs about half of BPs continent with average sales of 20.6 billion and power project.
To further underpin three-year average, with lifting and noncubic feet per day.
The combination of BPs market position in Spain, we signed 27 Refining and Marketing Segment operating result $ million Strategy Focus on refining locations where scale, integration and operational excellence earn 3,689 distinctive returns.
Focus on retail fuel and convenience markets where supply advantage and distinctive offer can capture market share.
Leverage our brand and technology to grow in automotive-related lubricants markets.
Build strong strategic relationships in our business-to-business sector.
2,081 Build on our existing strength in selected emerging markets, particularly China.
Focus Our marketing businesses, underpinned by world-class manufacturing, create customer value for BP.
Our retail, lubricants and business-to-business sectors reach 13 million customers a day.
Our retail strategy provides differentiated fuel and convenience offers to some of the most attractive global markets.
Our lubricants brands, BP and Castrol, 2003 2002 offer customers benefits through technology and relationships.
We seek deep businessto-business customer relationships that can evolve into strategic partnerships.
a memorandum of understanding with Australia and Spain, allowing us to capturing margin and leveraging our Oman LNG for the supply of up to four cease production of non-competitive global scale and presence.
million tonnes of LNG over a six-year period.
As a result of this Our customer-facing businesses We also announced a joint venture with consolidation, BP took a restructuring retailing, lubricants and business-toSonatrach that has secured long-term charge of $45 million in the third quarter, business marketing delivered higher capacity rights to the UK Isle of Grain resulting in lower ongoing production costs profitability from a lower volume base import regasification terminal.
This venture and a more competitive product slate.
as a result of our portfolio high-grading is expected to allow the two companies to programme.
BPs retail location sales source and then supply LNG into the UK Refining and Marketing continue to outpace the industry rate, market, beginning in 2005.
Growth in margins, combined with despite slower growth in the US and In Asia, the BP-operated Tangguh improved operating performance, led to German markets.
As US and European project has agreements in various stages a result of $3,689 million in 2003, a 77% economies recover, we expect to maintain of completion covering over seven million improvement following a difficult 2002. and then grow our strong position through tonnes a year of sales at plateau.
BP BP achieved substantial gains in close management of our site operating acquired a 35% interest in SK Power productivity throughout the segment.
models and differentiation in our previously a subsidiary of SK Corporation We continued our focus on cost efficiency.
of South Korea, which has begun Gains were made possible principally A clear example of this differentiation is construction of a power station in through initiatives in procurement, the launch of our BP Ultimate gasoline and Gwangyang, South Korea.
The power information technology practices, diesel fuel in the UK, Spain and Greece in station will be a customer for the gas from commercial optimization contributions 2003.
These upgraded products deliver our new Indonesian profit centre.
We also and the benefits of integrating the greater performance with fewer emissions took delivery of the final two LNG ships Veba business.
than standard fuel grades, and have commissioned from Samsung, the British Our performance in refining was produced very positive early results with Innovator and the British Merchant.
underpinned by consistency in availability.
The reimaging of retail locations, Solar demand growth slowed slightly This has collectively averaged 95.5% at including the full conversion of all BP in 2003, compounding price and margin our facilities in 2003, including record service stations in Germany to Aral, pressure created by production overavailability in the second quarter, compared continued in 2003.
A total of 6,326 sites capacity in the industry.
Our solar with 96.1% for the whole of 2002.
Refining were reimaged with the BP helios, bringing production capacity and revenues throughputs were comparable with 2002, the total number of sites with the helios to both grew.
New technology production despite mandated divestments.
lines came on stream in India, the US, concentrated on optimizing our assets, In our lubricants business, our Castrol 28 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Petrochemicals Segment operating result $ million Strategy Focus portfolio on seven core products.
765 Compete through technical superiority, operational excellence, deep customer relationships and accessing advantaged investment opportunities.
606 Build organizational capability to increase margin capture and continue to drive cost efficiencies and improve returns throughout the business cycle.
Focus BP focuses on seven core products purified terephthalic acid PTA, paraxylene, acetic acid, acrylonitrile, ethylene, high-density polyethylene HDPE and polypropylene PP that enhance the everyday lives of consumers.
Part of BPs customer-facing activity, these core products are eventually used in the manufacture of a wide variety of consumer goods, including plastic drinks bottles, computer housings, adhesives, inks, rigid packaging, pipes, food packaging and automobile components, as well as textiles 2003 2002 for clothes and carpets.
Our core products have been selected on the basis of growth characteristics, proprietary technology, leadership positions and group integration value.
and BP brands are recognized around the turnaround activity.
Faced with the most now account for 70% of our capital world.
In 2003, we maintained, and in challenging business environment in recent employed in this segment.
many cases grew, market share.
We are years, we delivered a stable operational Our production capacity increase in now focused on pursuing key customer performance, with returns steady.
2003 reflected our Asian PTA additions, segments and markets in the lubricants Overall, chemicals indicator margins the Veba acquisition, a world-scale HDPE sector in which we believe that brand were similar to 2002, but fluctuated plant in Cedar Bayou, Texas, and growth, presence and customer relationships throughout the year.
This performance albeit slow, in market demand.
Projects give us a premium position.
reflects high and volatile feedstock costs, under development in 2003 included the Business-to-business activity particularly in Europe, and slow growth in final commissioning of the BP Zhuhai strengthened in 2003, with a recovery demand.
The segments result was further Chemical Company in Guangdong province in aviation fuels and the development reduced by several non-routine items, our first PTA venture in China, the start-up of new partnerships and strategic continuing portfolio reductions and lower of the CAPCO PTA plant in Taiwan, relationships.
These selected co-operations income from SARS-affected businesses progress on our SECCO ethylene cracker include joint technical developments, in Asia.
joint venture near Shanghai and expansion cross-marketing of products and services Throughout the year, we continued to of the Chocolate Bayou olefins facility on and the pursuit of common ground on focus on our core products.
Our operational the US Gulf Coast.
priorities were safety, margin capture and Importantly, 2003 also brought a driving cost efficiency in a difficult business realignment of the petrochemicals Petrochemicals environment.
The segment is now Petrochemicals delivered a result of costs were reduced compared with 2002, structured around its core-product strategy, $606 million in 2003, a decrease of 21% while the business grew.
The operations while retaining its executive leadership in from 2002.
Our production for the year was at our sites continued to be good as key regions of the world.
This more natural a record 27,943 thousand tonnes, compared utilization improved.
alignment of businesses with strategy is with 26,988 thousand tonnes in 2002.
This As a result of growth and portfolio intended to provide greater organizational reflected our capacity additions and lower management, our seven core products focus and operating performance.
