Finish first by moving first BPs position as an industry leader is due in no small part to our actions as a first mover first to opportunity, first to market or first to deliver value.
We have sought to act first whenever advantageous.
By leveraging our strategic insight 4. and rapid commercial execution, we have adapted quickly and have been in the forefront of necessary change.
1999 1997 1998 Anticipating growth in demand for gas Investing in Russia Engaging in large-scale mergers BP establishes a gas and power business Eight years after BP first sent teams to Through our merger with Amoco, we take segment, designed to focus and expand Russia to examine exploration prospects, a major step to becoming a leader in the oil our capability to meet an increasing world we begin investment by acquiring a 10% and gas industry.
This action is the first in a demand for natural gas.
To help build stake in Sidanco.
This underscores our belief series of major corporate deals in the sector our position as a leading provider of in the potential of Russia, previously seen that will continue for more than two years.
natural gas for US consumers, to address as unreachable for political reasons.
The merger gives the combined companies that countrys growing demand and to the opportunity to compete with a distinctive diversify its sources of supply, BP delivers Taking a stand on climate change set of people, assets and market positions.
the industrys first cargo of liquefied In response to mounting evidence and BP gains Amocos strength in oil and gas natural gas to east coast customers.
concern about greenhouse gas emissions and production in North America, and its the earths rising temperature, BP becomes interests in Egypt, Trinidad, West Africa, the first in our industry to state publicly Argentina and Azerbaijan.
In refining and the need for precautionary action.
We take marketing, Amoco contributes its significant steps on environmental standards, including strength in the US to BPs existing positions controlling our own emissions, supporting in Europe, the US and Australia, and in existing and new scientific work and emerging markets.
developing emissions trading mechanisms in-house and with external bodies.
16 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Some cases in point We were at the among our peers to respond publicly to the position and momentum we have forefront of the process of restructuring the risks of global climate change.
And gained in recent years.
Our willingness in the oil and gas industry.
This enabled we responded to political developments to think ahead of the curve and beyond us to align our scale and reach with the with investments in China and Russia, the traditional boundaries of our developing global pattern of energy supply areas previously considered inaccessible businesses remains as strong as ever.
Performing as a first mover is as much Our combinations with Amoco and ARCO These and other first mover initiatives a cultural attribute as a conscious choice.
moved us to become one of the top three have enabled BP to capture added value We believe it will be instrumental in the in terms of performance, assets and and to develop distinctive positions and next phase of BPs and our industrys returns to shareholders.
We were the first reputation.
We are determined to maintain development.
2000 2003 2001 Adding scale through acquisitions Positioning in Germany Building advantage in Russia ARCO joins the BP group to create coastAs part of our strategy to build a strong BP acquires a 50% stake in TNK-BP, creating to-coast coverage of the US fuels market.
second leg for the group, BP acquires a sixth new upstream profit centre.
TNK-BP Strategically, the ARCO deal also represents Vebas retail and refining assets in Germany is the third largest integrated oil company an opportunity to grow our natural gas and central Europe.
This makes BP the operating in Russia.
It encompasses the business, particularly in the Far East.
market leader in Germany and Austria full spectrum of vertical integration, from Together with BPs own production, the and substantially strengthens our position wellhead to leading positions in the Amoco and ARCO transactions create an in Poland and in several other central marketing of petroleum products.
TNK-BP is eight-fold increase in BPs gas production European countries.
BP markets under comparable in production size to the former over 10 years.
Our acquisition of Burmah the well regarded Aral brand in Germany.
Amoco before our merger, and has proved Castrol strengthens BPs customer-facing reserves of 3.6 billion barrels, of which businesses with a world-recognized 2.8 billion barrels are developed.
portfolio contains eight fields of greater than 250 million barrels, including Samotlor, the third largest oil field ever discovered.
