BPB annual report 2003 SAFETY, ETHICS & ENVIRONMENT SAFETY CONTINUED as occupational health and safety.
As the degree Reducing manufacturing waste BPB site 2002: there were 2 employee fatalities, of legislation varies from country to country, the indexed change in one in an off-site road traffic accident.
There were Board believes that such issues are best addressed percentage of also a number of incidents and near misses, by individual operating companies who can give plasterboard which although they did not result in harm, due regard to local laws and regulations of each manufacturing waste emphasise the need to strive to further improve country in which they operate.
The group also our safety performance.
maintains a rolling programme of environmental 100 audits at its sites for identifying and managing BPB continually learns from health and safety risks and opportunities, with all sites being audited incidents.
Investigations have revealed that over at least every five years and major sites at least 94 80% of accidents are caused by unsafe acts, every three years.
rather than unsafe conditions or inadequate procedures.
As a result, the roll-out of our Continuous improvement in the cost-effective 93 behavioural safety training programme has been minimisation of energy usage, raw material inputs 91 accelerated and updated guidance on safety and manufacturing by-products is also a key part principles issued to employees.
of BPBs on-going environmental programme.
89 To this end, the group continues to improve and Regional health and safety programmes, deploy more energy efficient technologies in both safety audits and formal accident investigations, new and existing plants.
As energy efficiency is together with continued investment in training one of the most cost effective ways of reducing and systems, form the key elements of our the groups greenhouse gas emissions, such 99 00 01 02 03 drive to continually raise standards and promote technological improvements have played a best practice throughout the group.
The significant part in reducing BPBs carbon dioxide implementation and auditing of these emissions over the past five years.
In the UK, programmes is the responsibility of regional emissions are now 1.5% below 2000 levels management, with the performance of individual despite an increased level of activity and BPB is business units being reviewed as part of the well ahead of its programme to deliver reductions groups internal control procedures.
Furthermore, of a further 7% by 2010. safety is the first item on the agenda at all our management meetings and every senior As well as recycling the vast majority of its factory executive has a specific bonus target to reduce scrap plasterboard, BPB now works in partnership the number of safety incidents.
with housebuilders in the UK and a specialist 26 waste company in Canada to collect and recycle ENVIRONMENT gypsum-based building site waste, thus reducing BPB recognises societys right to expect industry the need for landfill sites and the extraction rate of to exercise the highest practicable level of the groups extensive mineral reserves.
Through the implementation are further preserved through BPBs utilisation of of an environmental policy which provides a low cost, high grade synthetic gypsum produced framework for establishing effective management by power station desulphurisation processes practices, the group aims to minimise any which has now increased to over 2.86 million adverse effects its activities may have on the tonnes per annum.
The mining and quarrying of gypsum rock is an With over 140 manufacturing sites spread important component of BPBs operations.
This throughout the world, BPB faces a continuing places particular environmental responsibilities on challenge to comply with the numerous laws the group to ensure any disturbance is minimised.
governing environmental protection, including Where land is disturbed through our activities, the regulations relating to environmental impact group strives to restore it to the highest assessment, air and water quality, solid and practicable level after use for purposes such as hazardous waste handling and disposal, as well agriculture and nature reserves, and in so doing BPB annual report 2003 pays special attention to the need to preserve and CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS BPB desulphogypsum utilisation growth protect biodiversity.
For example in Cormeilles, During the year donations for charitable purposes France, BPB developed a progressive restoration in the UK amounted to 159,000 2002 147,000, programme in conjunction with the French including support for organisations providing government, even before it commenced mining shelter for the homeless and low-cost the site.
As a result, BPB has been able to restore accommodation for young people linked to skills mining-exhausted land and develop habitat training and job opportunities.
protection projects while other parts of the site are still in operation.
To date, almost 25% of the total site has been restored to forest and given back to the French government.
ETHICAL CONDUCT BPBs commitment to high standards of ethical conduct is included within the framework provided by the Code of Business Conduct covering issues such as legality, trust, honesty, common decency and human rights.
The groups approach is to foster a broad understanding of the 99 00 01 02 03 Code in order to generate sound business Volume million judgement.
tonnes Annual growth % The group aims to pursue its business with integrity, respecting the different cultures and the dignity and rights of individuals in all countries in which it operates, recognising that the reputation of BPB and the trust and confidence of those with whom it deals are among its most important assets.
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT BPB is committed to supporting local communities 27 and remaining sensitive to their needs.
The Code reflects the groups aim that its conduct should be a source of positive influence for those whom its business impacts.
BPB believes it is able to benefit communities most by concentrating its efforts on projects which are closely related to its business operations, allowing it to encourage the involvement of more of its employees and to strengthen links with local communities.
As an example in Durban, South Africa, BPB supplied all the ceilings and plasterboard, and some of the workforce, to build 100 houses for underprivileged families as part of Jimmy Carters Habitat for Humanity project during June 2002.
