BPB annual report 2003 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Shareholders funds of 780.3 million fell by as well as funding and cash management.
Group Net borrowings and interest cover 50.8 million after dividend payments totalling treasury is not a profit centre and only undertakes 66.5 million and a lack of retained earnings for transactions to manage commercial risks and the year.
The return on shareholders funds exposures.
It follows controlled reporting increased by 2.0 percentage points to 11.5% procedures and is the subject of routine internal mainly as a result of the groups underlying control reviews.
Group liquidity is maintained by way of committed BPB will again seek to renew its share buy-back debt facilities in excess of immediate needs.
authority at this years AGM but the company Committed facilities at the year end, including the presently has no firm plans to use it.
2010 Eurobond, totalled 934 million, against a drawn debt requirement of 656 million.
Over PENSIONS 79% of the groups facilities have more than two Generally stock markets have fallen in value over years to maturity.
the past financial year, expected rates of return have reduced and the trend towards longer life Group policy is to keep 50% to 80% of borrowings expectancy has continued, resulting in lower at fixed rates of interest.
Last year the proceeds pension asset values and increased liabilities for from the share placing to part fund the James many companies schemes.
BPB operates a Hardie acquisition increased the proportion of fixed 99 00 01 02 03 number of pension schemes detailed in note 6 rate borrowings to 79%.
At the year end 65% of Net borrowings m to the accounts on page 47 with the largest being the groups core interest cost was fixed, with an the principal UK funded defined benefit scheme.
average maturity of over 3 years.
Interest cover times This scheme enjoyed a substantial surplus for many years and cash contributions from the group More detailed information on the groups treasury had not been required since the late 1980s.
The policies is provided in note 23 to the financial last triennial valuation in March 2002 disclosed a statements on pages 52 to 54.
Capital expenditure and acquisitions reduced surplus and confirmed that the period million cash spend before contributions would be required had OTHER ISSUES reduced considerably.
Given this position an BPBs approach to internal control is business risk additional charge of 6.2m was taken in 2002 03 driven, with an emphasis given to both business and cash contributions at or near this level will and financial risks, as explained in the corporate commence in 2003 04 until the situation is governance review on pages 32 and 33.
During 24 reviewed at the next triennial valuation.
In the year the group decided to underpin its risk addition the group has reviewed its pension evaluation processes by placing more emphasis on arrangements generally and with effect from April a centrally co-ordinated internal audit programme 2003 all new UK employees will contribute 5% of using both internal and external resources.
their salary to their pension, albeit still in a defined benefit arrangement.
There has been much comment in the last 12 months in the press and from some of BPBs peer Note 6 on page 47 discloses the financial position group with regard to US asbestos exposure.
BPB, of the groups funded schemes as required by which acquired the Celotex and James Hardie FRS17.
On this basis the schemes have moved Gypsum US wallboard businesses during the last from a 123 million surplus to a 134 million deficit three years, believes it has no potential liability during the year, principally due to a fall in the in North America.
It is not actively defending any 99 00 01 02 03 market value of assets held as at the year-end date.
asbestos claims in the US nor has it ever settled Acquisitions any claims there in the past.
Outside of North Capital expenditure TREASURY OPERATIONS America there have been a small number of The groups treasury function acts within Board individual claims settled fewer than 10 in over approved policies, providing a centralised service 20 years and these have all been dealt with by to manage interest and currency exposures insurers for modest sums.
125 119 271 37.2 83 52 254 18.5 91 277 498 6.9 85 31 371 6.1 97 316 664 7.5 BPB annual report 2003 SAFETY, ETHICS & ENVIRONMENT THE GROUP AIMS TO PURSUE ITS BUSINESS WITH INTEGRITY, respecting the different cultures and the dignity and rights of individuals in all countries in which it operates, recognising that the reputation of BPB and the trust and confidence of those with whom it deals are among its most important assets OUR COMMITMENT TO RESPONSIBLE safety policy which sets out required standards for Improving safety CORPORATE BEHAVIOUR operating safe and efficient businesses.
performance reportable incidents BPB recognises that the highest practicable per 1000 employees standards of safety, ethical and environmental In order to analyse more effectively the causes of practices are vital to its success in building value, accidents and to meet international best practice and are a key responsibility of all employees.
on safety reporting, a new 1-day absence Our policies and procedures in these areas, reporting basis was introduced throughout the which incorporate monitoring and reporting group in 2001 02, replacing the 3-day Group arrangements, are designed to identify relevant Incident Rate.
Under the new basis, any risks and opportunities and provide a clear workplace incident that results in an employee framework for our approach to doing business not returning to their normal duties on any and against which performance can be assessed.
workday after the day on which the injury was received is recorded as a Lost Time Accident.
To reinforce our commitment to achieve these standards, BPB has produced a formal groupThe drive to deliver better safety performance wide Code of Business Conduct.
While recognising was sustained during the year with a reduction that it can never provide detailed advice on all of over 10% in the number of Lost Time situations or contingencies, the Code encapsulates Accidents excluding acquisitions in the year the groups values and sets out the basic principles they are acquired, with more than one-third which are to be applied everywhere that we of manufacturing sites having no reportable 99 00 01 02 03 3-day group do business.
Despite the progress being made, BPB incident rate deeply regrets that during the year a contractor 1-day lost time The groups safety, ethics & environment died as a result of a traffic incident while exiting a accident rate committee has responsibility for facilitating throughout the group the promotion by management of a culture of responsible corporate behaviour and for assessing the adequacy of management reporting of such behaviour in compliance with embedded procedures and policies.
BPBs score of 63% for corporate responsibility, as 25 SEE measured by Business in the Communitys Index of Corporate Responsibility, placed it close to the average score of the 122 companies assessed.
While the index showed that BPB was particularly strong in the areas of corporate strategy and integration, and in workplace practices, it also highlighted the need to continue to improve the setting and monitoring of community impact and environmental targets.
WASTE MANAGEMENT SAFETY BPB NOW WORKS IN BPB is committed to the protection and safety of PARTNERSHIP WITH HOUSEBUILDERS IN THE UK AND A its staff and others affected by its operations, with SPECIALIST WASTE COMPANY operating management being responsible for IN CANADA TO COLLECT AND creating working environments in which all RECYCLE GYPSUM-BASED accidents are regarded as preventable.
Our key BUILDING SITE WASTE goal remains no accidents and no harm to people REDUCING THE NEED TO and is encapsulated in the groups health and USE LANDFILL SITES 13.1 12.9 11.5 7.5 17.6 15.8
