BPB annual report 2003 GROWTH DRIVERS ADVANCING 4 STANDARDS BPB annual report 2003 GROWTH IN THE VALUE CHAIN: Working closely with specifiers, distributors and installers, we are committed to meeting the diverse needs of the residential, commercial and renovation markets for interior building systems We offer the widest range of high quality, innovative building solutions for active spaces in retail, education, health care, work and home environments Operating from efficient manufacturing platforms, our aim is to optimise the product and service offering at every stage of market development 5 MEETING MARKET NEEDS Demand for interior lining solutions that deliver a combination of higher technical performance and creative design continues to grow, particularly in the renovation sector, and is met by BPBs increasingly sophisticated offering of plasterboard systems which conform to national and internationally approved quality standards.
We focus on providing locally-relevant construction solutions which are fast, reliable and cost-effective for all market stages whether emerging, developing, or more developed, for all market segments the renovation, residential and commercial sectors and for all product sectors SHANGHAI, CHINA IBM CHIP PLANT walls, partitions, columns, floors and ceilings.
TO MEET CUSTOMER NEEDS FOR A SUPERIOR COMBINATION OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICE, BPB BRINGS TOGETHER MULTIPROMOTING BPB PRODUCTS NATIONAL PROJECT TEAMS WHOSE EMPHASIS IS ON Working alongside architects and specifiers, PROVIDING LOCAL MARKETS WITH OPTIMUM SOLUTIONS.
our regional business teams promote and develop IN CHINA, GYPCO SHANGHAI WORKED WITH BRITISH GYPSUM TO SUPPLY IBMS PLANT WITH A TOTAL OF 7 BPB products which satisfy local building DIFFERENT SYSTEMS USING OVER 120,000 SQUARE METRES technology specifications for energy efficiency, OF FIRELINE PLASTERBOARD TO MEET FIRE RESISTANCE comfort and safety, supplying customers with an REQUIREMENTS RANGING FROM 30 MINUTES TO 4 HOURS extensive range of interior lining solutions for space division, thermal insulation, acoustic absorption, fire and humidity resistance, utilities and circuitry distribution, structural integrity and design aesthetics.
DEVELOPING NEW SOLUTIONS Our marketing emphasis is on providing individual markets with the best products and customer services, whether adapting existing BPB offerings from other national markets or introducing new solutions.
Best-practice initiatives groupwide are channelled locally through country management structures, with product development divided into stages incorporating formal marketing, technical and manufacturing reviews by multi-disciplinary teams, so as to ensure that improvements fit local market needs and are in conformance MILAN, ITALY ARCIMBOLDI THEATRE with changing standards.
BPB ITALIAS HIGHLY VERSATILE PLASTERBOARD AND CEILING TILE SYSTEMS WERE USED EXTENSIVELY TO MEET Areas under continual evaluation in BPBs DEMANDING SPECIFICATIONS FOR STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY, DESIGN APPEARANCE AND ACOUSTIC PERFORMANCE integrated product innovation process include: forecasting changes in building regulations and standards, both nationally and regionally identifying future directions in building techniques and design, in collaboration with architects and other specifiers assessing the availability of recovered materials and their commercial potential BPB annual report 2003 GROWTH DRIVERS ECONOMIC 6 DEVELOPMENT BPB annual report 2003 GROWTH IN COMPETITIVE MARKETS: BPB invests in the growth of its core products and has an excellent business platform, with competitive market positions in most of the world s largest economies Plasterboard, where BPB holds a circa 20% global market share, continues to attract increasing demand BPB's main complementary product, building plaster, holds significant local sales profiles across a mix of highly developed, developing and emerging markets, giving BPB a global share of around 30% of branded sales volume 7 GROWING GLOBAL DEMAND Annual consumption of plasterboard worldwide now exceeds 5 billion square metres, with the European economy accounting for some 20% of global demand, North America approximately 55%, and the rest of the world around 25%, almost half of which relates to Japan.
The products continuing penetration and growth owes much to the combination of several significant economic factors, common in varying degrees through all stages of market development: economic growth and anticipated prosperity, the main drivers of construction activity a trend towards increasing build costs for LAS VEGAS, USA BPB WALLBOARD PLANT both materials and labour BUILDING ON BPBS EXISTING INVESTMENTS IN WESTROC more rapid build cycles in both commercial and AND CELOTEX, THE ACQUISITION OF THE JAMES HARDIE residential sectors US WALLBOARD BUSINESS ALMOST DOUBLED BPBS increasing prominence of the renovation sector NORTH AMERICAN MARKET SHARE AND ESTABLISHED IT AS THE CLEAR NUMBER 3 SUPPLIER IN THE WORLDS LARGEST MARKET POSITIONING BPB FOR GROWTH Our acquisitions in the US during the past three years have enabled us to establish a major presence in the substantial North American internal linings market.
Building on our Canadian sector leadership, our wallboard market share is now around 16% and ranks BPB as the clear No.
3 supplier in the worlds largest market.
Our European sector leadership, recently consolidated through the acquisition of Gyproc Benelux, our significant North American presence and our strong positions in South America, Southern Africa and Asia, generate group-wide plasterboard sales in excess of 1 billion square metres per annum, or close to 1 in 5 of all boards sold, making BPB the global market leader.
HYDERABAD, INDIA NATIONAL VILLAGE GAMES STADIA ENHANCING COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE DEMAND FOR PLASTERBOARD SYSTEMS CONTINUES TO Our national operating teams provide partnershipGROW STRONGLY IN ASIA AS CUSTOMERS INCREASINGLY style support to third party distribution networks, PREFER THE BENEFITS OF MODERN BUILDING PRACTICES BPBs primary route to market, delivering industryAND PRODUCTS.
14,000 SQUARE METRES OF GYPBOARD leading products and technical services which FULTONE TILES WERE USED TO MEET A TIGHT CONSTRUCTION enable merchants to optimise product mix and SCHEDULE AND FULFIL HIGH SPECIFICATIONS FOR ACOUSTIC AND REVERBERATION INSULATION IN THE 4 STADIUMS BUILT profitability.
Local business teams work with FOR THE 2002 NATIONAL GAMES customers and leading contractors to develop new and more efficient building methodologies relevant to the market environment, with an emphasis on quality, sustainability and waste reduction.
Successful building solutions are valued by the way they perform on-site, both during and after construction.
Accordingly, our national businesses provide full training and technical support to contractors and applicators, demonstrating the versatility and ease of use of BPB interior lining systems and ensuring optimum installation efficiencies.
BPB annual report 2003 GROWTH DRIVERS BRAND 8 PENETRATION BPB annual report 2003 GROWTH IN OPPORTUNITY: Developing demand for interior building systems lies at the heart of customer sales and marketing strategies aimed at enhancing BPB s growing reputation and attractiveness as the preferred supplier Sustaining or creating national brand leadership positions for plasterboard and complementary products is central to our drive for profitable sales growth Our development strategy seeks to optimise the group s operational synergies across national and regional markets having similar customer bases and channels of distribution 9 BUILDING BRAND AWARENESS Our business reputation and sector leadership in Europe benefits from the positive customer awareness generated by the key regional brands Placo, Rigips and Gyproc, with the prefix BPB gaining increasing recognition as a quality family brand.
Similarly, in the groups emerging Asian markets, the rapid penetration of individual brands such as Gypboard and Gyproc is being achieved under a visible BPB umbrella.
In late 2002, all the business operations in North America were re-launched under the identity of BPB, with all wallboard products being re-branded ProRoc.
LEVERAGING NATURAL SYNERGIES ANTALYA, TURKEY CORNELIA HOTEL Our marketing of an integrated portfolio of AWARD WINNING ARCHITECTS FOR THE FIVE STAR HOTEL BPB systems is aimed at encouraging profitable SPECIFIED BOTH SATEN AND REFINO PLASTERS FROM BPB volume growth and both individual and family TO PROVIDE THE SCULPTURAL SHAPES AND HIGH QUALITY brand penetration, by accelerating innovation FINISH NEEDED TO ACHIEVE THEIR DESIGN AND in product and service, increasing the customer CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS offering, and promoting sales of higher valueadded products.
Logistical support represents a significant competitive differentiator for BPB, our goal being to supply customers with the best choice of interior building solutions, the fastest delivery times, the highest product quality, and the most efficient stock control.
Complementary products contribute to BPBs growth and brand leadership, as businesses leverage the natural synergies between core and complementary products to provide customers with more convenient and cost-effective routes for meeting all their needs.
DEVELOPING COMPLEMENTARY PRODUCTS Sales of our main complementary product, BELGRADE, SERBIA TELEVISION CENTRE building plaster, are now well in excess of UNDER THE RIGIPS BRAND, BPB SUPPLIES EASTERN 4 million tonnes each year, making BPB the EUROPEAN MARKETS WITH A WIDE RANGE OF HIGH worlds leading supplier of branded plaster QUALITY INTERIOR BUILDING PRODUCTS TO MEET products.
We hold leadership positions in many CUSTOMER END-USE REQUIREMENTS FOR DESIGN, of those key markets where finishing surfaces SAFETY AND COMFORT.
PLASTERBOARD AND CEILING with easy-to-apply high-quality plasters continue TILE SYSTEMS WERE USED TO PROVIDE AN INNOVATIVE INTERNAL LINING SOLUTION AT THE BIG PINK MEDIA to attract a loyal customer base.
Other products AND COMMUNICATION CENTRE IN BELGRADE supporting BPBs systems marketing approach are mineral wool and expanded polystyrene insulation, textures, gypsum blocks and coving, and metal-grid ceiling tile systems.
BPB annual report 2003 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DEAR FELLOW SHAREHOLDER 2002 03 saw further real progress in our strategy of improving the performance and positioning of your company.
At the beginning of the year with the acquisition of James Hardie Gypsum in the USA, and at the end of the year by acquiring ownership of Gyproc Benelux, we substantially enhanced our trading platform in our core businesses on both sides of the Atlantic, especially in North America.
In total, over 280 million was invested in these strategically important acquisitions.
OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Building on the previous years momentum of progressive operational improvement, management achieved a 25% uplift in the groups underlying full year results as our North American business moved from loss into profit, reflecting better selling prices, cost reduction and the contribution from the acquired James Hardie US wallboard business.
European performance remained solid, contributing over 80% of the groups operating profit.
A small profit improvement from our Rest of the World operations added to BPBs overall growth, with group pre-tax profit before goodwill and exceptional items advancing in line with expectations to 191.6 million 2002 153.0 million.
Underlying earnings per share rose 23% to 25.8p but reported pre-tax profit of 48.4 million 2002 146.3 million was after charging the European Commission fine of 89.2 million and the groups 1.3 million share of the Gyproc Benelux EC fine, goodwill amortisation of 16.2 million 2002 9.7 million, and a net exceptional charge of 36.5 million 2002 3.0 million gain arising mainly from impairment charges on several underperforming complementary product businesses.
Greater group operating profitability was translated into an increase in pre-exceptional operating cash flow of 51.7 million to 316.1 million.
Although year-on-year net debt increased by 292 million due to acquisitions and payment of the EC fine, the company has demonstrated its cash generation ability and strengthened its interest cover to 7.5 times, leaving it well placed for future growth.
The Board is recommending for shareholder approval a 3.5% increase in the final dividend to give 8.9p per share, resulting in a full years dividend of 13.55p and an annual increase of 3.4% 2002 increase of 2.3%.
10 OUR GOVERNANCE AND PEOPLE Last November the European Commission announced its decision to fine the major competitors in the European plasterboard industry a total of 1478.3 million for allegedly attempting to stabilise certain EU markets between 1992 and 1998.
BPBs share of this fine has been paid to the Commission but the Board has publicly denied that any agreement of the type alleged existed: it also stated that it considered BPBs fine to be wholly inappropriate and disproportionately high and that we would appeal.
That appeal was submitted in February this year but, as in all things to do with this matter, resolution will be painfully slow and the outcome is not anticipated before Spring 2005.
BPB supports much of the Higgs Review and the Smith Report on Corporate Governance and Audit BPB annual report 2003 Committees respectively.
However, the Board is concerned that the UKs effective unitary board BUILDING ON THE PREVIOUS model will be undermined by proposals which diminish the role of chairman and create potential YEARS MOMENTUM OF for board division without any demonstrable commensurate benefit.
We also believe that PROGRESSIVE OPERATIONAL in many areas the proposals are unnecessarily prescriptive and that real meaning and greater IMPROVEMENT, much was legitimacy needs to be given to the principle of comply or explain.
Accordingly, we welcome achieved in 2002 03 to strengthen the decision of the Financial Reporting Council to consider these issues further.
our ability to generate both Michael Beckett and Martin Clark, each of whom profitable growth and attractive have completed over 10 years service, intend to retire at the AGM following the expiry of their returns for shareholders over current terms of office.
They have been effective and vigorous members of the Board both in terms the long term of business counsel and governance, and have played a constructive role in the very significant changes that have taken place in the shape of the BPB now has stronger business group since 1992.
They depart from the Board with our thanks and good wishes.
platforms in Europe and North I am very pleased that Gerry Acher accepted the Boards invitation to join us last August as a nonAmerica from which to grow and executive director.
Gerry brings to BPB a prominent background and wealth of business experience there is a clearer focus on those gained at the top of the UK audit profession and he will make an excellent successor to Martin as complementary product markets chairman of the audit committee.
where we can add value Lastly on Board matters, I am delighted that Sir Ian Gibson has accepted our invitation to become deputy chairman with the intention that he will succeed to the chairmanship when I retire from the Board in July 2004.
BPB has had a good year both in terms of underlying profit improvement and business positioning.
Our people worldwide have delivered this.
It is a pleasure to work with them and to observe them at work, and on your behalf I thank them all.
THE BUSINESS OUTLOOK Much was achieved last year to strengthen our ability to generate both profitable growth and attractive returns for shareholders over the long term.
BPB now has stronger business platforms in Europe and North America from which to grow and there is a clearer focus on those complementary product markets where we can add value.
Economic forecasts in key markets generally point to moderate growth rates, combined with a continuing degree of uncertainty about the 11 immediate future.
Against that background we continue to invest in our key asset, our people, who are engaged on a portfolio of programmes and ideas to deliver improving performance from our businesses.
The Board is therefore confident that the combination of our strategy and our development programmes will deliver further progress this year.
Allan Gormly 21 May 2003 BPB annual report 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW MANAGEMENT DELIVERED SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS IN THE EXECUTION OF BPBS BUSINESS PLAN FOR FUTURE GROWTH, achieving a substantial improvement in underlying earnings for 2002 03 Two important strategic steps, the US acquisition of James Hardie Gypsum earlier in the year and the acquisition in March of Gyproc Benelux, serve to strengthen our North American and European plasterboard businesses, consolidating BPB s position as the global market leader 12 BPB annual report 2003 BPBS STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT TRADING PERFORMANCE AND generated stronger cash flow, resulting in Management delivered significant progress in the MANAGEMENT FOCUS operating cash flow before EC fine up execution of BPBs business plan for future growth, Group plasterboard sales volume advanced 51.7 million at 316.1 million achieving a substantial improvement in underlying 28% to over 1 billion square metres, driven OUR PRIORITIES GOING FORWARD earnings for 2002 03 by increasing the scale, by BPBs strengthened US market position, Our aim is to be the preferred choice for interior profitability and cash generation of North American with sales on a like-for-like basis increasing by building systems, supplying customers with operations, further reducing the groups cost base 4%.
This, together with better selling prices, a coherent range of products that generate and strengthening the core European business.
substantially drove top-line growth of 16% superior returns.
We plan to achieve this by Two important strategic steps, the US acquisition resulting in record sales of nearly 2 billion.
growing the scale and efficiency of our European of James Hardie Gypsum earlier in the year and Underlying operating profit advanced 23% to and North American businesses, investing the acquisition in March of Gyproc Benelux, serve 220.5 million as a result of a 41.2 million profit elsewhere in established and emerging to strengthen our North American and European turnaround in North America 29.4 million profit plasterboard markets, and expanding in plasterboard businesses, consolidating BPBs against prior years 11.8 million loss due to complementary products that strengthen our position as the global market leader.
better US selling prices on continuing good business platforms.
Major advances in the groups strategic demand, further cost efficiencies which offset gas Our management priorities for this year are to: development have been achieved by the price increases, and almost a years contribution management team over the last three years.
from the acquired Hardie business.
Our European focus on strengthening the competitiveness We have: business delivered a robust 182.0 million of of BPBs manufacturing base, improving sales underlying operating profit 2002 184.3 million volumes and margins established a wallboard business of scale on plasterboard volumes up 5%, despite increased achieve cost savings of more than 1% of group in North America a market representing over input costs and challenging German and Polish turnover to help offset rising commodity cost 50% of global demand by acquiring and trading conditions: further overall cost savings and pressures in the groups main markets integrating two large businesses in the US, continuing strong performances in Western and optimise group operating cash flow almost trebling our North American turnover Southern Europe contributed to a regional return integrate Gyproc Benelux, bringing the major and raising our market share from just over 4% on sales of 12.5% 2002 13.8%.
Good new plasterboard plant at Kallo up to BPB best to about 16% making us now the No.
3 player performances in Asia and Southern Africa also practice standards, and achieve planned with a low-cost business producing a sales contributed to the groups improved results and, business synergies return before restructuring costs of over 10% despite higher group restructuring and redundancy invest in new business systems and in on selling prices which are still well below costs of 19.6 million 2002 14.4 million and an developing higher skill sets of our people, historic mid-cycle levels additional UK-related group pension charge as part of a broader programme to achieve real enhanced our European leadership in of 6.2 million, group sales margin rose from improvements in overheads, supply chain costs plasterboard and plasters through further 10.8% to 11.4%.
and plant manufacturing performances investment in Gyproc Benelux, acquiring control of the company to secure a strong market A more detailed explanation of group, regional and Having reviewed the main events and issues presence in the Low Countries and a Belgian country performances is given in the operating surrounding the groups progress in 2002 03 and manufacturing base that fits very well with and financial review on page 14. set out the key business tasks and challenges for BPBs regional plant network 2003 04, I wish to express my enormous During the year we systematically addressed admiration for our dedicated teams of people who, BPBs business objectives of delivering improving a number of key business areas crucial to BPBs with their talents and energy, are the determining performance and meeting the value expectations performance, taking steps to further reduce the factors of BPBs current and future success.
of our shareholders, customers and employees, groups operating cost base and improve returns will continue to be actively pursued through a from our European and North American straightforward business model targeting real businesses.
We have: progress in three key areas: profitable sales integrated the Hardie acquisition in line growth, relentless cost reduction and the with plan development of our people.
closed the US paper mill at Quincy, and completed the $50 million Celotex Richard Cousins restructuring plan at the half year 21 May 2003 6 months ahead of schedule launched last October, under the BPB banner, Underlying operating profit movements the groups coast-to-coast business coverage 02 03 compared to prior in North America, with ProRoc as the new year million universal brand name for our wallboard 13 products further restructured our German operations in response to a worsening trading situation, with plasterboard capacity now down by well over 15% and the workforce reduced by nearly 40% compared with two years ago invested in new plasterboard and plaster manufacturing capacity in the UK and Italy and increased our modest investment in specialist distribution in Spain acquired control of Gyproc Benelux, gaining leadership of the Belgian and Dutch markets for plasters and plasterboard and strengthening our existing position in France delivered worldwide cost savings from on-going businesses equivalent to 1.5% of group turnover, offsetting the general impact of inflation 01 02 180.0 Inflation 31.9 Restructuring, depreciation 14.5 and other costs Cost efficiency 29.2 Selling prices 28.1 Underlying volume 12.4 Acquisitions 17.2 02 03 220.5 BPB annual report 2003 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GROUP UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT INCREASED 23% TO 220.5 MILLION AND OVERALL SALES MARGIN IMPROVED TO 11.4% on turnover up 16% to 1,931.2 million due to underlying growth in European and North American plasterboard volumes, acquisitions and higher average selling prices BPB s drive to offset the impact of rising input costs produced further annualised savings of 29 million, equal to 1.5% of turnover Group trading results 2003 2002 North American sales advanced 76% to exceed Turnover m 1,931.2 1,661.8 450 million square metres as a result of 3% Underlying operating profit m 220.5 180.0 underlying growth and 11 months trading from Return on sales % 11.4 10.8 the Hardie acquisition.
Canadian volumes grew People 12,767 12,320 10%, driven by buoyant activity in the new housing market, but volumes were down by 1% in the US as robust housing demand was unable GROUP TRADING PERFORMANCE to compensate for further weakness in the Group underlying operating profit increased commercial sector.
Volumes in the Rest of the 23% to 220.5 million 2002 180.0 million World grew by 7% to more than 70 million square and overall sales margin improved to 11.4% metres, taking BPBs worldwide sales over 2002 10.8%, on turnover up 16% to 1 billion square metres.
1,931.2 million due to underlying growth in European and North American plasterboard Sales of building plasters, BPBs main volumes, acquisitions and higher average selling complementary product, increased by 2% prices.
Almost 60% of the groups additional sales due to additional demand in the UK and Spain, were from James Hardie Gypsum which made a supported by further good growth in Eastern maiden contribution to underlying operating Europe.
As a result, overall group volumes rose profit of 16.5 million.
to well over 4 million tonnes.
The new building plaster products launched in the previous year in European like-for-like plasterboard volumes grew Turkey, India and Thailand continued to grow well.
5% to over 500 million square metres, despite a Better overall selling prices, and a continuing further albeit smaller decline in Germany, while market trend away from traditional plasters towards added-value lightweight products, resulted in the groups turnover for building plasters increasing by 6% to 268 million.
Elsewhere, ceiling tile sales were marginally lower as the groups businesses in Europe and North America experienced further poor demand in the commercial sector.
Trading conditions for European insulation activities were also difficult, 14 Turnover by product with cost price pressures and a decline in German OVERVIEW segment sales.
The enlarged specialist distribution business Group in Spain increased its annualised turnover to over No.
1 for plasterboard in the world No.
1 50 million, comparable in size to the Artex Rawlplug DIY fixings business which maintained in europe No.
1-2 a strong UK position with turnover up 5%.
Formula, the groups special plasters business, in emerging markets No.
1 for plasters improved its profitability on sales of over in the world No.
1 in 30 million by concentrating on the specialist industrial and medical sectors.
1 for expanded During the year the group faced cost pressures for polystyrene insulation in europe No.
Recovered paper Plasterboard and for ceiling tiles in the worldNo.
4 in europe costs increased rapidly in both North America and accessories 63% Europe, with prices doubling in the first financial Plasters 16% No.
Since then some of that increase has Other building materials 18% reversed but the higher prices of last summer cost the group 7 million.
Haulage and expanded Paperboard 3% BPB annual report 2003 polystyrene bead prices, both pegged to the oil co-ordination of BPBs European plasterboard BPB plasterboard volume by region price, also rose during the year as did gas prices supply network to ensure local demand in all 2 million m in the US.
Planned actions to improve operational markets was met and regional operating efficiencies led to a 5.2 million increase in efficiencies optimised restructuring and redundancy costs to 19.6 million, while the increase in the group pension convergence of BPBs manufacturing platforms charge included 6.2 million per annum on an and individual plants towards higher on-going basis following the main UK schemes benchmarked standards in safety, customer triennial actuarial valuation which had resulted in service and product quality, operating a lower actuarial surplus.
In total these increases efficiencies, and use of assets added 1% to the groups cost base.
improvements in the manufacturing BPBs drive to offset the impact of rising input efficiency and capacity of BPBs mill at costs produced further operating cost savings of Aberdeen UK, as part of a programme 29 million, equal to 1.5% of turnover, with the to uplift paperboard performance completion of the Celotex restructuring plan and Hardie integration synergies in the US responsible expansion of our European manufacturing base for around 18 million of savings.
Positive steps for plasterboard and building plasters through were taken in Europe and North America to the commissioning of a new combined facility accelerate the delivery of further cost savings and in Italy, investment in additional UK capacities improve the availability of existing capacity to and French and Spanish plaster capacity, and by meet anticipated growth in demand.
beginning the integration in March of acquired capacities in Belgium Organic Operational achievements and initiatives during Acquisitions the year, and important elements of BPBs investing in the development of the Iberian strategy for securing profitable growth, included: plasterboard market through the acquisition of specialist distributors in Spain launching new added-value products to meet customer needs from a trend towards more substantial expansion of North Americas demanding building regulations in well manufacturing capacity, and significantly developed markets, and expanding our product improving regional efficiency, through the offering in more rapidly growing markets integration of the three large US wallboard 15 plants acquired from James Hardie early plasterboard volume growth of over 5% in the in the year more developed markets of the UK, Ireland and France, well above the level of growth in gross commencement of a group sourcing domestic product in those countries programme for commodity inputs in order to deliver further manufacturing cost savings, further growth of plasterboard sales to the moving where appropriate from a region-byhousing and renovation sectors in the US, region approach to one that reflects BPBs Canada and more developed European markets increased global business scale continued penetration of plasterboard technology against traditional building practices in the Iberian, Eastern European and Asian markets, with volume increases ranging from 10% to over 30% Total 845 191 1,036 Europe 505 3 508 N. America 269 188 457 RoW 71 71 BPB annual report 2003 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW OUR EUROPEAN BUSINESS DELIVERED A ROBUST 182.0 MILLION OF UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT 2002 184.3 MILLION after incurring 9.1 million of restructuring charges, and higher input costs Like-for-like plasterboard volumes grew 5% to over 500 million square metres, as a result of continuing strong performances in Western, Southern and Eastern Europe Europe 2003 2002 NORTH & WESTERN EUROPE Turnover m 1,451.3 1,336.0 The benefit of continuing good volume growth of Underlying operating profit m 182.0 184.3 core products, improved selling prices and further Return on sales % 12.5 13.8 cost savings in the British Isles was offset by the People 8,855 8,686 combination of a 6.2 million pension charge in the UK, a significant increase in the cost of recovered paper and weaker markets in Norway Good growth in key plasterboard markets and and Sweden, resulting in underlying operating much of Eastern Europe offset a decline in German profit of 95.8 million 2002 98.3 million.
volumes, resulting in regional volumes up 5% and record sales of over 0.5 billion square metres.
BPBs UK plasterboard volumes continued to This, together with generally stable selling prices, grow as construction activity improved, driven an increase in overall sales volumes of building predominantly by good demand in the new plasters and continued cost savings, underpinned housing and renovation sectors.
Commercial a European underlying operating profit of demand started to slow towards the end of the 182.0 million 2002 184.3 million after year, except for government funded work in health incurring 9.1 million in respect of restructuring care and education.
Government planning charges, and higher input costs mostly recovered requirements, the trend in building regulations paper and UK pensions.
Regional cost pressures towards higher specification materials, and an were largely offset by operating savings and the active renovation sector all contributed to the contribution from increased turnover, up 9% to increased use of added-value thermal, acoustic over 1.4 billion.
and fire resistant systems which now account for more than 20% of UK plasterboard sales.
Further changes to building regulations will take effect in the second half of this year.
Given the growth in market demand and broader product mix, additional UK plasterboard capacity was commissioned in the New Year at the Robertsbridge and East Leake plants.
Additional plaster capacity was also introduced to meet increased demand.
While management concentrated on implementing the capacity 16 Turnover by product increases, further operating savings were also EUROPE segment extracted from haulage, raw material, energy Europe and overhead costs.
BPBs UK-based paperboard operations reported lower overall sales demand and profit, although a significant first-half increase in the price of recovered paper was largely offset by better prices on increased sales of plasterboard liner to group companies.
Strong growth in plasterboard volumes resumed in Ireland, and sales of building plasters increased Plasterboard and following the previous years slower growth in the accessories 57% housing market after almost a decade of buoyant Plasters 21% activity.
Improved selling prices offset inflationary Other building materials 18% cost pressures to record improved profitability.
Paperboard 4% BPB annual report 2003 Nordic markets experienced mixed trading of a wide-ranging programme to upgrade existing BPB plasterboard volume growth conditions, with plasterboard volumes falling plaster plants was commenced in the year Europe slightly in Sweden where construction activity and will lead to a better product mix from continued to decline.
Volumes in Norway were new low-cost capacity to service the steadily also lower but good growth was achieved in growing Iberian market and its trend towards Finland and Denmark.
Overall volumes advanced lightweight plasters.
by 2% but profitability was affected by fierce price competition.
Further strong growth was evident In Spain BPB invested a further 20 million in in the Baltic States and Russia where volumes acquiring several specialist distribution companies, increased by 10% to a level double that of two completing a two year process to establish a years ago.
business aimed at enhancing the groups ability to progress the rapid development of the Iberian SOUTHERN EUROPE market for plasterboard.
Supported by a small Turnover rose 14% to 594.9 million, about half service centre in Barcelona, the new distribution of the increase coming from BPBs new distribution network trades under the names Distriplac and business in Spain, which operates on lower Idaglas, operating 31 depots across Spain and margins.
Underlying operating profit improved 5% Portugal, and selling a complete range of to 79.3 million, as higher input costs offset the plasterboard systems, removable ceiling and benefit of selling price improvements on insulation products to contractors and installers.
99 00 01 02 03 plasterboard and plaster volumes which grew 2 Volume million m by 8% and 2% respectively.
The new combined plasterboard and plaster plant Annual growth % at Termoli in Italy was commissioned early in the The key French plasterboard market grew well year, replacing two old plaster plants and providing as a result of strong demand in the repair and a much more efficient facility to meet growing renovation sector.
Product was imported from demand: fuelled by a strong repairs and group operations in Germany and Italy to support renovation market, plasterboard volumes grew the volume growth, and actions were taken to by over 5%.
The new plant also exported stabilise manufacturing performances at higher plasterboard to Greece and the Balkans and levels and improve product quality.
New products released capacity to support market development contributing to sales growth were Doublissimo, an in France and Spain.
acoustic expanded polystyrene laminate launched last year and a new range of thermal EPS products BPB significantly enhanced its European market 17 under the Maxissimo brand.
Placocem, an interior position for plasters and plasterboard by acquiring cement board for lining high humidity areas, the Belgian, Dutch and French businesses of achieved good sales growth since its launch last Gyproc Benelux in March 2003.
Plaster sales were down due to lower companys German and Polish plasterboard demand, particularly in traditional products, and businesses were immediately sold to Lafarge and further plasterboard substitution.
Overall selling our integration of the retained businesses, which prices were stable and, despite increased costs are well situated between the groups existing of EPS beads and plasterboard liner, the business operations in France and Germany, is now continued to generate good returns.
Volumes in the developing Spanish and CENTRAL & EASTERN EUROPE Portuguese plasterboard markets increased by Lower German demand for plasterboard, building more than 10%, as penetration of the commercial plasters and other complementary products, construction market continued, assisted by the together with further restructuring charges and introduction of full product ranges.
Plasterboard much weaker average plasterboard selling prices has yet to have a significant impact in new in Poland, resulted in regional underlying housing activity which drove a 3% increase in operating profit falling by 3.8 million to demand for building plasters.
The first phase 6.9 million, despite overall cost savings and 385 8 463 20 476 3 482 1 508 5 BPB annual report 2003 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CENTRAL & EASTERN EUROPE CONTINUED BPB plaster volume growth continuing strong volume growth of plasterboard Europe and plasters in Eastern Europe.
Plasterboard sales volumes in Central and Eastern Europe excluding Germany exceeded German sales for the first time, growing by nearly 11%.
Plasterboard volumes in Germany continued to fall, but at a much slower rate of decline than in the two previous years, mirroring the poor level of construction activity.
However, results benefited from some selling price improvement and high plant utilisation from cross-border supplies to other BPB markets.
The continuing depressed trading environment again impacted sales volumes and returns in the complementary businesses for building plasters, expanded polystyrene insulation and gypsum fibreboard, resulting in an impairment charge of 23.8 million taken as 99 00 01 02 03 an operating exceptional item.
Volume 000 tonnes Annual growth % As in the previous year, the combination of industry over-capacity and stagnant construction activity in Poland led to intensified competition, with selling prices reaching their lowest during the winter.
While prices subsequently recovered, average year-on-year prices declined 20% causing results to be affected despite the achievement of slightly higher sales of plasterboard.
The Stawiany plant continued to operate efficiently at high utilisation levels, supporting exports further east to Russia, Belarus and the Ukraine where combined 18 volumes grew strongly.
Austrian construction activity declined further but group plasterboard volumes improved marginally as a broadened product range won new customers.
Further east in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania volumes continued to grow fast, while the building boom in advance of the Olympic games in Greece led to a near doubling of sales.
Regional plaster sales grew 10%, driven by strong demand in Eastern Europe and Turkey.
3,266 2 3,521 8 3,645 4 3,811 5 3,928 3 BPB annual report 2003 INCLUDING THE HARDIE ACQUISITION, OVERALL SALES ROSE 76% TO DOUBLE BPBS REGIONAL MARKET SHARE TO AROUND 16%.
Better average selling prices, and further efficiency savings above the level of additional restructuring charges and rising energy costs, resulted in the enlarged business moving firmly from a prior year loss of 11.8 million to a profit of 29.4 million North America 2003 2002 market conditions since we acquired this Turnover m 458.5 293.2 business, and the record of losses we have since Underlying operating profit m 29.4 11.8 incurred, an impairment charge of 20.1 million Return on sales % 6.4 4.0 has been taken against the carrying value of the People 2,109 1,712 goodwill and fixed assets of this activity.
This charge has also been treated as an operating exceptional item.
Wallboard volumes advanced 3% on a like-for-like basis, benefiting from resilient housing and Regional cost savings offset input cost inflation in renovation demand in the US and Canada.
At the beginning of the year recycled Including the Hardie acquisition, overall sales rose paper costs rose rapidly and, although they have 76% to double BPBs regional market share to partially fallen back through the autumn and around 16%.
This, together with better average winter, the on-cost to the business was 3 million.
selling prices, and further efficiency savings above Gas consumption in North America continues to the level of additional restructuring charges and rise, due to underlying demand and its increasing rising energy costs, resulted in the enlarged use for electricity generation, with prices up from business moving firmly from a prior year loss $2.5 per thousand btus in 1999 to an average of of 11.8 million to a profit of 29.4 million, about $4 in 2002.
This is a major cost pressure for generating stronger operating cash flow and BPB as energy from gas represents some 10% of posting a North American sales margin for the regions cost base.
wallboard before restructuring costs in excess of 10%.
The $50 million Celotex restructuring plan was completed six months ahead of schedule and, The US wallboard market remained robust, underpinned by low interest rates, with good demand in the new housing and renovation sectors but weaker commercial construction activity.
Against this background like-for-like wallboard volumes fell marginally although headline volumes more than doubled after including the sales of James Hardie Gypsum.
Selling prices were relatively stable throughout 19 the year, averaging $90 per thousand square feet NORTH and resulting in a sustained 15% improvement Turnover by product segment on average realised prices in the previous year.
North America Although the normally slower winter activity saw AMERICA prices fall back to $86 by February 2003, an increase was announced in March, bringing prices back to around $90.
A further price increase has been announced for May 2003.
Canadian wallboard volumes advanced healthily, driven by vigorous house building activity.
Selling prices were firmer in the second half and average prices for the full year improved 2%.
Commercial construction demand continued Wallboard and to decline, impacting the regional ceiling tiles accessories 84% business which reported a reduced loss following Ceiling tiles 13% further cost savings and improved plant Other building efficiencies.
As a result of the adverse change in materials 3% BPB annual report 2003 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW NORTH AMERICA CONTINUED BPB wallboard volume growth although not originally within this plan, the Quincy North America paperboard mill was closed in June 2002 following the switch to an economically advantageous third-party supply contract for wallboard liner.
The resulting costs of 6.9 million in redundancy, asset write-off and site clearance charges were all classified as restructuring costs and taken against underlying operating profit.
By the year end substantial progress had been made in integrating Hardies activities into BPBs North American business platform and meeting our target for annualised operating synergies of more than $10 million by September 2003.
BPB has established a regional supply network of 13 wallboard plants spread across Canada and the US, with operations supported by a business IT system developed at our regional service centre 99 00 01 02 03 near Toronto.
Early in the second-half the groups 2 Volume million m North American companies converted to the single Annual growth % trading identity of BPB and launched ProRoc as the new regional brand for wallboard.
Since 1999 00 BPB has, through its acquisitions of the US businesses of Celotex and Hardie, substantially enhanced its North American presence.
We have grown from a regional market share in wallboard of some 4%, based on 6 plants and market leadership in Canada, to become a major industry player with a market share of around 16%, with the additional capacity provided 20 by our 7 new US plants.
Through Celotex we also acquired 4 US ceiling tile plants with a 10% regional market share.
As a result, turnover has increased from 157 million to 458 million, wallboard sales volumes have trebled to over 450 million square metres and the equivalent of 40 million of annualised savings have been achieved to underpin a much lower cost base.
136 4 150 11 185 23 260 41 457 76 BPB annual report 2003 GOOD PERFORMANCES IN ASIA AND SOUTHERN AFRICA CONTRIBUTED TO THE GROUPS IMPROVED RESULTS.
BPBs developing RoW businesses achieved a substantial improvement in profitability, with the impact of substantial commodity cost inflation offset by cost savings and generally better selling prices on plasterboard volumes up 7% to more than 70 million square metres Rest of the World 2003 2002 strong performance by our Thai business.
The task BPB plasterboard Turnover m 92.4 97.1 of penetrating geographic and product markets volume growth Rest of the World Underlying operating profit m 9.1 7.5 was vigorously pursued by BPB, with regional Return on sales % 9.8 7.7 plasterboard volumes advancing 20% reflecting People 1,803 1,922 good progress in the marketing of systems and rapid construction techniques to customers across India, Thailand, Malaysia, Vietnam, Taiwan, BPBs developing RoW businesses achieved Korea and China.
a substantial improvement in profitability, as a small loss in South America was offset by Our third full year of operation in Thailand saw improved results in Asia and Southern Africa.
domestic and export volumes increase by over Overall, underlying operating profit increased 25% which, combined with improved plant 1.6 million to 9.1 million, with the impact of efficiencies, generated good growth in substantial commodity cost inflation offset by profitability.
Stronger demand, reduced costs and cost savings and generally better selling prices some improvement in selling prices, moved the on plasterboard volumes up 7%.
Chinese business into a cash positive position.
Intensified competition from imports led to overall 99 00 01 02 03 In South America, we recorded a further, albeit selling prices in India falling some 10%, but a 2 Volume million m reduced, operating loss mainly as a result of the small improvement in profit resulted from further economic crisis in Argentina which led to penetration of plasterboard as sales volumes Annual growth % the collapse of the local construction market.
With no manufacturing presence in that country, the groups exposure was small and we decided to withdraw our trading operation, incurring a small loss.
In contrast, economic conditions in Brazil were less severe and, despite continuing flat construction activity, BPB achieved volume growth and improved selling prices demonstrating the continuing penetration of plasterboard technology.
Further good progress was achieved in the 21 development of the groups plaster business in REST OF Turnover by product Egypt, with improved selling prices on increased segment volumes, greater manufacturing efficiencies, Rest of the World and the successful introduction of plasterboard THE WORLD systems to its product range.
In Southern Africa the commercial construction market remained in recession, offsetting improved demand in the residential sector.
However, selling price improvements, together with a reduction of input costs due to a strengthening of the Rand, offset the impact of high cost inflation and contributed to a robust profit and cash flow performance.
Plasterboard and accessories 64% We achieved good progress in the development Plasters 14% of our Asian markets, with overall sales, Other building profitability and cash generation benefiting from a materials 22% 25 14 33 33 60 81 67 11 71 7 BPB annual report 2003 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW UNDERLYING PROFIT BEFORE TAX WAS UP 25% AT 191.6 MILLION despite higher restructuring costs of 19.6 million 2002 14.4 million Year-end net debt of 663.5 million was after the EC fine, acquisitions costing 315.7 million and a strong operating cash inflow of 316.1 million.
Interest cover improved to 7.5 times 2002 6.1 times GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE last year, despite higher average net debt A robust group financial performance was driven following acquisition expenditure of by a turnaround in North American profitability, 315.7 million, due to lower interest rates.
with BPB reporting an underlying operating profit improvement of 23% to 220.5 million 2002 Underlying earnings per share increased by 23% 180.0 million and strong underlying operating to 25.8p 2002 21.0p, with the impact of a larger cash flow up 51.7 million to 316.1 million.
number of shares in issue more than offset by higher group profits and a lower tax rate of 32% UNDERLYING EARNINGS 2002 36.9%.
The high tax rate of the previous Underlying profit before tax was up 25% at year was due to unrelieved US losses.
191.6 million despite higher restructuring costs of 19.6 million 2002 14.4 million and a REPORTED PROFIT AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 6.2 million increase in the group pension charge A reconciliation of the groups reported profit following the normal UK triennial actuarial before tax of 48.4 million 2002 146.3 million valuation.
Restructuring charges included to the underlying pre-tax profit before goodwill 9.9 million in North America, principally relating amortisation and exceptional items of to the closure of the Quincy paper mill in the US, 191.6 million 2002 153.0 million, and the and 9.1 million in Europe which included relevant tax effects, is summarised in the table 4.8 million in France and Spain primarily to set out on page 23.
This shows: rationalise plaster capacity and 1.6 million for further restructuring in Germany.
a non-operating exceptional profit of 7.4 million, mainly arising from the disposal of UK property The group net interest charge of 29.3 million assets and a non-core business in Thailand before BPBs share of joint ventures and associates interest was 0.2 million lower than a net-of-tax impairment charge of 36.5 million reported as an operating exceptional charge relating to underperforming plaster, insulation and gypsum fibreboard assets in Germany, and ceiling tile assets in the US.
These businesses continue to operate in difficult economic conditions and it became increasingly apparent that the returns were insufficient to support the 22 carrying value of the assets in question.
FINANCE Impairment tests were carried out as part of the groups normal year-end routines and the results Capital invested confirmed the need to write down the assets to by region a level commensurate with their value in use a charge of 90.5 million for the fine levied by the European Commission including the groups share of the Gyproc Benelux fine.
BPBs fine of 89.2 million was paid in full in March subject to the outcome of the appeal lodged in February 2003 an exceptional tax credit of 6.0 million which resulted from the resolution of a long-standing tax issue Europe 67% North America 25% a resultant loss after tax for the group of Rest of the World 8% 0.7 million BPB annual report 2003 2003 2002 NET DEBT AND CASH FLOW CAPITAL INVESTED AND ACQUISITIONS Group cash flow m m Year-end net debt of 663.5 million was after Acquisition expenditure of 315.7 million EBITDA 326.1 264.2 the EC fine, acquisitions costing 315.7 million and 2002 31.1 million included: Net movement in working capital 10.0 0.2 a strong operating cash inflow of 316.1 million.
Operating cash flow 316.1 264.4 Key factors affecting cash generation were: 233.2 million purchase consideration for Capital expenditure 96.5 84.5 James Hardie Gypsum, net of a 12.0 million Fixed asset disposal 12.2 3.7 improved profitability, with EBITDA of prepayment in March 2002 on a forward Taxation 43.8 57.7 326.1 million up 23% on last year and a contract taken out to fix, in pounds sterling, Other 0.2 1.8 group margin of 16.9% 50% of the purchase consideration Interest 30.1 28.7 Dividends 64.9 59.1 a net working capital outflow of 10.0 million the acquisition of a further 4 distribution Free cash flow 92.8 39.9 despite like-for-like turnover up 79 million businesses in Spain for a total consideration Acquisitions 315.7 31.1 of 20.4 million Disposals 40.0 1.4 capital expenditure of 96.5 million, EC Fine 89.2 well below the groups annual depreciation the acquisition of 52.9% of the shares not Share issues 1.2 111.7 charge of 105.6 million, including expenditure already owned by BPB in Gyproc Benelux Contributions from minorities 0.5 to add further plasterboard and plaster capacity for 54.6 million.
The net acquisition cost of Net cash flow 270.9 122.4 in Italy and the UK, and to rationalise and renew 36.6 million included net debt of 16.6 million, plaster capacity in Spain and France.
At the year and was after the sale of Gyprocs German and end capital authorised but unspent totalled Polish plasterboard businesses for 34.6 million.
76 million, mainly relating to schemes to add The remaining 1% of the company was further plasterboard capacity in the UK and acquired at a total cost of 1.0 million in Spain, and to upgrade gypsum mining April 2003 operations in Europe and North America Primarily as a result of these acquisitions capital taxation payments of only 43.8 million, invested of 1,790.8 million was 18% higher low relative to group profits because of the than at the previous year-end, with the profit utilisation of prior year assessable losses and turnaround in North America the principal reason tax refunds with respect to previous years for the groups 1.2 percentage point increase in its average return on investment to 8.8%.
At the year disposal proceeds of 12.2 million, mainly end the group had 67% of its capital invested in related to property sales in the UK and the Europe, with 25% in North America and 8% in 23 disposal of a non-core business in Thailand the Rest of the World.
Net debt gearing was 82.4% 2002 70.3% on a SHAREHOLDER VALUE pro forma basis including the acquisition of James Most companies have seen their share price Hardie Gypsum but interest cover improved to fall over the last financial year as indicated by 7.5 times 2002 6.1 times.
the FTSE 250 index and the FTSE 350 Building & Construction index which fell 36% and 29% respectively.
BPB did not escape the general market downturn and our share price of 269.5p Reconciliation of movement in profit Before tax Tax After tax at the year end was down 31% on the prior year.
Year to 31 March 2003 m m m Underlying profit 191.6 61.3 130.3 The dividends paid and proposed total 13.55p, up Amortisation of goodwill 16.2 16.2 3.4% on last year to give a yield of 5% based on Disposals sales 7.4 1.2 6.2 our year-end share price.
Dividends are covered Impairment charge 43.9 7.4 36.5 1.9 times by underlying earnings.
Exceptional tax credit 6.0 6.0 EC fine including associate 90.5 90.5 Reported profit loss 48.4 49.1 0.7
