Directors Report Business of the Company Payment Policy The Company carries on business as an investment It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms trust and was approved by the Inland Revenue as for all business and therefore there are no an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 standard payment terms.
In general the Company of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for agrees with its suppliers the terms on which the year ended 31st January 2002.
This is subject to business will take place and it is our policy to review should there be any subsequent enquiry abide by these terms.
As at 31st January 2003, the under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
In the Company had no outstanding trade creditors.
opinion of the Directors the Company has Directors subsequently conducted its affairs so that it should The Directors of the Company at the end of the continue to qualify.
The Company will continue to year together with their beneficial interests in the seek approval under Section 842 of the Income and ordinary share capital were: Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
31st January 1st February The Company is not a close company for taxation 2003 2002 purposes.
The Company is an investment company WL Banks 19,752 19,752 within the meaning of Part VIII of the Companies NW Berry 500 500 Act 1985.
SL Keswick 16,700 34,700 A review of the Companys activities and prospects IH Leslie Melville 30,000 15,000 is given in the Chairmans Statement on page 1 LE Linaker 2,318 2,318 and in the Investment Managers Report on pages Lord Rothermere 500 3 to 6.
18,000 of Mr SL Keswicks shares were transferred Revenue and Dividends to a family member during the year.
Gross revenue for the year totalled 34,584,000 No other changes in the above holdings have been and distributable revenue after deducting interest, recorded to the date of this report.
The Directors management expenses and taxation amounted to retiring by rotation will be Mr SL Keswick and 24,169,000 which is available for the ordinary Mr LE Linaker.
They are both eligible and will be shareholders.
The Directors have declared quarterly seeking re-election by shareholders at the Annual interim dividends totalling 18.00p per ordinary General Meeting.
share for the year which totalled 24,449,000.
The revenue reserve amounts to 28,568,000.
During the year an insurance policy has been maintained by the Company which indemnifies the Going Concern Directors of the Company against certain liabilities After making enquiries, the Directors consider that arising in the conduct of their duties.
the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable Manager and Management Fee management arrangements in place to continue in The Manager, J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Management UK Limited JPMFAM is a whollyFor this reason, they continue to adopt the going owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase & Co. which concern basis in preparing the accounts.
through other subsidiaries also provides banking, dealing and custodian services to the Company.
The contract with the Manager can be terminated on one years notice.
Fleming Mercantile 19 Directors Report continued The management fee is paid by monthly The Company has complied with the provisions of instalments based on the total assets less current the Combined Code in regard to the re-election of liabilities at the beginning of each month and is Directors every three years.
charged at a rate of 2.0% on unquoted assets and A management agreement between the Company 0.4% on other assets per annum, excluding funds and JPMFAM sets out matters over which the managed or advised by JPMFAM or any of its Manager has authority.
All other matters are associated companies.
reserved for the approval of the Board.
Notifiable Interests in the Companys Shares The Board meets on at least five occasions each At the date of this report, the following had declared year and between these meetings there is regular a substantial interest in the Companys issued contact with the Manager who provides the Board ordinary share capital: with appropriate and timely management Number of information.
JPMFAM also provides company Shareholders shares held % secretarial advice and services.
The Directors also have access, where necessary, in the furtherance AXA Sun Life Investment of their duties, to independent professional advice Management 12,514,482 9.21 1 at the expense of the Company.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. 12,465,813 9.18 2 Henderson Nominees 7,359,948 5.42 Board Committees Legal & General Investment The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the Management 6,779,746 4.99 Nomination Committee which meets when Standard Life Investments 6,186,846 4.55 necessary to select and propose suitable candidates for appointment to the Board.
Board as a whole also fulfils the function of the 2 Held on behalf of JPMFAM Share Plan, PEP and ISA Remuneration Committee, which reviews Directors participants.
Corporate Governance To ensure its independence from the Manager, the To ensure the appropriate level of corporate Audit Committee excludes from membership all governance, the Board has put in place Directors who are employed by, or who are former arrangements which it believes are suitable for an employees of JPMFAM, or any of its subsidiaries or investment trust and enable the Company to associated companies.
The Audit Committee meets comply with the Principles of Good Governance at least twice each year.
and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code, published by the Committee on Corporate The Audit Committee reviews the terms of the Governance in June 1998.
The following describes management agreement and examines the how the relevant principles of governance are effectiveness of the Companys internal control applied by the Company.
systems, receives information from the Managers internal audit and compliance department and also The Board reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost The Board consists solely of non-executive effectiveness and the independence and Directors, the majority of whom are independent of objectivity of the external auditors.
Accordingly, the Board does not believe that it is necessary to appoint a Relations with Shareholders senior independent Director.
At the Companys Annual General Meeting the Directors and representatives of the Manager are Fleming Mercantile 20 Directors Report continued available in person to meet and answer Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive shareholders questions.
In addition, a review by the Board of key investment and presentation is given by the Investment Managers financial data, including management accounts, who review the Companys activities.
During the revenue projections, transaction analysis and year the Corporate Brokers, the Investment performance comparisons.
Managers and JPMFAM hold regular discussions Management Agreement Appointment of a with institutional shareholders.
The Directors are Manager and custodian, regulated by The Financial made fully aware of their views and responses are Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities tailored as necessary.
The Chairman and Directors are clearly defined in a written agreement.
make themselves available as and when required Management Systems The Managers system of to address shareholders queries.
internal control includes organisational Internal Control agreements which clearly define the lines of The Combined Code requires the Directors at least responsibility, delegated authority, control annually to review the effectiveness of the procedures and systems.
These are monitored by Companys system of internal control and to report JPMFAMs Compliance Department which regularly to shareholders that they have done so.
This has monitors compliance with FSA rules.
extended the previous requirement which focused Investment Strategy Authorisation and on internal financial controls, and now monitoring of the Companys investment strategy encompasses a review of all controls which the and exposure limits by the Board.
Board has identified as including business, financial, operational, compliance and risk The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of management.
the Companys system of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key operating The Directors are responsible for the Companys controls of the Manager and its associates as system of internal control which is designed to follows: safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that information the Board, through the Audit Committee, used within the business, or published, is reliable.
reviews the terms of the management However, such a system is designed to manage agreement and receives regular reports from rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve JPMFAMs Internal Compliance Department: business objectives and therefore can only provide the Board reviews the report on the internal reasonable but not absolute assurance against controls and the operations of the custodian, fraud, material misstatement or loss.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is independently Since investment management, custody of assets reviewed: and and all administrative services are provided to the the Board reviews every six months an Company by JPMFAM and its associates, the independent report on the internal controls and Companys system of internal control mainly the operations of JPMFAM.
comprises monitoring the services provided by JPMFAM and its associates, including the operating By the means of the procedures set out above, the controls established by them to ensure that they Board confirms that it has reviewed the meet the Companys business objectives.
effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control for the year ended 31st January 2003.
The key elements designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: Fleming Mercantile 21 Directors Report continued Annual General Meeting Auditors A resolution relating to the following item of Following the conversion of our auditors, special business will be proposed at the , to a Limited Liability forthcoming Annual General Meeting: Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003,  resigned on 2nd April Repurchase of the Companys Shares 2003 and the Directors appointed its successor, At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2002,  LLP, as auditors.
A shareholders gave authority to the Company to resolution to reappoint  enable it to purchase up to 14.99% of its then LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed issued share capital.
At that time shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
were informed that this authority would expire at the 2003 Annual General Meeting and could be By order of the Board renewed by shareholders at any time at a General J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, Meeting of the Company.
The Directors consider Secretary that the renewal of the authority would be in the Richard Lewis interest of shareholders as a whole as the 16th April 2003 repurchase of shares at a discount to the underlying net asset value NAV would enhance the NAV of the remaining shares.
The Directors therefore recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
The full text of the resolution renewing the share buy-back authority is set out as Resolution number 6 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 24.
