Directors Report Business of the Company which business will take place and it is its policy to The Company carries on business as an investment abide by these terms.
As at 30th September 2003, trust and was approved by the Inland Revenue as the Company had no outstanding trade creditors.
an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 Directors of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for The Directors of the Company at the end of the the year ended 30th September 2002.
In the year together with their beneficial interests in the opinion of the Directors, the Company has Companys share capital are given below.
subsequently conducted its affairs so that it 1st October should continue to qualify.
The Company will 2002 continue to seek approval under Section 842 of the 30th September or at date of Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
2003 appointment Approval for the year ended 30th September 2002 PAF Gifford 9,678 9,678 is subject to review should there be any BNA Hardman 3,000 3,000 subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self JD Paulson-Ellis 1,500 1,500 Assessment.
The Company is an investment DC Pearson 1,693 company within the meaning of Part VIII of the DC Ritchie 11,142 11,142 Companies Act 1985.
The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
No changes in the above holdings have been A review of the Companys activities and prospects notified by any Director between the year end and is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 1 the date of this report.
and 2 and in the Investment Managers Report on David Pearson was appointed a Director on 1st pages 4 to 8.
January 2003 and offers himself for election.
Blaise Revenue Hardman and Jeremy Paulson-Ellis retire by Gross revenue return for the year totalled rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for 4,274,000 and after deducting interest, re-election.
Having been Directors of the Company management expenses and taxation applied for over nine years, David Ritchie and Patrick against income there was a surplus of 2,229,000.
Gifford retire and offer themselves for re-election.
No dividend has been declared due to the revenue As detailed in the Chairmans Statement, they will reserve remaining in deficit.
Going Concern During the year an insurance policy has been After making enquiries, the Directors consider that maintained by the Company which indemnifies the the Company has adequate resources, an Directors of the Company against certain liabilities appropriate financial structure and suitable arising on the conduct of their duties.
management arrangements in place for it to Management and Management Fee continue in operational existence for the The Companys assets are managed by J. P. Morgan foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue Fleming Asset Management UK Limited to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the JPMFAM.
JPMFAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary accounts.
of JPMorgan Chase & Co. which through other Payment Policy subsidiaries, also provides banking, dealing, stock It is the Companys payment policy to obtain the lending and custodian services to the Company.
best terms for all business and therefore there are The Board has thoroughly reviewed the investment no standard payment terms.
In general the managers investment strategy and process.
The Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on Fleming Japanese 19 Directors Report continued review covered the performance of the investment Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year manager, their management processes, investment ended 30th September 2003 and the following style, resources and risk controls.
The Board is describes how the relevant principles of governance satisfied with the results of the review and is are applied to the Company.
The Board also therefore of the opinion that the continuing considers that it has complied with the principles of appointment of the investment manager is in the the AITC Code of Corporate Governance.
Such a review will The Board be carried out on an annual basis.
The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors, The contract with the Manager can be terminated the majority of whom are regarded by the Board as on one years notice, without penalty.
If the independent of the Companys Manager, including Company wishes to terminate the contract on less the Chairman.
The Board does not consider that than one years notice, the balance of the years Patrick Gifford is an independent Director.
remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
Directors are initially appointed until the following The Manager is remunerated at a rate of 0.6% per Annual General Meeting when, under the annum on the Companys gross assets up to 500m, Companys Articles of Association, it is required 0.45% on the next 500m and 0.375% thereafter, that they be elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, a and this is calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
Directors appointment will run for a term of three years.
A Director may thereafter be invited to serve When the Company invests in funds managed or for one or more further terms of three years, in advised by JPMFAM or any of its associated every case subject to the normal requirements for companies they are excluded from the calculation re-election by shareholders at annual general and therefore attract no fee.
Any Director who has served for a period Notifiable Share Interests of more than nine years will submit himself for At the date of this report the Company had been annual re-appointment.
notified of the following interests equal to or in A management agreement between the Company excess of 3% of its issued share capital: and JPMFAM sets out matters over which the Number of Manager has authority.
This includes management Shareholders shares held % of the Companys assets and the provision of 1 JPMorgan Chase & Co 14,271,624 7.7 accounting, company secretarial, administration Lazard Asset Management 9,758,317 5.3 and some marketing matters.
All other matters are Tattersall Advisory Group 5,641,000 3.0 reserved for the approval of the Board.
The Board meets on at least five occasions each year and between these meetings there is regular Corporate Governance contact with the Manager who provides the Board To ensure the appropriate level of corporate with appropriate and timely management governance, the Board has put in place information.
JPMFAM also provides company arrangements which it believes are suitable for an secretarial advice and services.
The Board regularly investment trust and enable the Company to comply reviews both the performance of, and the with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of contractual arrangements with, the Manager.
The Best Practice the Combined Code, published by Directors have access, where necessary, in the the Committee on Corporate Governance in June furtherance of their duties, to independent 1998.
The Board considers that the Company has professional advice at the expense of the Company.
complied with the provisions contained within 20 Fleming Japanese Directors Report continued Board Committees Internal Control The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the The Combined Code requires the Directors at least Nomination Committee, which meets when annually to review the effectiveness of the necessary to select suitable candidates for Companys system of internal control and to report appointment to the Board.
The Board as a whole to shareholders that they have done so.
This also fulfils the function of the Remuneration encompasses a review of all controls, which the Committee, which reviews Directors fees on a Board has identified as including business, regular basis.
The Remuneration Report is set out financial, operational, compliance and risk on page 24. management.
To ensure its independence from the Manager, the The Directors are responsible for the Companys Audit Committee excludes from membership any system of internal control, which is designed to Director who is or was employed by JPMFAM, or safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper any of its subsidiaries or associated companies.
accounting records and ensure that financial information used within the business, or The Audit Committee meets at least twice each published, is reliable.
However, such a system is year.
The Committee reviews the terms of the designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk management agreement and examines the of failure to achieve business objectives and effectiveness of the Companys internal control therefore can only provide reasonable, but not systems, receives information from the Managers absolute assurance against fraud, material Compliance department and also reviews the misstatement or loss.
scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and Since investment management, custody of assets objectivity of the external auditors.
The Directors and administrative services are provided to the statement on the Companys system of internal Company by JPMFAM and its associates, the control is set out below.
Companys system of internal control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided by Relations with Shareholders JPMFAM and its associates, including the operating At the Companys Annual General Meeting, the controls established by them, to ensure that they Directors and representatives of the Manager are meet the Companys business objectives.
available in person to meet and answer shareholders questions.
In addition, a The key elements designed to provide effective presentation is given by the Investment Manager internal control are as follows: who reviews the Companys activities.
The Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive Companys brokers, the investment managers and review by the Board of key investment and JPMFAM hold regular discussions with institutional financial data, including management accounts, shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware revenue projections, analysis of transactions and of these views and responses are tailored as performance comparisons.
The Chairman and Directors make Management Agreement Appointment of a themselves available as and when required to manager and custodian regulated by The Financial address shareholders queries.
Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities Accountability and Audit are clearly defined in a written agreement.
The Directors and Auditors responsibilities in Management Systems The Managers system of respect of the Accounts are set out on pages 24 internal control includes organisational and 27 respectively.
agreements which clearly define the lines of Fleming Japanese 21 Directors Report continued responsibility, delegated authority, control need to manage effectively relationships with procedures and systems.
These are monitored by its employees, suppliers and customers, to JPMFAM s Compliance department which regularly behave ethically and to have regard to the monitors compliance with FSA rules.
environment and society as a whole.
In our pursuit of good financial returns for our clients, Investment Strategy Authorisation and our investment managers take account of monitoring of the Companys investment strategy these and all other factors affecting the and exposure limits by the Board.
valuation of the companies in which they are The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of currently invested or considering investment the Companys system of internal control by on behalf of clients.
monitoring the operation of the key operating Corporate Governance and Voting Policy controls of the Manager and its associates as The following, which has been reviewed and follows: approved by the Board, is a summary of JPMFAMs the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews statement on corporate governance and voting the terms of the management agreement and policy: receives regular reports from JPMFAM s JPMFAM aim to vote our clients proxies at all Compliance department: company meetings.
For technical and practical the Board reviews the report on the internal reasons this may not always be possible.
controls and the operations of its custodian, However, we at all times will act to protect our JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is independently clients best interests through the exercise of reviewed: and their votes.
We seek to promote good practice on all corporate governance issues, with the the Directors review every six months a report overall aim of minimising corporate on the internal controls and operations of mismanagement and failure.
We also keep in JPMFAM which is independently reported on by close touch with similarly interested parties at  LLP.
By the means of the procedures set out above, the Whilst generally supportive of management, Board confirms that it has reviewed, and is satisfied our pro-active approach seeks general with, the effectiveness of the Companys system of adherence to the principles set out in the internal control for the year ended 30th September Combined Code.
Our aim is to vote on all 2003, and up to the date of this report.
company resolutions and we therefore seek full Socially Responsible Investment voting discretion from our clients.
It is our The following, which has been reviewed and practice to liaise with clients to discuss approved by the Board, is a summary of JPMFAMs potentially contentious issues and to keep policy statement on socially responsible them in touch with corporate governance investment: issues generally.
Unless instructed otherwise, we believe it is Auditors our primary duty to act in the best financial Begbies Everett Chettle have expressed their interests of our clients and to achieve good willingness to continue in office and a resolution to financial returns consistent with an acceptable reappoint them and authorise the Directors to level of risk in the management of our clients agree their remuneration for the ensuing year will investments.
A company run in the long-term be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General interests of its shareholders with the objective Meeting.
of enhancing shareholder value over time will 22 Fleming Japanese Directors Report continued Annual General Meeting b Repurchase of the Companys Shares Resolutions relating to the following items of The Company repurchased a total of 2,010,000 special business will be proposed at the shares for cancellation during the year, forthcoming Annual General Meeting: representing 1.07% of the Companys issued share capital at the previous year end, for a total a Authority to Issue Shares for Cash consideration of 2.5m.
The authority to The Companies Act 1985 requires that the directors repurchase up to 14.99 per cent of the Companys of a company be authorised by shareholders to issued share capital, granted by shareholders at allot shares.
It also requires that new shares last years AGM, will expire on 18th June 2004 issued by a company for cash be offered first to unless renewed at the forthcoming AGM.
existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
However, shareholders can, The Board will seek shareholder approval at the by special resolution, authorise directors to allot AGM to renew this authority, which will last until shares otherwise than by a pro-rata issue to 17th June 2005 or until the whole of the 14.99 per existing shareholders.
cent has been acquired, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors consider that the renewing of the Resolution 9 in the Notice of the Meeting on page authority would be in the interest of shareholders 25 is such a special resolution, giving the Directors as a whole as the repurchases of shares at specific authority to allot new shares, otherwise discount to the underlying net asset value NAV than by a pro-rata issue to existing shareholders, would enhance the NAV of the remaining shares.
for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of The Directors therefore recommend that 2,322,524 representing 9,290,095 ordinary shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
shares of 25 pence each, such amount being approximately equivalent to 5% of the present The full text of the resolution is set out in the issued share capital.
This authority will remain in Notice of Meeting on pages 25 and 26. effect until 17th December 2008.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion of the Board, and will only be made in the market at The Board believes that, should the shares move to prices below the prevailing net asset value per a sustained premium to net asset value, it would be share as and when market conditions are in the interest of existing shareholders for the appropriate.
Company to be able to issue new shares to participants purchasing shares through the c Change of Company name JPMorgan Fleming savings products and also to The Directors recommend that the Companys other investors.
As such issues would only be made name be changed to JPMorgan Fleming Japanese at prices greater than net asset value, they increase Investment Trust plc.
Further details are given in the assets underlying each share and spread the the Chairmans Statement on page 2.
Should this administrative expenses, other than those fees be approved by shareholders, the change of name charged as a percentage of assets, over a greater is expected to take effect shortly after the AGM, number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available when confirmed by the Registrar of Companies.
for investment in line with the Companys objective.
Your Directors recommend that shareholders grant By order of the Board them authority to allot shares up to the limit set JM Latter, for and on behalf of out above.
No issue of shares will be made which J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited would effectively alter the control of the Company Secretary without the prior approval of shareholders in 14th November 2003 general meeting.
