Investment Managers Report Stephen Mitchell Jonathan Dobson has been managing the has been assisting in the assets of the Company since management of the assets of December 1997. the Company since June 2001.
INVESTMENT MANAGERS which comprises 30 of the largest and highest Review quality companies in the Japanese market, to After falling 14.4% in yen terms for the first half of underperform the headline TOPIX index the Companys financial year, the Japanese TOPIX substantially.
In fact, this group of blue chip index rose 29.3% in yen terms over the last six companies fell almost 19% in yen terms between months.
This equated to an overall rise of 10.6% the beginning of October 2002 and the end of for the full year in yen terms or 15.4% in pounds March 2003. sterling.
The first half of the year, from the beginning of By contrast, the second half of the Companys year, October 2002 to the end of March 2003, was from the beginning of April 2003 to the end of characterised by weaker economic trends, not just in September 2003, saw the flow of news in Japan Japan, but around the world.
Investors worries about improve to the extent that, by the end of the the contraction in global economies were further period, both investors and analysts alike were exacerbated by the war in Iraq and the continued starting to talk about a full-blown economic weakness of the US dollar.
The Japanese market was recovery.
Accordingly, the TOPIX index rose almost affected badly by these concerns.
Many of Japans 30% in yen terms over this six month period.
leading and largest companies such as Honda and There were several catalysts behind this Canon are global businesses which derive turnaround in the market.
Firstly, the end of the substantial portions of their revenues from outside war with Iraq and the subsiding of worries about Japan.
Accordingly, their share prices performed an immediate global recession brought stability to poorly as investors took the view that their earnings world stock markets in general.
More important, would be hurt by weaker global demand.
however, were factors specific to Japan, particularly the stimulating effect of demand from The declines in the share prices of these China on the earnings of companies in companies were also exaggerated by the manufacturing industries.
As China gears up for implementation of so-called Daiko Henjo selling the 2008 Olympic Games, the 2010 Shanghai World in Japan, whereby pension funds liquidate assets Expo and beyond, there have been sharp increases in order to transfer back into the government in investment in manufacturing and public works pension system.
The selling tended to be focused infrastructure.
The emergence of China as on good quality, liquid, highly rated stocks and customer rather than competitor to Japan has led paid scant regard to the fact that many of the to a revival in demand and earnings across a broad companies concerned were winning market share range of industries.
The growth has come not just and posting record profits.
from the better-known sectors such as autos and The coincidence of this Daiko Henjo selling and machinery, but also from products such as scrap fears of a global recession led the TOPIX core 30, 4 Fleming Japanese Investment Managers Report continued iron, waste plastic and recycled paper, in all of TOPIX index by 3% in the first half, this means that which Japan used to be a net importer and in all of over the last six months of the year the Companys which institutional investors have been NAV outperformed its benchmark by almost 10%.
underweight for the past decade.
For the first half of the year the Companys The leverage on corporate earnings is very high in portfolio was hit by the underperformance of some such old industries, because the pick up in of its largest positions such as Nintendo.
These demand has come in industries where stocks were depressed by a combination of restructuring has been most aggressive.
In the investor worries about a global recession, the steel sector, for example, where capacity has been spectre of war with Iraq and by Daiko Henjo selling reduced by 10% over the past 5 years, factories are from Japanese institutions.
now running at utilisation rates of 96%-97%, which The second half of the year saw a much easier is leading to a continuous stream of large upward environment in which to generate performance.
revisions for companies like JFE and Nippon Steel.
Firstly, the large exporters, which had caused so Additionally, from March onwards the news on the much pain between October and March, regained technology sector started to improve.
Coming as it their popularity as investors started to pay did in the absence of any real recovery in PC sales, attention to their impressive earnings growth, it took many investors by surprise.
Collectively, rather than worrying about global macro-economic sales of DVD recorders, digital cameras, LCD flat factors.
Thus Nissan, for example, whose price fell panel televisions and mobile telephones with 12% in the first half year, saw its shares rebound by either colour displays or embedded cameras or 52% between April and September 2003. both have now eclipsed the PC as the major Also, from March 2003 onwards, as the first signs of driving factor behind technology capital economic recovery started to appear in Japan, the investment and have been behind the onset of the areas of the Companys portfolio which benefit from current wave of investment.
Upward revisions to improvements in the economy began to perform.
the earnings prospects of companies which benefit These included the Machinery sector THK, SMC and from this such as Advantest and Tokyo Electron Nippon Thompson, where the weighting was raised were behind the sharp rises in share prices in this in late spring, and whose outperformance added 1% sector between April and September.
to the Companys NAV between April and September.
In fact, the performance of these stocks Performance Commentary was so strong over the last six months of the year The Companys NAV expressed in pounds sterling that the machinery sector added almost one per rose 22% over the year, some 6.6% more than the cent of outperformance between April and the end gain of 15.4% returned by the TOPIX benchmark.
Given that the Companys NAV underperformed the Fleming Japanese 5 Investment Managers Report continued The portfolios overweight position in electrical Performance attribution for the year appliances benefited from an improvement in news to 30th September 2003 on technology in general.
The sector added almost 1 Year % 130 basis points over the course of the year, with companies like Canon and Advantest contributing Net asset value total return in sterling terms 22.0 Benchmark total return in sterling terms 15.4 strongly.
In the belief that the news flow on these Relative return 6.6 companies is still strengthening, the portfolios Analysis of relative return position in this sector is almost unchanged.
Allocation 2.3 Stock selection 1.1 The service sector added 125 basis points to Gearing cash 2.8 relative return.
Companies like Goodwill and Management fee and other expenses 0.7 business software companies such as Fuji Soft saw Buybacks 0.2 Other Residual Item s 0.9 their share prices rise rapidly as investors started Total 6.6 to pay attention to shares which had performed Source: Frank Russell JPMFAM Fundamental Data badly and where the prospects for an earnings recovery have improved with the improvement in Definitions Performance attribution: Analyses how the Company the Japanese economy.
achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
Performance was also improved by our decision Allocation: Measures the impact of allocating assets not to own stocks in certain sectors.
For example, differently to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different sectors or asset types.
although banks saw their share price rise rapidly Stock selection: Measures the effect of investing in over the last six months, over the entire 12 month securities to a greater or lesser extent than their period they were poor performers.
This meant that weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in securities outside the benchmark.
the decision to run a zero weighting in this sector Gearing cash: Measures the impact of returns on added 131 basis points to return relative to the borrowings, cash balances or cash substitutes on benchmark.
Similarly, not owning a single stock in Companys relative performance.
Management fee and other expenses: The payment of the poorly performing land transport sector fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets, and mainly railways helped us gain 56 basis points.
therefore has a negative effect on relative performance.
Buybacks: Measures the net effect on relative Finally, the maintenance of an increasingly geared performance of decreasing the number of shares in issue.
position through the second half of the Companys Other residual item s : Arises when there is a divergence year, when the market rose strongly, added more between total return as calculated by the AITC Fundamental Data, and total return as calculated by than 180 basis points to relative return.
The the attribution generating system.
This is a result of portfolio is fully exposed to the Yen.
No currency methodology differences with respect to the treatment of Income and cashflows, and timing differences.
6 Fleming Japanese Investment Managers Report continued quarter, the steel sector, shipping and heavy Outlook engineering companies.
Furthermore, it is because The economic recovery which started in Japan in this is happening in industries which have been spring this year is now being reflected in upward forced to restructure most aggressively after a revisions to corporate earnings across most decade of stagnation, that the current uptrend in sectors in the market, be they manufacturers, Japan is different to any of those which have service companies, retailers or exporters.
Despite happened in the past 13 years.
this, cynics on Japan continue to argue that this recovery is to be viewed with caution because it Similarly, the current wave of investment in LCD has been caused by external factors Asia and assembly technology by Sharp and Samsung is China rather than by demand from consumers being conducted with the goal of putting an LCD TV within Japan, and that it therefore doesnt count.
in every house within 15 years.
It may herald The more extreme sceptics go even further, arguing savage price competition on the LCD panels that this is yet another false dawn in Japan and is themselves as Sharp, Samsung and Matsushita all little different from the bear market rallies which fight each other, but to those companies which have characterised Japan for much of the past supply these companies with components and decade.
assembly equipment such as Nitto Denko, Zeon, Fanuc and SMC this wave of investment The investment managers view is that both of represents a long-term uptrend in demand from an these lines of argument miss several important entire industry.
The origins of Japans economic recovery matter less than the fact that it is actually The next question is whether or not rising capacity happening.
The emergence of Asia as the worlds utilisation and higher overtime hours in the dominant manufacturing base, the continuation of Japanese manufacturing sector stimulate demand infrastructure build in China for long-term public in the domestic service segments.
Early indications and private projects, and the upturn in investment are that this may be starting to happen, since in technology manufacturing across the region all companies which supply short term labour on an play to Japans strength as a leading supplier of outsourcing basis are seeing placement volumes capital goods.
Some areas have been growing rise 30%-40% year-on-year as employers find steadily anyway as Japan gains market share themselves needing more help.
globally such as Keyence in sensors or Fanuc in It remains unclear whether rising monthly incomes robots, but other more recent pockets of growth because of more overtime and falling are in industries seeing their first wave of overseas unemployment will lead to a full-blown recovery in demand for fifteen years.
These include retail sales, although some retailers have recently shipbuilding orders at Japanese shipyards more revised up their earnings estimates citing stronger than doubled year on year in the second calendar Fleming Japanese 7 Investment Managers Report continued than expected sales volumes and smaller price Our current stance reflects the belief that the declines than had been forecast.
If the investment recovery in cyclical businesses will continue.
As a managers view is correct that the first glimmers of result, the Companys portfolio has large the end of deflation may now be visible, then this overweight positions in the machinery sector and will lengthen substantially the period of time over also has a greater representation in shipping, which Japanese companies future earnings grow.
steels, chemicals and real estate than was the case 12 months ago.
Also, in accordance with our view On a less cyclical note, many leading, globally that well-run, globally competitive Japanese competitive, Japanese companies continue to gain companies will continue to win market share, the market share from their overseas rivals.
This is portfolio maintains its overweight positions in most noticeable in the US car market, where stocks such as Canon and Shin-etsu Chemical.
Toyota, Honda and Nissan continue their steady gains at the expense of Ford, Chrysler and General Stephen Mitchell Motors.
There is a similar case to be made for Jonathan Dobson Canon office imaging equipment, Bridgestone Investment Managers 14th November 2003 tyres and JGC plant engineering.
There are some risk factors which would change this view of the market.
Japanese banks have recently performed very strongly as rising equity prices have enabled them to offset bad debts against gains on their securities holdings and government policy does seem more resolute in easing the banks out of their problems.
However, the banks basics, namely their inability to lend money profitably and their woeful over-capacity of branches, still have to be tackled and represent hurdles which have yet to be cleared.
Similarly, land prices appear to have bottomed in some areas of Japan, although future rises rely on sustainable rises in demand.
And, finally, further gains in the value of the yen against the US dollar would choke off profit growth for a large part of manufacturing Japan and thus cap the propensity to invest which is so important to the continuance of the economic recovery.
