Investment Managers Report Martin Hudson Katy Woodhouse Has been managing the Was appointed assistant Companys assets since 1994. investment manager in 2001. gearing investing borrowings in a falling market Market Background please see the table on page 4.
As you will know, last year was a very difficult and painful year for equity investors.
The fall in the UK The bar chart below shows the relative contribution to stockmarket was the largest since 1974 and the third performance for the year of the five best and five largest annual fall on record for 200 years.
This is the worst sectors within the portfolio.
The blue bars to longest bear market in more than 70 years and the the right show a positive contribution to performance total loss of global equity wealth as a percentage of relative to the benchmark index and the orange bars gross domestic product is now more than it was to the left show a negative contribution.
This has occurred This shows that the sector positives outweighed the against a relatively robust economic background with negatives.
However, because the portfolio is well strong domestic demand which has been supported diversified across all sectors with around 175 by rising house prices.
individual holdings, none of the relative sector This bear market is so painful because it represents the contributions is a very large number.
That said, it was unwinding of such a long and strong bull market.
In helpful to have been overweight in Real Estate during particular, technology stocks continued to perform the year and underweight in Support Services.
The badly as the after effects of the technology bubble, high remainder of the bars largely represent individual debt and reduced demand took their toll.
For example, in the leisure sector stockmarket followed the US stockmarket down as we had a positive contribution from holding Rank, and investors lost trust in equities after major accounting from not holding Mytravel.
Companies which were scandals at Enron, Worldcom and Tyco International.
positive contributors included Green Property, Croda This was then compounded by a reduction in forecasts and VP but performance was hit by our holdings in for economic growth.
It was a year to be underweight in technology stocks and not holding Performance Sector performance contribution analysis.
Year to 31st January 2003 Against this background it was another very tough year for shareholders and the total return with net Top 5 0% income reinvested from the Mercantile benchmark Leisure, Entertainment and Hotels 1.0% Transport index, the FTSE All-Share excluding FTSE 100 0.7% Real Estate constituents and investments trusts, was 29.1%.
The 0.5% Software & Computer Services 0.5% comparable Mercantile net asset value total return 0.4% Support Services was 30.2%.
However, the total return to shareholders for the year was 25.3% as the share Bottom 5 price discount to net asset value fell over the year 0.2% Pharmaceuticals from 12.1% to 6.0%.
0.3% Electricity 0.3% Household Goods & Textiles The underlying relative performance of the shares in 0.4% General Retailers the Mercantile portfolio was in fact 2.3% ahead of the 0.5% Automobile & Parts benchmark index for the year but the total return of the portfolio was reduced by 3.4% by the effect of Relative Contribution % Source: Russell Mellon.
Fleming Mercantile 3 Investment Managers Report continued The following table provides a breakdown, relative to ARM, Spirent and Pace was helpful, although holding the benchmark, of the contributions to total return.
NSB, Energis and IQE hurt performance.
Corporate activity during the year was low.
However, Performance attribution for the year to we received takeover bids for three companies: 31st January 2003 1 Year Enterprise Oil, Safeway and Prowting.
% Net asset value total return 30.2 Activity Benchmark total return 29.1 A year ago we commented that the stockmarket was Relative return 1.1 facing the post-bubble aftermath and that at that Analysis of relative return stage of the cycle financial fragility and corporate Allocation effect 2.8 collapse were major themes.
By focussing on those Selection effect 0.1 issues we were able to avoid many of the worst Gearing Cash effect 3.4 Management fee & other expenses 0.5 casualties but not all, e. g. Energis.
We also Residual item 0.1 commented that the yields available in the stock Total 1.1 market were good value.
We planned therefore to Source: Frank Russell JPMFAM Fundamental Data.
continue to favour companies with good yields and growing dividends, which were exposed to areas of Definition: Performance attribution analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its strength in the domestic economy - such as building, benchmark.
That helped performance Allocation effect: Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios as those stocks did relatively well within the weighting in different sectors or asset types.
stockmarket, but nevertheless the overall returns Selection effect: Measures the effect of investing in individual securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in were resolutely negative.
We were too optimistic in the benchmark, or of investing in securities outside the holding gearing at around 10% throughout the year, benchmark.
which cost performance in a falling market.
Gearing cash effect: Measures the impact on relative returns of the Companys net borrowings.
The portfolio was kept broadly diversified across all Management fee and other expenses: The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets, and therefore sectors of the market with about half of the holdings has a negative effect on relative performance.
by number in mid-sized companies and half by Residual item: Arises when there is a divergence between number in smaller companies.
However, by value, we total return as calculated by the AITC Fundamental Data, and total return as calculated by the attribution generating kept the portfolio size distribution close to that of our system.
This is a result of methodology differences with respect to the treatment of income and cashflows, and timing benchmark index, which is currently 82% in mid-sized differences.
companies and 18% in smaller companies.
4 Fleming Mercantile The level of portfolio turnover was again this year dynamics and competitive landscape, can help us to reduced compared with last year, a major portion of resolve issues and enable us to place newsflow in the turnover representing sales of those mid 250 context.
We are helped in our screening process by companies which were promoted into the FTSE 100 our in-house JPMorgan Fleming proprietary multiindex at the quarterly reviews throughout the year, factor model, which helps us to identify companies and corresponding purchases of the most attractive with the best growth and value characteristics.
shares which were demoted from the FTSE 100 index.
Some of these demotion candidates can provide Outlook excellent investment opportunities and we devote a Clearly the outlook remains difficult with the threat of considerable amount of time to analysing the most terrorism and war causing anxiety.
We normally either sell completely or economic growth are being reduced and tax substantially reduce a holding when it is promoted increases will begin to bite.
House prices are high from the mid-250 index into the FTSE 100. and manufacturing is in decline.
Companies will find it hard to move profits forward against a background To give a measure of the level of activity within the of low inflation and will be hit by increased labour, portfolio it may be interesting to look at the ten largest pension and insurance costs.
The year opened with investments within the portfolio, which are listed on insurance companies selling large quantities of page 12.
Of last years ten largest investments four equities to buy bonds in order to match their were promoted into the FTSE 100, four remain in this liabilities and some US investors sold UK equities, years top ten and two are still held in the portfolio but taking advantage of a strengthening of sterling over below the top ten.
Of this years ten largest the year of around 15%.
Pension funds equity investments eight were in the portfolio a year ago and weightings are still high and private individuals, not two, EMI and British Airways, were demoted from the surprisingly, have lost interest in buying equities FTSE 100. which is why equities have fallen and, of course, We also continued our programme of researching could fall further.
smaller companies which are not well known in the However, this is not news and because of all this stockmarket.
We do find that properly targeted gloom, UK equities now offer very good value.
Indeed, company meetings, in addition to helping us to the FTSE All-Share index has fallen below its 1969 level evaluate management and explore the industry in real terms.
Fleming Mercantile 5 Investment Managers Report continued The table below shows that the underlying Mercantile The chart shows the current disposition of the portfolio is on a forward price earnings ratio of 10.6 portfolio sector weightings relative to the benchmark.
times and a dividend yield of 4.6%.
Dividends are The blue bars to the right show an overweight position forecast to grow at 4.5% and are covered by earnings relative to the benchmark and the orange bars to the 2.2 times.
The table shows the aggregate of left an underweight position.
Our largest overweight stockmarket forecasts for the individual positions are in building, construction and real estate and our largest underweight position is in engineering.
Forecast 12 months Forecast Forecast We are retaining a broad spread of stocks across all year 1 Earnings Forward Dividend Dividend sectors.
PER Growth Yield Growth Cover %% % % Despite the gloomy picture painted above, the Mercantile 10.6x 7.8 4.6 4.5 2.2x economy remains in good shape.
Consumer spending Non-FTSE-100 ex IT 10.3x 3.8 4.3 3.1 2.4x is still strong but the growth rate has reduced.
House prices remain firm but growth has moderated and overall debt service costs are Source: UBS Global Research 31st January 2003 manageable provided interest rates do not rise substantially, which looks unlikely.
Public sector spending is growing strongly in an attempt to improve shareholdings within the portfolio and, for reference, our creaking infrastructure.
The fortunes of our we compare them with the corresponding figures for universe of companies are more closely linked to the our benchmark index and also the FTSE 100 index of domestic economy than those of larger, more the largest 100 companies within the UK stockmarket.
international, companies and should be relatively better placed.
We shall continue to focus on stock Sector analysis relative to the Benchmark at 31st January 2003. selection within a broadly diversified portfolio of smaller and mid-sized UK companies, and are 0% optimistic that the stockmarket offers real value at Basic Industries 6% current levels.
1% Cyclical Consumer Goods Cyclical Services 3% Martin Hudson 3% General Industrials Katy Woodhouse 16th April 2003 Financials 4% Information Technology 2% Resources 1% Utilities 1% 1% Non-Cyclical Consumer Goods Source: JPMorgan Fleming.
The above figures have been calculated using total assets less current liabilities thereby excluding long-term borrowing.
