Investment Managers Report Stephen Macklow-Smith Has been managing the Companys assets since September 1997.
INVESTMENT MANAGER The following table provides a breakdown, relative to Since our half year report in September the the benchmark, of the contributions to total return.
European markets are up by a small amount, but over the financial year as a whole we have still Performance attribution for the year to seen declines of 34.4%.
We have done better than 31st March 2003 the market, with our NAV down by 32.3% on a total 1 Year return basis.
This means that since the market % peaked in 2000, we have out-performed, but this is Net asset value total return 32.3 scant consolation given the absolute decline we Benchmark total return 34.4 have suffered.
Relative return 2.1 Analysis of relative return In our half year report we sounded a more positive Currency effect 1.4 note than hitherto, saying that valuations were Allocation effect 8.0 supportive, and that further significant falls, while Selection effect 5.3 Gearing Cash effect 8.8 not impossible, were less likely.
The markets Management fee & other expenses 0.9 actions since then have tended to support this Buybacks 0.5 view, and it looks as if the worst of the bear market Residual item 0.6 is now over, at least for the time being.
Total 2.1 This does not mean that a new bull market has Source: Frank Russell JPMFAM Fundamental Data.
We think it more likely that we are in a Currency effect: Measures the impact of currency exposure differences between the Companys portfolio and its transition phase, which could last two years or so.
It also identifies the effect of holding forward currency contracts or currency futures.
The damage done by the speculative excesses of the Allocation effect: Measures the impact of allocating assets late 1990s will take their time to work through the differently to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios system, and it is clear that economies remain fragile.
weighting in different sectors or asset types.
Selection effect: Measures the effect of investing in individual The story of the year was one of corporate securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in securities outside the difficulty, with the financial scandals in the US benchmark.
bringing low many of the reputations that had Gearing Cash effect: Measures the impact on relative returns of the Companys net borrowings.
been forged in the excitement of the technology Management fee and other expenses: The payment of fees bubble.
European companies were not exempt, and expenses reduces the level of total assets, and therefore with Ahold a prominent casualty.
Profits remained has a negative effect on relative performance.
under pressure, and expectations for profits Buybacks: Measures the net effect on relative performance of decreasing the number of shares in issue.
growth in 2003 are continually being revised lower.
Residual item: Arises when there is a divergence between Central banks acted to support economies, total return as calculated by the AITC Fundamental Data, and total return as calculated by the attribution generating although the European Central Bank was perhaps system.
This is a result of methodology differences with viewed as acting with insufficient dynamism.
The respect to the treatment of income and cashflows, and timing differences.
issue of the one-rate-fits-all policy in Europe resurfaced, with Germany in particular struggling 4 Fleming Continental European We feel more confident about returns in the next five years than we have done hitherto this decade.
Investment Managers Report continued to pick up momentum, and showing very low struggling, is likely to recover somewhat in the inflation, while economies such as Ireland and next three years.
Profits, while sluggish this year, Holland continued to run on quite happily with are likely to recover as growth accelerates.
It is above average inflation.
Budget deficits hit the evident from the media that the business news, with France, Italy, Germany and Portugal all environment in Europe is difficult, but it is in those breaking or being predicted to break the Growth circumstances that value emerges.
Despite pressure from the EU Our ability to pick out-performing stocks was key for these deficits to be addressed, it looks as if the to our good relative performance, as the Pact is to be re-negotiated.
Politically there was attribution analysis shown on this page something of a swing to the right in Europe, with demonstrates.
Through most of the year our the extreme right making ground in France beating portfolio was fairly defensive in nature, and we the Socialists into an ignominious third place in reduced our level of gearing to zero in July 2002. the first round of the Presidential election.
European utilities did well, and on your behalf we Rates of economic growth are unexciting, and prospered from our investments in Southern many economies are struggling to avert relapsing European motorway concessions like Autostrade into recession.
The war in Iraq has not helped, but and ACESA.
Within the food and beverages sector it also seems to us that the reasons for the we did well with stocks like CSM in Holland, and shortcomings of demand growth have much more Pernod Ricard in France, and in the financials area to do with a cyclical adjustment stemming from the we concentrated on strong local franchises at over-investment of the second half of the last attractive prices the Swedish banks fell into this decade than with fears arising from the Iraqi category, as did Banco Popular in Spain.
Unemployment is trending up both in the managed to steer largely clear of the balance sheet US and in the EU.
strains in the insurance sector, preferring profitable Levels of capacity utilisation remain very low, asset accumulators like RAS in Italy.
meaning that there is currently little or no incentive Overall we think that in this transition market we for companies to increase capital expenditure: in are well placed to pick out those stocks which will fact the main goal of many companies seems to be generate real returns for shareholders.
It is not to reduce the levels of debt on their balance sheet.
impossible that markets could reach new lows, and This may in itself provide a boost to growth in the we will need to be nimble in identifying future, since companies will be operating from a opportunities, but we feel more confident about position of balance sheet strength, but in the returns in the next five years than we have done interim it is acting as a depressant on growth.
We would expect to be reHow do we read the future?
In our interim report, deploying our gearing to increase returns for we talked of how it is always better to buy stocks shareholders within the next few months.
European stocks now yield somewhere around 3.5%, and other valuation Stephen Macklow-Smith tools suggest that the market is in fairly attractive Investment Manager 12th June 2003 territory.
Economic growth, while currently 6 Fleming Continental European Report & Accounts.
