Directors Report Business of the Company Going Concern The Company carries on business as an investment After making enquiries, the Directors consider that trust and was approved by the Inland Revenue as the Company has adequate resources, an an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 appropriate financial structure and suitable of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for arrangements in place for its management to the year ended 31st March 2002.
In the opinion of continue in operational existence for the foreseeable the Directors, the Company has subsequently future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the conducted its affairs so that it should continue to going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Company will continue to seek approval Payment Policy under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms Taxes Act 1988 each year.
Approval for the year for all business and therefore there are no standard ended 31st March 2002 is subject to review should payment terms.
In general the Company agrees there be any subsequent enquiry under Corporation with its suppliers the terms on which business will Tax Self Assessment.
The Company is an take place and it is the Companys policy to abide investment company within the meaning of Section by these terms.
As at 31st March 2003, the 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company is Company had no outstanding trade creditors.
not a close company for taxation purposes.
Directors A review of the Companys activities and prospects The Directors of the Company at the end of the is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 1 year together with their beneficial interests in the and 2 and in the Investment Managers report on ordinary share capital are given below: pages 4 to 6.
1st April 2002 or at date of Revenue and Dividends 31st March 2003 appointment Gross revenue for the year totalled 12,898,000 and distributable revenue after deducting interest, William Berry 6,000 6,000 administrative expenses and taxation amounted to Robin Faber 2,000 2,000 2,898,000.
Andrew Murison 1,010 Gal fide Pontbriand 2,444 765 The Directors recommend a dividend of 4.90p per The Rt.
the Lord Renton share payable on 28th July 2003 to holders on the of Mount Harry P. C. 2,000 2,000 register at the close of business on 20th June Hugh J Twiss 3,858 3,833 2003.
This distribution will absorb 2,795,000 Ferdinand Verdonck 510 507 resulting in a transfer to the revenue reserve of Alexander E Zagoreos 10,500 10,500 103,000.
No other dividends were paid in respect of the year.
The revenue reserve after this transfer Since the year end Gal fide Pontbriand and will amount to 2,559,000.
Alexander Zagoreos have purchased 533 and 3,500 shares in the Company respectively.
Fleming Continental European 21 Directors Report continued In accordance with the Articles of Association the Management and Performance Fee Directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General The Manager and Secretary, JPMFAM, is employed Meeting will be Lord Renton and Hugh Twiss, who under a contract terminable on one years notice.
will not be offering themselves for re-election, and For the year ended 31st March 2003, the fee was William Berry, who, being eligible, offers himself calculated and paid monthly in arrears and for re-election.
charged at the annual rate of 0.6% see below.
If the Company invests in funds managed or advised During the year an insurance policy has been by JPMorgan Fleming or any of its associated maintained by the Company which indemnifies the companies, those investments are excluded from Directors of the Company against potential the calculation and therefore attract no fee.
liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
If NAV performance exceeds benchmark Acquisition of the Companys own shares performance plus 0.5%, the base fee in any one Further to a resolution passed on 16th July 2002, year rises to 0.6% for that year.
In the event of this, the Company purchased 2,960,000 ordinary shares a performance fee is also payable and is calculated for cancellation during the year, representing 4.9% at 20% of the excess of the NAV total return over of the Companys issued share capital, for a total the benchmark total return plus a hurdle of 0.5%.
Any performance fee earned will be spread evenly At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, over three years, with a cap of 1% of total gross under the resolution of 16th July 2002 to purchase assets in any one year.
Any unpaid performance up to a further 6,696,674 ordinary shares for fee will be carried forward until paid in full or cancellation within the terms of the resolution.
Since the end of the year the Company has Any under-performance is offset at the first repurchased a further 985,000 ordinary shares at a opportunity and must be fully offset before any total cost of 4,482,472. performance fee can be paid.
The authority expires at the earlier of 15th January A carried forward amount of 38,099 was required 2004 or at the conclusion of the Companys Annual to be offset at the beginning of the Companys General Meeting to be held on 21st July 2003. financial year.
The results for the year to 31st March 2003 give rise to a performance fee of A resolution to renew the authority is due to be put 1,312,107, as the NAV total return exceeded the to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General benchmark total return.
The cumulative fee is Meeting.
The full text of the resolution is set out in therefore 1,274,008, of which 399,270 is the Notice of Meeting on page 29. payable this year.
The balance of 874,738 Management remains payable in future years but will first be The Manager, J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset reduced by any future underperformance.
Management UK Limited JPMFAM, is a whollyAlso, as detailed above, the results for the year have owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank which, given rise to an increase in the management fee for through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, the year to 0.6%, up from 0.45%, which equates to dealing and custodian services to the Company.
an increase of 652,305 over what it would have 22 Fleming Continental European Directors Report continued been in 2003 had the base fee remained unchanged.
The Board In total, the management fee this year is 2,609,244 The Board consists solely of non-executive 2002: 2,477,569.
Directors, all but one of whom are independent of the Companys Manager.
Accordingly, the Board Notifiable Share Interests does not believe that it is necessary to appoint a At the date of this report the following had senior independent Director.
declared a notifiable interest in the Companys issued ordinary share capital: A Management Agreement between the Company Number of and JPMFAM sets out matters over which the Shareholders shares held % Manager has authority.
All other matters are reserved for the approval of the Board.
Ordinary shares 1 Cogent Nominees 4,615,919 8.15 The Board meets on at least five occasions each JPMorgan Chase & Co. 4,328,933 7.66 year and between those meetings there is regular Reliance Mutual 2,410,000 4.27 contact with the Manager who provides the Board Legal & General Investment with appropriate and timely management Management 1,770,200 3.13 information.
JPMFAM also provides company 1 secretarial advice and services.
The Directors also Held on behalf of JPMFAM ISA, PEP and Share have access, where necessary, in the furtherance Plan participants.
of their duties, to independent professional advice Auditor at the expense of the Company.
The Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has expressed its Board Committees willingness to continue in office and a resolution to The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the re-appoint them and authorise the Directors to Nomination Committee, which meets when determine their remuneration for the ensuing year necessary to select and propose suitable will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
candidates for appointment to the Board, and of Corporate Governance the Remuneration Committee, which reviews To ensure the appropriate level of corporate Directors fees on a regular basis.
The Directors governance, the Board has put in place Remuneration Report is set out on page 27. arrangements which it believes are suitable for an To ensure its independence from the Manager, the investment trust and enable the Company to Audit Committee excludes from membership any comply with the Principles of Good Governance Director who is employed by, or who is a former and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code, employee of, JPMFAM, or any of its subsidiaries or published by the Committee on Corporate associated companies.
The Board considers that The Audit Committee meets at least twice each the Company has complied with the provisions year.
The Committee reviews the terms of the contained within Section 1 of the Combined Code Management Agreement and examines the throughout the year ended 31st March 2003 and effectiveness of the Companys internal control the following describes how the relevant principles systems, receives information from the Managers of governance are applied to the Company.
Fleming Continental European 23 Directors Report continued Compliance department and also reviews the reasonable but not absolute assurance against scope and results of the audit, its cost fraud, material misstatement or loss.
effectiveness and the independence and Since investment management, custody of assets objectivity of the external auditor.
The Directors and all administrative services are provided to the statement on the Companys system of internal Company by JPMFAM and its associates, the control is set out below.
Companys system of internal control mainly Relations with Shareholders comprises monitoring the services provided by The Investment Manager holds regular discussions JPMFAM and its associates, including the operating with institutional shareholders, the feedback from controls established by them to ensure that they which is valued by the Board.
In addition, a meet the Companys business objectives.
presentation by the Investment Manager which The key elements designed to provide effective reviews the Companys activities is a feature of the internal control are as follows: Companys Annual General Meeting, where both Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive the Directors and the Investment Manager are review by the Board of key investment and available to answer shareholders questions.
financial data, including management accounts, Accountability and Audit revenue projections, transaction analysis and The Directors responsibilities in respect of the performance comparisons.
Accounts are set out on page 28.
Management Agreement Appointment of a Internal Control manager and custodian regulated by the Financial The Combined Code requires the Directors at least Services Authority FSA whose responsibilities are annually to conduct a review of the effectiveness clearly defined in a written agreement.
of the Companys system of internal control and to Management Systems Regular and report to shareholders that they have done so.
This comprehensive reviews, conducted on behalf of has extended the previous requirement which the Board, of the Managers system of internal focused on internal financial control, and now control.
The Managers system of internal control encompasses a review of all controls which the includes organisational agreements which clearly Board has identified as including business, define the lines of responsibility, delegated financial, operational, compliance and risk authority, control procedures and systems.
JPMFAMs Compliance department regularly The Directors are responsible for the Companys monitors compliance with FSA rules.
system of internal control which is designed to Investment Strategy Authorisation and safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper monitoring of the Companys investment strategy accounting records and ensure that information and exposure limits by the Board.
used within the business, or published, is reliable.
However, such a system is designed to manage The Board keeps under review the effectiveness rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve of the Companys system of internal control by business objectives and therefore can only provide monitoring the operation of the key operating 24 Fleming Continental European Directors Report continued controls of the Manager and its associates as have regard to the environment and society follows: as a whole.
In our pursuit of good financial returns for our clients, our investment the Board, and its Audit Committee, reviews managers take account of these and all other the terms of the Management Agreement and factors affecting the valuation of the receives regular reports from JPMFAMs companies in which they are currently Compliance department: invested or considering investment on behalf the Directors review the report on the internal of clients.
controls and the operations of its custodian, Corporate Governance and Voting Policy JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is independently The following, which has been reviewed and audited: and approved by the Board, is a summary of JPMFAMs the Directors review every six months a report statement on corporate governance and voting on the internal controls and the operations of policy: JPMFAM which is independently reported on by JPMFAM aim to vote our clients proxies at all  LLP.
For technical and practical By the means of the procedures set out above, reasons this may not always be possible, the Board confirms that it has reviewed the especially in Europe.
However, we at all times effectiveness of the Companys system of internal will act to protect our clients best interests control for the year ended 31st March 2003, and through the exercise of their votes.
We seek to to the date of approval of the annual report and promote good practice on all corporate accounts.
governance issues, with the overall aim of minimising corporate mismanagement and Socially Responsible Investment failure.
We also keep in close touch with The following, which has been reviewed and similarly interested parties at other major approved by the Board, is a summary of JPMFAMs investment institutions.
policy statement on socially responsible investment: Whilst generally supportive of management, our pro-active approach seeks general Unless instructed otherwise, we believe it is adherence to the principles set out in the our primary duty to act in the best financial Combined Code.
Our policy is to vote on all interests of our clients and to achieve good company resolutions and we therefore seek full financial returns consistent with an voting discretion from our clients.
It is our acceptable level of risk in the management of practice to liaise with clients to discuss our clients investments.
A company run in the potentially contentious issues and to keep long-term interests of its shareholders with them in touch with corporate governance the objective of enhancing shareholder value issues generally.
over time will need to manage effectively relationships with its employees, suppliers and customers, to behave ethically and to Fleming Continental European 25 Directors Report continued Annual General Meeting The Directors recommend that shareholders grant Resolutions relating to the following items of them authority to allot shares up to the limit set-out special business will be proposed at the above.
No issue of shares will be made which would forthcoming Annual General Meeting: effectively alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of shareholders in general i Authority to Issue the Companys Shares for meeting.
cash The Companies Act 1985 requires that the Directors ii Repurchase of the Companys Shares of a company be authorised by shareholders to allot At the Annual General Meeting held on 16th July shares.
It also requires that new shares issued by a 2002, shareholders gave authority to the Board to company for cash be offered first to existing enable repurchases of up to 14.99% of the then shareholders in proportion to their existing issued share capital.
At that time shareholders shareholdings.
However, shareholders can, by were informed that this authority would expire on special resolution, authorise Directors to allot shares 15th January 2004 unless renewed at the otherwise than by a pro rata issue to existing forthcoming AGM.
A proposal is to be put to shareholders.
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to renew this authority.
Resolution 6 in the Notice of Meeting on page 29 is such a special resolution, giving the Directors The Directors consider that the renewing of the specific authority to allot new shares, otherwise than authority would be in the interest of shareholders by a pro rata issue to existing shareholders, for cash as a whole as the repurchase of shares at a up to an aggregate nominal amount of 706,325 discount to the underlying net asset value NAV representing 2,825,300 ordinary shares of 25 pence would enhance the NAV of the remaining shares.
each, such amount being approximately equivalent The Directors therefore recommend that to 5% of the present issued share capital.
This shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
authority will remain in effect until 20th July 2008.
The full text of the resolution is set out as The Board believes that, should the shares move to a Resolution number 7 in the Notice of Meeting on sustained premium to net asset value, it would be in page 29. the interest of existing shareholders for the Company iii Change of Company Name to be able to issue new shares to participants The Directors recommend that the Companys purchasing shares through the Investment Trust name be changed to JPMorgan Fleming Share Plan and also to other investors.
As such Continental European Investment Trust plc.
issues would only be made at prices greater than net asset value, they would increase the assets underlying each share and spread the administrative By order of the Board expenses, other than those fees charged as a JM Latter, for and on behalf of percentage of assets, over a greater number of J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, shares.
The issue proceeds would be available for Secretary investment in line with the Companys objective.
