Managers Review Overall Investment and Strategy Review portfolio shifts through reducing our exposure to the While the European markets performed well over the past telecom sector, which we felt had become fully valued year as a whole, nearly all of that positive performance after an earlier strong performance, and to a number of came from the second half.
In the first six months, the more defensive individual holdings that had held up markets made little headway.
War worries ahead of the relatively well during the bear market, but which looked conflict with Iraq, mixed economic data and a decline in less interesting going forward.
the dollar all undermined sentiment despite successive Major Sector Reviews cuts in interest rates by the European Central Bank.
The As shareholders are aware, we follow a sector-based corporate sector also gave little encouragement.
With a investment approach in Europe when constructing our swift and successful conclusion to the Iraq war, the portfolio and pay less attention to the country aspect.
European equity markets moved ahead again.
Economic The table below shows the performance in sterling terms data started to improve and most company results for the of the principal sectors that make up the Continental first half of 2003 not only met expectations, but some of European markets over the past year.
them even came in comfortably ahead.
Volumes on the Sector Average Index exchanges also recovered as both private investors and Weight of Sector Total Return institutions became more active.
After a rise of almost a % in of Sector third since March, however, the markets eventually Banks Financials 19.9 41.7 became ripe for a correction and this duly happened in September, albeit only to a limited extent.
Insurance 7.4 33.4 Over the year, the best performing sector, as the table Oil 10.3 13.5 opposite shows, was technology.
This reflected not only a Telecoms 8.2 48.1 belief that the industry would benefit again from the general pick-up in economic activity after a difficult two Healthcare 9.7 2.0 years, but also a general raising of investors risk profile in Autos 3.3 17.6 their portfolios.
Telecoms performed strongly as results Chemicals 3.4 10.4 from the operators showed the benefits coming through from the sizeable cuts in operating costs and in capital Technology 9.5 58.7 expenditure and the improvement this was having on their Other 28.3 N A balance sheets.
Financials also did well on the back of the better stockmarkets.
By contrast, the poorer Total 100.0 26.6 performers included the oils as the price of crude eased Source: F&C Management Limited and FTSE Indices back after the Iraq war, as well as more defensive sectors such as pharmaceuticals, consumer goods and utilities Banks Financials that had all performed well in the previous bear market.
The banks performed well over the past year.
Earnings We made a number of changes to the portfolio over generally proved more resilient than expected due to the year, the main objective being to raise our exposure to stable interest income, good cost control and little companies most likely to benefit from the improving deterioration in the quality of their loan books.
The economic and financial conditions.
We thus added to investment banks also benefited from some recovery in sectors such as the automobiles, steels, chemicals and merger and acquisition activity, as well as from strong fixed consumer durables, in order to participate in a forthcoming interest business.
upswing in industrial production and where valuations We added further to the sector during the year, remained attractive.
We also added to the financials, to attracted by the quality of the banks earnings and their both the banks and the insurers.
We financed these valuations in terms of return on equity and price to book.
Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC 4 Stephen White, Manager and Head of European Equities Desk R and Jeremy Tigue, Manager of the Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC, Our stocks again performed well given our focus on the sectors and in their own historic context.
We thus stuck with French banks, such as Socit Gnrale and BNP our positions in TotalFinaElf and Royal Dutch Petroleum.
Paribas, and on the investment banks, such as Crdit Telecoms Suisse, UBS and Deutsche Bank.
The telecom sector performed extremely well at first as it Insurance became clear that the industry had passed through its The insurance sector was one of the more volatile sectors most difficult phase.
A less harsh regulatory environment, over the year.
It underperformed noticeably in the market rigorous cutbacks in operating costs and in capital downturn on concerns over solvency ratios.
Their assets expenditure and some injections of capital led to a marked were affected negatively by the fall in equity markets while improvement in the earnings prospects and balance the present value of their liabilities rose with the fall in longsheets of most of these companies.
Conversely, the sector outperformed Having been marginally overweight in the sector at the again as the equity markets turned for the better, helped outset, we steadily reduced our exposure to it as the year by a number of capital raising measures that seemed to progressed as we felt that not only had the turnaround in restore health to balance sheets.
fortunes of the operators been largely discounted by the We added to the sector half way through the year, markets, but that the valuations were no longer that recognising that the sector would be a prime beneficiary of compelling.
We thus sold steadily out of Orange and our any sustained recovery in the equity markets.
major holding in Telecom Italia.
Both the timing of our move Furthermore, we could see signs of some improvement in to decrease our exposure to the sector and our choice of their underlying non-life and life businesses.
We thus stocks throughout were positive contributors to performance.
bought Allianz, the German insurer, as well as adding to Healthcare our existing holdings of ING and AXA.
Both the timing of The pharmaceutical sector was the poorest performing our move to increase our exposure to the sector and our sector over the year.
It continued to suffer from choice of stocks enhanced performance.
disappointing new product news, rising costs of Oil marketing, research and development and patent worries.
The oil sector was one of the poorer performing sectors The weak dollar was also a negative given the importance over the past year, a change from the previous two years.
of the US market, particularly in terms of profits, and overall With the war in Iraq over investors came to believe that it healthcare was seen as too defensive at a time of a pickwould not be long before oil production in Iraq returned to up in economic growth.
more normal levels, thus putting downward pressure on We reduced further our already underweight exposure the price of crude, particularly given the expected excess to the sector as we shared the concerns mentioned above.
of supply from other non-OPEC countries.
At the same We sold completely out of NovoNordisk, and focused our time, the downstream activities proved more difficult.
interest on the two Swiss companies, Roche and Novartis, While we concurred with the view that oil prices could fall and on Aventis.
Both the sector and stock decisions were back in the medium term, we decided to maintain our neutral positive to performance.
sector weighting, believing that the companies nonetheless remained very attractively valued, both relative to other Report and Accounts 2003 5 Managers Review continued improvement in earnings at any of the companies, investors seemed prepared to bet that a general recovery in economic activity would lead to an even greater pick-up in capital spending by the telecom operators and on IT services by companies in general.
Certainly, higher demand for personal computers seemed to cause a rise in demand for semi-conductors.
We added steadily to the technology sector over the course of the year.
Although we did buy a small position in First introduced over 25 years ago, the 5 series has been one of the most loved the semi-conductor manufacturers, STM Micro Electronics, BMWs.
2003 saw the launch of the latest sixth generation BMW 5 series, which, we added mainly to companies where we could see an along with the launch of the new 6 series and X3, is expected to dramatically enhance profitability for the BMW group in 2004 and beyond.
In its looks and appearance, the earnings turnaround underway, such as at Siemens and new 5 series combines the sporty look of the 3 series with the more executive look of Philips Electronics.
We were reluctant to chase after stocks the 7 series.
The car is the first in the world to utilise Active Front Steering, a highly sophisticated system which tailors the steering transmission ratio to the cars speed, in where the recovery seemed to be based more on hope than order to give a genuine kart feeling at low and medium speeds, yet a more relaxed on reality and where valuations seemed excessive, although motoring sensation at high speeds.
A further highlight is the brand new aluminium and steel bodywork structure, designed to reduce weight, improve fuel economy, and not having such stocks in the portfolio was a major hindrance perfect axle load distribution.
in the latter part of the year to our performance in this sector.
Autos Other Although car registrations held up better than expected, The other smaller sectors showed mixed performances.
earnings for most of the assemblers were held back by the The food and drinks and consumer staples sectors strength of the euro, the rising marketing costs and new performed poorly, undermined not only by their perceived product launches.
Earnings for the sector thus had to be defensive nature, but also by generally dull results that revised downwards, and this impacted negatively on the reflected a general trading down on the part of consumers.
Utilities were also neglected as investors looked for more We maintained an overweight position in the sector,  sectors.
By contrast, some of the attracted by the industrys ability to generate free cash flow more cyclical sectors did well, such as steel and capital even in a downturn and also by the valuations.
However, neither our overweight position nor our stock selection enhanced performance.
Our main holding, BMW, proved a disappointment as earnings were affected by the weak dollar and by the launch of the new 5 series.
Chemicals The chemical sector also performed poorly given the fall in volumes with the more difficult economic environment and the erosion to margins with the still high input costs from a high price of oil.
That said, the businesses continued to be well managed and cash flow generation remained strong.
The performance of our stocks was lacklustre.
Our main The Philips Panorama family of open magnetic resonance MR systems has won several awards for outstanding product design, in particular from the International holding, Ciba Speciality, was affected by poor demand from Forum Design GmbH in Germany.
The key design feature of the Panorama family is the their customer base and rising raw material costs.
true openness of the system, helping ease anxiety in claustrophobic, elderly and larger patients as well as children, without compromising image acquisition speed and quality.
Technology The Panorama system design allows constant eye contact between the patient and Technology was the best performing sector by far over the his her family members, and the MR technician during the exam.
The system is ideal for applications from vascular and interventional medical procedures, to past year.
While there was no visible sign of a major radiography fluoroscopy exams.
Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC 6 goods, as companies reported the first signs of a pick-up in demand.
Here again, our sector stance of focusing on those areas most sensitive to a pick-up in activity, such as the steels, paper and media companies, proved positive.
Within them, we had a number of individual situations that did particularly well over the year, such as Pechiney, the aluminium producer that was bought out by Alcan of Canada, Atlas Copco, the Swedish engineering group specialising in compressor technology, and Vivendi Universal, the French media group in the process of being One of LOrals strongest performing brands is Garnier, the market leader in natural reorganised.
Our principal holding in the foods sector, beauty products in Europe.
In 1904, Garniers founder created a hair tonic lotion with plant extracts at a time when people were still washing their hair with soap.
In the Danone, also continued to do well as results again 1990s, Garnier invented Fructis, the first strengthening shampoo with active fruit surprised on the upside due to the success of its dairy concentrates.
LOrals strategy is to evolve Garnier into a master brand, stretching across categories that over the next few years could include new products such as business.
Our worst performer of all, however, was Ahold, soap and body wash. With a steady stream of product innovations combined with a the Dutch food retailer whose share price collapsed after focus on young, price-conscious consumers all over the world, Garnier should continue to enjoy very strong expansion.
accounting irregularities in its US food services business came to the fore.
Although the stock price regained part of the lost ground subsequently, it still had a major negative impact on the portfolio.
Stephen White November 2003 Cartier, established in 1847 in Paris, is the leading jewellery brand in the world with annual turnover of close to 2 billion euros.
This represents around half of sales for Richemont, the worlds second largest luxury goods company.
"In August 2003, Cartier unveiled its new ""Kiss of the Dragon"" collection, which showcases jewellery inspired by contemporary China."
