Dir Directors ectors Douglas McDougall OBE Chairman Pedro Schwartz OBE Hon Appointed Chairman on 7 May 1999 having joined the Board A former deputy in the Spanish Parliament, Pedro is now on 22 February 1999.
He is chairman of The Law Debenture Professor of Economics at the Autonomous University of Corporation PLC, of the Independent Investment Trust PLC and Madrid, executive president of IDELCO and vice-chairman of of the Scottish Investment Trust plc.
He is a former senior Fincorp AVSA.
He is also a member of the Trilateral partner of Baillie Gifford and Co and a former chairman of IMRO Commission, a private club gathering business leaders, and of the AITC.
Age 59. academics, politicians and civil servants from the Far East, Japan and North America to discuss world problems.
He was Detlef F E Bierbaum appointed to the Board in 1993.
Oppenheim Jr & Cie. bankers in Cologne, and is in charge of the banks asset management and investment Zweder O H M Baron van Hvell tot Westerflier research departments.
He was appointed to the Board in 1993.
Was managing director of the insurance company Achmea and Age 61. was chairman of the board of Achmea Bank Holdings.
He is a board member of Mercury Select Trust.
He was appointed to Clemens Brsig the Board in 1981.
"A member of the board of managing directors and chief financial officer ""CFO"" of Deutsche Bank AG, having previously Consultant been a member of the board of managing directors and CFO of Sir Nicholas Henderson GCMG, KCVO RWE AG and a member of the board of managing directors of Was on the Board of Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC from Robert Bosch GmbH."
He was appointed to the Board in 1998.
He had a distinguished career in the Diplomatic Age 55.
Service during which he served as Ambassador to Poland, West Germany, France and the United States of America.
He is J Antony Dick a director of Sothebys and was the first chairman of the Director of G. T. Management PLC for over 20 years.
He was Channel Tunnel Group.
formerly chairman of Saracen Value Trust PLC and of Invesco Tokyo Trust PLC.
He was appointed to the Board in 1989.
Members of the Audit & Management Engagement Age 69.
Committee J A Dick Chairman Ralph Kanza D F E Bierbaum appointed 7 November 2003 Previously chairman of the French stockbroking firm Cheuvreux D C P McDougall fide Virieu, and responsible for European equity markets at Banque Indosuez.
He is vice chairman of Schroder & Co Ltd, Members of the Nomination Committee based in London.
He was appointed to the Board in September D C P McDougall Chairman 1997.
J A Dick R Kanza Philippe Sarasin Managing partner of Lombard Odier Darier Hentsch & Cie. bankers in Geneva.
He has been with that company for 23 years and has assumed responsibilities in the field of institutional asset management.
He was appointed to the Board in 2000.
