Twenty Largest Equity Holdings at 30 September 2003 This Last Company Country Value % of Total Year Year Description 000s Investments 1 1 TotalFinaElf France 22,256 6.7 TotalFinaElf is one of the worlds largest integrated oil companies.
The company has a positive outlook for production growth, and further potential for cost cutting in downstream operations.
On top of this, Total has an attractive policy of share buy backs.
2 20 BNP Paribas France 14,398 4.4 BNP Paribas is the largest French bank in terms of market capitalisation, formed from the merger of the retail bank BNP and the investment bank Paribas.
BNP Paribas provides a diversified business mix with a broad product range.
Thanks to its fixed-income and European consumer lending activities, the bank is well positioned for the current economic environment.
3 6 UBS Switzerland 13,701 4.2 UBS is a wealth management, investment banking and asset management firm.
Productivity growth through cost reduction at UBS has been impressive, and the company successfully reduced credit risk to avoid the bad debts that have affected most international universal banks.
Furthermore, high cash generation has allowed for share buy backs.
4 7 Socit Gnrale France 12,513 3.8 Socit Gnrale is a major banking group, with a very profitable retail branch network in France.
The company is also a major player in investment banking, asset management and private banking.
Socit Gnrale focuses on high revenue businesses with superior growth, such as Emerging Europe and niche investment banking activities.
5 3 Nokia Finland 12,218 3.7 Nokia is the clear leader in the mobile phone industry as the company dominates the sector in terms of product portfolio, brand value, and cash-flow.
Nokia is well positioned to benefit from both accelerating growth in emerging markets and increased replacement demand in developed markets.
6 25 AXA France 11,383 3.4 Axa is among the worlds largest multi-line insurers, with significant operations in life & savings, property & casualty and asset management.
Following a long period of growth by acquisition, Axas earnings have been pressured in recent years due to a prolonged bear market.
However, improving operational efficiency and better equity markets point to a potential upside for earnings.
7 15 ING Netherlands 9,670 2.9 ING is based in the Netherlands, and provides insurance, banking, asset management and investment banking services in over 60 countries.
The company has had a steady long term record of earnings growth as a result of good cost discipline, a pragmatic management team, and a series of sound acquisitions in Europe and the US.
ING has an attractive growth profile by virtue of its green-field operations and its ING Direct business.
8 26 Saint-Gobain France 9,400 2.8 Saint-Gobain manufactures glass and construction materials.
In the long term, the companys impressive cash-flow should allow it to generate high growth.
Furthermore, future asbestos risk seems to be falling as individual states in the US start to introduce limitations on litigation pay-outs.
9 2 Aventis France 8,928 2.7 Aventis was created from the merger of Rhne Poulenc with Hoechst.
It has since sold off most of the peripheral activities in order to concentrate on pharmaceuticals.
Earnings are currently being driven by the restructuring benefits from the merger as well as strong top line growth from the sales of blockbusters such as Allegra anti-histamine, Taxotere anti-cancer and Lovenox anti-thrombosis.
10 5 Novartis Switzerland 8,783 2.7 Having divested its chemical and agro-chemical businesses, Novartis is now largely a pure pharmaceutical company.
Novartis has little in the way of patent risk, unlike most other large European pharmaceutical companies.
The companys key products are Diovan hypertension, Gleevec chronic myeloid leukemia, and Zometa cancer complications.
For Foreign & Colonial Eur eign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC otrust PLC 8 This Last Company Country Value % of Total Year Year Description 000s Investments 11 ABN-AMRO Netherlands 8,627 2.6 ABN provides banking services across the globe.
In particular, the bank enjoys a leading position in its Dutch home market, and has a profitable presence in the US and a potentially rewarding presence in Brazil.
Management has proceeded with an ambitious restructuring programme, which has transformed ABN into a leaner organisation, and better positioned to benefit from a pick-up in the global economy.
12 Crdit Suisse Switzerland 8,437 2.6 Crdit Suisse offers wealth management and financial advice, insurance, pension plans, investment banking, private banking, and corporate and retail banking.
The private banking franchise is very profitable.
Across the group, there has been considerable progress in cost reduction, and credit costs have fallen and some risk exposures have been run down.
13 23 Philips Electronics Netherlands 8,006 2.4 Philips manufactures lighting, consumer electronics, mutimedia devices, semiconductors and medical devices.
The LCD division has of late performed better than analysts expectations, and this has been supported by stable earnings in the lighting and consumer electronics divisions.
14 9 Telefnica Spain 7,827 2.4 Telefnica is Spains leading telecommunications operator.
The company has exceeded expectations on key areas such as dividend distribution, corporate restructuring, and repatriation of cash-flow from Latin America.
We believe Telfonica could also surprise positively on fixed-line restructuring and on further capital expenditure cuts.
15 8 Danone France 7,805 2.4 Danone is the largest manufacturer of fresh dairy products in the world and also produces snacks and grocery foods as well as mineral water.
Brand names include Danone dairy products, Evian mineral water and Lea & Perrins sauces.
Danone is currently enjoying impressive sales growth, driven by operations in yoghurt.
16 10 BMW Germany 7,724 2.3 Bayerische Motoren Werke is Europes leading luxury car manufacturer after Daimler Chrysler.
With the launch of the new 5 series, the brand new X3 and 6 series, we expect a significant growth in sales and profitability at BMW.
17 Siemens Germany 7,647 2.3 Siemens offers a wide range of industrial and consumer products.
The restructuring process is in full swing, and there is considerable turnaround potential in the telecoms business, with an attractive combination of an industrial and technological rebound as a powerful driver of earnings growth.
18 49 Electrolux Sweden 6,854 2.1 Electrolux manufactures appliances and outdoor products, and sell worldwide under brands such as Electrolux, AEG, Zanussi, Husqvarna, and Flymo.
The key attractions of Electrolux are a strong balance sheet, strong cash flow generation, and prospects of significant medium-term efficiency improvements.
19 18 Unicredito Italiano Italy 6,636 2.0 Unicredito is Italys second largest banking group in terms of assets.
Unicredito has traditionally pioneered the launch of new products in the Italian market, increasing cross selling while acquiring new clients.
The company has high potential due to its wide product mix, sound cost structure, strong management, as well as an attractive exposure to the growing Polish banking market.
20 21 VNU Netherlands 6,018 1.8 From its roots as a consumer publisher producing newspapers and magazines in the Benelux market, VNUs business mix has changed dramatically.
Today, it is predominantly a market information firm, and we expect market research to be a key growth driver.
Furthermore, VNUs management has a consistent track record in delivering shareholder value.
The value of the twenty largest equity holdings represents 60.2% 2002: 56.5% of the Companys total investments.
The figures in brackets denote the position at 30 September 2002.
The country is the country of incorporation.
