The Directors present their report and the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 September 2003 Report of the Dir Report of the Directors ectors Status of Company during the year under review.
The prices paid for these During the year under review the Company carried on the shares ranged from 275 pence to 341 pence per share and business of an investment trust and has since conducted the total cost, including expenses, amounted to its affairs so as to continue to qualify as such under the 4,567,000.
A total of 635,858 ordinary shares have been provisions of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation bought back since the Companys year end.
The last accounting period for which the Substantial Share Interests Company has been treated as approved by the Inland At 7 November 2003 the Company had received Revenue was for the year ended 30 September 2002. notification of the following disclosable interests in its This approval is subject to there being no subsequent ordinary share capital: Ordinary shares enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
In the of 25p each % opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently Legal & General Investment conducted its affairs so as to enable it to continue to Management Limited 2,272,193 3.08 obtain Section 842 approval.
The Company is an investment company as defined Directors by Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
"The Directors listed on page 13 held office throughout the The Company was a ""qualifying"" investment trust year under review."
The Directors retiring by rotation this under the Personal Equity Plan Regulations 1989, as year are Messrs R Kanza and P Sarasin and Baron van amended.
The Companys shares are eligible for inclusion Hvell tot Westerflier.
Mr Kanza and Baron Van Hvell tot in an Individual Savings Account ISA and are also eligible Westerflier, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
as an investment for PEP transfers.
Mr Sarasin has decided not to seek re-election and will Note 1 on the accounts contains full details of the retire as a Director on 16 December 2003, immediately accounting policies adopted.
following this years Annual General Meeting.
Sadly, Mr Eric Review of the Business Elstob died on 28 October 2003.
A review of the Companys activities is given in the No Director has a service contract with the Company.
Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 3 and in the Details of the Directors shareholdings in the Company are Managers Review on pages 4 to 7. contained in note 5 on the accounts.
Directors' Remuneration RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The Company has no employees or executive directors and consequently does not have a remuneration Attributable to equity shareholders 000s committee.
The Directors' Remuneration Report, which can be found on page 21, and note 5 on the accounts, Net revenue available for distribution 4,864 provide detailed information on the remuneration Proposed dividend of 1.7p per share 1,251 Special dividend of 4.8p per share 3,534 arrangements for Directors of the Company.
Shareholders both payable on 19 December 2003 4,785 will be asked to approve the Directors' Remuneration Report at the Annual General Meeting.
Amount transferred to revenue reserve 79 Charitable Donations Capital During the year the Company made no charitable At the Annual General Meeting held on 17 December 2002 donations.
"shareholders renewed the Boards authority to buy back up Management to 11,219,230 of the Companys ordinary shares for Note 3 on the accounts provides details of the Companys cancellation, being 14.99% of the issued share capital on management agreement the ""Agreement"" with F&C the date of the AGM."
"Pursuant to this authority, a total of Management Limited the ""Manager"" the terms of which 1,452,000 ordinary shares were purchased for cancellation were last amended for the financial year commencing Report and Accounts 2003 15 Report of the Directors continued 1 October 2000."
As detailed under the section headed report to ensure the Company meets its continuing Corporate Governance, the Directors review the activities obligations.
The Company announced to the London of the Manager on an ongoing basis and in light of this Stock Exchange on 21 October 2003 that, while the ongoing review believe the continuing appointment of the Company may from time to time hold shares in other listed investment manager on the terms agreed is in the interests investment companies including investment trusts, it is of shareholders as a whole.
the Company's policy to invest no more than 15 per cent The Manager, F&C, has arrangements under which of its gross assets in other listed investment companies stockbrokers pay for various investment services which it including listed investment trusts.
The implementation of uses in return for stated amounts of commission.
The this policy has not required the Company to dispose of Manager's policy is that this commission should be within any existing shareholding.
a range of 10% to 15% of total commissions paid by The Board reviews the independence of its members clients of F&C in any one year.
and is currently comprised of eight non-executive The Manager supports the boards of companies with Directors, all of whom are independent of the Manager.
its vote unless it sees clear investment reasons for doing In view of the composition of the Board, which is otherwise.
It is the Company's policy to exercise its voting wholly comprised of persons who are independent of the rights at shareholders' meetings of investee companies.
Manager, the Board does not believe it is necessary to Policy on Payments to Suppliers appoint a senior independent director and has not done The Companys principal supplier, the Manager, is paid in so.
Consequently the Company does not comply with the the month following the end of each calendar quarter, in Code in this respect.
Three Directors, including the accordance with the terms and conditions of the Chairman, are resident in the UK.
Two of the other Agreement.
Other suppliers are paid in accordance with Directors reside in Germany and the remaining three the individual payment terms agreed with each supplier.
Directors reside in Holland, Spain and Switzerland At 30 September 2003, the Companys outstanding trade respectively.
Each of the Directors who is based in a creditors were equivalent to one days payment to country on the Continent of Europe follows the suppliers 2002: one day.
stockmarket in that country closely.
The biographical Corporate Governance details of the Directors, which are to be found on page 13, The Board has considered the principles set out in the demonstrate the wide range of skills and experience which Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the they bring to the Board.
"New appointees to the Board are London Stock Exchange in June 1998 the ""Code"" and given a preliminary briefing on the workings of the believes that the Companys current practice, given the Company by the Chairman, by the fund manager, special circumstances of an investment trust company is, Mr S F White, or other appropriate persons."
in all material respects, consistent with the principles of the The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship Code.
The Company has complied throughout the year of the Companys affairs.
It also determines strategic under review with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the issues and all operational matters of a material nature.
The Board notes the issue of a revised Combined order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, all Code and the issue of The AITC Code of Corporate Directors have full and timely access to relevant Governance, both in July 2003, which are effective for information.
The Board meets quarterly and, with the financial years starting on or after 1 November 2003, and exception of August when there is no meeting, a will give each publication full consideration during the Committee of the Board, comprised of the Directors who course of the forthcoming year.
The FSA issued The are resident in the UK, meets in those months that the Investment Entities Listing Rules and Conduct of Board does not.
At each meeting the Directors review Business Instrument 2003 in September 2003 and the investment performance and consider financial and other Board has made the appropriate disclosures in this annual reports of a strategic nature.
The Directors also monitor Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC 16 compliance with the Companys objectives and consider effectiveness, ensuring that the risk management and the asset allocation, sector allocation, stock selection, control processes are embedded in day-to-day currency exposure and gearing policies of the Manager.
These controls aim to ensure that assets of schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board the Company are safeguarded, proper accounting records has been adopted.
are maintained and the financial information used within The Board has established a procedure whereby the business and for publication is reliable.
The Board Directors, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their exercises its control of financial, operational and duties, may take independent professional advice or compliance risks and of overall risk management by relying training at the Companys expense.
The Board has direct on a series of investment performance, performance access to the advice and services of the Company attribution and Manager's reports and a quarterly control, Secretary, F&C Management Limited, which is responsible which provides details of any known internal control for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are failures.
The control report incorporates a key risk table followed and applicable regulations are complied with.
In that identifies the risks to which the Company is exposed accordance with the Companys articles of association, and the controls in place to mitigate them, and includes Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election those risks that are not directly the responsibility of the at least every three years.
The systems of internal controls are designed to The Committee of the Board, comprised of the manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve Directors who are resident in the UK, also functions as a business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but nomination committee.
All of the members of this not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or Committee are non-executive Directors who are also loss.
Appointments of new The Board has contractually delegated the Directors are made on a formal basis with the final management of the investment portfolio, the operation of decision in any particular case resting with the full Board.
custodial services and the provision of accounting and Accountability and Audit company secretarial services to the Manager.
Details of The Audit and Management Engagement Committee the the terms of its agreement with the Manager, as set out in Audit Committee of the Company operates within written note 3 on the accounts, are reviewed periodically by the terms of reference clearly setting out its authority and Companys Audit Committee.
duties and meets at least twice a year.
The Directors The Board has carried out a risk and control denoted on page 13 constitute the Audit Committee.
assessment including a review of the Managers risk Following the death of Eric Elstob in October 2003, management infrastructure.
A key element of this Mr Detlef F E Bierbaum was appointed to the Audit assessment is the Statement of Internal Corporate Committee on 7 November 2003.
"The primary role of the Governance for the year 31 December 2002 the Audit Committee is to review the accounting policies and ""Statement"" prepared by the Manager for its investment the contents of the interim and annual reports, the trust clients to the standards of the Financial Reporting and adequacy and scope of the external audit and compliance Auditing Group Technical Release 21 94 ""FRAG21"" with regulatory and financial reporting requirements."
The issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Audit Committee has direct access to the auditors, England and Wales.
Containing a report from independent  LLP, and to the compliance and external accountants, the Statement sets out the internal audit and risk directors of the Manager and to the Managers control policies and procedures with respect to Managers group audit committee, and reports its findings the management of its clients investments.
effectiveness of these controls is monitored by the The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys Managers group audit committee, which receives regular systems of internal controls and for reviewing their reports from the Managers compliance, and audit and risk Report and Accounts 2003 17 Report of the Directors continued departments.
The Audit Committee has received and Remuneration Report, which contains the remuneration reviewed the Statement together with a report from the policy of the Company, is set out on page 21.
The Managers group audit committee on the effectiveness of Directors' remuneration is not conditional on Resolution 2 the internal controls maintained on behalf of the Company being passed.
and annual compliance report from the Managers director Special Business at the Annual General Meeting of compliance.
"In addition to the ordinary business of the meeting, three By means of the procedures set out above, and in resolutions numbered 6, 7 and 8 are proposed as accordance with ""Internal Control: Guidance for Directors special business."
"on the Combined Code"" published by the Working Party of Auditors the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Following the transfer of substantially all of the business of Wales, the Board has established an ongoing process for  to a Limited Liability Partnership identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks LLP from 1 January 2003,  faced by the Company and has regularly reviewed the resigned from office on 20 May 2003, and the Directors effectiveness of the internal control systems for the period."
appointed its successor,  LLP, as This process has been in place throughout the year under auditors of the Company.
review and to the date hereof and will continue to be  LLP have indicated their regularly reviewed by the Board going forward.
willingness to continue in office, and special notice has Going Concern been received for resolution 6 to be proposed at the The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them as auditors adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the and to authorise the Directors to determine their Companys accounts, as the assets of the Company remuneration.
consist mainly of securities which are readily realisable.
Authority to Allot Shares Investor Relations Resolution 7 is similar to the authority and power given to Communications with shareholders are given a high the Directors at previous annual general meetings.
In addition to the information provided in the annual directors are not permitted to allot new shares or to grant and interim accounts, information in an updated form is rights over shares unless authorised to do so by available on the F&C website at www.
In addition, directors require specific annual general meeting, all investors have the opportunity authority from shareholders before allotting new shares or to question the Chairman, the Board and the Manager.
granting rights over shares for cash without first offering Proxy voting figures are made available to the shareholders them to existing shareholders in proportion to their at the meeting.
Resolution 7 gives the Directors, for the period Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of the annual general meeting in 2004, Shareholders will find on pages 38 and 39 the Notice of the necessary authority to allot securities up to an the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company aggregate nominal amount of 913,846 which is to be held at Exchange House, Primrose Street, London equivalent to approximately 5% of the issued ordinary EC2A 2NY on 16 December 2003 at 3.00 pm.
share capital as at the date of this report and empowers Additional Ordinary Business at the Annual General the Directors to allot securities for cash otherwise than to Meeting existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis.
This authority The Ordinary business of the Meeting this year includes a provides the Directors with a degree of flexibility to resolution numbered 2 which asks shareholders to increase the assets of the Company by the issue of new approve the Directors' Remuneration Report.
This is now a shares, should any favourable opportunities arise to the requirement of company law, introduced by the Directors' advantage of shareholders.
The Directors' The Directors can, if necessary, use this authority to Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC 18 satisfy demand from participants in the F&C Private value per ordinary share for the remaining shareholders.
Investor and Pension Savings Plans and from holders of Any ordinary shares which were purchased would be F&C Individual Savings Accounts when they believe it is cancelled.
advantageous to such participants and the Companys The Directors consider that it would be advantageous shareholders to do so.
to shareholders for the Company to have the authority to In no circumstances would the Directors use the make such purchases as and when it considers the timing authority to issue shares at a price which would result in a to be favourable.
However, use of this authority, if given, dilution of the net asset value per ordinary share.
will depend upon market conditions and the Boards Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own judgement of its likely effectiveness in increasing net asset Shares value per share and or reducing the discount.
Resolution 8 authorises the Company, until the conclusion It is proposed that any purchase of ordinary shares of the annual general meeting in 2004, to purchase in the would be financed out of realised revenue and or capital market up to a maximum of 10,958,845 ordinary shares reserves and funded from the Companys own cash equivalent to approximately 14.99% of the issued share resources or, if appropriate, from short term borrowings.
capital at the date of this report for cancellation at a The Board intends to seek a renewal of such authority minimum price of 25 pence per share and a maximum at subsequent annual general meetings.
price per share of not more than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately before the date By order of the Board of purchase.
F&C Management Limited Under this authority purchases would only be made Secretary within guidelines established from time to time by the 7 November 2003 Board.
They would be made through the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per ordinary share, which would have the effect of increasing net asset Report and Accounts 2003 19
