B W Photograph conversion from SFS Directors Gold Council, the marketing arm of the worlds largest gold MARK LOVEDAY CHAIRMAN mining companies and is now a non-executive director of Elected to the Board in May 2001, appointed Chairman in AB Volvo, Investec PLC and the Aberdeen Asian Smaller May 2002 and is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
She also holds advisory He was senior partner of the corporate advisory, positions with Lazard and METRO AG.
Age 57. stockbroking and investment management company, Cazenove & Co. for seven years, retiring in April 2001 after # EWEN MACPHERSON SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR 36 years in the firm.
He is a member of the Securities Joined the Board in February 1997.
He is chairman of Merrill Institute and is also a trustee of The Grosvenor Estate and a Lynch New Energy Technology plc and of the private equity director of two of its related private companies, Deva Group investment trust, Pantheon International Participations PLC.
Limited and Deva Holdings Limited.
He has no other He retired in July 1997 as chief executive of 3i Group plc, directorships.
Age 60. which is Europes leading venture capital company, and was a non-executive director of Scottish Power plc until July ROBERT ADAMS 2003.
He is also the chairman of the trustees of the Appointed a Director in September 1998.
He is an executive GlaxoSmithKline Pension Fund.
Age 62. director of Rio Tinto plc with responsibility for planning and development, a position he has held since 1991.
He is JOHN RENNOCKS chairman of three Rio Tinto subsidiaries which are responsible Appointed a Director in August 1997 and is Chairman of the for managing the assets of Rio Tintos UK, US and Canadian Audit & Management Engagement Committee.
He is a pension funds respectively.
Foreign & Colonials holding in Rio chartered accountant and was finance director at Smith and Tinto represents 1.5% of the portfolio.
Nephew, Powergen and British Steel Corus throughout the # SIR MICHAEL BUNBURY BT years 1981 to 2001.
He is chairman of Nestor Healthcare Appointed to the Board in March 1998 and is chairman of Group plc and Diploma plc and a non-executive director of the Private Equity Committee.
He joined the stockbroking Babcock International Group PLC, JP Morgan Fleming firm, Buckmaster & Moore, in 1968 and moved to Smith & Overseas Investment Trust Plc, Wagon plc and Xenova Williamson in 1974 where he was subsequently chairman PLC.
Age 58. and to which he is now a consultant.
He was also chairman # MAXWELL WARD of Smith & Williamson Investment Management Ltd for Elected a Director in May 2000.
He was a partner in Baillie seven years.
He has been advising private clients and Gifford & Co, the Edinburgh firm of fund managers, for 25 families on quoted and unquoted investments and property years and was manager of Scottish Mortgage & Trust plc for portfolios for 35 years.
He is chairman of the Council of the 11 years.
He is chairman of Dunedin Income Growth Duchy of Lancaster and a non-executive director of JP Investment Trust plc, managing director of The Independent Morgan Fleming Claverhouse Investment Trust Plc.
Age 57 Investment Trust plc and a non-executive director of the life THE RT HON KENNETH CLARKE QC, MP assurance company, Aegon UK plc.
Appointed to the Board in August 1997.
He has been the SIR ANDREW WOOD GCMG Member of Parliament for Rushcliffe since 1970 and served Appointed a Director in December 2000.
Served as as a minister throughout the Conservative governments of ambassador in Moscow and Belgrade, he is a senior adviser 1979 to 1997.
He was Chancellor of the Exchequer to Ernst & Young and has acted for Unilever, between 1993 and 1997.
He is deputy chairman of Alliance GlaxoSmithKline, Diageo, BP and other companies Unichem plc, chairman of Savoy Asset Management PLC, interested in the Russian market.
He is a member of the deputy chairman of British American Tobacco plc, nonAdvisory Councils of the leading investment bank in Russia, executive chairman of British American Racing Holdings Ltd Renaissance Capital, and the BCCB, which represents the and a non-executive director of Independent News and interests of British consultants and construction firms.
Age 63. also deputy chairman of the board of the Russo-British HARUKO FUKUDA OBE Chamber of Commerce, and a director of the PBN Appointed to the Board in 1988.
A Fellow of the Securities Company, a strategic communications firm with offices in the Institute, she joined the stockbroking firm, James Capel & former Soviet Union, London and Washington DC.
Co. in 1974 and became a partner in 1980.
In 1988 she MEMBERS OF THE AUDIT & MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE joined Nikko Europe Plc, one of the largest Japanese MEMBERS OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE investment banks, and became vice chairman in 1994.
# MEMBERS OF THE PRIVATE EQUITY COMMITTEE From 1999 to 2002 she was chief executive of the World 6 6 For Foreign & Colonial Investment T eign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC rust PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Report and Accounts 2003
