Report of the Directors STATUS OF COMPANY As at 31 December 2003 the Companys investments in During the year under review the Company carried on the such companies represented 0.64% of its gross assets.
business of an investment trust and has since conducted its REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS affairs to qualify as such under the provisions of Section 842 A review of the Companys activities is given in the of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act, 1988.
The last Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 5 and in the accounting period for which the Company has been treated Managers Review on pages 8 and 9. as approved by the Inland Revenue was for the year ended 31 December 2002.
This approval is subject to there being RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS no subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self The net assets of the Company as at 31 December 2003 Assessment.
The Company is an investment company as defined by Revenue Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
"Attributable to equity shareholders 000s 000s The Companys shares are eligible for inclusion in an Revenue return attributable Individual Savings Account ""ISA"" and are also eligible as an to equity shareholders 40,893 investment for Personal Equity Plan ""PEP"" transfers."
Dividends paid or payable on ordinary shares: Details of subsidiary undertakings and substantial interests Interim of 1.80p per share are given in note 10 on the accounts.
paid 19 September 2003 17,082 Note 1 on the accounts contains principal details of the Proposed final of 1.90p per share accounting policies adopted.
payable on 17 May 2004 to shareholders registered at close The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to of business on 12 March 2004 18,031 35,113 adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts as Amount transferred to revenue reserve 5,780 the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities, which are readily realisable.
The Company receives over half of its income in the first six INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE AND POLICY months of the year, but has traditionally paid a higher The Companys investment objective is to secure long-term proportion of the total dividend as a final dividend.
In order to growth in capital and income through a policy of investing reduce the disparity between the interim and final payments, primarily in a diversified international portfolio of equities, the Company paid a significantly higher interim dividend of with use of gearing.
The Board has determined that there 1.80 pence per share in September 2003 which, together will be no material change to its investment objective or to with the final dividend now recommended of its investment policy without prior shareholder approval.
1.90 pence per share, makes a total dividend of 3.70 pence Under the Companys Articles of Association, with limited per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2003. exceptions, no investment can be made by the Company This represents an increase of 5.7% over the 3.50 pence per which exceeds 10% of the value of its total portfolio at the share paid in the previous year.
Resolutions 1 and 3 at the time of investment.
Furthermore, the Company announced forthcoming Annual General Meeting relate to the Annual on 16 October 2003 that it is its policy to invest no more Report and Accounts and the final dividend.
than 15% of its gross assets in other UK listed investment SHARE CAPITAL companies including investment trusts : under the Listing Details relating to the share capital can be found in note 16 Rules, no more than 10% of the value of the gross assets of on the accounts.
At the Annual General Meeting held on a listed investment company can be invested in other listed 7 May 2003, shareholders renewed the Boards authority to investment companies which have not stated that they will buy back the Companys ordinary shares for cancellation.
not invest more than 15% of their gross assets in other Shareholders gave authority for the buy-back of up to listed investment companies.
The Company is thus further 141,401,725 such shares.
No shares were bought back restricted to investing no more than 10% of its gross assets during the year.
Since the year-end, however, 2,905,000 in those companies that have not made such a statement.
18 18 For Foreign & Colonial Investment T eign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC rust PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Report and Accounts 2003 shares have been bought back at prices ranging between July 2003, that directors having served more than nine years should stand for re-election at each annual general 182p and 187p, enhancing net asset value per share by meeting, Ms Haruko Fukuda offers herself for re-election for 0.1p.
As at 26 February 2004, the number of ordinary a further period of one year Resolution 8.
The Nomination shares in issue stood at 946,099,873.
A resolution to renew Committee has considered the re-election of Ms Fukuda, the authority will be put to shareholders at the Annual who has served the Company as a Director for 15 years, General Meeting Resolution 12.
A resolution to authorise and the Board has appraised her performance and the Directors to allot shares will also be proposed reviewed her independent status.
Ms Fukuda, who will Resolution 11. retire from the Board immediately following the annual general meeting in 2005, has a wealth of international and SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS investment trust experience, not least through her role as At 26 February 2004 the Company had received notification Chairman of the Company's Audit and Management of the following disclosable interest in its ordinary share Engagement Committee for five years.
The Board capital: therefore recommends that Ms Fukuda be re-elected for a further one year until the conclusion of the annual general Ordinary shares % meeting in 2005.
Skandia Life Group 49,142,891 5.2 Each Director has signed a Terms of Appointment letter, which are available for inspection at the Company's DIRECTORS registered office during normal business hours and will also Information in relation to each Director can be found on be available at the Annual General Meeting: no Director has page 6 and reference to the Board can also be found on a service contract with the Company.
All the Directors held office throughout the year under review.
Lord Rockley retired at the annual Details of Directors shareholdings in the Company are general meeting held on 7 May 2003. contained in note 5 on the accounts.
Kenneth Clarke, Mr John Rennocks, Mr Mark DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Loveday and Sir Andrew Wood retire by rotation and, being The Directors Remuneration Report, which can be found eligible, will offer themselves for re-election at the on page 26, and note 5 on the accounts provide detailed forthcoming Annual General Meeting Resolutions 4 to 7. information on the remuneration arrangements for Directors The Nomination Committee considered the re-elections of of the Company.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the these Directors at a meeting held in January 2004.
Mr Directors Remuneration Report at the Annual General Loveday and Mr Clarke absented themselves from that part Meeting Resolution 2. of the meeting during which their respective positions were considered.
Following recommendations of the Nomination MANAGEMENT Committee arising from the meeting and following an The Company has a management agreement the appraisal of the performance of each of these Directors and Agreement with F&C Management Limited the a review of their status as independent Directors, the Board Manager.
The Manager provides investment managewith each respective Director abstaining has concurred ment, marketing, company secretarial, financial and general that each makes a valuable and effective contribution as a administrative services to the Company for a quarterly fee of non-executive Director, and as Chairman in the case of Mr 0.075% based upon a three year historic average of assets Loveday, based on their individual skills, knowledge and under management excluding all holdings in funds or experience and from the time they give to the Company in companies managed or advised by the Manager or any of fulfilling their duties.
The Board believes that Mr Clarke and its subsidiaries as at the relevant calculation date, a date Mr Rennocks, who have both served in excess of six years, one year before such calculation date and a date two years are committed to their roles as non-executive Directors of before such calculation date.
The fee is paid in advance in the Company and that their respective re-elections would the month following the end of each calender quarter for the be in the interests of the Company.
The quarterly fee of 0.075% applies to the first 2,500 million of chargeable assets.
On reaching In accordance with the requirement of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in that figure, the fee will reduce by 0.00625% per 500 million 19 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Report and Accounts 2003 of additional assets to a minimum of 0.0375% on CHARITABLE DONATIONS chargeable assets in excess of 5,000 million.
Either party The Company made no contribution for charitable purposes may terminate the Agreement upon one year's notice.
during the year but, having retained a small balance of funds within its account with the Charities Aid Foundation A separate review of the Manager has been carried out by from its contribution in 2002, made a small number of the Board in accordance with the Listing Rules published by charitable donations in the period.
As the role of an the Financial Services Authority.
This considered the investment trust is somewhat different to most other types investment performance record over short to long-term time of companies, and as taxation incentives towards charitable periods and the quality and adequacy of resources which donations are now balanced in favour of direct contributions have been allocated, or are otherwise available to, the by individuals rather than companies, the Board has management of the Company for the purpose of continuing decided to discontinue the Company's annual contribution to achieve its performance objectives and obligations to of 25,000. shareholders.
Following this review, and that carried out by the Audit & Management Engagement Committee in relation AUDITORS to the other services provided by the Manager as described  LLP have indicated their on page 24, it is the Board's opinion that the continuing willingness to continue in office, and a resolution will be appointment of the Manager on the terms agreed is in the proposed at the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them interests of shareholders as a whole.
A separate resolution to The Manager has arrangements under which stockbrokers authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the pay for various investment services which it uses in return Auditors will also be proposed Resolution 10. for stated amounts of commission.
The Managers policy is The Auditors provide some non-audit services to the that this commission should be within a range of 10% to Company, the details of which are set out in notes 4 and 18 15% of total commissions paid by its clients in any one year.
on the accounts and on page 24.
RISK CONTROL ORDINARY AND SPECIAL BUSINESS AT THE A summary of the risk control measures taken by the Board ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING is set out in the Corporate Governance section on pages 24 Shareholders will find a separate enclosure which contains and 25.
By means of the procedures set out in the the Notice of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of summary, and in accordance with the Internal Control: the Company to be held at The Brewery, Chiswell Street, Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the London EC1 on 12 May 2004 at 12 noon.
In addition to the Turnbull guidance, the Board has established an ongoing ordinary business of the Meeting, resolutions numbered 11 process for identifying, evaluating and managing the and 12 are proposed as special business.
Further significant risks faced by the Company, and has regularly information with regard to both the ordinary and special reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems business to be proposed at the Meeting is contained in the for the period.
This process has been in place throughout enclosure.
the year under review, and to the date hereof, and will continue to be regularly reviewed by the Board on an ongoing basis.
POLICY ON PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS The Companys principal supplier, the Manager, is paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement as summarised on page 19.
Other suppliers are paid in By order of the Board accordance with the individual payment terms agreed with H. N. Potter each supplier.
At 31 December 2003, the Companys For and on behalf of outstanding trade creditors were equivalent to one days F&C Management Limited, Secretary payments to suppliers.
26 February 2004 20 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Report and Accounts 2003
