Business Review Asset Management Central to our ability to grow the business is the delivery of strong investment performance.
rebranding we are now in a much structure to link individual rewards more better position to take on further closely with portfolio performance.
assets without the need for significant Investment performance has improved extra resources.
As a result, 63% Putting a scaleable operational of our retail collective funds were above average in their respective sectors across platform in place is an important the calendar year.
This is a noticeable part of our overall growth strategy.
improvement on the three year record.
We conducted a major review of our operational model and concluded that A further development in our strategy the way forward was to partner with is our decision to participate in the fast a larger organisation specialising in growing alternative investment hedge operational administration.
While convinced that the Howard Carter we announced that we had signed alternative investment arena will continue Chief Executive heads of agreement with JP Morgan to expand, it is essential to nd the right ISIS to outsource certain back and middle people with the appropriate skills sets.
This latter move will We have therefore reached heads enable us to focus our future technology of agreement to take an equity stake spend on core activities and improve in Cardinal Capital Partners, a new the way our costs are aligned to our company, which is focused on revenues.
A key element of these alternative assets.
Cardinal is being discussions is that those staff impacted established by a group of individuals Our 67% owned asset management will be offered positions in their existing with considerable experience, who operation, ISIS Asset Management, work location with JP Morgan.
have previously developed such increased its contribution to a business for a major European consolidated group operating profits Of course a well managed company, financial institution.
ISIS will benefit from 23 million in 2002 to 26 million with good cost controls and a scaleable from privileged distribution access to in 2003. operational platform will only succeed Cardinals products in the UK market if the underlying investment proposition and continental European market.
This Strategy meets the high standards investors initiative will enhance our product line, The strategic goal of ISIS remains for rightfully expect.
So, central to our ability has the potential to build a significant it to become a top five active UK asset to grow the business is the delivery revenue stream and allows us to enter manager by 2007.
Meeting this goal of strong investment performance.
this market segment without distracting will require a considerable increase us from the development of our existing A year ago we reported that we had in assets under management but it is core business.
re-appraised our investment philosophy, one we are determined to achieve both which had previously had a strong As a leader in Governance and through organic growth and, should the growth style bias in equity selection, Socially Responsible Investment, ISIS right opportunities present themselves, and introduced a more exible approach is well placed to meet growing investor through acquisition.
better suited to changing investment expectations in this eld through reo, The integration of the Royal & markets.
We also established a three our Responsible Engagement Overlay SunAlliance investment management pronged resource platform around our service.
More recently, we announced business RSAI was of course a major fund managers comprising a dedicated our decision to publish our voting building block in meeting its long-term risk management desk, an investment records for all of our retail funds each strategic goal.
The final stage of the strategy team and an enlarged research month on our website.
This represents integration was completed during the department.
At the same time we are an industry first for a UK asset year with the rationalisation of our retail strong believers that fund managers management company.
In terms of personnel, must take ownership of their track a central tenet of our overall strategy products, operational platform and our records so we revised our bonus and product offering.
