Report of the Directors The directors present their report to shareholders for the basis by Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited, the financial year from 1 January 2003 until 31 December 2003.
This report, the directors reports on corporate governance Purchase of own shares and remuneration that follow and the financial statements will be laid before the Annual General Meeting.
The Company is, until the date of the next AGM, generally and unconditionally authorised to buy back up to 10% of its Annual General Meeting issued share capital at 3 March 2003 172,192,168 shares.
No such purchase has been made.
A separate document, the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2004, convening the Annual General Meeting AGM of the Treasury Shares Company to be held at Novotel London Euston, 100110 Euston Road, London, NW1 on Thursday 20 May 2004 at As at 1 March 2004, the Company held no treasury shares.
11.00 a. m. has been sent to all shareholders and contains Directors interests an explanation of the business before that meeting.
Details of directors interests in shares under option as at Principal activities 31 December 2003 are shown in the table on page 40.
The Friends Provident plc is the holding company of the Friends interests of directors in the shares of the Company and its Provident Group of companies and is a constituent of the subsidiaries are shown in note 37 on page 85.
The Group has two core businesses, life and Directors pensions and asset management, whose principal activities are the provision of retail financial services, chiey long-term Details of Board members at the date of this report are set insurance business and asset management.
The life and out on pages 18 and 19.
All directors must be elected at the pensions business operates primarily in the UK and in AGM following their appointment and thereafter must seek selected international markets, the latter serviced through re-election at least every three years.
sufficient biographical a subsidiary life assurance company in the Isle of Man details to enable members to take an informed decision and a branch operation in Guernsey.
The asset management about continuing directors are contained on pages 18 and 19. business is undertaken through ISIS Asset Management plc, The directors retiring by rotation at the AGM are Lady Judge, a 67% owned, publicly listed Group subsidiary company.
Lord MacGregor, David Newbigging who is aged 70, Keith Particulars of the main subsidiary and associated Satchell and Brian Sweetland and, being eligible, offer undertakings are given on page 87. themselves for re-election.
Philip Moore and Ray King, appointed as directors on 1 September 2003 and 6 January Statement of going concern 2004 respectively, will retire at the AGM and, being eligible, After making enquiries, the directors are satisfied that the will offer themselves for election.
Roger Morton will retire at Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue the close of the AGM.
to operate as a going concern for the foreseeable future and Other than their employment and service contracts, and related have prepared the financial statements on that basis.
party transactions referred to in Note 38 on page 85, there were Results and business review no contracts in existence during or at the end of the financial year in which a director of the Company was interested.
The Board seeks, through the Report & Accounts, to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups Substantial shareholdings position and prospects.
The Groups results for the financial At 1 March 2004 and in accordance with the provisions of year are shown in the consolidated profit and loss account on pages 48 and 49.
A review of the financial year and future section 211 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company had received notication from Banco Comerial Portugus, S. A. developments are covered in the Chairmans Statement, the of its holding in the Companys issued share capital Group Chief Executives Review and the other business and amounting to 3.1%.
financial reviews that precede this report.
Dividend Employees and equal opportunities The directors are recommending a final dividend for 2003 of The Company aims to provide equal opportunities for 4.9 pence per share, payable on 28 May 2004 to all holders all, without discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, of ordinary shares on the register of shareholders at the marital status, age, sex, sexual orientation or disability in all our dealings with staff.
We recruit and promote those best close of business on 16 April 2004.
The dividend for the year, suited for the job.
The Company respects the dignity of including the interim dividend of 2.5 pence per share paid individuals and their beliefs.
The Company does not tolerate on 28 November 2003, amounts to 7.4 pence per share.
The total cost of dividends for 2003 will amount to 127 million.
any sexual, racial, physical or mental harassment of staff in The intention is for interim dividends to be paid in November the work place.
and final dividends to be paid in May each year.
The interim The Group has amongst its employees a number who are dividend will represent approximately one third of the disabled.
It gives full and fair consideration to applications anticipated total dividend.
for employment from disabled persons.
In the event of Perpetual Capital Securities employees becoming disabled every effort is made to maintain them in employment with appropriate retraining The Company has raised 300m via a guaranteed perpetual being arranged if necessary.
It is the Groups policy that hybrid Tier 1 debt issue.
The transaction, the first of its kind disabled persons should as far as possible be given the same in the UK insurance sector, attracted applications for four opportunities for training, career development and promotion times the amount raised.
The security pays a coupon of as other employees.
6.875% and was targeted at institutional investors in the sterling market and is callable on 21 November 2019 at par.
Employee involvement and communications The issue was listed on the London Stock Exchange on The Group is committed to its policy of encouraging 25 November 2003 and is guaranteed on a subordinated employee involvement at all levels.
The primary methods by Annual Report & Accounts 2003 29 Report of the Directors continued which the two core businesses implement this policy are: Auditors Following the conversion of  to a management briengs presentations and discussion Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003, through the management structure:  resigned on 23 January 2003 and the Directors appointed its successor, the issue of a full range of employee communications  LLP, as auditors.
via the Companys Intranet or other internal publication of relevant information, which inform staff of current The Board is to recommend that the shareholders approve issues developments and progress: the appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as the Companys auditors in place of  LLP.
KPMG a Staff Forum in the life and pensions core business that Audit Plc has indicated its willingness to be appointed and, on encourages staff views and questions on a variety of the recommendation of the Audit and Compliance Committee subjects to be discussed with management: following a review by that Committee, a resolution to appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company will be proposed an established and regular staff opinion survey that at the Annual General Meeting.
encourages staff anonymously to present their views, thereby generating workplace and business improvements: and the establishment of effective working relationships with staff representative bodies.
The primary aim of all these activities is to ensure staff know the objectives and activities of the Company and the Group For the Board so that they can contribute fully to their continued success.
B. W. Sweetland Director and Company Secretary Additionally, staff are involved in each core businesss, and 2 March 2004 through that the Groups, performance by way of participation in Inland Revenue approved all-employee share schemes specic to each core business: ShareSave Schemes savingsrelated share option schemes and Share Incentive Plans formerly called All-Employee Share Ownership Plans.
Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards The Group has an established International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS project team responsible for investigating the impact of applying IFRS and managing the Groups transition to IFRS reporting in 2005 and thereafter.
This team has a project plan in place that will enable the transition to IFRS in 2005.
More details are contained in the Financial Review page 23.
Creditor payment policy It is the Companys and the Groups policy to adhere to the payment terms agreed with individual suppliers and to pay in accordance with their contractual and other legal obligations.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Charitable and political donations Donations to charitable organisations paid by the Group amounted to 324,337 2002: 301,927, of which ISIS Asset Management plc donated 58,000 2002: 41,000.
The Company donated 250,000 2002: 250,000 to the Friends Provident Charitable Foundation and a further 5,460 for the Foundation to give to staff-chosen charities to match donations made by staff under the Give As You Earn Scheme from 1 November 2003.
No political donations were made 2002: Nil.
Friends Provident Charitable Foundation The Foundation is a registered charity created with the intention that it should be the vehicle through which the Friends Provident Group would contribute to charitable purposes after the demutualisation of Friends Provident Life Ofce in 2001.
The Company undertook to donate to the Foundation 250,000 annually for three years from 9 July 2001, which it has done.
Additionally, the Foundation will benefit by up to 20 million in July 2004, when the Company donates shares up to that value from shares that have not been claimed by former members of FPLO since July 2001.
In this way, the Foundation will be endowed and its future grant-making intentions facilitated.
