People who care about the service they give Quite simply, we aim to stand out by being outstanding.
To all of our customers all of the time.
Thats a big ask but our people are determined to do it.
Reputations are hard to win and easy to lose.
We know that, and we are very proud of the awards and accolades coming our way to say that were appreciated.
Both for what we do and the way we do it.
Business Review Asset Management continued After a prolonged period of falling markets one of the major challenges facing the wider financial services industry was to regain the trust of investors.
Value creating activities and we have sought to develop our mandates from Rhondda Cynon Taf After a prolonged period of falling reputation as an opinion former within County Borough Council and the London markets one of the major challenges our industry.
Additionally, facing the wider financial services a number of the leading consultants Retail market industry was to regain the trust of have upgraded their ratings and we In the retail business area a major investors.
Such public confidence continue to be invited to tender for focus of activity during the year was has continued to be dented by various further business.
the reorganisation of our fund range.
high prole scandals even though a Very few of our institutional clients have All former Friends Provident unit trusts number of these problems have not performance fees in place.
However, were first converted to OEICs Open emanated from the asset management we did beat the necessary performance Ended Investment Companies and sector itself.
benchmarks for two clients who did our transfer agency was moved to Launching a new brand in such an International Financial Data Services.
have such arrangements with us.
This environment has presented us with A single depository was established is further tangible evidence of our the opportunity to demonstrate our and new fund accounting and pricing improving investment performance strong commitment to building trust arrangements were put in place for for the year.
Over the year much the entire range.
The final stage of this work has been undertaken to develop A particular success was the launch programme came with the rationalisation a brand which reects our belief in in October of the ISIS Property Trust, of our fund range from some 55 funds transparency and responsibility.
There a quoted investment company with down to 31 under the single ISIS brand.
are three core values which are central 121 million of total assets.
We were This was an enormous project in terms to the ISIS brand: to be authoritative, in an ideal position to launch such a of operations, compliance and marketing to demonstrate initiative and to vehicle given the strong institutional and was nally completed during the be responsive.
performance record of our subsidiary year.
The resulting fund range has ISIS Property Asset Management and brought clarity to our retail proposition The most visible aspect of this work our investment trust pedigree.
The has been our high prole advertising and is already greatly enhancing our ISIS Property Trust has commanded a campaign.
Our objective has not been ability both to attract new clients and significant share price premium since to generate off-the-page sales but to retain existing ones.
improve end-consumer awareness With a trimmed down fund range, our of who we are and our values.
The Our private equity division, ISIS Equity core strengths in the retail market are development of a recognisable brand more visible.
Our performance record Partners, has delivered a number of supports those intermediaries already and reputation is particularly strong successes during the year with 7 exits recommending our products and is in corporate bonds, UK and European and 8 new investments.
We were able also an important factor in the selection equities, funds of funds and specialist to close commitments for our first process for distributors choosing which areas such as ethical investment and 10 year limited partnership and raise asset management companies Venture Capital Trusts VCTs.
High additional funds by way of share top to partner with.
levels of sales activity amongst IFAs ups on our range of VCTs.
While VCT A further aspect of this strategy took place throughout the year fund raising has shrunk dramatically has been to signicantly raise the including conferences, seminars since its peak in 2000 1 we continued ISIS prole through the national press and road shows.
to take a significant market share of and industry trade titles.
Institutional market ISIS was mentioned in over 3,400 Radical changes to VCT tax allowances press articles of which 67% were In the institutional market our focus has are to be introduced in the 2004 5 tax independently rated as positive, 28% been on client retention and securing year following a government review of neutral and 5% negative.
Our senior larger mandates, particularly in bonds staff have been encouraged to provide and property.
We are pleased to report equity nancing for smaller companies.
responsible comment to the press We believe these will revitalise this progress, with two new major bond 16 Friends Provident product area.
As the largest player in Conclusion the VCT market, we are in pole position The integration of RSAI has created to benefit from expected growth.
significant cost savings but our focus now is on revenue generation and Managing costs organic growth.
At the heart of this Headcount is the primary driver in must be strong investment performance, relation to costs in a fund management supported by a distinctive brand.
As part of our post integration With the recent recovery in markets, review and our target of achieving a we can expect to see more corporate 30% operating margin as referred to activity amongst asset management elsewhere in this Report, we undertook rms.
Should suitable opportunities to manage our headcount down to arise we will consider further growth 500 by 31 December 2003.
was achieved ahead of schedule and at the year-end we had 496 personnel The asset management industry has too on the payroll.
Our headcount will fall many companies, too much duplication again during 2004 as we proceed with of products and too many xed costs.
the outsourcing of our investment We believe that over the coming years administration and other back and the asset management industry will middle ofce services.
It is anticipated polarise between a cluster of large that approximately 60 people will groups, able to extract economies of transfer to JP Morgan.
scale, and a plethora of small specialist boutiques.
ISIS aims to be part of the On the outsourcing side we believe former grouping.
we will strike a deal with JP Morgan that is not only beneficial to both parties but which will create exciting opportunities for our staff transferring across, and we thank all these support staff for their hard work and commitment.
The financial benets of outsourcing will be seen in 2005, as there will be costs of putting in place the arrangements that neutralise the financial savings in 2004.
We have, even through the early stages of the year when the market was falling rapidly, continued to invest in our brand both in terms of advertising and other promotional activities.
We believe it is fundamentally important in the current environment to continue to build on the good work that has been done and we will seek in 2004 to continue to invest in our brand commensurate with being a top 10 fund manager within the UK market.
