Business Review Life and Pensions Our significant gains in new business have not been at the expense of profit.
The profits earned on our 2003 new business increased by 21% over 2002 and are some 48% greater than for 2001 new business, reecting growth in both volumes and margins.
Our strategy is to continue to allocate capital efficiently to the various classes of new business.
New Business Highlights of 2003 were: New life and pensions business for 2003 increased by 14% to a record 429 million compared with Ben Gunn 377 million in 2002.
Total New Business: APE Managing Director m New savings and investment business Friends Provident increased by 18% to 114 million Life and Pensions New group pensions business compared with 97 million in 2002. increased 11.6% to 176.1 million New protection business, including compared with 157.8 million in 2002, income protection, increased by having gained an increasing share of 54% to 69 million compared with the high quality IFA business.
Worksite 2003 performance 45 million in 2002. scheme enrolment activities are Life and pensions new business continuing to contribute to overall new New group pensions business for 2003 exceeded 400 million business.
The trend to replace dened increased by 12% to 176 million for the first time ever, with each benefit schemes with alternative group compared with 158 million in 2002. quarterly performance exceeding arrangements will continue throughout the corresponding quarter of 2002.
Protection 2004, resulting in further new business New protection business in 2003, opportunities, although such decisions This is a strong performance in including income protection, increased may be deferred by scheme trustees what continues to be a difficult 53.9% to a record 69.4 million, with until the Government takes its final marketplace and was achieved through fourth quarter sales exceeding 20 million decision on pensions reform proposals.
a determination to maintain good service, for the first time.
We believe there enabled by leading edge technology.
New individual pensions in 2003 is significant growth potential in this decreased 13.2% to 40.0 million sector, subject to conditions in the Protection, group pensions and savings mortgage market.
Our major distribution compared with 46.1 million in 2002, and investment are the three product agreement signed with the UKs largest sectors that are key for us and the reecting our focus on the more estate agency, Countrywide, in 2002 growth momentum, evident in our profitable group pensions market.
will continue to contribute signicantly business since our listing in 2001, New annuity business decreased to our overall new business.
4.2% to 29.4 million compared According to gures released by the Pensions with 30.7 million in 2002, continuing ABI, we have increased our market Total new pensions business in 2003 to reect our selective approach to share in each of these sectors and are increased by 4.6% to 245.5 million this market to ensure we maintain ranked 4th and 5th for new business compared with 234.6 million in 2002, appropriate margins.
in the IFA market for protection and with good headway being made in the group pensions respectively.
Savings and investment strategically important group pensions market, offset in part by our strategy New savings and investment business Our significant gains in new business have not, however, been at the expense to fide-emphasise individual pensions.
increased 17.8% to 114.3 million, All new business gures shown in this section are expressed as Annual Premium Equivalent APE unless stated otherwise.
This measure adds together new regular premium business and one tenth of single premium business.
8Friends Provident 99 384 00 352 01 343 02 377 429 03 Technology for tomorrow as well as today We are at the forefront of using technology in a powerful way.
Not only to transform the speed and efficiency of what we do but also to make life easier for others.
For customers, giving them more choice.
And for intermediaries, helping them build their businesses to t the future.
Business Review Life and Pensions continued Changes have been made to our internal structures to prepare for the anticipated increase in distribution partners.
achieved against the background of Products innovation a UK market which has contracted For the group pensions market, we some 35% over the year.
A growing launched in July 2003 our multi manager proportion of our savings and facility, branded Activ Investment investment business is provided from Solutions, widening the range of funds our enlarged international business, and fund managers available to our operating in markets with greater customers.
Activ is integrated with margin potential.
Total international our electronic trading platform with business, the majority of which is automated interfacing with the various savings and investment, accounted fund managers.
It is innovative in the for 16% of our total 2003 new way that we manage the investment New Group Pensions: APE business, up from 14% in 2002 partners and fund choices available, m and 10% in 2001. aiming to offer best of breed.
It is expected that the availability of Activ With profits business will underpin an increase in new The with profits market continues business tendering opportunities to contract sharply.
The persistent from Employee benefit Consultants.
negative coverage in the press and from industry commentators is likely In the life protection sector, we began to result in consumer demand for trials of our new eSelect Protection this product remaining depressed product with a number of large IFA for the foreseeable future.
eSelect Protection is an end-toaccounted for only 10% of our 2003 end new business system enabling IFAs new business compared with 26% in to write term assurance, waiver of 2002 and we are not therefore reliant premium and critical illness business on this product.
entirely through the internet, featuring quotes, pre-populated applications, As predicted, further bonus rate interactive underwriting and electronic reductions were necessary in New Protection: APE processing to policy issue.
We believe 2003 as we continued the process m eSelect Protection has the potential to of aligning policy values to levels generate automated online underwriting which more closely reect the value decisions for up to 60% of applications.
Further Following its successful trials, eSelect reductions in bonus rates remain Protection was formally launched in likely in the absence of consistently March this year.
In addition, there are increasing regulatory costs During the final quarter of the year to be borne to comply with the FSAs we introduced a dedicated multi requirements for greater transparency.
manager fund proposition to our investment bond business.
As an Nevertheless, maturing with profit alternative to with profits, we also policies are still achieving good real returns and the inherent guarantees launched the UK Safeguard Optimiser fund, designed to offer smoothed offer valuable protection to our returns from the UK equity market customers.
In 2003 we allocated some 345 million to our with profit while providing some protection New Savings & policyholders through regular and against stock market falls.
Early Investment: APE final policy bonuses.
2003 was placed by UK IFAs, 16% Consequent changes have been made from our international operation and to our internal structures to develop our 19% from Appointed Representatives support for all channels of distribution and our direct salesforce.
and to prepare for the anticipated Following a review undertaken in the increase in distribution partners.
light of the likely regulatory changes Expansion of extranet services to the ways products are distributed, We believe that the availability of we announced our intention to close independent advice to guide consumers our direct sales operation while seeking is a crucial component of a healthy and to retain the best of the skills and respected financial services industry.
expertise of that salesforce by encouraging the financial consultants Our strategy of building mutually worthwhile relationships with major to consider becoming Appointed IFA rms is underpinned by systems Representatives of Friends Provident.
designed to drive up the quality of As a result, our network of Appointed service and drive down costs, both for Representative rms will be strengthened considerably, intermediaries and Friends Provident.
A growing proportion of our savings and investment business is provided from our enlarged international business.
Following the June 2002 launch, 2003 saw the completion of a range of core components that provide a complete end-to-end service for IFAs via our extranet, and there are plans in place to build upon these during 2004.
The services include new business quotations and submissions, proposal tracking, policy servicing facilities and commission enquiries.
Use of the system is recorded: logins increased from about 4,000 in January 2003 2003 New Business by distribution channel to nearly 10,000 in December 2003, IFA 65% International 16% peaking at over 18,000 in October.
Direct 19% Over the year, around 27,000 new Annual Report & Accounts 2003 11 Business Review Life and Pensions continued Our commitment to delivering to our customers a level of service unrivalled in our industry remains a priority.
bond and term policies were transacted The FACE programme Friends Achieving Customer Excellence introduced across online.
Additionally, in the second half the business in 2001, effectively of 2003, users accessed the proposal galvanised our efforts to deliver tracking facility some 22,000 times outstanding service.
Since its launch, enquiring on over 40,000 proposals we have seen across the board gains and made more than 53,000 online in both internal and external service enquiries to access policy details.
In 2003 we established We have also developed and selectively the Service Excellence Forum, chaired implemented technology to enable the by the Director of Customer Services, back-office systems of IFAs to access to monitor our performance against the data held on our core systems.
This high aims we have set ourselves, as innovation is delivering genuine benets well as encouraging further improvement to intermediaries and their relationship activities and the sharing of best practice.
with their clients and we aim to promote In the prestigious 2003 Financial these facilities more widely in 2004.
Adviser LIA Service Awards, the largest Independent recognition for our online survey of its kind based on the views capabilities came in October 2003 with of nearly 2000 IFA rms, our good the award for Best use of E-Business service was again recognised by the at the Health Insurance Awards.
award of a Four Star rating.
For the second consecutive year we are the More online features for customers highest ranked of all the major UK Our consumer website online servicing listed life and pensions companies facility was launched in 2002, initially in this inuential survey.
to enable customers to view certain Friends Provident International further policy details and to change their personal contact details.
During 2003, cemented its reputation as one of the leading offshore life and pensions the scope of the servicing facility was extended to embrace virtually operations by being voted Overall Life Company of the Year in the Portfolio all Friends Provident policies.
New International Awards of 2003. features were added, allowing customers to see current surrender In February this year, the Life and values or projected maturity values, the Pensions company was re-accredited amount payable in the event of death, under the Raising Standards quality and the extent of any loans available.
This signies not only our commitment to customer service Customers can also download the and the quality of our literature but also necessary forms to alter direct debits that we have met the standards of the or switch their investment between scheme.
We are proud to have held funds.
My TaxFriend is a further new this independent accreditation since feature, available to our registered February 2002 and also welcome the users to help them complete their FSAs planned Treating Customers personal tax returns, calculate tax Fairly programme.
The reputation of liabilities and receive guidance on our industry has suffered over recent tax saving opportunities.
years and we are committed to doing Recognition for good service all we can to elevate it again.
Our commitment to delivering to our customers a level of service unrivalled in our industry remains a priority.
12 Friends Provident Products and processes designed together We no longer just design products.
Of course products must be t for purpose, easy to understand and competitively priced.
But the processes behind the scenes are just as important.
Thats why we design them together.
And we talk before we design, trial before we launch and aim for state of the art.
