The Board The Board Group Management Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Group Management Board Retail Risk Control Committee Left to right: Phil Hodkinson, Andy Hornby, Colin Matthew, James Crosby, Mike Ellis, George Mitchell, Ian Kerr.
Audit Committee Left to right: Louis Sherwood, Sir Bob Reid, Anthony Hobson, John Maclean.
Remuneration Committee Left to right: Brian Ivory, Sir Ronald Garrick, Coline McConville, Philip Yea.
Retail Risk Control Committee Left to right: John Maclean, Charles Dunstone.
50 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 The Board George Mitchell Kathleen Kate Nealon Biographies Age 53.
George joined Bank of Scotland Age 50.
Until the end of last year, Kate was in 1966 and became an Associate of the Group Head of Legal and Compliance for Chairman Institute of Bankers in Scotland in 1971 Standard Chartered Plc.
She joined Standard Dennis Stevenson and a Fellow in 1993.
In 1994 George was Chartered in 1992.
Kate is a US qualified Age 58.
After being appointed a Director appointed General Manager with lawyer who prior to joining Standard and Chairman of Halifax in 1999 Dennis responsibility for the Banks Centrebank Chartered practised international banking became Chairman of HBOS plc, following Division.
In 2000 he became a Director of law in New York for many years, most the merger of Bank of Scotland and Halifax, Bank of Scotland and then Treasurer and recently as a partner at the California based in September 2001.
He is also Chairman of Managing Director of Bank of Scotland in firm of Morrison and Foerster.
She has Pearson plc and a Non-executive Director of 2001 and Governor in 2003.
In September spoken and written extensively on Manpower Inc, Chairman of the House of 2001 George became Chief Executive of the Corporate Governance and Business Ethics.
Lords Appointments Commission and Corporate Division of HBOS plc which, with Kate was appointed a Non-executive effect from January 2004, incorporates the Chancellor of the London Institute.
Director of HBOS plc with effect from Groups Treasury operations.
Chief Executive Sir Bob Reid Non-executive Directors James Crosby Age 69.
Sir Bob was formerly Chairman and Charles Dunstone Chief Executive of Shell UK Limited and Age 47.
An actuary, James spent 17 years in Age 39.
Charles is Chief Executive Officer of Chairman of British Railways Board.
He is fund management and life assurance before The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC which Non-executive Chairman of the International joining Halifax in 1994.
Appointed Chief he founded in 1989.
He was appointed as a Petroleum Exchange of London and Avis Executive in 1999 he assumed the same role Non-executive Director of Halifax in 2000.
He is a Non-executive Director in HBOS plc on its formation in 2001.
James of Sun Life Financial Inc.
Intercontinental is also a Non-executive Director of ITV plc Deputy Chairman, Sir Ronald Garrick Exchange Inc. Siemens Holdings plc, The and the Financial Services Authority.
Sir Ron has held the positions of Merchants Trust plc and Chancellor of Chief Executive and Chairman of the Weir Robert Gordon University.
Sir Bob joined the Executive Directors Group PLC.
He was also Deputy Chairman of Board of Bank of Scotland in 1987.
Scottish Enterprise and is a former Director Mike Ellis of Shell UK and Scottish Power plc.
After holding several appointments joined the Board of Bank of Scotland in Age 44.
Until 31 December 2003, David was in the local government sector, Mike joined March 2000.
In January 2003, he became Senior Partner of Deloitte & Touche in Halifax in 1987 as Treasurer.
In 1996, he Deputy Chairman of HBOS plc.
Scotland and Northern Ireland, and until became Banking and Savings Director and in September 2003, a UK Board member.
David Anthony Hobson January 1999, became Retail Financial was previously Director of Global Corporate Age 56.
Anthony is Deputy Chairman of Services Director.
In 1999, Mike was Finance for Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu.
He is Northern Foods plc and a Non-executive appointed Chief Operating Officer of a Chartered Accountant and currently a Director of Glas Cymru Cyfyngedig, Jardine Halifax and became Group Finance Director member of the advisory panel to Martin Lloyd Thompson Group plc and Liberata plc.
Currie in respect of its developing Private He was Group Finance Director of Legal & Equity business.
David was appointed a Phil Hodkinson General Group for 14 years, retiring in 2001.
Non-executive Director of HBOS plc with Age 45.
After a career in the life assurance He was also the Senior Independent effect from 23 March 2004.
Director of Thames Water plc.
Anthony industry with Allied Dunbar, Eagle Star and joined the Board of Halifax in 2001.
He is Zurich Financial Services, Phil was appointed Louis Sherwood also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Chief Executive of the Insurance & Age 62.
Louis was formerly Chairman and Investment Division of HBOS plc in Chief Executive of Gateway Foodmarkets, Brian Ivory September 2001.
He is Chairperson of the Chairman of HTV Group plc and Chairman Age 54.
Brian is Chairman of The Scottish HBOS Foundation, a director of Business in of Govett European Technology and Income American Investment Company PLC, a the Community and a Fellow of the Director of Remy Cointreau S. A. and Trust PLC.
He is a Non-executive Director of Institute of Actuaries.
Chairman of the National Galleries of ROK Property Solutions plc and Wessex Scotland.
He was previously Chairman of Water Services Limited.
He joined the Board Andy Hornby Highland Distillers plc and Macallanof Halifax in 1997.
After carrying out various roles at Glenlivet plc.
Brian joined the Board of Bank the Boston Consulting Group, Blue Circle Philip Yea of Scotland in 1998.
He is Chairman of the and ASDA, Andy joined the Board of Halifax Age 49.
Philip was previously Finance Remuneration Committee.
in 1999 and became Chief Executive of the Director of Guinness plc and, following the John Maclean merger with Grand Metropolitan to form Retail Division of HBOS plc in September Age 60.
John is a Non-executive Director of Diageo, he was Group Finance Director until 2001.
Andy is also a Non-executive Director Scottish Value Trust PLC and Chairman of 1999.
He then joined Investcorp the of GUS plc.
He is also a Noninternational investment group.
He is also a Colin Matthew executive Director of a number of unlisted Non-executive Director of Manchester Age 53.
Colin joined Bank of Scotland in companies.
He was a Founder and Director United PLC.
Philip joined the Board of 1966.
Colin is a Fellow of the Institute of of Kelvin Shipholdings Limited.
In 1991 he was the Board of Bank of Scotland in 1995.
John is also a Member of Court and Chairman of appointed Divisional General Manager, UK the Audit Committee of Glasgow Banking-England and in 1994 he became Caledonian University.
General Manager with responsibility for Bank of Scotland Treasury Services plc.
In Coline McConville 1999, Colin was appointed Chief Executive Age 39.
Coline is the Chief Executive of Business Banking and assumed the same Officer, Europe of Clear Channel role in HBOS plc on its formation.
She was previously effect from January 2004 he became Chief with McKinsey & Co. Limited Management Executive of the Strategy and International Consultants and The L E K Partnership.
Coline joined the Board of Halifax in 2000.
HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 51
