Financial Statements Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the their skills and abilities.
In the event of an authority remains valid until the 2004 AGM Report and Accounts of HBOS plc for the existing employee becoming disabled, the or, if earlier, 29 July 2004.
A resolution will be year ended 31 December 2003.
Group provides counselling and training put to shareholders to renew the authority at support and seeks to provide a suitable the 2004 AGM.
Principal Activities alternative position within the Group if the HBOS plc is the holding company of the At the date of this report there is a individual is unable to continue in their HBOS Group.
The principal activities of the disclosable interest in the issued share capital previous role.
The Group offers training and Group are the provision of banking and other notified to the Company in accordance with career development for all disabled staff.
The financial services in the UK and overseas.
The sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act views of colleagues with a disability are Groups existing business and future prospects 1985, by Barclays PLC, in respect of sought through disability forums to ensure are reviewed by the Chairman on pages 2 and 136,610,593 ordinary shares being 3.55% of that the Groups policies continue to 3, the Chief Executive on pages 4 to 7 and the current issued ordinary share capital.
in the Divisional Reviews on pages 8 to 34.
Properties Financial aspects are covered in the Financial Employee communication issues are reviewed The Directors are of the opinion that Review and Risk Management report on on page 48. the current market value of the Groups pages 35 to 44.
A list of the main subsidiary Charitable and Political Donations properties is not significantly different from undertakings, and the nature of each During the year the Group made charitable the amount at which they are included in companys business, is given in Note 53 to the balance sheet.
Additionally the Accounts on page 119.
2.2m in total has been made available to Auditors Results and Dividends charities as a result of their affinity to the A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc The Group profit attributable to shareholders Visa Charity credit cards offered by Halifax as auditors will be put to shareholders at for the year ended 31 December 2003, as plc and Bank of Scotland.
shown in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Payment Policy Account, was 2,452m.
An interim dividend On behalf of the Board For the forthcoming period the Groups of 10.3p per Ordinary Share was paid on H F Baines policy for the payment of suppliers will 17 October 2003.
The Directors propose Company Secretary be as follows: a final dividend of 20.6p per Ordinary Share 24 February 2004 to be paid on 21 May 2004 to shareholders payment terms will be agreed at the start of on the register on 12 March 2004, subject to the relationship with the supplier and will approval at the 2004 AGM.
Under the only be changed by agreement: Companys Share Dividend Plan shareholders standard payment terms to suppliers of will be offered the choice of receiving goods and services will be 30 days from additional ordinary shares rather than cash receipt of a correct invoice for satisfactory in respect of this dividend.
goods or services which have been ordered Directors and received unless other terms are agreed Details of the present Directors are given on in a contract: pages 50 and 51.
Sir Peter Burt and Gordon payment will be made in accordance with McQueen retired as Directors on 6 January the agreed terms or in accordance with the 2003 and 31 December 2003, respectively.
law if no agreement has been made: and Sir Bob Reid and Louis Sherwood will retire at the conclusion of the 2004 AGM and are suppliers will be advised without delay not seeking re-election.
James Crosby, Phil when an invoice is contested and disputes Hodkinson and Brian Ivory will retire by will be settled as quickly as possible.
rotation and resolutions for their re-election HBOS plc complies with the Better Payment will be proposed at the meeting.
Information regarding this Kate Nealon and David Shearer have been Code and its purpose can be obtained from appointed Directors of the Company with the Better Payment Practice Groups website effect from 23 March 2004 and will both retire at www.
at the forthcoming 2004 AGM and offer themselves for election.
Particulars of The Companys main trading subsidiary Directors remuneration and interests in shares undertakings, Halifax plc and Bank of of the Company are given in the Report of the Scotland, had trade creditors outstanding at Board in relation to remuneration policy and 31 December 2003 representing 22 days of practice on pages 55 to 72. purchases for each company.
Going Concern The Company itself owed no amounts to The Directors are satisfied that the Group has trade creditors at 31 December 2003. adequate resources to continue in business Share Capital for the foreseeable future and consequently Full details of the movements in the the going concern basis continues to be appropriate in preparing the accounts.
authorised and issued share capital of the Company during the year are provided in Employees Note 34 to the Accounts on page 105.
The Group encourages applications for employment from disabled people and gives The Company has the authority to purchase full consideration to such applicants based on up to 378,564,324 of its ordinary shares.
The HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 73
