British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2003 01 Directors report The Directors present their report together with the audited Holdings BAR, raising its shareholding in the company Group accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003. from 50 per cent to 89 per cent and changing the status of BAR from a joint venture to a subsidiary.
No goodwill British American Tobacco p. l. c. the Company is a holding was created by this transaction.
company which owns, directly or indirectly, investments in the numerous companies constituting the British American On 29 September 2003, a subsidiary of the Group transferred Tobacco Group of companies.
The principal subsidiaries and to a newly created Trust all of its rights, title and interest in associates are listed on pages 65 to 67. and to 100 per cent of the issued and outstanding shares of the Flintkote Company, together with US$3 million in cash, Group results and did not receive any consideration in return.
Since by The Chairmans statement and Management review on virtue of this arrangement Flintkote is no longer a Group pages 2 to 23 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial subsidiary, the Group has ceased to consolidate Flintkote.
Statement Annual Review report the progress made The transfer resulted in a loss on disposal of 62 million.
in the financial year ended 31 December 2003, with details of the Groups overall performance, and outline On 6 November 2003, the Group announced that it had future developments.
signed an agreement for the sale of the Groups shareholding of a company in Myanmar.
Changes in the Group On 4 April 2003, the Group announced that it had The impact of the above acquisitions is more fully described acquired controlling interests in a number of companies in in note 21 on page 47 and the disposals in note 2 on page 34.
Peru, including Perus leading tobacco company Tabacalera Nacional S. A.
With the aggregate consideration to Following the restructuring of its Malaysian businesses the vendors of all the various shareholdings acquired of in 1999, the Group had an operational subsidiary 146 million, the goodwill arising on these transactions and a 54.7 per cent holding in a separate non-trading is provisionally estimated at 123 million.
company whose assets were primarily short term deposits.
In May 2002, the holding in this separate company was On 16 July 2003, the Group announced a successful sold for book value.
bid to acquire Ente Tabacchi Italiani S. p. A. ETI, Italys state tobacco company, for 2.32 billion subject to Accounting policies regulatory approval.
The transaction was completed Accounting Standard FRS17 on Retirement Benets on 23 December 2003 and the goodwill arising is was issued in 2001 and represented a radical change in provisionally estimated at 1.6 billion.
As the profit accounting for pension costs and other post retirement for the period in 2003 after acquisition is not material benets.
The standard requires financial statements to for the Group results, the effective date of acquisition reect the assets and liabilities arising from retirement has been deemed to be 31 December 2003. benefit obligations and any related funding, measured at fair value.
The charge to income would be analysed It was announced on 4 August 2003 that the Group had in more detail and there would be additional disclosures.
successfully bid for a 67.8 per cent holding in the Serbian tobacco company Duvanska Industrija Vranje.
The Groups During 2002, the Accounting Standards Board decided shareholding was subsequently increased to 78.81 per cent, to allow deferral of full implementation of FRS17 until which brought the total consideration to 43 million.
The 2005, while the International Accounting Standards Board acquisition resulted in goodwill of 40 million.
In addition, considers revisions to its standard on employee benets.
the Group has committed to invest 17 million in factory modernisation over two years and further amounts over Consequently, as the Group still reports under SSAP24 five years on social programmes.
and is continuing to make use of the transitional arrangement permitted under FRS17, the reported The Group announced on 27 October 2003 the income and shareholders equity are not affected by the agreement to combine Brown & Williamsons B&W US standard.
However, additional disclosures are being made domestic businesses with R. J. Reynolds RJR under Reynolds as required by the standard.
The impact of FRS17 would be American, a new holding company 58 per cent owned by to increase Group pre-tax profit for 2003 by 34 million RJR shareholders and 42 per cent by the Group, through 2002 4 million and reduce reported shareholders funds B&W.
The Group will also sell Lane to Reynolds American at 31 December 2003 by 486 million 2002 561 million.
During 2003, the impact of the improvement in equity markets on shareholders funds under FRS17 was offset by On 12 December 2003, the Group converted US$136 million changes in actuarial assumptions, especially the impact of of its convertible loan stock in British American Racing lower interest rates used to discount the value of liabilities.
02 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2003 Directors report continued Treasury operations In 2003, the Groups banking facilities were renewed on Treasury is tasked with raising finance for the Group, substantially similar terms, with the centres committed bank managing the financial risks arising from underlying facility increased from US$1.0 billion to US$1.75 billion.
operations and managing the Groups cash resources.
The Group also negotiated a 1.5 billion committed bank All these activities are carried out under dened policies, facility to provide additional liquidity during the period the procedures and limits.
Group was tendering for various privatisations.
The Board reviews and agrees the overall treasury policies and procedures, delegating appropriate authority to the 2003 was also a year of significant debt capital markets Finance Director, the Treasury function and the boards of activity.
A two tranche, ten year bond issue was launched the central finance companies.
The Finance Director chairs by B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. BATIF in June, raising the boards of the major central finance companies.
In July, British American Tobacco significant departure from agreed policies is subject to Holdings The Netherlands B. V. renanced a maturing bond the prior approval of the Board.
with the issuance of a two year oating rate note FRN raising 300 million.
In September, BATIF raised 1.0 billion Clear parameters have been established, including levels with the issuance of an FRN maturing in 2006.
Finally, in of authority, on the type and use of financial instruments December, 500 million was raised by BATIF through a sixteen to manage the financial risks facing the Group.
Such year xed rate bond one of the longest dated tobacco instruments are only transacted if they relate to an sector bond issues currently outstanding.
The proceeds of underlying exposure: speculative transactions are expressly these debt issues were used to renance maturing bonds and forbidden under the Groups treasury policy.
The Groups to fund the Groups acquisition of ETI in December 2003. treasury position is monitored by the Group Treasury Committee, which meets monthly and is chaired by the The Group continues to target investment-grade credit Finance Director.
Regular reports are provided to senior ratings: as at the end of 2003, the ratings from Moodys management and treasury operations are subject to periodic and S&P were Baa1 BBB end 2002 A2 A.
The strength independent reviews and audits, both internal and external.
of the ratings has underpinned the success of the recent debt issuance and the Group continues to enjoy full access Management of financial risks to the debt capital markets.
One of the principal responsibilities of Treasury is to manage the financial risk arising from the Groups underlying Subsidiary undertakings are funded by share capital operations.
specifically, Treasury manages, within an overall and retained earnings, loans from the central finance policy framework, the Groups exposure to funding and companies on commercial terms, or through local liquidity, interest rate, foreign exchange and counterparty borrowings by the subsidiaries in appropriate currencies.
Derivative contracts are only entered into to facilitate All contractual borrowing covenants have been met the management of these risks.
and none of them are expected to inhibit the Groups operations or funding plans.
The Groups management of specic risks is dealt with as follows: Currency risk The Group is subject to exposure on the translation of Liquidity risk the net assets of overseas subsidiaries into its reporting It is the policy of the Group to maximise financial currency, sterling.
The Groups primary balance sheet exibility and minimise renancing risk by issuing translation exposures are to the US$, Canadian$, euro debt with a range of maturities, generally matching and South African rand.
These exposures are kept under the projected cash ows of the Group, and obtaining continuous review and the Groups policy is to minimise this nancing from a wide range of providers.
Furthermore, all balance sheet translation exposure where it is practicable it is the policy that short term sources of funds including and cost effective to do so.
The exposures are managed drawings under US$, Canadian$, Australian$ and euro by matching currency assets with currency borrowings.
commercial paper programmes are backed by undrawn At 31 December 2003, the currency prole of the Groups committed lines of credit and cash.
gross debt, after taking into account derivative contracts, was 22 2002 41 per cent US$, 42 2002 24 per cent During 2002, there was no significant debt capital euro, 5 2002 8 per cent Canadian$, 17 2002 8 per cent markets activity.
However, the Groups banking facilities sterling, 4 2002 5 per cent Australian$ and 10 2002 14 were renewed during 2002, on substantially similar terms per cent other currencies.
The change in the currency prole and a US$690 million five year committed bank facility mainly arises as a result of the acquisition of ETI and the was arranged for BAT Mexico.
British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2003 03 The Group faces currency exposures arising from the Directors proposed for reappointment translation of profits earned in overseas subsidiaries: In accordance with the articles of association, the Directors these exposures are not normally hedged.
Exposures named below retire from the Board at the forthcoming also arise from foreign currency denominated trading Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves transactions undertaken by subsidiaries and dividend for reappointment: ows.
These exposures comprise anticipated and known ows and are netted and offset wherever possible.
The Paul Adams remaining exposures are hedged with forward foreign Antonio Monteiro fide Castro exchange contracts and options, within the Treasury Jan du Plessis policies and procedures.
Wong Kok Siew Interest rate risk Biographical and related information about each of these The objectives of the Groups interest rate risk management Directors is given in the Secretarys letter in the Notice of policy are to lessen the impact of adverse interest rate Annual General Meeting of the Company.
movements on the earnings, cash ow and economic value of the Group and to safeguard against any possible breach of Annual General Meeting its financial covenants.
Additional objectives are to minimise The next Annual General Meeting of the Company will be the cost of hedging and the associated counterparty risk.
held in the Porter Tun Room, The Brewery, Chiswell Street, London EC1 at 11.30am on Wednesday, 21 April 2004.
In order to manage its interest rate risk, the Group Details of the business to be proposed at the meeting are maintains both oating rate and xed rate debt.
The contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
desired ratio of xed to variable rate debt is determined as a result of regular reviews of market conditions and Dividends strategy by Treasury and the board of the main central Details of dividends in respect of 2003 are given on finance company.
At 31 December 2003, the ratio page 36 note 6. of oating to xed rate financial liabilities was 58:42 2002 48:52.
Underlying borrowings are arranged on The Board has recommended to shareholders a final dividend both a xed rate and a oating rate basis and, where of 27.0p per ordinary share for the year to 31 December 2003. appropriate, the Group uses derivatives, primarily If approved, this dividend will be paid on 27 April 2004 to interest rate swaps, to vary the xed and oating mix.
shareholders registered in the books of the Company on The interest rate prole of liquid assets is taken into 5 March 2004. account in determining the net interest rate exposure.
Analyses of shareholders Counterparty risk At 31 December 2003, there were 2,076,844,180 ordinary Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to shares in issue held by 74,477 shareholders.
credit risk on the amounts due from counterparties.
Credit risk is managed on a global basis by limiting the aggregate These shareholdings are analysed as follows by category of amount and duration of exposure to any one counterparty, shareholder and size of shareholding: taking into account its credit rating.
The credit ratings of Percentage Percentage of issued counterparties are reviewed regularly.
Category of Number of of total Number of ordinary shareholder holders holders ordinary shares share capital Directors Individuals 64,351 86.40 83,624,757 4.03 Financial institutions The names of the current Directors of the Company, together pension funds 41 0.06 18,435,588 0.89 with related biographical information, are given on page 28 Nominee companies 8,735 11.73 1,339,652,475 64.50 of the Annual Review.
Other corporate holders 1,349 1.81 30,794,733 1.48 Directors interests R&R Holdings S. A.
1 604,336,627 29.10 The interests of the Directors of the Company in the issued 74,477 100.00 2,076,844,180 100.00 share capital of the Company including interests in share Percentage of issued options and deferred shares are shown in the Remuneration Size of shareholding Number of holders ordinary share capital Report on page 8.
74,477 100.00 04 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2003 Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings Stock market listings At 24 February 2004, the following persons had notied an The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock interest in the ordinary shares of the Company that is required Exchange.
They are also traded on the American Stock Exchange, to be recorded in the register of substantial interests maintained New York, in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
by the Company pursuant to the Companies Act 1985.
Auditors Number of Percentage ordinary shares of issue Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting 1 R&R Holdings S. A.
604,336,627 29.10 to reappoint  LLP as the Companys 2 The Law Debenture Trust Corporation p. l. c. 121,457,326 5.85 auditors and to authorise the Directors to agree their Notes: remuneration.
The Audit Committee will recommend the 1 a Pursuant to the Standstill Agreement dated 11 January 1999 entered into appropriate level of fees to the Board.
between the Company and R & R Holdings S. A. then named Rothmans International Holdings S. A., Compagnie Financire Richemont SA then called Compagnie Financire Richemont AG and Rembrandt Group Limited together the R and R Charitable and political contributions Parties, the R and R Parties gave certain undertakings to the Company including Payments for charitable purposes in 2003 amounted to the following: a that the R and R Parties and persons acting in concert with any of them will not exercise at any general meeting of the Company more than 12.7 million, 2.4 million of which was paid in the UK.
25 per cent of the voting rights attached to shares of a class carrying rights to vote No donation was made to any political party registered in in all circumstances at general meetings of the Company and b the interests of the R and R Parties and persons acting in concert with any of them in the issued the UK under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums ordinary share capital of the Company will not exceed 27.8 per cent except in certain Act 2000 but the Company gave 25,000 to Britain in specified circumstances e. g. the Company making a purchase of its own shares or Europe, which is regarded as an EU political organisation otherwise having reduced its issued share capital.
As a result of the Companys share buy-back programme referred to below, the interests of the R and R Parties for the purposes of that Act.
Subsidiaries of the Company increased during the year ended 31 December 2003 to 29.10 per cent.
Further to in Australia, Canada and the US made contributions to a reorganisation of the Rembrandt Group in August 2000, the interest of Rembrandt Group Limited in R & R Holdings S. A. is now held by Remgro Limited, which company non-EU political parties in their respective countries of has become a party to the Standstill Agreement.
incorporation totalling 235,340. b Compagnie Financire Richemont SA, Remgro Limited, British American Tobacco p. l. c. and R & R Holdings S. A. are parties to an agreement dated 11 January 1999 Employees the Agreement to which Section 204 2 of the Companies Act 1985 applies by virtue of the acquisition on 7 June 1999 of shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. British American Tobacco actively encourages employee The number of such shares is 604,336,627 ordinary shares and 120,867,326 preference engagement in the Groups business, using a range of shares as dened in the Agreement following the redemption of preference shares as referred to in note 32 on page 71. initiatives that includes individual discussions, team briengs, 2 The interest notied by The Law Debenture Trust Corporation p. l. c. relates to: employee surveys, publications and regular meetings a an interest in 120,867,326 ordinary shares registered in the name of R & R with recognised employee representatives.
The Company Holdings S. A. and which arises by virtue of a charge created in favour of The Law operates a European Employee Council EEC which has Debenture Trust Corporation p. l. c. in connection with an issue by R & R Holdings S. A. of secured warrants exercisable into ordinary shares in the Company: and 16 employee members representing British American Tobacco b 590,000 ordinary shares registered in the name of and beneficially owned by organisations in the European Economic Area and Switzerland.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. The Council will be extended to include representatives from Purchase of own shares Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary post EU accession In February 2003, the Board initiated for reasons of in May 2004.
The European regional management of British earnings enhancement an on-market programme of American Tobacco informs and consults with the employee buying back the Companys ordinary shares of 25p each representatives of the EEC on matters which fall within the under the authority granted by shareholders in 2002. scope of the EEC Agreement and which are of signicance At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held to these countries.
on 15 April 2003, the Company was given authority to purchase up to 218,200,000 of its ordinary shares.
During The Company continues to encourage employee share the year ended 31 December 2003, the Company made ownership through its provision of employee share plans, the on-market repurchases totalling 106,339,422 of its most recent of which are the Partnership Share Scheme and own ordinary shares, representing 4.87 per cent of the Share Reward Scheme.
The Group has Employment Policies the issued share capital, for an aggregate consideration which are committed to providing a work environment that of 697,604,417.
The repurchased shares were cancelled.
is free from harassment, bullying and discrimination these The present authority for the Company to purchase its Policies are available to all staff on the Companys intranet.
own shares will expire at the Annual General Meeting to be There is no discrimination against people with disabilities held on 21 April 2004.
The Directors will be seeking fresh who apply to join the Company and anyone within the authority for the Company to purchase its ordinary shares Company with a disability is awarded the same opportunities as part of the planned continuation of the share buy-back for promotion, training and career development as other programme.
The current intention is for any shares staff.
We aim to establish and maintain a safe working purchased to be cancelled.
environment for all staff, including those with disabilities.
British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2003 05 Research and development Intra group pricing The Groups research and development activities are The prices agreed between Group companies for intra concentrated on the development of new products, new group sales of materials, manufactured goods, charges processes and maintaining and improving the quality of for royalties, commissions, services and fees are based on existing products.
normal commercial practices which would apply between independent businesses.
Research is also undertaken into various aspects of the science and behavioural science related to smoking and the Department of Trade and Industry Group continues to provide funding for independent studies.
On 30 October 2000, the UK Secretary of State for Trade and Industry announced the commencement of a condential Going concern investigation under Section 447 of the Companies Act 1985.
After reviewing the Groups annual budget and plans, the The Company stated at that time that it would be cooperating Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to fully with the investigators but would be making no further continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future comments during the course of their work.
and that it is therefore appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Creditor payment policy On behalf of the Board Given the international nature of the Groups operations, Alan F Porter there is not a global standard code for the Group in Secretary respect of payments to suppliers.
In the UK, the operating 24 February 2004 subsidiaries have signed up to the Better Payment Practice Code.
Under this code, each participating company aims to agree the terms of payment with its suppliers when negotiating the terms of each transaction, in any case within the suppliers own standard payment period, and also aims to pay all of its suppliers within a reasonable period of their invoices being received.
In respect of all of its suppliers, it is each companys policy to: 1 agree the terms of payment with those suppliers when negotiating the terms of each transaction: 2 ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment: 3 abide by the terms of payment: and 4 avoid delays when legitimately questioning invoices.
Details of the Code are available on the website, payontime.
co. uk Non-UK operating subsidiaries are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions for their business transactions when orders for goods and services are placed, ensuring that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and including the relevant terms in contracts where appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered to provided that suppliers meet their contractual commitments.
Creditor days have not been calculated for the Company as it is an investment holding Company and had no trade creditors at 31 December 2003.
OECD Guidelines The Group recognises its responsibilities to the countries in which it operates and in this context notes the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises in their current form.
