HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements continued the ability of the Government of Argentina managing those risks through account to attract international support for the management, hedging and other measures necessary to restructure its debt techniques.
Effective risk management obligations and create a viable financial depends on, among other things, HSBCs system with stability in monetary, fiscal and ability through stress testing and other exchange rate policies: and techniques to prepare for events that cannot be captured by the statistical models it uses: the effects of competition in the markets and where HSBC operates including increased competition resulting from new types of the success of HSBC in integrating the affiliations between banks and financial recently acquired Grupo Financiero Bital services companies, including securities S. A. fide C. V. now Grupo Financiero HSBC firms, particularly in the United States.
S. A. fide C. V. HSBC Mexico, Household International, Inc. Household, Losango factors specific to HSBC: Promotora fide Vendas, and The Bank of the success of HSBC in adequately Bermuda Limited.
identifying the risks it faces, such as the incidence of loan losses or delinquency, and Information About the Enforceability of Judgements made in the United States HSBC Holdings is a public limited company in original actions: or incorporated in England and Wales.
Most of HSBC judgements of US courts based upon these civil Holdings Directors and executive officers live liability provisions.
As a result, it may not be possible to serve process on such persons or HSBC In addition, awards of punitive damages in Holdings in the United States or to enforce actions brought in the United States or elsewhere judgements obtained in US courts against them or may be unenforceable in the United Kingdom.
The HSBC Holdings based on civil liability provisions of enforceability of any judgement in the United the securities laws of the United States.
There is Kingdom will depend on the particular facts of the doubt as to whether English courts would enforce: case as well as the laws and treaties in effect at the time.
certain civil liabilities under US securities laws Exchange Controls and Other Limitations Affecting Equity Security Holders There are currently no UK laws, decrees or under the laws of the United Kingdom or the terms regulations which would prevent the transfer of of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of capital or remittance of distributable profits by way HSBC Holdings concerning the right of non-resident of dividends and other payments to holders of HSBC or foreign owners to hold HSBC Holdings equity Holdings equity securities who are not residents of securities or, when entitled to vote, to do so.
There are also no restrictions 6 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business In the mid-1950s, The Hongkong and Shanghai Introduction Banking Corporation embarked on a strategy of HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial pursuing profitable growth through acquisition as services organisations in the world, with a market well as organic development a combination that capitalisation of US$172 billion at has remained a key feature of HSBCs approach ever 31 December 2003. since.
Headquartered in London, HSBC operates As each acquisition has been made, HSBC has through long-established businesses and has an focused on integrating its newly acquired operations international network of over 9,500 offices in with its existing businesses with a view to 79 countries and territories in five regions: Europe: maximising the synergy between the various Hong Kong: the rest of Asia-Pacific, including the components.
Key to this integration process is to Middle East and Africa: North America: and South blend local and international expertise.
Within these geographical regions, a The most significant developments are described comprehensive range of financial services is offered below.
Other acquisitions in 2003 are discussed in to personal, commercial, corporate, institutional, the section headed Business highlights in 2003 investment and private banking clients.
HSBC under the relevant geographical region on pages 15 manages its business through the following customer to 26. groups: Personal Financial Services: Commercial Banking: Corporate, Investment Banking and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Markets: and Private Banking.
Whilst part of Corporation purchased The Mercantile Bank of India Personal Financial Services, the consumer finance Limited and The British Bank of the Middle East operations of Household are currently a distinct now HSBC Bank Middle East Limited in 1959.
In business and have been separately identified 1965, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking accordingly.
Services are delivered through Corporation acquired a 51 per cent interest businesses which usually operate as domestic banks, subsequently increased to 62.14 per cent in Hang typically with large retail deposit bases and strong Seng Bank Limited Hang Seng Bank, liquidity and capital ratios.
In North America, consolidating its position in Hong Kong.
Hang Seng Household is one of the largest consumer finance Bank is the second-largest listed bank in Hong Kong companies in the US, and is substantially funded in by market capitalisation.
By using HSBCs extensive From the beginning of the 1980s, The Hongkong technological links, businesses are able to access its and Shanghai Banking Corporation began to focus its wide range of products and services and adapt them acquisition strategy on the UK.
In 1987, it purchased to local customer needs.
a 14.9 per cent interest in Midland Bank plc, now The establishment of HSBC and its hexagon HSBC Bank plc HSBC Bank, one of the UKs symbol as a uniform, international brand has ensured principal clearing banks.
In 1991, HSBC Holdings that it has become an increasingly familiar sight plc was established as the parent company of HSBC across the world.
and, in 1992, HSBC Holdings purchased the remaining interests in HSBC Bank.
In connection History and development with this acquisition, HSBCs head office was transferred from Hong Kong to London in January The founding member of HSBC, The Hongkong and 1993.
To expand its base in the euro zone, in October Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited The 2000 HSBC completed its acquisition of 99.99 per Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, was cent of the issued share capital of CCF S. A. CCF, established in Hong Kong and Shanghai in 1865.
The a major French banking group.
bank expanded rapidly, with an emphasis on building The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking up representation in China and the rest of the AsiaCorporation entered the US market in 1980 by Pacific region, whilst also establishing a presence in acquiring a 51 per cent interest in Marine Midland the major financial and trading centres in Europe and Banks, Inc. now HSBC USA Inc..
7 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business continued In 1981, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking acquisition of all the shares of Banco Lloyds TSB Corporation incorporated its extant Canadian S. A. Banco Mltiplo and a consumer finance operations.
HSBC Bank Canada has since made company, Losango Promotora fide Vendas numerous acquisitions, expanding rapidly to become Losango.
the largest foreign-owned bank in Canada and the seventh-largest overall at 31 December 2003.
Outlook In 1997, HSBC assumed selected assets, In 2004, the Group has already seen growth in liabilities and subsidiaries of Banco Bamerindus do consumer spending and borrowing, in increased Brasil S. A. following the intervention of the Central merger and acquisition activity, and a modest Bank of Brazil, and completed the acquisition of resumption of growth in demand for equity Grupo Roberts in Argentina.
The Group also sees improving prospects for economic growth and private sector In December 1999, HSBC acquired Republic employment, particularly in the US and in Hong New York Corporation, subsequently merged with Kong.
HSBC USA Inc. and Safra Republic Holdings S. A. together Republic.
In emerging markets, such as Brazil, Mexico and the ASEAN countries, relatively stable currencies In 2002, HSBC made further steps in expanding and historically low interest rates are promoting its presence in North America, completing the consumer activity, fuelling domestic growth and acquisition of 99.59 per cent of Grupo Financiero reducing export dependence.
China plays an Bital S. A. fide C. V. now HSBC Mexico, the increasingly important role, not only through its fifth-largest banking group in Mexico measured by export growth, but also as the fastest growing market deposits and assets.
for commodity producing countries and for those Mainland China remains a critical long-term developed countries which are supplying the growth area for the Group.
In 2002, HSBC technology, equipment and services to support its completed the acquisition of a 10 per cent equity economic expansion.
stake in Ping An Insurance Company of China The Group is conscious of the changing nature Limited.
Ping An Insurance is the second-largest life of the global economy and the speed of change and insurer and the third-largest insurer in mainland continues to monitor the impact on sentiment and China.
consumer spending of globally strong property In March 2003, HSBC acquired Household prices, which continue to rise faster than underlying International, Inc. Household for a consideration wage growth in many developed markets.
While of approximately US$14.8 billion.
The acquisition such rises are understandable in the context of low has significantly increased the contribution from interest rates and limited appetite for alternative HSBCs North American business.
In particular, investment opportunities, in the long run property Household offers HSBC national coverage in the US prices have to be linked to income growth.
for consumer lending, credit cards and credit The picture for 2004 therefore is one of insurance through varied distribution channels, improving sentiment and stronger growth prospects including over 1,300 branch offices in 45 states.
in the near term, but with the potential risk of an In October 2003, HSBC agreed to acquire The unexpected shock as a result of circumstances which Bank of Bermuda Limited for US$1.3 billion, adding would cause a spike in either short-term interest rates a strong position in the local banking market in or commodity prices.
Bermuda and significant scale and geographical Against this backdrop HSBC expects to spread to HSBCs existing international fund concentrate on building its businesses steadily.
administration, private banking, trust and payments, HSBC expects to see lending to consumers around and cash management businesses.
The acquisition the world rise as a proportion of our total lending, was completed on 18 February 2004. with the emphasis on real estate secured lending.
The In December 2003, HSBC acquired substantially Group also expect to see business in the US grow in all of Lloyds TSB Group plcs onshore and offshore importance to HSBC as the potential of the businesses and assets related to Brazil for US$745 million.
Included in the transaction was the 8 Household acquisition is realised and as the US The new plan, developed to build on the economy shows its flexibility and responds to the achievements of the Managing for Value strategy and lower value of the dollar.
take the Group forward, is now being implemented.
This plan, called Managing for Growth, was launched at the end of 2003.
It provides HSBC with Strategy a blueprint for growth and development during the At the end of 1998, HSBC launched Managing for next five years.
The plan is an evolutionary, not Value, a five-year plan to take the Group into the revolutionary, strategy.
It builds on HSBCs strengths 21st Century.
Over the life of the plan, HSBC made and it addresses the areas where further improvement significant progress against the eight strategic is considered both desirable and attainable.
Managements vision for the Group remains Under Managing for Value, HSBC established unchanged: HSBC aims to be the worlds leading HSBC and its hexagon symbol as a globally financial services company.
In this context, leading recognised brand and greatly increased the scope and means preferred, admired and dynamic, and being penetration of its wealth management services in a recognised for giving the customer a fair deal.
HSBC number of key markets.
Corporate, Investment will strive to secure and maintain a leading position Banking and Markets operations were completely within each of its customer groups in selected integrated, enabling the Group to pursue a strategy of markets.
seamlessly servicing the needs of the largest HSBC will remain focused on growing its TSR.
international companies and institutions, and build In an era of low interest rates and low nominal corporate origination and cross-selling capabilities.
A growth rates, HSBC remains committed to exceeding risk adjusted cost of capital methodology was a benchmark based on peer group comparison.
For the application of full details of the benchmark, see page 217.
The peer economic profit in HSBC and its results for 2003 see group of banks has been updated to include HSBCs page 58.
Good progress was made against the other current principal competitors, and HSBC will chart strategic imperatives announced under the initiative.
its TSR progress on a three-year rolling basis and In financial terms, HSBC achieved its objective over the five-year plan period.
of doubling Total Shareholder Return TSR and HSBCs core values are integral to its strategy, beating the TSR performance of a peer group of and communicating them to shareholders, customers leading banks over the period.
TSR is a measure of and employees is intrinsic to the plan.
These values the growth in the value of a share over a specific comprise a preference for long-term, ethical client period with dividends reinvested.
Starting with a relationships: high productivity through teamwork: a benchmark of 100 on 31 December 1998, HSBCs confident and ambitious sense of excellence: being TSR more than doubled to 211 on 31 December international in outlook and character: prudence: 2003, while that of its peer group stood at 126. creativity and strong marketing.
As HSBC worked on its strategic plan for the In the plan, HSBC also recognises its corporate next five years it was clear that there were many social responsibility CSR, which is essential to opportunities to develop HSBCs businesses further, sustaining the Groups long-term success in the and also that HSBC could build more from the community.
HSBC has always had a strong sense of structural and business changes achieved in the corporate social responsibility, and believes that recent past.
For instance, during the five years of there is no fundamental conflict between being a Managing for Value, HSBC made investments in the good corporate citizen and being sustainably US Republic and Household, France CCF and profitable.
Moreover, the pressures to comply with Mexico HSBC Mexico, as a result of which an public expectations across a wide spectrum of social, additional 100,000 employees joined the Group.
This ethical and environmental issues are growing rapidly.
expansion changed the profile of HSBCs business, The strategy therefore calls for a renewed increased the complexity of the Group and brought recognition of HSBCs wider obligations to society new management and business challenges as well as and for increased external communication of the exciting opportunities.
Groups CSR policies and performance, particularly on education and the environment, which will remain 9 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business continued the principal beneficiaries of HSBCs philanthropic Commercial Banking: make the most of HSBCs activities.
international customer base through effective customer relationship management and HSBCs new plan is led by customer groups, and improved product offering in all the Groups specific strategies will be implemented for each of markets: them.
The expression customer group is new in 2003.
Previously customer groups were called Private Banking: serve the Groups highest value lines of business, but HSBC believes the new term personal clients around the world, utilising the reinforces more accurately to all its employees the investments already made: Groups customer focus.
Attract, develop and motivate HSBCs people, The acquisition of Household in 2003 rewarding success and rejecting mediocrity: and highlighted the importance within Personal Financial TSR: fulfil HSBCs TSR target by achieving Services of a distinctive customer group, Consumer strong competitive performances in earnings per Finance, to augment HSBCs existing activities in share growth and efficiency.
HSBCs other customer groups are Corporate, Investment Banking and Employees and management Markets: Commercial Banking: and Private Banking.
At 31 December 2003, HSBCs customers were Key elements in achieving HSBCs objectives served by 232,000 employees including part-time for its customer groups will be accelerating the rate employees worldwide, compared with 192,000 at of growth of revenue: developing the brand strategy 31 December 2002 and 180,000 at 31 December further: improving productivity: and maintaining the 2001.
The main centres of employment are the UK Groups prudent risk management and strong with 56,000 employees, the US 43,000, Hong Kong financial position.
Developing the skills of HSBCs 24,000, Brazil 25,000, Mexico 18,500 and staff will also be critical and it will be necessary to France 14,000.
HSBC negotiates with recognised ensure that all employees understand how they can unions, and estimates that approximately 44 per cent contribute to the successful achievement of the of its employees are unionised.
Employees who achieve this concentrations of union membership are in Brazil, contribution will be rewarded accordingly.
France, India, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, the Operating management will continue to be Philippines, Singapore and the UK.
HSBC has not organised geographically under four regional experienced any material disruptions to its operations intermediate head offices, with business activities from labour disputes during the past five years.
concentrated in locations where growth and critical In support of its new strategy, HSBC continues mass are to be found.
to focus on attracting, developing and motivating the The plan contains eight strategic imperatives: very best individuals.
Emphasis is therefore given to performance management: reward: talent Brand: make HSBC and its hexagon symbol one management, including graduate recruitment and of the worlds leading brands for customer international secondments: diversity: and learning experience and corporate social responsibility: and development.
Ensuring that employee Personal Financial Services PFS : drive satisfaction with the working experience is kept as growth in key markets and through appropriate high as possible is seen as beneficial to shareholders, channels to make HSBC the strongest global employees and customers alike.
player in PFS: HSBC is proud of its diverse workforce, which Consumer Finance: extend HSBCs new is able to communicate with HSBCs customers in business to existing customers and penetrate local languages and dialects across 79 countries and new markets: territories.
A continuing focus on policies that encourage an inclusive working environment and the Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets: development of career opportunities for all, accelerate growth through enhanced capital regardless of ethnicity, gender or grade, is a key part markets and advisory capabilities focused on the of positioning HSBC as an employer of choice.
client: 10 HSBC operates in a highly competitive and Total assets by customer group international business environment and as such is Year ended 31 December 2003 obliged to manage its costs realistically, responding % to the availability of talent pools which are proven to Corp, Invest.
Bkg & Mkts 45.2 be both efficient and cost effective.
This can lead to Personal Fin Services 34.5 the migration of tasks to different geographical locations as education levels improve, and as Commercial Banking 12.5 investments in technology and telecommunications Private Banking 5.3 facilitate access to those locations.
As a result, job Other 2.5 losses can arise.
HSBC has a good record of communicating openly and sensitively in these circumstances and of reassigning employees and excludes Hong Kong Government certificates of minimising compulsory redundancies, wherever indebtedness possible.
Personal Financial Services The quality of HSBCs employees represents a Personal Financial Services provides some significant competitive advantage.
The international 39 million individual and self-employed customers mix of staff, working in a meritocracy, enables with a wide range of banking and related financial HSBC to resource operations with employees who services.
Customer Relationship Management have a detailed knowledge of local markets, whilst CRM systems and processes are used by HSBC maintaining a global perspective.
To maintain this employees to recognise and fulfil customer needs by balance, international mobility is seen as vital to identifying appropriate products and services and sharing best practice and is actively encouraged and delivering them to the customer through their managed.
HSBC promotes and recruits the most able channel of preference.
Examples include current, and attaches great importance to cultivating its own cheque and savings accounts: loans and home talent.
It values teamwork and collective finance: cards: payments: insurance: and investment management.
Senior management succession is services, including securities trading.
Insurance planned to be as seamless as possible.
products sold and distributed by HSBC through its branch networks include loan and health protection: Customer Groups life, property, casualty and health insurance: and pensions.
HSBC acts as both a broker and an Profit before tax by customer group underwriter, and sees continuing opportunities to Year ended 31 December 2003 deliver insurance products to its personal customer base.
6,000 5,604 Personal Financial Services are increasingly 5,000 delivered via self-service terminals, the telephone 4,000 4,036 and the internet.
Comprehensive financial planning 3,000 services, covering customers investment, retirement, 2,895 2,000 personal and asset protection needs are offered through specialist financial planning managers.
1,000 0 281 0 High net worth individuals and their families who choose the differentiated services offered within US$ Million Private Banking are not included in this segment.
The most valuable of the 39 million Personal Personal Fin Services Commercial Banking Financial Service customers worldwide are offered Corp, Inv Bkg & Mkts Private Banking Other HSBC Premier.
HSBC currently has more than 880,000 HSBC Premier customers, who have access to more than 250 specialised Premier centres located in 31 countries.
In addition to the standard range of personal banking products and services, HSBC Premier customers receive dedicated relationship 11 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business continued management and 24 hour priority telephone access outstanding, with over 60 merchant relationships and and global travel assistance.
In 2003 HSBC Premier 14 million active customer accounts.
International Services were introduced in eight In addition to originating and refinancing motor countries, providing seamless account opening and vehicle loans, Households motor vehicle finance credit history transfer across borders for HSBC business purchases retail instalment contracts of US Premier customers.
customers who do not have access to traditional prime based lending sources.
The loans are largely Consumer Finance sourced from a network of approximately Within Personal Financial Services, Households 5,000 motor dealers.
operations in the US, the UK and Canada make Households credit card services business is the credit available to customer groups not well catered 1 1 seventh largest issuer of MasterCard and Visa for by traditional banking operations, facilitate point credit cards in the US, and also includes affiliation of sale credit in support of retail trading purchases cards such as the GM Card and the AFL-CIO and support major affiliate credit card programmes.
Also, credit cards issued At 31 December 2003 Household had over in the name of Households Household Bank and 60 million customers with total gross advances of Orchard Bank brands are offered to customers underUS$121.7 billion.
Consumer Finance products are served by traditional providers, or are marketed offered through the following businesses: primarily through merchant relationships established Households consumer lending business is one by the retail services business.
of the largest sub-prime home equity originators in A wide range of insurance services is offered the US, marketed under the HFC and Beneficial by Household to customers in the US, the UK and brand names through a network of over 1,300 Canada who are typically under-insured by branches in 45 states, direct mail, telemarketing, traditional sources.
The purchase of insurance is strategic alliances and the internet.
Sub-prime is a never a condition of any loan or credit advanced by US categorisation which describes customers who Household.
have limited credit histories, modest incomes, high debt-to-income ratios, high loan-to-value ratios for The refund lending business accelerates access real estate secured products or have experienced to funds for US taxpayers who are entitled to tax credit problems caused by occasional delinquencies, refunds.
The business is seasonal with most revenues prior charge-offs, bankruptcy or other credit related generated in the first three months of the year.
Consumer lending products include secured Households business in the UK provides midand unsecured loans such as first and second lien market consumers with mortgages, secured and closed-end mortgages, open-ended home equity unsecured loans, insurance products, credit cards and loans, personal loans and retail finance contracts.
It concentrates on customer Households mortgage services business service through its 216 HFC Bank and Beneficial purchases first and second lien residential mortgage branches, and finances consumer electronics through loans from a network of over 200 unaffiliated third its retail finance operations.
In Canada, similar party lenders correspondents in the US.
Purchases products are offered and, deposits are taken through are either of pools of loans bulk acquisitions or Households trust operations there.
individual loan portfolios flow acquisitions made under predetermined underwriting guidelines.
Commercial Banking Forward commitments are offered to selected HSBC is one of the worlds leading banks in the correspondents to strengthen relationships and create a sustainable growth channel for this business.
Household, through its subsidiary Decision One, also 1 MasterCard is a registered trademark of MasterCard International, Incorporated and Visa is a registered offers mortgage loans referred by mortgage brokers.
trademark of Visa USA, Inc.
Households retail services business is one of the 2 The Union plus MasterCard and Visa credit card programme is an affinity arrangement with Union Privilege largest providers of third party private label credit under which credit cards are offered to members of unions cards or store cards in the US based on receivables affiliated with the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial organisations AFL-CIO.
12 provision of financial services and products to small diligence reviews: and actuarial employee benefit and medium-sized businesses, with over 2 million consultancy.
business customers including sole proprietors, Trade services: HSBC has more than 130 years partnerships, clubs and associations, incorporated of experience in trade services.
A complete range of businesses and publicly quoted companies.
traditional documentary credit, collections and At 31 December 2003, HSBC had total financing products is offered, as well as specialised commercial customer deposits of US$111.5 billion services such as insured export finance, international and total commercial customer loans and advances, factoring and forfaiting.
HSBCs expertise is net of suspended interest and provisions for bad and supported by highly automated systems.
doubtful debts, of US$103.5 billion.
Leasing, finance and factoring: HSBC The Commercial Banking segment places provides leasing, finance including instalment and particular emphasis on multi-disciplinary and invoice finance and domestic factoring services, geographical collaboration in meeting its commercial primarily to commercial customers in the UK, Hong customers needs.
This differentiated service allows Kong and France.
Special divisions have been HSBC to broaden and enhance its offering to its established to finance vehicles, plant and equipment, Commercial Banking customers.
The range of materials handling, machinery and large complex products includes: leases.
Payments and cash management: HSBC is a Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets leading provider of payments, collections, liquidity management and account services worldwide, HSBCs Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets enabling financial institutions and corporate business provides tailored financial solutions to customers to manage their cash efficiently on a major government, corporate and institutional clients global basis.
HSBCs extensive network of offices worldwide.
Managed as a global business, this and strong domestic capabilities in many countries, customer group operates a long-term relationship including direct access to local clearing systems, management approach to build a full understanding enhance its ability to provide high-quality cash of clients financial requirements.
service teams comprising relationship managers and product specialists develop financial solutions to e-banking: A key component of HSBCs meet individual client needs.
With dedicated offices provision of financial services to commercial in over 50 countries and with access to HSBCs customers is continuing innovation and flexibility in worldwide presence and capabilities, this business electronic delivery solutions.
serves subsidiaries and offices of these clients on a Wealth management services: These include global basis.
advice and products related to savings and Products and services offered include: investments.
They are provided to commercial banking customers and their employees through Global Markets: HSBCs operations in Global HSBCs worldwide network of branches and Markets consist of treasury and capital markets business banking centres.
services for supranationals, central banks, corporations, institutional and private investors, Insurance: HSBC offers insurance protection, financial institutions and other market participants.
employee benefits programmes and pension schemes Products include: designed to meet the needs of businesses and their employees, and to help fulfill the applicable statutory foreign exchange: obligations of client companies.
These products are currency, interest rate, bond, credit, equity and provided by HSBC either as an intermediary broker, other specialised derivatives: agent or consultant or as a supplier of in-house or third party offerings.
Products and services include a government and non-government fixed income full range of commercial insurance, including and money market instruments: pension schemes: healthcare schemes: key man life precious metals and exchange traded futures: insurance: car fleet: goods in transit: trade credit protection: risk management and insurance due equity services, including research, sales and 13 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business continued trading for institutional, corporate, private adoption of HSBC Private Bank as the worldwide clients and asset management services, including marketing name for its principal private banking global investment advisory and fund business.
management services: and Drawing on the strength of the HSBC Group and capital raising, both publicly and privately, utilising the best products from the marketplace, including debt and equity capital, structured Private Banking works with its clients to offer both finance and syndicated finance, and distribution traditional and innovative ways to manage and of these instruments utilising links with HSBCs preserve wealth whilst optimising returns.
and services offered include: Global Transaction Banking: This includes Investment services: These comprise both international, regional and in-country payments and advisory and discretionary investment services.
A cash management services: trade services, wide range of investment vehicles is covered, particularly the specialised supply chain product: including bonds, equities, derivatives, structured and securities services, where HSBC is one of the products, mutual funds and hedge funds.
Supported worlds leading custodians providing custody and by five major advisory centres in Hong Kong, clearing services and funds administration to both Singapore, Geneva, New York and London, Private domestic and cross-border investors.
Factoring and Banking selects and validates the most suitable banknotes services are also provided by specialist investments for clients needs and investment units.
Corporate and Institutional Banking: This Global wealth solutions: These comprise includes: planning, trustee and other fiduciary services designed to protect existing wealth and create direct lending, including structured finance for tailored structures to preserve wealth for future complex investment facilities: generations.
Areas of expertise include trusts, leasing finance with an emphasis on large foundations, charitable trusts, private investment ticket transactions: and companies, insurance vehicles and offshore structures.
Specialist advisory services: Private Banking Global Investment Banking: This comprises: offers expertise in several specialist areas of wealth corporate finance and advisory services for management including tax advisory, family office mergers and acquisitions, asset disposals, stock advisory, charities and foundations, media, diamonds exchange listings, privatisations and capital and jewellery, and real estate.
Such specialist restructurings: advisers are available to deliver products and services which are tailored to meet the full range of project and export finance services providing high net worth clients individual financial needs.
non-recourse finance to exporters, importers and financial institutions, and working closely with General banking services: These are the all major export credit agencies: and ancillary services necessary for the management of clients finances.
They include treasury and foreign financing and risk advisory services.
exchange, offshore and onshore deposits, tailor-made Asset management services: This comprises loans and internet banking.
The skills and products Asset Management products and services for available in HSBCs other customer groups, such as institutional investors, intermediaries and individual corporate banking, investment banking and insurance investors and their advisors.
are also offered to Private Banking clients.
HSBC Private Bank is the marketing name for Private Banking the private banking business conducted by the HSBC is one of the worlds leading international principal private banking subsidiaries of the HSBC private banking groups with total client funds under Group worldwide.
Private Banking services are also management of US$169 billion at 31 December provided by HSBC Guyerzeller and HSBC Trinkaus 2003.
In December 2003, HSBC announced the & Burkhardt.
14 General Geographical Regions The remarkable efforts of colleagues in Turkey Profit before tax split by geographical region ensured that business returned to normal following the two bomb blasts on 20 November, Year ended 31 December 2003 2003 which severely damaged the Head Office 4,500 and a branch in Istanbul.
All branches were 4,000 operating as normal the day after, with the 3,969 3,500 3,728 3,613 exception of Beyoglu, which was damaged by 3,000 the bomb at the British Consulate.
Head Office 2,500 2,000 employees relocated to a contingency site and 1,500 the banks business recovery planning proved 1,391 1,000 both highly effective and invaluable.
In the face 500 115 of the terrible events, colleagues responded with 0 US$ Million incredible courage and commitment.
HSBC Europe Hong Kong immediately launched support initiatives for the Rest of Asia-Pacific North America bereaved and those most impacted by the tragic South America events.
1 In March, HSBC added the consumer finance Total assets split by geographical region business, HFC Bank plc HFC Bank, to its As at 31 December 2003 European network as a consequence of the % Household acquisition.
HFC Bank provides a Europe 41.6 range of loan and insurance products to over 3.5 million customers throughout the UK, Hong Kong 19.3 making it one of the countrys largest pure Rest of Asia Pacific 9.6 consumer finance businesses.
North America 28.3 South America 1.2 Personal Financial Services For the second year running, HSBC won a major category of the What Mortgage?
award in the 1 Excludes Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness.
UK and was the Mortgage Magazine winner of the Lender of the Year award.
First Direct won Business highlights in 2003 the Mortgage Advisor and Home Buyer Magazine award for Offset Mortgage of the For additional information regarding business Year.
developments in 2003, as well as comparative information relating to developments in 2002 and In July, HSBC became the first British high 2001, please refer to the Financial Review on pages street bank to offer an Islamic mortgage to the 36-117. estimated UK Muslim population of 1.8 million.
The Amanah Home Finance product was Europe launched with the backing of HSBC's Dubaibased Amanah Finance division.
HSBCs principal banking subsidiaries in Europe are HSBC Bank, CCF and HSBC Private Bank.
HSBC The Premier customer base in the UK grew by provides a wide range of banking, treasury and 57 per cent to over 280,000.
Premier financial services to personal, commercial and International, offering credit history transfer corporate customers in the UK, France, and across across borders and seamless account opening, continental Europe, with strong coverage in Malta was launched in the UK, Jersey Offshore and th and Turkey.
The banks strategy is to build long-term France, while Malta and Greece became the 30 st relationships attracting customers through value-forand 31 countries to offer the HSBC Premier money products and high-quality service.
15 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business continued In July, HSBC launched HSBC InvestDirect, a involves the transfer of US$400 million of loans new online and telephone investment service in and 1.8 million cardholders to HFC Bank on a the UK.
This provides internet and telephone revenue-sharing basis.
The bank will work with share-dealing and price information across a the John Lewis Partnership to enhance its credit broad range of UK equities and gilts.
card offering to existing and potential customers.
HSBC in the UK was awarded the coveted Five Commercial Banking Star Award from Money Management magazine for its regular premium stakeholder pensions.
HSBCs commitment to supporting new businesses in the UK helped in the formation of HSBCs Private Clients service was ranked the over 102,000 start-ups during the year through number one UK Independent Financial Adviser its Start-up Stars programme.
Additionally, the IFA in a survey of the top 50 IFAs by bank attracted more than 23,000 new competitor Professional Advisor Magazine again in 2003. balance transfers in 2003.
In the UK, individual service reviews a review The Chartered Institute of Management of a customers financial service needs were Accountants CIMA voted HSBC Best Small completed for more than 800,000 customers Business Bank following feedback from its during the year, an increase of 67 per cent on Members in Practice Group.
The CIMA 2002. recognition follows the Forum of Private By the end of 2003, over 2 million customers in Businesss announcement of HSBC as the Best the UK were registered for personal internet High Street Clearing Bank for Small banking and over 4.7 million customers are now Businesses, while the UK 200 Group, a registered for telephone banking.
consortium of leading accountants, also named HSBC the best bank for business.
Significant progress was made in migrating the UK card issuing business onto Households A new Business Money Manager deposit credit card system, improving both operational product was launched in January, attracting an and cost efficiency.
HSBC Card Services issued average of 1,700 new accounts per week.
its highest ever number of new credit cards and During 2003, in response to depolarisation in the gained a record number of competitor balance UK investments market, the bank introduced a transfers in the UK, boosted by the introduction number of Commercial Independent Financial of a 0% balance transfer offer in July.
Advisors to provide quality independent Following successful participation in the UK financial advice to business customers.
Based on chip and pin trials earlier in the year, HSBC the success of the initial pilot, the initiative is will begin issuing chip and pin enabled credit being expanded across the network.
HSBC is and debit cards in 2004, delivering greater now the number one provider of income security for card users and reducing exposure to protection products in the UK.
HSBC DriverQuote won the award for the most HSBC expanded its UK debt counselling service innovative e-delivery channel at the Institute of for customers with potential repayment Financial Services Financial Innovation Awards difficulties.
The service works with customers to 2003.
HSBC DriverQuote is the UK banks construct plans to manage debt more effectively online quotation and ordering system and allows ahead of possible problems.
businesses to manage their company car policy over the internet.
Consumer Finance HSBC Invoice Finance UK Limited was In June, HFC Bank announced a long-term awarded the Best Factoring Award by Trade agreement with the John Lewis Partnership, the Finance Magazine in 2003. employee-owned UK department store and Business Moneyfacts, a leading independent supermarket group, for the joint management finance guide, named HSBC the UKs Best and operation of the John Lewis, Peter Jones and Computer Banking Provider.
Over 130,000 Waitrose store card business.
The agreement 16 customers in the UK registered for business of its equities business into the Global Markets internet banking in 2003.
Fifty-four per cent of business, creating a single platform for all all new business customers register for internet trading and sales operations.
In addition, HSBC banking at the time of account opening.
The announced the restructuring of the research value of payments generated using business offering so as to align macro, sectoral and price internet banking now exceeds US$786 million driven research with both institutional investor per month.
At the Institute of Financial Services and corporate client needs.
Financial Innovation Awards HSBC won the In the international bond market, HSBCs market award for the Best Internet Banking Service share rose to 4.4 per cent, and in the fourth and the Grand Prix Award for general quarter, HSBC came third in the international innovation in the financial services industry.
By the end of 2003, over 280,000 UK customers HSBC was joint adviser to Safeway on its were registered for business telephone banking, 3 billion recommended merger with Morrison utilising the banks telephone centres in the UK in the UK and advised LNM Holdings on its and India.
These handle some 3,000 sales and US$1.2 billion acquisition of Polish steel maker more than 100,000 in-bound calls per month, Polski Huty Stali.
leaving relationship managers to focus on customer service.
The London and Paris dealing rooms were fully integrated with each site taking a lead role in Group Secure E-Payments remote payments specific product areas.
This dual-hub structure in solution successfully launched in June 2003.
Europe has proved to be a key competitive HSBCs offering has enhanced security features advantage.
over other providers and includes compliance with MasterCard Securecode and verification HSBC won a five-year contract to support by Visa standards for internet merchants.
British Telecommunications plcs BT corporate card programme.
The BT programme Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets is the largest in both the UK and Europe with more than 35,000 corporate cards in issue and an In June, HSBC announced the appointment of annual spend of over 100 million US$164 co-heads of its global Corporate, Investment million.
Under this new management structure, HSBC combined its The Universities Superannuation Scheme, the origination capabilities with its broad-based UKs third largest pension fund, appointed trading and sales platform to ensure a seamless HSBC Global Fund Services Limited as sole banking, financing and investor service for the provider of a full range of investment accounting Groups corporate and institutional clients.
During 2003, the business strengthened its client In response to the anticipated growth in coverage model, adopting a sector-based employee share saving schemes and personal relationship approach to client servicing.
The retirement schemes, CCF created HSBC CCF origination businesses were restructured to pargne Enterprise, following the acquisition of reflect this sectoral approach and reinforced minority shareholdings in Elysees Gestion and through selective recruitment.
As a result of this Elysees Fonds.
investment, HSBC strengthened its corporate client service offering, winning a number of Private Banking notable contracts.
HSBC Private Bank was rated among the top In March 2003, the payments and cash three Best Global Private Banks in management, trade services, securities services Euromoneys first annual survey of wealth and banknotes businesses were brought together management providers published in January under a single management and organisation 2004. structure, Global Transaction Banking.
HSBC Private Banks alternative investments In September, HSBC commenced the integration attracted in excess of US$3 billion new assets, 17 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business continued raising total client assets invested in hedge funds circulation in 2003. to US$14 billion.
In Switzerland, four new General hedge funds were launched.
HSBC Private Bank was voted Best European High Net Surveys indicated that HSBC has the strongest Worth Retail Hedge Fund of Funds Product brand equity amongst all banks in Hong Kong.
Provider for 2003 at the Hedge Funds Review With its The world's local bank positioning, and received Financial Adviser magazines gold HSBC combines a strong global brand with local award as a Top Provider in the long short funds reach and knowledge.
To support the recovery of the Hong Kong Strategic Investment Solutions SIS was economy post-SARS severe acute respiratory launched in July, providing clients with syndrome, HSBC launched the HSBC externally managed multi-manager investment Supports Hong Kong campaign, investing up to portfolios.
HK$100 million US$12.8 million to provide financial assistance to those affected by atypical The Family Office Advisory team launched pneumonia, and to stimulate local consumer Consolidation and Analysis of Investment spending.
This leadership position received a Portfolios providing wealthy clients and their very positive reaction from all sectors of the families with a single set of statements covering community.
For clients with more complex th portfolios, the service provides a means of Hang Seng Bank celebrated its 70 anniversary developing coherent tax and investment on 3 March 2003.
The anniversary tagline, 70 management strategies.
Years of Excellence, highlighted the banks commitment to providing high quality services The Groups four French private banking that exceed customer expectations.
subsidiaries combined into a single operating unit, HSBC Private Bank France, to create a Personal Financial Services major player in the French private banking HSBCs position as one of the leading providers market, with over US$15 billion in assets under of wealth management services was sustained management.
The new unit comprises three amid keen competition.
Income from wealth divisions: resident private clients, international management, including commissions on sales of clients and institutional clients.
unit trust products, funds under management, and securities transactions, grew by 38 per cent Other to US$408 million.
A wide range of new retail HSBC Actuaries and Consultants Limited were unit trusts, certificates of deposit, bonds and appointed as actuarial consultant for a UK structured deposits were launched to provide pension fund, The Pensions Trust.
With assets products to meet customers needs in the approaching 2 billion US$3.6 billion, The low-interest rate environment.
Pensions Trust is the leading multi-employer HSBC increased sales of new regular premium occupational pension fund for employees individual life insurance by 59 per cent, growing involved in the charitable, social, educational, its market share from 13.9 per cent to 18.6 per voluntary and not-for-profit sectors.
Hong Kong On the back of this success, HSBC continued to HSBCs principal banking subsidiaries in Hong add to its dedicated sales force, and the number Kong are The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking of sales staff gaining professional qualifications Corporation and Hang Seng Bank, in which HSBC in investment and insurance business also rose.
The Hongkong and HSBC maintained its position as the number one Shanghai Banking Corporation is the largest bank credit card issuer in Hong Kong and, through incorporated in Hong Kong and is HSBCs flagship strong and targeted customer marketing, bank in the Asia-Pacific region.
It is one of Hong increased card usage despite the subdued Kongs three note-issuing banks, accounting for economy.
more than 62 per cent by value of banknotes in 18 HSBC continued to focus on operational cent to HK$30 billion US$3.9 billion at the efficiency, with the Group Service Centres in year end.
mainland China expanding to provide about half Hang Seng Investment Management Limited the operational support for credit cards in Hong introduced the first exchange traded fund Kong.
tracking the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index.
HSBC continues to have the largest market share This fund was listed on the Hong Kong stock in online banking in Hong Kong, with more than exchange in December 2003.
665,000 registered users at December 2003, up Hang Seng Bank launched Leisure Class in June by 41 per cent on 2002.
A 62 per cent increase 2003, a new service which offers retirees and in monthly website visits was achieved in 2003, those who are planning to retire, comprehensive following the introduction of tailored web pages investment services and benefits and a range of for customer segments, alert services and market leisure activities including Chinese painting and information.
calligraphy classes and seminars on Chinese HSBC was judged the best consumer internet medicine.
bank in Hong Kong for the second year in a row Following the relaxation of restrictions on by Global Finance and also won awards for the individual travel to Hong Kong by mainland best consumer online securities trading service: China visitors, the Peoples Bank of China and the best consumer online credit service in Asia, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority announced and the best consumer web site design in Asia.
consent at the end of 2003 for Hong Kong banks Hang Seng Bank continued to enhance its to commence specified renminbi services, internet banking services, launching the e-Fund including exchange, deposit taking, remittances Supermarket in July to provide customers with and renminbi credit cards.
HSBC and Hang comprehensive one-stop online investment fund Seng Bank launched renminbi services in services.
By the year-end the number of Hang February 2004.
Seng customers registered for Personal e-Banking services in Hong Kong had risen by Commercial Banking 34 per cent to 337,000, and internet transactions HSBC maintained its position as the leading represented 20 per cent of total transactions.
trade services bank in 2003, growing market HSBC increased the number of Premier centres share and being named the Best Trade Finance in Hong Kong to 36, which support an enlarged Bank in Asia by Global Finance.
With 80 per Premier customer base of 224,000. cent of HSBCs substantial trade income coming from Commercial Banking customers, HSBC was named the Best Bank in Hong Kong instant@dvice, an internet based service which in 2003 by Euromoney, The Asset, and The supports electronic documentary credits Banker, and Best Local Bank in Hong Kong by advising, was launched.
HSBC was also named as the Best Managed Company in Hong Kong for the Launched in August 2001, HSBCs Business second consecutive year by Asiamoney, and won Internet Banking service continued to be well the Hong Kong Retail Management received in the market.
HSBC was recognised Associations 2003 Award for Services: by Global Finance as the Best Corporate Customer Service Grand Award.
Institutional Internet Bank in Hong Kong in 2003.
Surveys indicated that HSBC had the Hang Seng Bank was named the Best Domestic largest online business banking market share in Commercial Bank in Hong Kong by The Asset Hong Kong with over 31,000 companies and Asiamoney.
In addition, Hang Seng Bank Hang Seng Bank strengthened its suite of had some 13,000 business e-banking customers insurance and investment products by widening by the year-end compared with 5,000 at the end its product range.
The number of funds under the of 2002.
Hang Seng Investment series launched by Hang Hang Seng Bank launched the Integrated Seng Bank rose from 60 to 90 in 2003, and Business Solutions Account in September 2003, funds under management increased by 30 per 19 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business continued offering small and medium-sized enterprises HSBC Private Bank continued to expand its one-stop financial services to facilitate their family office capabilities with the relaunch of its business growth.
tax consulting service as Wealth and Tax Advisory Services WTAS Asia Limited.
Hang Seng Bank opened its first branch in the Macau SAR in December 2003 to serve the In October 2003, HSBC and Hang Seng Bank trade finance needs of its customers with launched one-stop private banking services to business operations there.
cater to the needs of applicants to the Hong Kong Governments Capital Investment Entrant Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets Scheme.
HSBC increased its market share in G3 and local Rest of Asia-Pacific including the Middle East currency bond issuance in the Hong Kong market from 33 per cent in 2002 to 45 per cent The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation in 2003, with 249 issues totalling US$11 billion.
offers personal, commercial, corporate and It was named Best Hong Kong Bond House by investment banking and markets services in IFR.
The banks network spans 11 major cities, comprising nine branches and two HSBC was a joint bookrunner on Hutchison representative offices.
Hang Seng Bank offers Whampoas US$5 billion global bond issue, the personal and commercial banking services and largest bond issue in Asia to date.
operates five branches, a sub-branch, and two The debt finance group set up Cheung Kongs representative offices in seven cities.
HK$10 billion US$1.3 billion retail bond Outside Hong Kong and mainland China, the programme and led Hong Kongs largest retail HSBC Group conducts business in the Asia-Pacific bond to date, for Kowloon-Canton Railway region primarily through branches and subsidiaries Corporation.
of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking The securitisation team led the industrys first Corporation, with particularly strong coverage in securitisation of taxi and public light bus loans India, Indonesia, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan and and the first synthetic securitisation of nonThailand.
HSBCs presence in the Middle East is led mortgage consumer and small and medium-sized by HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, the largest enterprise SME obligors in Hong Kong and foreign-owned bank in the region: in Australia by the rest of Asia-Pacific.
HSBC Bank Australia Limited: and in Malaysia by HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad, which has the second The equity capital markets team executed equity largest presence of any foreign-owned bank in the placements amounting to US$576 million.
HSBC Asset Management celebrated its 30th anniversary on 4 September 2003, with the General theme Your Advantage in Investment In Asia In 2003 HSBC celebrated 150 years of doing and Around the World, highlighting its business in India.
commitment to providing investment solutions and delivering results.
HSBC remains committed to the local communities in which it operates across the By the end of 2003, HSBC Asset Management region.
With the World Health Organization had launched 14 capital guaranteed funds, declaring the SARS virus contained worldwide covering a wide range of sector and country in July, HSBC launched the Shop Asia, Dine themes, with US$3.5 billion in assets at the yearAsia programme to stimulate affected end, which represented more than 80 per cent of industries.
Over 2,500 outlets across the guaranteed fund market in Hong Kong.
Asia-Pacific joined with HSBC to support the programme.
Private Banking HSBC entered into an agreement to acquire a HSBC Private Bank was named the Best Private 14.71 per cent stake in UTI Bank Limited, an Bank in Hong Kong in 2003 by Euromoney.
Indian retail bank, for a consideration of 20 Rs3.1 billion US$66 million, with the option to Visa credit cards, and settle their payments in acquire a further 5.37 per cent stake.
UTI has renminbi through a Bank of Shanghai account.
some 200 branches and extension counters and Six new branches were opened during the year, over 1,000 ATMs nationwide, and offers a one in Bangladesh, one in New Zealand and four comprehensive range of corporate banking, in India, further building HSBCs position in the retail lending and deposit products, and an region.
internet banking service, to its one million customers.
In March, HSBC was among the first foreign banks in mainland China to receive full approval In New Zealand, HSBC purchased the retail to offer custodian services to Qualified Foreign banking business of AMP Bank Limited, which Institutional Investors QFIIs in Chinas comprised mortgage lending of US$1.1 billion A-share market.
HSBC also provides custodian and deposits of US$122 million.
The purchase, services for Chinas B-share market, in which it which complements HSBCs existing retail has a leading market position.
franchise in New Zealand, involved the acquisition of approximately 25,000 customer HSBC obtained approval for its QFII licence in accounts and substantially increased HSBCs August and as a result is able to invest in mortgage and deposit business.
renminbi-denominated securities in Chinas A-share market.
In October, HSBC Insurance Brokers Limited entered into a joint venture agreement to offer HSBC has been providing renminbi banking insurance broking and risk management services services to foreign-invested companies and to domestic and international clients in mainland foreign nationals through its Shanghai and China, the first foreign joint venture in China to Shenzhen branches since 1997 and 1998 obtain such a licence.
In November 2003, HSBC received cent stake in the new company, Beijing HSBC approval to provide these services through its Insurance Brokers Limited.
branches in Guangzhou, Qingdao and Tianjin.
In a further development, with effect from 1 In December, HSBC and China Ping An Trust & December 2003, foreign banks have also been Investment Co. Limited Ping An announced allowed, subject to regulatory approval, to offer an agreement to acquire 50 per cent each of renminbi services to local corporations in Fujian Asia Bank Limited for not more than selected cities.
HSBC will introduce these US$20 million in cash.
Completion of the services in the first half of 2004. transaction is expected to be at the end of March 2004, by which time Ping An is committed to Hang Seng Bank expanded its services in injecting a further US$23 million into Fujian mainland China to help customers capture Asia bank, diluting HSBCs share to 27 per cent.
business opportunities arising from the Closer Economic Partnership Arrangement CEPA Also in December, Hang Seng Bank signed an between Hong Kong and the mainland.
The bank agreement to acquire 15.98 per cent of Industrial opened its fifth mainland branch in Nanjing in Bank Co.
Limiteds Industrial Bank enlarged the economically important Yangtze River Delta capital for a consideration of 1.7 billion area in August, and a sub-branch in Puxi, renminbi US$208 million in cash, subject to Shanghai in October, and applied to upgrade its regulatory and shareholder approval.
With this Beijing representative office to a branch.
transaction, Hang Seng Bank will become the first foreign bank to acquire more than 15 per Hang Seng Bank commenced renminbi services cent of a mainland Chinese bank.
Industrial at its Guangzhou branch in October the banks Bank has assets of 190 billion renminbi US$23 second branch, after Shanghai in 2002, to offer billion.
such services and its Shenzhen branch in January 2004.
In January 2004, HSBC and the Bank of Shanghai launched the Shanghai International Hang Seng Investment Management Limited Credit Card, which enables mainland Chinese opened a representative office in Shenzhen in customers to make purchases when travelling March.
outside the mainland at any merchant accepting 21 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business continued Personal Financial Services cross-border referrals and knowledge transfer.
The increase is also attributable to strong growth HSBC continued to broaden its range of in trade advances.
products and services across the Asia-Pacific region, notably in investment products.
A Commercial Banking intranet was developed Structured deposit products were launched in 2003 that facilitates the spread of best practice across the region, and a wide range of unit trusts and cross-border referrals between different were sold, driving funds under management up members of the Group.
In Malaysia, new business facilities approval HSBCs credit card business in the rest of Asiaincreased by 65 per cent.
Pacific achieved significant growth in 2003, Delivery channels were further developed across with over 3.7 million cards in force.
In Malaysia, HSBC recorded a 150 An enhanced credit card processing system was per cent increase in internet, and an 80 per cent implemented in five countries, improving increase in telephone banking customers, and operational efficiency.
The new system applies significantly enhanced the electronic delivery of state-of-the-art technology to risk and fraud trade services to its customers.
management allowing HSBC to better protect its As part of its wider Islamic Banking initiatives, customers.
HSBC won approval from the Bangladesh Bank As part of the strategic management of costs, to launch an Islamic Banking service in the selected processing activities were moved into country with specific focus on Commercial the Group Service Centres in Bangalore, Kuala Banking products.
Lumpur and Shanghai from Australia, New HSBC launched a Shariah banking service in Zealand, the Philippines and Singapore.
In Indonesia, the first foreign bank to do so.
The January 2004, HSBC announced plans to open a Groups Indonesian Shariah business will new Group Service Centre in Colombo, Sri initially focus on the corporate and institutional Lanka, during the year.
sectors, providing structured financial HSBC continued to upgrade and enhance its capabilities and debt capital markets advisory online banking offering, and the number of services.
In the medium term, HSBC intends to personal internet banking customers increased extend the service to provide a broad range of by 52 per cent to 378,000.
The quality of its wealth management and investment products services was recognised in Malaysia where and services.
HSBC was named the Best Consumer Internet HSBC Bank Middle East launched a new Banking Site by Global Finance.
factoring service to assist businesses financing HSBC was the first international bank in the their outstanding invoices.
The service provides United Arab Emirates to offer a range of Shariah domestic and international factoring facilities for Islamic law compliant personal financial businesses trading on open account payment services.
Two services were launched initially terms.
the HSBC Amanah Current Account and HSBC Trade Services continued to build on its leading Amanah Personal Finance.
presence in the region and HSBC was named HSBC was named Asia-Pacific Bank of the Year Best Trade Finance Bank in Asia by by The Banker, and Best Foreign Bank in FinanceAsia.
Document Tracker, a new service mainland China, India and Indonesia by which provides customers with a convenient FinanceAsia.
way to check the delivery status of international documents sent through HSBCs Trade Services Commercial Banking offices, is now available in eight countries in Asia following its rollout in 2003 in Bangladesh, HSBC achieved impressive growth of over mainland China, Korea, Malaysia and Thailand.
49 per cent in its loan book in mainland China in 2003, with its branches in Hong Kong, Taiwan and the mainland working closely together on 22 HSBC was named Best Bank in India, the its achievements in building new product lines, Philippines and Thailand in The Asset as well as integrating existing services to Magazines Triple A Country Awards 2003. provide tailor made solutions to its customers.
HSBC was named the best-rated sub-custody Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets provider in 21 different countries in the Global HSBCs rankings and market share improved, Custodian Survey.
This strong performance was with the bank raising more debt in a single year reflected in further client business for our subthan any other bank in Hong Kong and the rest custody network.
of Asia-Pacific and leading more deals than any HSBC Asset Management continued to enjoy other firm.
It led 311 G3 and local currency strong growth in 2003.
Assets in the HSBC deals with a market share of 15 per cent, and Chinese Equity Fund and the HSBC Indian raising US$14.8 billion.
HSBC was named the Equity Fund grew significantly, making them the Best International Bond House and Best Local worlds largest Chinese and Indian equity funds.
Currency Bond House by FinanceAsia.
HSBC Asset Management, which began HSBC won Euromoneys award for Best at operating in India in 2002, achieved strong Treasury and Risk Management in Asia for the growth there in 2003, with funds under advice sixth consecutive year.
and management growing to US$1.8 billion.
The The Ministry of Finance of the State of Qatar client base increased to more than 50,000 from selected HSBC as joint lead manager of its debut 18,000 in 2002.
The issue, launched in September, was fully compliant with Shariah Private Banking law.
HSBC Private Bank continued its expansion in Corporate Finance and Advisory was the sole Asia, working with strategic partners to financial advisor to mainland Chinas largest strengthen offshore banking business for the brewery, Tsingtao Brewer, in a strategic alliance mainland China market.
Development of the with the worlds largest brewery, Anheuserprivate banking market in Japan, and exploration Busch.
A mandatory convertible bond structure of the market in Malaysia, continued in was used for the first time for a foreign partnership with HSBCs local branch networks.
In Singapore, HSBC Private Bank was granted a HSBC continued to be at the forefront of the wholesale banking licence in May 2003 which development of local currency bond markets.
has allowed its range of services to be expanded.
The successful placing of the Republic of Philippines Peso74.3 billion retail treasury bond North America benefited from the streamlined documentation HSBCs North American business covers the United framework HSBC has developed for bond States, Canada, Mexico and Panama.
primarily conducted in the US through HSBC Bank HSBCs strength in Payments and Cash USA in New York State and Household, based in Management gained recognition, with HSBC Chicago.
HSBCs Canadian and Mexican operations named the Best Cash Management Bank in Asia are run through HSBC Bank Canada and HSBC by AsiaMoney and FinanceAsia.
Roll out across Mexico respectively.
the region of the integrated payments and receivables proposition continued and was General successfully completed in Hong Kong during Households membership of the HSBC Group 2003. provided it with a source of direct funding and HSBC was voted the number one cash improved access to the capital markets, lowering management bank in the Middle East in a 2003 its funding costs and expanding its access to a poll of Euromoney readers.
The bank took top worldwide pool of potential investors.
honours for the scope of its services and customer satisfaction.
It was also recognised for 23 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business continued Bank USA increasing to US$30 billion in 2003 In December 2003, upon receipt of regulatory from US$21 billion in 2002. approval, Household sold US$2.8 billion of its higher quality real estate secured receivables to Personal Internet Banking registrations in the US HSBC Bank USA.
The sale represented the first reached 520,000, an increase of 25 per cent in step in a strategy to lower the Groups overall the year.
In Canada, 28 per cent of customers are borrowing costs by utilising liquidity at HSBC registered, up from 14 per cent in 2002.
Further asset transfers are planned in The number of HSBC Premier customers in the 2004, subject to regulatory approval.
US grew by 37 per cent from approximately The major power cut in northeast USA and 53,000 to over 73,000, with the launch of southeast Canada in August resulted in minimal Premier International Services helping to propel disruption for HSBCs customers.
In Canada, the number of Premier management protocol and business continuity customers increased by 87 per cent to 28,500 in plans for all critical areas of the North American 2003. operations were successfully invoked with all clientCONNECT, an integrated customer transactions processed and settled within relationship management system, was accepted customer service standards and with no successfully rolled out to all branches in Canada financial losses.
and across the US, resulting in increased The back-up site and production centre for contacts and cross-sales.
HSBCs Canadian IT operations were The direct brokerage operation, Merrill Lynch transferred to the Groups state of the art facility HSBC Canada Inc. was rebranded as HSBC in Amherst, New York, allowing for greater InvestDirect Inc. prior to becoming a division of economies of scale in the use of technology.
HSBC Securities Canada Inc. thereby In Mexico, significant new acquisitions in 2003 completing the reintegration of the direct included the purchase for US$144 million of investing channel into HSBC.
INGs 49 per cent stake in the joint-venture insurance company jointly owned with Consumer Finance HSBC Bank Mexico, and the acquisition of a Significant progress was made in 2003 in pension fund company AFORE Allianz integrating Households and HSBCs technology Dresdner from Allianz A. G. for teams and systems, including initiatives to US$175 million.
These new acquisitions consolidate data centres and convert HSBCs strengthened product offerings to HSBCs credit card portfolios onto the Household extensive customer base and will lead to system.
Using the combined buying power of increased cross-selling.
HSBC and Household, a number of supplier On 31 December 2003, HSBC announced its contracts, including tele-communications, were agreement to sell to CIT Group Inc. substantially renegotiated.
Efficiency savings were also all of the factoring assets approximately achieved elsewhere through the integration of US$1 billion and liabilities of HSBC Bank various functions including purchasing, human USA.
Net assets amounted to approximately resources, facilities and finance.
The sale agreement reflected A number of initiatives are being developed to HSBCs strategic emphasis on its core US expand business opportunities in consumer businesses.
These included broadening the range of In January 2004, HSBC rebranded all its products, such as offering mortgage insurance Mexican banking operations as HSBC Bank and HSBC banking services to existing Mexico.
Household customers: cross referring consumer finance and retail services customers between Personal Financial Services Household and HSBC: and automating HSBCs auto finance loan process.
Also, in the US, HSBCs residential loan portfolio continued to HSBC and Household initiated a customer grow in the US, with total originations by HSBC referral programme and developed near-prime 24 and prime products to provide Households Capital markets platforms in the US were customers with a full range of options.
considerably strengthened through selective hiring, and this contributed to a significant rise Household and HSBC in Mexico plan to in the number and value of mandates won.
introduce a remittance service between Households customers in the US and their Augmenting the investment in primary families and friends in Mexico in 2004.
This capabilities, HSBCs market distribution includes the provision of a web-based service capabilities in the US were enhanced by key enabling recipients in Mexico to use stored value hires in sales and origination, as co-ordination cards to access funds from Automated Teller was improved across the region.
Machines, and a remittance service through Renewed interest from US institutional accountHSBC branches and kiosks.
Both services are holders resulted in a considerable increase in the expected to provide cross-selling opportunities.
volume of customer trades in Global Markets In April 2003, Households private label credit products, including foreign exchange, structured card business acquired US$1.2 billion in products, and debt.
This partly reflected changes receivables as a result of entering into a new in relationships with other financial institutions relationship with a major retail merchant, Saks, which followed the regulatory reviews of certain Inc.
During 2003, Households US MasterCard Visa HSBCs service proposition in the US was credit card business acquired approximately enhanced by the introduction of e-platforms US$0.9 billion of receivables in two separate which enable clients to trade online in bonds via transactions, taking advantage of weakness Trade Web, and in foreign exchange via FXAll.
Private Banking Commercial Banking Private Banking streamlined its operations in the Loans to small businesses in the US grew by US by successfully merging the management 19 per cent in 2003 as HSBC moved up to and support infrastructure of its domestic and second in the Small Business Association lender international clients.
The product range was ranking in New York State.
broadened to include alternative investments, structured products and investment management HSBC Bank Canada was rated the highest for products.
overall quality of customer service to the SME market among all banks included in an South America independent survey of SME owners, published by the Canadian Federation of Independent HSBCs operations in South America principally Business in October.
comprise HSBC Bank Brasil and HSBC Bank Argentina S. A.
Business internet banking penetration in the US increased from 9 per cent to 15 per cent of In Brazil, HSBC has an extensive domestic commercial customers, with 28,500 now using network, with over 1,300 branches and offices, it.
The service was launched in Canada and 3.4 million personal customers and over 240,000 reached 14 per cent of customers there.
HSBC operates the tenth largest insurance business in Brazil, Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets offering a broad range of insurance products.
HSBC made significant investments in its US In Argentina, HSBC has over 4,000 employees relationship management function, strengthening and a total of 101 sales points.
HSBC also has one of its sector approach and improving coverage of the largest insurance businesses in Argentina, HSBC major institutional and corporate clients.
New La Buenos Aires and, through HSBC Mxima and business generated from its Corporate and HSBC New York Life, offers pensions and life Institutional Banking client base rose 80 per cent assurance.
Notwithstanding the financial crisis in compared with 2002.
Argentina, HSBC continues to provide a full range of 25 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business continued financial services to its customers, and remains one HSBC advertising drive in Brazil to date.
The of a few such market participants.
campaigns were successful and exceeded internal targets.
General New customers increased by 23 per cent and the In February 2003, HSBC acquired from Bank of HSBC Premier segment grew by 38 per cent, America the right to manage its mutual funds with seven specialised HSBC Premier branches and managed accounts in Brazil, and by June, opening in 2003. seventy-five funds amounting to US$0.4 billion Sales of banking products increased by 16 per had been transferred.
Credit card sales continued to grow grew from US$7 billion in June 2002 to strongly in 2003 with a 31 per cent growth in US$10 billion in December 2003. cards in issuance.
Autofinance lending grew by In December, HSBC bought substantially all of 91 per cent in the year.
Lloyds TSB Group plcs on-shore and off-shore The number of active users of personal internet Brazilian businesses and assets.
The new banking increased by 18 per cent in 2003 with business, which is mainly consumer finance, transaction usage increasing 46 per cent.
added approximately US$1.7 billion of assets and over 7 million to the customer base.
HSBC selectively relaunched personal lending products in Argentina, as the domestic economy HSBC Seguross health insurance portfolio was recovered from the depths reached in the sold to Sul Amrica Co. in June as part of currency crisis.
HSBCs strategic decision to focus on more profitable lines of business in Brazil.
Commercial Banking In December, HSBC acquired the remaining Small business clients in Brazil were segmented 40 per cent of HSBC Salud Argentina S. A. according to a relationship index and following the exercise by New York Life Inc. of differentiated in terms of price and services.
As the provision of prepaid health insurance is not considered to be a core business In Brazil, loans increased 43 per cent in 2003 for HSBC, the Group agreed to sell the entire following successful sales campaigns and the issued share capital of HSBC Salud to Swiss roll out of a new receivables discount system.
Brazil ended 2003 with 211,000 credit card rd In response to changes in the global re-insurance affiliations, consolidating its position as the 3 market, HSBC La Buenos Aires withdrew from largest bank in Brazil in the credit card acquirer serving the large corporate risk segment during business.
2003 in order to focus on commercial and The number of active users of business internet middle market business.
banking increased by 41 per cent in 2003.
Personal Financial Services Joint initiatives between the bank and the insurance businesses were successfully In August 2003, ExtraMoney was launched to undertaken in 2003, with growth of 15 per cent 440,000 customers in Brazil, by which funds are in sales of insurance products to Commercial advanced to employees of business customers Banking customers.
and repayments made as a deduction from their payroll.
ExtraMoney Senior, a personal credit Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets product for retired Brazilian customers, was launched in September.
Standard & Poors awarded HSBC in Brazil the Top Fixed Income Fund Manager prize for HSBC reinforced its presence in Brazil with 2003. several marketing initiatives, including the Mata Tarifas campaign in April, which targeted Competitive environment customer acquisition and credit card sales and, in August, the Verdades campaign, the biggest HSBC faces keen competition in all the markets it 26 serves.
It competes in the provision of commercial a variety of non-financial institutions including banking products and services with other major supermarkets, clothing and grocery retailers, car financial institutions, including commercial banks: manufacturers and utilities, as well as from internet savings and loan associations: credit unions: banks and specialist market providers.
consumer finance companies: major retailers: The Competition Commission Report on the brokerage firms: and investment companies.
In supply of banking services to small and mediuminvestment banking, HSBC faces competition from sized businesses came into effect during the year.
In both pure investment banks and the investment response, HSBC introduced an enhanced package of banking operations of other commercial banks.
services for small and medium-sized customers and paid interest on all qualifying current accounts from Global factors 1 January 2003.
Further initiatives included the Consolidation in the banking industry: There is an introduction of a new instant access savings account increasing trend towards bank consolidation, at both and improved terms for start-up businesses.
national and international levels, creating more banks On 11 February 2003, the Office of Fair Trade capable of competing directly with HSBC across a OFT announced its preliminary conclusion that broader range of services.
an agreement between MasterCards UK members, Limited market growth: In HSBCs largest which includes HSBC Bank plc, on a common current markets, the UK, US and Hong Kong, there interchange fee charged on transactions made in the is limited market growth in the provision of basic UK by credit and charge cards, infringed the financial and banking services.
There is, however, Competition Act 1998.
The OFT gave MasterCard a growth potential in the provision of a wider range of further opportunity to justify the existing agreement financial services to existing customers and also or suggest changes to it so that it will meet the through expansion into new market segments.
conditions for an exemption under the Act.
This matter is still under review.
Advances in technology: The rapid convergence of information and communication In May, the OFT reported its initial findings technologies is altering radically HSBCs range of from its review of payment systems in the UK.
Specialist providers and non-financial review welcomed industry progress to agree organisations are now able to deliver a diverse range proposals to shorten clearing cycles and stated that of financial services across a variety of electronic the OFT will continue to monitor the progress of channels without the need for a traditional branch these initiatives.
These innovations increase the pressure on The OFT launched a study into store cards in established banks to enhance service quality while September in response to concerns raised by the also investing in the provision of similar services.
The study, which is HSBC continues to adapt its business to provide expected to be released in early 2004, will review the customers with access to its full range of services in application of competition law, marketing and sales the manner they most prefer, with internet, practices, transparency issues and interest rates.
interactive TV, mobile phone, WAP and telephone banking all complementing the branch system.
France Regional factors Like the other economies in the eurozone, the French banking sector was affected in 2003 by the poor Europe economic environment but benefited from high volumes of sight deposits and slightly improved UK lending margins.
Overall market growth in the UK has remained Consolidation in the banking industry saw one relatively limited.
However, the expanding demand significant combination during the year and this for consumer credit in recent years has led to greater trend is expected to continue.
Non-bank competitors competition and the introduction of a wide array of encroached further into traditional banking sectors new channels, products and entrants.
Traditional with, as an example, the Post Office being granted banks now face competition in the retail market from approval to expand its mortgage activities.
27 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business continued The rule forbidding the payment of interest on Rest of Asia-Pacific including Middle East demand deposits was challenged in 2003 through the The Asia-Pacific economies experienced mixed European Court of Justice in Luxembourg.
While the fortunes in the first half of 2003, due mainly to the outcome of the challenge is currently uncertain, it impact of SARS, although growth rebounded in the opens the possibility that this restriction could be second half of the year.
The competitive environment lifted in the near future, potentially raising the cost varied greatly across the region, depending on the of deposits.
level of regulation, number of entrants, and the A number of new tax efficient pension products maturity of the markets.
However, competition were approved in a pension reform act which was remained intense throughout Asia-Pacific across all enacted during the year.
The expansion of the customer groups served by HSBC.
Additionally, in retirement market is likely to introduce both new many countries in the region, the relatively young opportunities for personal banking and new sources population and its increasing sophistication in of competition.
financial services continued to provide further growth opportunities for HSBC.
Hong Kong North America Banks in Hong Kong faced pressure on traditional core products due to the low interest rate In the US, continuing mergers and acquisitions in the environment and fierce pricing competition.
To banking, insurance and securities industries are diversify income streams and enhance fee-based bringing consolidation and a blending of services.
business, financial institutions actively promoted HSBC Bank USA also faced vigorous competition investment and insurance products, and increased from a large number of non-bank suppliers of public awareness of insurance protection products financial services that have found new and effective following the outbreak of SARS.
ways to meet the financial demands of customers.
Many of these institutions are not subject to the same Competition for credit card, mortgage and laws and regulations imposed on HSBC Bank USA.
consumer assets business remained intense in a highly liquid but relatively subdued lending market.
These continuing trends will increase An improvement in the economic outlook and competitive pressures.
Commercial banks appear to proactive debt-restructuring by lenders led to a have recovered from portfolio credit problems welcome drop in the level of bankruptcies in the experienced in 2001 and 2002, particularly in the second half of the year.
technology, energy and telecommunications sectors.
Several regulatory changes, including the new Household competes with non-bank lenders for Securities and Futures Ordinance, deregulation of sub-prime and other consumers who do not conform minimum brokerage commission, and consumer to US banking industry requirements.
Households credit data-sharing, occurred in 2003.
These changes consumer finance businesses are highly regulated, opened the market further and intensified and are subject to laws relating to consumer competition for quality customers and assets.
protection, discrimination in extending credit, use of credit reports, privacy matters, disclosure of credit To pave the way for the full opening of mainland terms and correction of billing errors.
They are also Chinas financial sector, Hong Kong banks were subject to regulations and legislation that limit active in key mainland cities and maintained regular operations in certain jurisdictions.
Failure to comply dialogue with Chinese financial institutions.
Various with laws and regulations may limit the ability of government announcements regarding the CEPA and Households licensed lenders to collect or enforce the introduction of personal renminbi business in loan agreements made with consumers and may Hong Kong are expected to drive demand from leave Household liable for damages and penalties.
mainland China and boost Hong Kongs GDP.
There has been a significant amount of As market leaders in Hong Kong, The legislative activity in the US, nationally, locally and Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and at the state level, aimed at curbing lending practices Hang Seng Bank are well placed to meet these deemed to be predatory.
In addition, states have competitive challenges.
sought to alter lending practices through consumer 28 protection actions.
Household continues to work with HSBCs growing presence across the region provides regulators and consumer groups to create appropriate a competitive advantage.
safeguards to eliminate abusive practices while South America allowing middle-market borrowers to continue to have unrestricted access to credit for personal There are over 165 banks in Brazil operating through purposes.
During 2003 Household implemented all a network of over 16,000 branches and offices.
the actions required under its 2002 settlement with Consolidation in the banking industry continues, the Attorneys General of 50 States and the District of increasingly involving foreign banks at the end of Columbia.
2003 there were 45 banks in Brazil with foreign ownership interests.
With a population of The Canadian financial services industry 178 million and an estimated 46 per cent of the continues to be dominated by the five largest banks eligible population unbanked, there are growth in the country.
However, the market remains highly opportunities in the retail sector, in particular in the competitive as other banks, insurance companies and medium to long-term.
financial institutions offer comparable products and services.
This was aided by reform of the Bank Act 2003 saw continued consolidation in the of Canada in late 2001 which provided the stimulus Brazilian financial services industry, and HSBC for more competition.
One of the key changes Brazil, following its purchase of Lloyds TSB Group concerned the access provided in the national plcs Brazilian businesses and assets, is well placed payments system.
This change allowed non-deposit to take advantage of the economic development that taking institutions to participate in cheque payments, is bringing new entrants to the financial system.
This credit card systems, debit card networks and consolidation has heightened the focus on retail automated bank machine networks.
customer growth, and further highlighted the importance of customer service as a means of Whilst merger activity amongst the largest banks competitive differentiation.
Competition at the top in Canada remains a possibility, major financial end of this retail market is particularly strong, and institutions continue to look elsewhere for growth.
HSBC continues to focus on differentiating its During the year a number of Canadian banks and product range and service quality.
insurance companies completed strategic acquisitions of financial institutions in the US.
In Argentina, international financial groups are HSBCs main competitors, as most major banking In Mexico, the banking industry has seen and insurance players in the market are foreign significant concentration in recent years with over controlled.
76 per cent of banking assets and 79 per cent of deposits owned by subsidiaries of five major foreign The fallout from the crisis in Argentina banks.
Given that Mexico has a population of continues to have a profound impact on the financial approximately 100 million, the majority of whom do services market.
HSBC is one of a few participants not use the banking system, the growth opportunities providing a comprehensive range of financial in the retail sector are favourable in the medium to services to its customers.
The outlook for the long term.
With its extensive branch network and financial services industry has improved but growing young customer base, HSBC is well sustained improvement depends upon the resolution positioned to take full advantage of this economic of outstanding government debt and, following that, and competitive environment.
the pending economic, fiscal and political reforms required to build confidence in the countrys Currently there is strong regulatory pressure to prospects.
HSBC will continue to monitor carefully reduce banking and pension management fees and developments to evaluate the opportunities and risks commissions, constraining growth in non-funds within the financial services industry in Argentina.
Government regulators are also intent on increasing credit availability in the market, In 2003, competition between banks re-emerged specifically lending for residential mortgages and as the economy started to grow and the population small business loans.
regained some confidence in the financial system.
The local banks benefited from sharply increased Mexicos economy is very closely linked to deposits from the government who deposited surplus those of the US and Canada, and over 90 per cent of tax revenues in the system.
Mexicos exports are to the North American market.
