HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Other information Loan maturity and interest sensitivity analysis At 31 December 2003, the geographical analysis of loan maturity and interest sensitivity by loan type on a contractual repayment basis was as follows.
All amounts are net of suspended interest.
The geographical analysis of average deposits is based on the location of the office in which the deposits are recorded and excludes balances with HSBC companies.
The Other category includes securities sold under agreements to repurchase.
The majority of certificates of deposit and time deposits are in amounts of US$100,000 and over or the equivalent in other currencies.
181 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Other information continued Short-term borrowings HSBC includes short-term borrowings within customer accounts, deposits by banks and debt securities in issue and does not show short-term borrowings separately on the balance sheet.
Short-term borrowings are defined by the SEC as Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, commercial paper and other shortterm borrowings.
HSBCs only significant short-term borrowings are securities sold under agreements to repurchase and debt securities in issue.
Additional information on these is provided in the tables below.
i Financial guarantees, letters of credit and similar undertakings Note 39 a of the Notes on the Financial Statements describes various types of guarantees and discloses the maximum potential future payments under such arrangements.
ii Commitments to lend Undrawn credit lines are disclosed in Note 39 a of the Notes on Financial Statements.
HSBC generally has the right to change or terminate any conditions of a customers overdraft, credit card or other credit line upon notification to the customer.
iii Credit derivatives HSBC enters into credit derivatives through the dealing operations of certain Group companies, acting as an intermediary between a broad range of users, structuring deals to produce risk management products for its customers.
Virtually all risk is offset through entering into a credit derivative contract with another counterparty.
For a more detailed description of credit derivatives and information regarding their carrying amounts in 2003 and 2002 refer to Note 38 a of the Notes on Financial Statements.
iv Special purpose and variable interest entities HSBC uses special purpose entities SPEs, or variable interest entities VIEs, to securitise loans and advances it has originated where such a source of funding is cost effective.
Such loans and advances generally remain on-balance sheet under UK GAAP.
HSBC also administers SPEs that have been established for the purpose of providing alternative sources of financing to HSBC's customers.
Such arrangements also enable HSBC to provide tailored investment opportunities for investors.
182 These SPEs, commonly referred to as asset-backed or multi-seller conduits, purchase interests in a diversified pool of receivables from customers or in the market using finance provided by a third party.
The cash flows received by the SPE on the pool of receivables are used to service the finance provided by investors.
HSBC administers this arrangement, which facilitates diversification of funding sources and the tranching of credit risk.
HSBC also provides part of the liquidity facilities to the entities and secondary credit enhancement.
HSBCs association with SPEs also includes interests in and management of investment funds, providing finance to public and private sector infrastructure projects, and capital funding through the issue of preference shares via partnerships.
The activities of SPE administered by HSBC are closely monitored by senior management.
However, the use of SPEs is not a significant part of HSBC's activities.
For a further discussion of HSBCs involvement with VIEs and the accounting treatments under UK and US GAAP see Note 50 q of the Notes on the Financial Statements.
Contractual obligations The table below provides details of HSBCs material contractual obligations as at 31 December 2003.
Based upon and as of that evaluation, the Group Chairman and Group Finance Director concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports the company files and submits under the US Securities Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported as and when required.
There were no changes in HSBC Holdings internal control over financial reporting during the year ended 31 December 2003 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, HSBC Holdings internal control over financial reporting.
