programming content Programming and Content News Sky News Audience Profile Since its launch in 1989, Sky News has During the war, Sky News share of viewing in Q4 2002 03 established itself as a formidable and innovative multichannel homes increased by 650%.
force in the world of news broadcasting.
It now provides news to 80 million people in over 40 A MORI poll, reporting on which channel was Sky News 48% 52% countries around the world.
viewed at all, viewed most, and was most trusted, Total TV 41% 59% stated, BBC One won the terrestrial race, while Sky Sky News Valued for fairness, balance and had a strong lead over both BBC News 24 and ABC1 C2DE journalistic objectivity by both viewers and CNN for the digital honours.
Source: BARB regulators, the award-winning channel has also earned a reputation for the speed of its 24-hour In September 2002, Sky News also introduced a coverage and flexibility in reporting live news first.
new look morning show Sky News Today, which features a flexible format, giving space for greater During the year, Sky News continued to perform explanation, analysis and debate.
And, earlier in strongly, once again attracting industry recognition, 2003, it introduced a new evening discussion including its second BAFTA award and, for the programme Littlejohn.
01 Jeremy Thompson Soham tragedy second year running, it was named RTS News 02 David Chater Live from Baghdad Channel of the Year, as well as Non-Terrestrial The end of October 2002 saw Sky News become 03 Julie Etchingham and Martin Stanford on the set of Sky News Today Channel of the Year at the Guardian Edinburgh available via DTT under the Freeview brand, one of International Television Festival.
Skys three channels on the digital free-to-air platform.
These awards underlined Sky News reputation as In terms of interactivity, over four million votes have the first place to turn to for breaking news: Sky was been received through Sky News Active and the the first British broadcaster to break the news of service continues to innovate, introducing eight full 01 the bombing of Baghdad, signalling the start of the screens of on-demand coverage this year.
And it reported live on the battle of Umm Sky News has introduced a pioneering desktop Qasr, broadcasting the first live battlefield scenes, news service Sky News Alerts.
subsequently aired by all UK and most US networks.
These innovations, combined with an unrivalled expertise in breaking news, will ensure that Sky News remains at the forefront of news provision in the 21st century.
FACT More awards for Sky News: during 2002 03, Sky News won its second BAFTA award, and, for the second year running, was named RTS News Channel of the Year, as well as Non-Terrestrial Channel of the Year at the Guardian Edinburgh International Television Festival.
first 02 Sky News has a well-earned reputation for the speed of its 24-hour coverage bringing viewers live news first.
03 Sky News Sky News Active Active Sky digital Sky News Active Online continues to Sky News continued innovate all the to innovate this year Channel choice time introducing by introducing Sky 6.8 million subscribers enjoy 8 full screens of on- # News Active Online watching the Sky digital demand coverage a broadband content platform which continued to this year.
1 service based on go from strength to strength award winning Sky during the year, reaffirming News Active.
its position as the leading provider of digital TV for UK viewers.
14 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Programming and Content Sports Sky Sports Audience Profile In the last year Sky Sports has offered Last football season saw Sky Sports attract its Q4 2002 03 subscribers more sport than ever.
There have highest audience for five years with the Premiership been nearly 35,000 hours of programming match between Arsenal and Manchester United.
across the five dedicated channels, around a Promoted on and off-air as Face Off, the clash Sky Sports 69% 31% third of which were broadcast live.
between the title contenders drew the biggest live Total TV 45% 55% Premiership audience and the third-highest Sky Sports Among the most memorable moments multichannel audience ever.
Men Women were Europes Ryder Cup victory at The Belfry, Englands hat-trick of victories in Rugby Unions Football League competitions returned to Sky Source: BARB Autumn Internationals, and the Cricket World Cup.
Sports and the Nationwide League and Worthington Cup each attracted higher audiences than before.
The Ryder Cup which attracted a record golf Sky achieved particularly strong viewing figures on audience for Sky Sports was live and interactive the day of the Worthington Cup Final and the with Sky digital viewers offered eight different views.
Cricket World Cup game between England and 01 They could choose to follow up to three different live Australia, with 47% of multichannel homes viewing matches, catch up with highlights, see an up-to-theeither event.
minute scoreboard, analyse a course guide, review the days best shots or watch press conferences For the 2003 Cricket World Cup every match was and practice sessions.
shown exclusively live through February and March.
When matches clashed, Sky Sports used its Sky Sports has since announced a new deal for the interactive technology to offer a choice of live games.
Ryder Cup, ensuring that golfs premier event will be more exclusively live in 2004, 2006 and 2008.
It has also Prior to the Cricket World Cup, the ICC Trophy won extended deals with the PGA European Tour and Englands Ashes tour were also live.
After this, for over 30 tournaments and all four World Golf the recent Summer of Sport 2003 on Sky Sports Championship events each year, until 2008. featured each of Englands one-day cricket This season the UEFA Champions internationals and the successful launch of Twenty20 League has been added to the line-up In other new deals signed this year, Sky Sports cricket alongside Englands Rugby Union victories and Sky Sports will show more live extended its contracts for two of golfs Majors against Australia and New Zealand.
the USPGA Championship and US Open Golden League Athletics and NFL American Football, and Sky Sports News, which marks its fifth anniversary agreed a new four-year deal with the Football this autumn, continues to grow with audiences up 02 Association.
50% in the first six months of 2003 and is now available via digital terrestrial as well as digital In the autumn, Sky won the rights to cover live satellite and cable.
UEFA Champions League football for the first time.
From September 2003, at the Group Stage, Sky Sky Sports Active launched new services, with Sports will have exclusive live coverage of all speedway the eleventh sport to be shown live and Wednesday matches in the UK and up to six live interactive and Sky Bet available through interactive 03 ties on Tuesday nights, with viewers choosing which football menus supported by a new betting-based game to watch through an interactive menu.
The 2003 04 new football season will now showcase Skysports.
com also set new records, for unique more televised football than ever on Sky Sports with users and total page impressions during the year over 350 live matches, including the Barclaycard and users of the site have more than doubled Premiership, Nationwide Football League, FA Cup, since the start of 2002.
Carling Cup, Tennents Scottish Cup and international football.
01 UEFA Champions League football 02 The Ryder Cup 03 Englands Rugby Union victory in Australia Sky Bet Live Following the success of the Sky digital Sky Bet service, Sky Bet Live launched in December 2002 for the Arsenal v Manchester United game.
This provides live in-running betting commentary from the experts for Premiership and Nationwide League football Interactive TV matches.
It enables football Throughout the year, the range of fans watching a game on Sky interactive services from both Sky Active Sports 1 via digital satellite to and third-party channels on digital satellite place bets throughout the game continued to expand with a whole host of while they are watching.
new games and services launching.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 15 Programming and Content Entertainment Sky One Audience Profile At Easter 2003 the combined audience of The jewel in the crown of Sky Ones home-grown Q4 2002 03 non-terrestrial TV channels exceeded both portfolio of drama serials is Dream Team.
About to BBC One and ITV1, for the first time ever in start its seventh year and achieving its highest ever total TV homes.
ratings, it is joined in the ranks by Mile High, our Sky One 47% 53% new drama series charting the lives and loves of Total TV 25% 75% Sky One At the forefront of this sea change in young staff aboard budget airline, Fresh!.
Mile High viewing habits is BSkyBs flagship entertainment launched in September 2002, with the highest ever Age: under 35 over 35 channel, Sky One, which remains the most watched rating for an original drama series on Sky.
Source: BARB non-terrestrial TV channel in Britain.
Sky One also provides user-friendly interactive Traditionally the home of top US programming, services allied to individual programmes, which in turn Sky One showcases a range of award-winning generate incremental revenues for BSkyB.
Temptation acclaimed shows such as Dinotopia The Series, Island viewers were able to take part in a compatibility Enterprise, Buffy, Angel, Scrubs, Malcolm in the quiz and viewers watching the Michael Jackson Middle and of course the worlds favourite special were prompted to submit interactive votes.
animated family and the most successful animation series of all time, The Simpsons.
Sky One Mix Sky One viewers now have even more ways to watch their favourite shows.
A new During the year, Sky One achieved some of its channel, Sky One Mix, launched in December 2002 biggest ever audiences.
The compelling factual and gives audiences an extra opportunity to see documentary Michael Jackson: The Untold Story popular programmes from the line-up.
delivered an audience of over two million, Sky Ones second largest audience ever.
The channel continues to innovate and entertain by bringing viewers the hottest new series from the US, with Nip Tuck, Tarzan, and Skin which will be coming soon.
At the heart of the Sky One schedule, the commitment to commissioning and developing long-standing factual entertainment franchises like Spend It Like, Close Up and Football Years remains and is complemented with a growing reputation for fast turn around topical documentaries FACT Over the past year Sky Travel has more than such as Rooney: Waynes World, When Football doubled its viewing share in multichannel homes.
Managers Go Mad, and Prince William Uncovered.
This is due to the launch of the Sky Travel Extra multiplex, the channel launching on Freeview and Pushing the boundaries with compelling reality improved programming.
television formats are popular returning series such as Fear Factor UK.
Sky digital Sky One 70,000 Sky One embraced interactive TV during the year votes with the Interactive Simpsons which gave fans the chance to vote for their favourite Simpsons episodes via the red button.
This was concluded with an 70,000 votes were placed via August bank holiday bonanza where the top ten the red interactive button and episodes voted for were broadcast back-to-back telephone for Michael Jackson: over the holiday weekend.
The Untold Story 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Programming and Content Entertainment Music Channels: Flaunt, The Amp & Scuzz Within three months of their launch, Skys music BSkyBs three new interactive music channels, channels have a combined total of 6% of music Flaunt, The Amp and Scuzz, launched in April 2003. viewing by 16-34 year olds on the digital satellite For the first time ever, viewers can vote for their platform.
favourite video on the playlist through their remote controls and enjoy the videos in widescreen format.
Sky Travel, Sky Travel Extra & Sky Travel Shop They can also be right up-to-date with all the latest With their roster of fresh and absorbing travelogue FACT The sixth series of the multi awardmusic news and take part in exclusive competitions.
programming, the Sky Travel channels are fast winning football soap Dream Team, the becoming leading players in the growing TV travel UKs longest running non-terrestrial drama Each music channel serves a specific, highlysector.
It is the only TV travel service to offer flight series, achieved its highest ratings to date targeted demographic: Scuzz is the home for music purchases directly via the red interactive button.
throughout its run in 2002 03. fans who like their guitars loud and their thrills thick and fast: Flaunt features a blend of chart, urban and dance hits: and The Amp is for dedicated music aficionados.
As well as the interactive features, each channel is supported by a website where viewers can sign up for behind-the-scenes newsletters.
According to BARB research June 2003, Scuzz 01 and The Amp are the most viewed music video channels in terms of average monthly viewer minutes amongst 16-34 year olds.
best 03 02 Mile High has the best ever rating for an original drama series on Sky.
01 Dream Team 02 Mile High 03 Dinotopia FACT Sky One is the most watched 04 Scrubs non-terrestrial channel in the UK.
Sky One and Sky One Mix combined have a total 3.5% viewing share for multichannel homes in 2003.
04 Sky digital Sky Gamepad In December 2002 the UKs first dedicated digital TV games controller Sky Gamepad was launched, enabling Sky Gamestar selected titles to be played by up to four people in a household, simultaneously, all via the wireless controllers.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 17 Programming and Content Movies Sky Movies Audience Profile Outside the US, the combination of Sky Q4 2002 03 01 Movies and Sky Box Office offers the most comprehensive movie choice on any TV service anywhere in the world, with all the channels Sky Movies 37% 51% 12% now transmitted in widescreen and true-life Total TV 25% 35% 40% Dolby 5.1 cinema sound available on Sky Movies Premier 1, 2 and 3.
Age: 16-34 35-54 55 Source: BARB Sky Movies Sky Movies carries the latest blockbusters, movie favourites and cinema classics.
Each year Sky Movies viewers enjoy around 2000 different films.
Over the last 12 months, six films attracted audiences of more than one million Lara Croft: Tomb Raider, What Women Want, Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles, Jurassic Park III, Swordfish and Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone.
This autumn, the movie channels will unveil a brand new look to reinforce their unique offering.
This will include a fresh on-air brand, schedule changes and enhanced on-line and interactive applications.
Sky Box Office, the pay-per-view service, offers a choice of around 200 films each year as well as music and sports events.
Viewers are offered staggered start times, and purchase each event separately.
In the past year, Sky Box Office has aired four of the top 20 grossing films of all time: Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone, Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring, Spiderman and Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones.
Top Sky Box Office movies 2002 03 FACT Over the past 12 months, Sky Movies 1 Shallow Hal screened 93 out of the top 100 grossing 2 Jurassic Park III movies of the previous year.
3 51st State 4 Oceans Eleven 5 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone 6 Swordfish 7 Mean Machine 8Legally Blonde 9 Spy Game 10 Bend It Like Beckham Skymovies.
com has a massive Sky digital database covering 30,000 film titles, together with hundreds of biographies and picture galleries as well as the latest Sky Movies Active movie news and gossip.
Pressing the red button on the Sky handset takes the viewer to eight separately streamed preview screens where they can watch current movie trailers, together with interviews with the stars and directors.
Alongside this is an extensive text service which offers film reviews, synopses and actor director profiles and the latest movie news.
Viewers can even buy cinema tickets and DVDs through Sky Movies Active.
18 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 01 Spiderman 02 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone 03 The Lord of the Rings The Fellowship of the Ring 04 Bend It Like Beckham 05 Gosford Park 06 American Pie 2 07 Legally Blonde 08 Ice Age 09 Swordfish 03 02 2,000 film titles shown across 11 separate screens per year richer 04 Sky Movies has made our viewers experience of films even richer through its dedicated seasons and themes, including Asia Extreme, The Gangs of New York, Gene Hackman season, Comic Book heroes and The Blonde Weekend.
07 09 05 06 08 The UKs first integrated digibox and digital personal video recorder, Sky, continued to receive acclaim throughout the media, winning many awards, most recently Home Sky digital Entertainments Mega Test Best Buy, with a five-star rating in August 2003.
Satisfaction levels with the Sky service are very positive with over 90% of Sky customers saying they are likely to recommend it to friends and family.
SOURCE: SKY TRACKER RESEARCH MAY 2003 275% Sky subscriptions rose by 275% in the year to 105,000 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 19 Programming and Content Digital Satellite Channel line-up 60 Entertainment channels CNN attheraces Phoneworld The digital satellite platform brings an BBC ONE ITV News Channel NASN Vitality extraordinarily wide-ranging choice of BBC TWO Euro News Extreme Sports Sky Travel Shop channels to over 6.8 million viewers ITV1 Fox News Chelsea TV Going Places throughout the UK and Ireland.
Including live Channel 4 CCTV9 Premiership plus Factory Outlet sport, the latest movies, breaking news, five Discovery Channel Setanta Sport 1 God Channel original and innovative entertainment, Skys Sky One Discovery Channel 1hour Setanta Sport 2 God 2 digital line-up has established it as the Sky One Mix Discovery Travel and Wonderful undisputed market leader in multichannel UK Gold Adventure 25 Music channels TBN Europe television.
Sky ensures that its customers are UK Gold 1hour Discovery Civilisation MTV Christian TV offered what they want constantly delighting UK Gold 2 Discovery Science MTV Hits Revelation them with choices beyond their already very Living TV Discovery Wings MTV2 Jobs TV high expectations.
Whatever genre of Living TV 1hour National Geographic MTV Base Community Channel programming interests them, Skys customers BBC THREE Channel MTV Dance Dating Channel know they can find it on satellite.
Another key BBC FOUR National Geographic VH1 txt me reason why our customers choose to invite Granada Plus Channel 1hour VH1 Classic Open Access and keep Sky in their homes.
Adventure One TMF TDC2 Bravo The History Channel The Box TX1 Bravo 1hour The History Channel Kiss Chat Box Paramount 1hour Smash Hits!
Create Craft Sci-Fi Biography Magic Abu Dhabi 01 Discovery Home & Leisure UK Horizons Q TV5 Discovery Home & Leisure UK Horizons 1hour Kerrang!
Pub Channel 1hour Discovery Animal Planet Chart Show TV Create & Craft Men and Motors Discovery Animal Planet The Vault B4U Movies Sky Travel 1hour The Hits B4U Music Sky Travel Extra UK History P-rock Sony TV Asia UK Style Classic FM TV STAR News 02 UK Style 1hour 18 Kids channels channel U STAR Plus UK Food Cartoon Network The Amp PCNE Chinese UK Drama Cartoon Network 1hour Scuzz mtamuslim TV Travel Channel Boomerang Flaunt Zee TV Travel Channel 2 Nickelodeon MCE audio Zee Music S4C Digitol Nick Replay MCE extra audio Zee Cinema Hallmark Nick Toons TV Bangla TV Discovery Health Trouble 67 Radio channels ARY Digital Artsworld Fox Kids 67 Radio channels Ekushey TV Life TV Fox Kids 1hour PTV Prime 03 E4 Disney Channel 78 Specialist channels Southforyou E4 1 Disney Channel 1hour QVC Alpha EtcPun Showcase Toon Disney TV Travelshop Al Jazeera Fashion TV Playhouse Disney TV Travelshop 2 ART Movies Game Network Discovery Kids TV Shop Al Jazeera mpx ITV2 CBBC Ideal World ART Music You TV CBeebies Price-Drop TV Al Jazeera mpx Avago Nick Jr. Shop America MBC BEN POP Travel Deals LBC Reality TV Simply Shop CNX 78 Movie channels Best Direct 31 Adult channels Classics TV Sky Movies Premier x4 Simply Home Playboy TV E!
Sky Movies Max x5 Simply TV Adult Channel 04 UK Bright Ideas Sky Movies Cinema x2 Simply Ideas Television X Ftn Film Four TV Warehouse Spice Performance Film Four 1hour Shopping Genie Spice Xtreme Rapture TV Film Four Weekly bid-up.
tv Private Blue FRIENDLY TV TCM Thomas Cook Playboy TV Adult Channel ACTV Sky Box Office Preview Telsell Private Girls 05 BBC TWO Scot SBO x62, incl.
2xW Screen letsgoshop Red Hot channels x6 BBC TWO NI Auction World Pout Uncut BBC Parliament 16 Sports channels Shop on TV Tantalise TV S42 2 Sky Sports 1 Thane Direct XXX TV BBC 2W Sky Sports 2 ShopSmart Amateur Babes 01 Sky News Active Sky Sports 3 TVWarehouse Erotika 1-6 02 Ryder Cup Golf Sky Sports 26 News and Sky Sports Extra Shop 24 7 18 Movies x7 03 Oasis The Amp documentary channels MUTV Stop Shop 04 Sky Travel 05 Gamestar Sky News Sky Sports News Yes 3 Customer channels Bloomberg British Eurosport Screenshop Sky Customer Channel BBC News 24 Eurosportnews 24hr TV High Street Channel Line-up CNBC Motors TV JML Direct Sky Welcome 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
