The Portfolio Portfolio spread by country UK 34% Belgium 1% France 37% Denmark 4% Asia Pacific 1% Switzerland 5% Germany 7% Sweden 4% Netherlands 3% Ireland 4% In the year ended 31 January 2003 ICG invested in Coral Eurobet is one of the UKs Big Three the following twenty-two companies: bookmakers providing both ofine and online betting services.
ICG took a participation of 40m is a holding company with a 50% Asia Cinemas in the senior mezzanine facility required to assist interest in CGV Co. Ltd, the largest operator of in the buyout.
multiplex cinemas in South Korea.
ICG arranged Dometic Appliances, a Swedish company, is the global and provided a mezzanine acquisition finance facility of Korean Won 35bn c. 19m.
leader in the supply of appliances for recreational e14m in the vehicles.
ICG took a participation of Cegelec, a French company, is a leading provider of mezzanine facility required to assist in the buyout.
In August 2002 ICG e15m in the mezzanine Elis, a French company, is a leader in textile rental took a participation of facility required to assist the buyout.
and hygiene and well-being services.
ICG arranged a e70m and underwrote e60m of the junior facility of Cerba is a specialist French company, which performs senior mezzanine facility required to assist in a clinical laboratory tests for smaller independent secondary buyout of the company.
ICG arranged e12m to assist and provided a mezzanine facility of in the buyout.
11 Intermediate Capital Group The Portfolio continued Portfolio spread by industry Other 13% Brewers & distillers 4% Building materials 8% Business services 6% Shipping & transport 8% Chemicals & plastics 3% Consumer products 3% Motor parts 7% Drapery & stores 5% Leisure 9% Electrical 8% Insurance 3% Electronics 3% Health 5% Entertainment 3% Food manufacturing & retailing 8% Financial services 4% Eurodatacar, a French company, provides services Molior is the third largest operator of casinos in e80m which complement traditional insurance policies France.
ICG arranged the mezzanine facility of covering theft of vehicles.
ICG took a participation required to assist in the buyout.
e7.5m in the mezzanine facility required to assist of Nocibe is a leading French company in the retail in the buyout.
distribution of perfumes and cosmetics.
ICG arranged Halfords is the UKs largest retailer of car parts and e35m senior mezzanine facility and a and provided a e22m junior mezzanine facility required to assist in accessories, cycles and cycle accessories.
ICG took a participation of 17.5m in the mezzanine facility the buyout.
required to assist in the buyout.
Risdon Pharma, a French company, is a European Jane Norman is a U. K. womens wear retailer market leader in the pharmaceutical primary targeting the 15 to 25 year old age bracket.
ICG took a e6.5m in the mezzanine facility arranged and provided a mezzanine facility of participation of 10m to assist in the buyout.
Malmberg, an existing borrower, is a leading Sab Wabco, a Swedish company, is one of the leading publisher of educational material in the Netherlands global brake systems suppliers for rail vehicles and and Belgium.
ICG arranged a junior mezzanine the second largest brake system supplier to the e7.5m to partially renance existing facility of European transport market.
ICG took a participation e8m in the mezzanine facility required to assist shareholder loans.
12 Intermediate Capital Group Sia, a French company, is a designer and Tower Participations is the leading operator of importer wholesaler of decoration accessories.
broadcast towers in France providing broadcast e8m in the mezzanine ICG took a participation of transmission services to TV channels and radio e91.7m of the two facility required to assist in the buyout.
ICG underwrote tranches of the mezzanine required to assist in SP Investments is an aviation ground handling the buyout.
company operating under the Swissport name, based Viatris, a German company, is a developer, in Switzerland.
ICG arranged a mezzanine facility of CHF130m to assist in the buyout.
manufacturer and distributor of branded pharmaceuticals and licences in products from SR Technics is a global aircraft maintenance provider other pharmaceutical businesses.
ICG took a e23m in the mezzanine facility based in Switzerland.
ICG arranged a mezzanine participation of facility of CHF127.5m to assist in the buyout.
Talbot Underwriting underwrites insurance at WZG Group is the leading distributor of mobility aids Lloyds, predominantly short tail in nature, and with for disabled and elderly people in the Netherlands.
a major focus on the marine classes.
ICG arranged ICG arranged and provided a mezzanine facility of e22m to assist in the buyout.
and provided a US $20m letter of credit as part of raising capital to support its underwriting.
Thornbury is a company providing crisis nursing staff for mainly NHS hospitals within the UK.
ICG arranged and provided a mezzanine facility of 10m to assist in the buyout.
Repayments During the year, repayments of loans and investments amounted to 133m.
Loans to 13 companies were repaid or prepaid in full.
These companies were: Name Country Form of realisation Edrasco France Trade sale Elis France LBO Eurogestion France Trade sale Focus UK Renancing Latium UK Trade sale Le Figaro France Trade sale Nobia Sweden Flotation Novem Germany Renancing Nycomed Norway LBO Oriame Sweden Renancing Presspart UK Trade sale fide Deitrich France Trade sale Sublistatic France LBO 13 Intermediate Capital Group The Portfolio continued Current portfolio At 31 January 2003, in addition to the new loans and investments listed above, ICGs portfolio consisted of the following companies: Name Country Business Accord UK Outsourcing for local authorities Adco Dixi Germany Hirer of portable toilets Allex France Animal identication tags Asco UK Provider of logistic services for oil industry Automotive Products UK Automotive clutch and brake manufacturer Baxi UK Manufacturer of central heating boilers Best UK IT recruitment agency Blagden Belgium Steel drum supplier Cantrell & Cochrane Ireland Manufacturer, wholesaler and distributor of drinks Charter UK Engineering and manufacturer of fastenings and components Clydesdale Financial Services UK Finance company Coal Products UK Producer of smokeless solid fuels Courtpaille France Chain of restaurants Craegmoor UK Long term care home operator DSV Denmark Transportation and logistics Duni Sweden Supplier of tabletop products Electrokopper Sweden Manufacturer of copper wire rod and winding wire Eliokem France Manufacturer of speciality chemicals Elmville UK Hotel operator ERM UK Environmental consultancy and risk management Fauchon France Delicatessen retailers Frans Bonhomme France Distributor of plastic pipes and couplings Geror France Manufacturer of PVC ooring Grand Vins fide Gironde France Wine trading company HLF Insurance UK Insurance broking HMY France Manufacturer of supermarket equipment IBS Brocke Germany Manufacturer of automotive components Jallatte France Manufacturer and distributor of protective footwear Kiekert Germany Automotive equipment manufacturer Leisurelink UK Manager of gaming machines Malmberg Netherlands Publisher of educational material Meyn Netherlands Manufacturer of poultry processing equipment MGE France Manufacturer of UPS equipment Norcros UK Manufacturer and distributor of showers and tiles Ore France Wholesaler of industrial components Pets at Home UK Retailer in domestic pet market Picard France Frozen food manufacturer, distributor and retailer Pinewood UK Film studios Plastimo France Manufacturer and distributor of recreational marine equipment Porcelain & Fine China Companies UK Manufacturer of china and porcelain 14 Intermediate Capital Group Name Country Business Portman Travel UK Travel agent Premier Oileld Services UK Hirer of North Sea oileld equipment Retif France Wholesaler and retailer of display units Saveurs France Producer of ingredients for food industry Sebia France Clinical diagnostic equipment producer Servicetec UK Computer services and maintenance Sound Holdings Denmark Hearing aid component supplier Steiner Industries Austria Plastic packaging and garden furniture producer Takko Germany Fashion retailer Target UK Express delivery services Tata Tea UK Tea company TMD Friction Germany Manufacturer of brake pads for automotive industry Tunstall UK Manufacturer and maintenance of social alarm systems Vantico Switzerland Speciality chemical manufacturer Victorvox Germany Service provider for mobile and xed telecommunication industry William Cook UK Manufacturer of steel castings The portfolio of warrants and unquoted shares At 31 January 2003 ICG had unquoted shares and warrants in most of the unquoted companies in its loan portfolio, as well as in the following companies which have prepaid their loans to ICG in full: Name Country Business Cartiere del Garda Italy Manufacturer of coated wood-free papers Convenience Food Systems Netherlands Supplier of equipment for the preparation, processing and packaging of food CPL Aromas UK Designer and manufacturer of fragrances and avours fide Dietrich France Manufacturer of heating, railway and processing equipment Focus UK DIY stores Landal Greenparks Netherlands Holiday park operator Latium UK Manufacturer and retailer of UPVC windows Meneba Netherlands Producer of our, bakery and animal feed products Neste OY Finland Manufacturer of epoxy resin Novem Germany Manufacturer of interior trim for automobiles Oriame Sweden Direct selling of cosmetic products Tensar UK Manufacturer of polymer nets and mesh products 15 Intermediate Capital Group
