88 Annual Report 2003 treasury and specialised finance Includes: deposit taking, lending, advisory services, structuring and proprietary trading in the corporate, project, public sector and institutional markets.
Annual Report 2003 89 Contribution analysis - % of group total at 31 March 2003 Operating profit Employees Total assets 10.0% 27.6% 49.4% Total: Total: Total: 101.4mn 4 874 14 959mn Treasury and Specialised Finance Investec group Before taxation, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items excluding the results of the discontinued operations.
Scope of activities Banking Activities Financial Markets Activities Structured Project & Financial & Asset Resource Interest Foreign Equity Treasury Products Finance Finance Rates Exchange Derivatives Commodities 90 Annual Report 2003 Management structure Regional Management Structured and Asset Finance Richard Forlee International David van der Walt International Tom Murray Ireland Richard Longes Australia Craig McKenzie Mauritius Anton Millar SA Structured Finance Richard Wainwright South Africa Vusumuzi Mahlangu SA Public Sector Finance David van der Walt UK David Kuming SA Mezzanine Debt Alistair Crowther UK Structured Finance Financial Markets Activities Paul Unsworth UK Asset Finance Interest Rates Brett Hopkins South Africa Project and Resource Finance Foreign Exchange Jos fide Nobrega International Patrick fide Villiers International Deon Louw Resource Finance Michael Meeser SA Project Finance Equity Derivatives Maurice Hochschild UK Project Finance Milton Samios International co-head Cosmas Kapsanis Australia Project Finance South Africa Peter Alderson International co-head UK Support Activities Divisional Compliance and Legal Commodities Pauline Trollip International Paul Plewman International Banking Activities Information Technology Treasury - Balance Sheet Nil Oberholzer International South Africa Clive Sindelman South Africa Tanis Jardin UK Paula Gray UK Financial Control Treasury - Corporate Alan Byrne Ireland Aisling Dodgson Ireland Eureka Redelinghuys South Africa Annette Smyth South Africa Jodi Joseph UK Michael Jameson-Till UK Financial Institutions Group Financial Products Helmut Bahrs International South Africa Richard Wainwright International Mark Currie South Africa Michael Jameson-Till UK Annual Report 2003 91 Introduction Investecs Treasury and Specialised Finance division provides a wide range of products, services and solutions to select corporate clients, public sector bodies and financial institutions.
The division undertakes the bulk of Investecs proprietary trading activities.
Furthermore, all non-private client deposit taking, corporate and public sector lending, project finance, advisory and structuring activities are transacted through the division.
The division has eight product areas that are divided equally between Banking Activities and Financial Markets Activities, as set out below.
Banking Activities Treasury - corporate treasury and asset and liability management Provides Rand, Sterling, Euro and US Dollar funding to the group, and manages liquidity and interest rate risk on behalf of the group.
Provides a broad range of treasury products and services to the corporate market.
Financial Products Involved in commercial paper and bond origination, securitisation, financial engineering, preference share investments and structures, equities scrip lending, collateralised debt obligation structures, credit derivatives and the development of investment products.
Structured and Asset Finance Involved in structured and conventional lending, asset leasing and finance, preference share finance, mezzanine debt financing, leveraged buy-out funding, executive share schemes, structured insurance products, and financing solutions for corporate, government and parastatal markets.
Project and Resource Finance Advisory services, debt arranging and underwriting and equity raising in the mining and resources, energy, infrastructure and industrial sectors.
Financial Markets Activities Interest Rates Market maker in interest rate guarantee products, forward rate agreements, interest rate swaps, money market instruments, government and certain parastatal bonds, interest rate options and repurchase agreements.
Foreign Exchange Market maker in the spot, forward exchange, currency swaps and currency derivatives markets, principally in ZAR and G7 currencies and certain emerging markets currencies.
Equity Derivatives Market maker in major equity index options, certain single stock options, equity structured products, futures index arbitrage and equity warrants.
Provides hedging and structuring services to financial intermediaries, institutions and companies.
Commodities Market maker in precious and base metals.
Provides hedging and structured trades for clients in the spot and derivatives markets.
92 Annual Report 2003 The divisions breadth of operations represents a portfolio of diversified business units.
The Banking Activities are characterised by more predictable revenues, while the Financial Markets Activities tend to be more volatile.
Overview of performance The Treasury and Specialised Finance division posted operating profit before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items of 27.9 million, a decline of 46.0%.
The UK and European operations posted a loss of 2.9 million, while the South African operations contribution decreased by 22.4% to 31.4 million.
Operating profit - Banking Activities The operating profit before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items of the Banking Activities declined from 39.7 million to 27.4 million.
The relatively new Banking Activities performed well in the UK but in South Africa the divisions were unable to repeat the exceptional performance of the previous year.
This was largely as a result of fewer transactions closing in the corporate market.
UK GAAP 000 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Variance % Change Net interest income 34 208 65 535 31 327 47.8% Net fees and commissions receivable 23 453 13 565 9 888 72.9% Dealing profits 4 509 9 164 13 673 100% Other operating income and dividends 451 1 769 1 318 74.5% Admin expenses, depreciation, provisions 35 212 32 044 3 168 9.9% Operating profit 27 409 39 661 12 252 30.9% Before taxation, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items.
The variance in the operating profit over the period can be explained as follows: Net interest income declined significantly largely as a result of the depreciation of the average Rand Pound Sterling exchange rate over the period.
Furthermore, the Balance Sheet Management and Financial Products units in South Africa were unable to repeat the performance of the prior year.
During this period, both units had benefited from the rate positioning of their assets and the effective implementation of a number of hedging strategies.
The Financial Products unit in South Africa earned increased fees from improved performance in scrip lending and increased activity in the debt origination market.
Furthermore, the South African Structured Finance unit experienced an increase in fees.
In the UK, the division benefited from a strong performance from the three relatively new banking teams: Project Finance December 2001, Structured Finance July 2002 and Financial Products.
Administrative expenses increased largely as a result of additional teams and people employed, particularly in the UK.
Furthermore, the Project Finance unit in South Africa made an additional provision for bad and doubtful debts of approximately 2 million.
Annual Report 2003 93 Operating profit - Financial Markets Activities The operating profit before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items of the Trading Activities declined substantially, with the division making a much reduced profit of 542 000.
The groups Trading Activities experienced a mixed performance.
The South African businesses performed well, particularly the Interest Rate, Foreign Exchange and Equity Derivatives units.
The negative performance of the UK operations, other than the Equity Derivatives division that performed well, resulted in a significant scaling down of the groups Trading Activities in the UK.
UK GAAP 000 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Variance % Change Net interest income 2 316 8 297 5 981 72.1% Net fees and commissions receivable 1 038 6 394 5 356 83.8% Dealing profits 30 945 38 017 7 072 18.6% Other operating income and dividends 3 1 2 100% Admin expenses, depreciation, provisions 29 128 23 992 5 136 21.4% Operating profit 542 12 123 11 581 95.5% Before taxation, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items.
The variance in the operating profit over the period can be explained as follows: The winding down of the Interest Rate business in the UK had a negative impact on overall performance.
The South African Trading Activities had a successful year, with the majority of the units contributing to overall performance.
These results were partially offset by a decline in profitability of the Commodities unit.
In the UK, dealing profits declined as the majority of the Trading Activities, in particular the Commodities unit, performed poorly during the period.
Developments Key business developments over the past year are outlined below.
Banking Activities Treasury The continued conservative approach to liquidity management held the group in good stead, particularly in South Africa where uncertainty with regard to deposit taking among smaller banks continued.
Revenues were generated from active interest rate management.
The UK and South African balance sheets are liquid.
94 Annual Report 2003 Financial Products The South African operations performed commendably: o The Debt Origination unit performed particularly well, with a number of high profile corporate debt securities issued.
o The unit successfully undertook a R1 billion securitisation of a portion of the Private Banks home mortgage loan book.
o Financial engineering and investment product creation slowed down as a result of difficult market conditions.
In the UK, the unit made substantial strides in the credit derivatives arena, where it seeks to structure or participate in structures and selling positions to the investor market.
Structured and Asset Finance The South African operations experienced lower levels of transaction flow in an environment of great uncertainty.
Nevertheless, gross lending advances managed to keep slightly ahead of redemptions.
The UK operations posted solid results, with the addition of an experienced Structured Finance team during the year and a resilient performance from Asset Finance.
Project and Resource Finance The Project Finance unit performed well, concluding several key transactions during the period: o In South Africa, the unit was involved in arranging and underwriting debt facilities for the SunCoast Casino.
o The unit also arranged and underwrote the debt in the refinancing of the Kelvin power station.
oInvestec European Capital performed particularly well, concluding the largest hospital PFI project to date in the UK.
o In Australia, the newly established Project Finance unit acted as co-lead underwriter to construction contractor Abigroup in the A$2.4 billion Western Sydney Orbital toll road project.
The results of the Resource Finance business were affected by a specific bad debt provision of approximately 2 million raised.
Trading Activities Interest Rates The successful integration of Securities Investment Bank Limited a 100% owned subsidiary of the group with the Interest Rate desk in South Africa led to substantial cost savings without a material reduction in revenues.
The UK Interest Rate activities were curtailed, with the groups exit from its money market and repurchase agreement operations.
This decision was taken as the business was unable to generate a satisfactory return on capital and used significant counterparty lines.
Annual Report 2003 95 Foreign Exchange In South Africa, the volatility in domestic and international exchange rates increased opportunities for good client business.
During the period under review, Investec closed the New York desk and significantly reduced the UK business.
Equities Derivatives In South Africa, warrants volumes decreased and institutional hedging activities were subdued.
Investec became the first issuer of equity warrants in the Irish market during the financial year.
In the UK, the unit successfully maximised returns on structured warrant trades and convertible bond trading, which commenced in the second half of the financial year.
Commodities The Commodities unit recorded a loss after a solid performance in the previous year.
Hedging transactions in the gold market were scarce, while base metals activity was unpredictable.
Outlook The Treasury and Specialised Finance division remains well positioned in the South African market.
The challenge is to uphold this favourable position and expand operations elsewhere in the world.
The non-Southern African operations did not perform well in the past financial year.
Major changes were made through cost-cutting initiatives, scaling down of certain operations and discontinuing others.
Notwithstanding, the division also continued expanding in areas where it sees long-term profit and growth potential.
A solid platform has been created in the UK.
The division expects better performance this year and is well placed for opportunities which may arise in the year ahead.
Many one-off charges have been accounted for, such as team acquisition costs and retrenchment costs, and the concerted cost-cutting exercise has also yielded positive results.
The divisions objectives include: Remaining specialised and competing only in areas where the division can be differentiated.
Ensuring intense management of capital usage and related returns.
Maintaining focused management on costs of operation.
Developing sales and distribution capability in Hong Kong through growth of a recently established joint venture.
