Annual Report 2003 17 a detailed analysis of the groups performance Introduction The following commentary and analysis of the groups financial results for the year ended 31 March 2003 should be read together with the financial statements and the notes to such statements on pages 222 to 308.
The commentary and analysis is based on the groups consolidated financial results presented in accordance with UK GAAP and denominated in Pound Sterling.
The financial information discussed below is based on the year under review, and may not necessarily reflect the financial condition or results of operations of the group going forward.
Key income drivers Investec provides a wide range of financial products and services to a niche client base in two principal markets, South Africa and the UK, as well as certain other markets, including Australia, the US and Israel.
Investec is organised into four principal business divisions: Private Client Activities.
Treasury and Specialised Finance, Investment Banking and Asset Management.
In addition, Investecs head office provides certain group-wide integrating functions such as Risk Management, Information Technology, Finance, Investor Relations, Marketing, Human Resources and Organisational Development.
It is also responsible for the groups central funding and other activities, such as Investecs Property business, Trade Finance and Traded Endowment operations.
A detailed description of the groups principal businesses is provided elsewhere in this report.
The following is an overview of Investecs key income drivers.
18 Annual Report 2003 % of operating profit before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items excluding other activities and discontinued operations UK GAAP 16.1% 22.1% 20.8% 30.6% Private Client Activities Treasury and Specialised Finance 10.9% Investment Banking 14.6% Asset Management Assurance Activities 26.9% 24.0% 13.0% 21.0% 2003 2002 Private Client Activities This divisions principal sources of income have been derived from its Private Banking and Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking operations: Private Banking.
There are two principal sources of income attributable to Investecs Private Banking activities.
The first is interest earned in connection with the banks lending activities.
The level of interest receivable is affected by, among other factors, the size of Investecs loan portfolio and, in the case of the UK, the general state of the property market, as well as the interest rate environment in the markets in which these activities are conducted.
The second significant income stream comprises fees earned for advisory services, including investment management and trust and fiduciary services, which is reflected primarily under fees and commissions - annuity income in the profit and loss account.
This income is affected by the demand for Investecs specialised advisory services, principally in the UK and South Africa, which in turn is affected by applicable tax, regulatory and other economic factors.
Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking.
The primary income streams generated by these activities are fees levied as a percentage of assets under management and commissions earned for executing transactions for clients.
These fees and commissions are reflected under fees and commissions - annuity income.
Fee income is affected primarily by movements in the value of assets underlying client portfolios, which can result from a variety of factors, including fund inflows or outflows and changes in the market price of the securities held.
Commissions earned are affected by the level of clients investment activity, which is in turn affected by, among other factors, the performance of the stock markets in which the businesses operate and the equity investment risk appetite of Investecs clients.
Annual Report 2003 19 Treasury and Specialised Finance This division has derived the bulk of its income from its Financial Markets and Banking Activities: Financial Markets Activities.
Income attributable to Investecs Financial Markets Activities largely comprises dealing profits earned through Investecs Commodities, Foreign Exchange, Equity Derivative and Interest Rate activities.
Income flows can be significantly affected by how well these businesses are positioned to react to sudden changes in market liquidity, volume and volatility, as well as limitations imposed on trading opportunities as a result of applicable regulatory capital requirements.
Income attributable to Investecs Banking Activities principally comprises net interest income, as well as fees and commissions - deal income earned, in connection with the management of the groups liquidity and interest rate exposure and the provision of a range of treasury and financial products to the government and inter-bank, corporate and institutional markets.
Investecs ability to generate income through its Banking Activities is significantly affected by the degree of sophistication of the financial markets in which the group operates and the resulting demand for highly specialised structuring advice, as well as the continued development of the private finance initiative and public private partnership markets.
In addition, income is affected by the groups credit rating and its ability to attract lower cost funding.
A large proportion of the groups net interest income is attributable to the Treasury and Specialised Finance divisions interest rate and balance sheet management activities.
Investment Banking The Investment Banking division has derived the bulk of its income from the following areas: Corporate Finance.
Income attributable to Investecs Corporate Finance activities principally reflects fees resulting from the provision of capital markets and financial advisory work.
These fees are reflected under fees and commissions - deal income in Investecs consolidated profit and loss account.
These fees can be affected by a number of factors, including macroand micro-economic fundamentals, industry-specific trends and underlying stock market activity, particularly in Investecs primary markets, the UK and South Africa.
Institutional Research, Sales and Trading.
Income attributable to these activities has largely been earned in the form of brokerage commissions.
The group however, also earns income from market making and trade facilitation activities.
These revenue sources are reflected principally under fees and commissions - annuity income and deal income, as well as dealing profits, and are affected by stock market trading volume and volatility, client allocation of broking transactions and Investecs ability to source securities and execute trades on behalf of its clients.
Private Equity and Direct Investments.
Income attributable to these activities is realised on the sale of investments and revaluation of trading investments, and is reflected under dealing profits and other operating income.
This income is affected by, among other things, macroand micro-economic market conditions, principally in South Africa, the UK and Australia, as well as the availability of profitable exit routes in the case of private equity and, in the case of direct investments, whether appropriate market conditions exist to maximise gains upon sale.
In addition, due to the nature of these activities, the income stream generated in the past has been unpredictable.
Accordingly, these activities have had, and 20 Annual Report 2003 are expected to continue to have, a material impact, which may be positive or negative, on the revenues and profitability of the division.
Investec expects that the income derived from its UK-based private equity investments will decline over time, as it continues to divest itself of the portfolio of investments it inherited in connection with Investecs acquisitions of Guinness Mahon and Hambros PLC in 1998.
Asset Management This divisions principal sources of income, have been derived from its Asset Management operations and Assurance business: Asset Management.
The principal source of income for Investecs Asset Management business is fees levied as a percentage of assets under management, which are reflected under fees and commissions - annuity income.
These fees can be significantly affected by a small movement in the value of the underlying assets, which can result from a variety of factors, including fund inflows or outflows, changes in the market price of the securities held in a particular fund, relative fund performance compared to funds operated by competitors and a strategic shift by investors of their allocation of assets from one class to another.
Income generated by Investecs long-term assurance business comprises operating profit generated from existing Assurance Activities, which is driven by premiums earned and benefits paid in respect of existing policies, the investment performance of the assets underlying policies, the degree of matching between policyholder assets and liabilities and the cost of maintaining an administrative infrastructure to support these activities.
The level of income derived from existing Assurance Activities is influenced by the types of policies written and the economic factors in South Africa that affect the performance of the assets supporting such policies, as well as the underlying assumptions used in the actuarial valuation of policy liabilities.
This latter component is a key factor in determining the present value of in-force life business, the movement of which is recognised as income losses over the relevant period.
Group Services and Other Activities In addition, Investec has derived income from its Group Services and Other Activities division through the activities of its Worldwide Property business, its UK Traded Endowments business and its International Trade Finance business.
These businesses earn a variety of management and banking fees, brokerage, commissions and income on the sale of investment and dealing properties.
Income generated is reflected almost entirely under fees and commissions - annuity income, which is derived from the Property businesses, as well as under dealing profits and net interest income, which are derived from the Traded Endowment and International Trade Finance activities, respectively.
As this division is responsible for the groups central funding requirements, this income is offset by the cost of group funding net of return on the groups central capital incurred in connection with acquisitions, central costs and debt obligations, as well as the purchase of corporate assets and investments not allocated to the four principal business divisions.
Annual Report 2003 21 Operating profit before taxation, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items by geography UK GAAP millions March 2002 March 2003 200 158.5 150 100 84.7 81.8 68.5 64.8 50 22.3 9.1 6.0 3.5 1.2 1.9 1.1 0 -0.3 -16.7 -50 Southern UK & Australia Israel USA Discontinued Total Africa Europe Ops group Operating profit before taxation, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items by business UK GAAP millions March 2002 March 2003 200 158.5 150 100 84.7 51.8 42.4 46.3 50 40.9 31.1 27.9 27.8 20.9 19.5 17.3 0 -0.3 -16.7 -32.0 -33.7 -50 Private Treasury & Investment Asset Assurance Group Discontinued Total Client Specialised Banking Management Services Ops group Activities Finance & Other Activities Risks relating to Investecs operations Information pertaining to the key risks relating to Investecs operations is discussed below.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to Investec or that Investec currently deems immaterial may in the future also impair its business operations.
Investecs business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risk factors.
22 Annual Report 2003 Market risk, conditions and fluctuations could adversely affect Investecs businesses in many ways Investecs businesses and revenues are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally around the world.
A deterioration in world financial markets or extreme volatility in the markets in which Investecs businesses operate may have an adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition.
The factors, which could influence the performance of Investecs principal business activities as well as that of its Group Services and Other Activities division, have been discussed above.
Investecs risk management policies and procedures may leave it exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks Investec has devoted significant resources to developing its risk management policies and procedures, particularly in connection with credit, market, liquidity and operational risks, and expects to continue to do so in the future.
These policies and procedures are described in detail in the risk management section on pages 125 to157.
Nonetheless, its risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating its risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated.
Some of Investecs methods of managing risk are based upon its use of observed historical market behaviour.
As a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than historical measures indicate.
Other risk management methods depend upon evaluation of information regarding the markets in which Investec operates, its clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by Investec.
This information may not be accurate in all cases, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated.
Any failure of Investecs risk management techniques may have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition.
Credit risk exposes Investec to losses caused by financial or other problems experienced by its clients or other third parties Credit risk is of particular significance to Investec largely due to its exposure to Southern African markets.
Investec is exposed to the risk that third parties that owe it money, securities or other assets will not perform, or will be unable to perform, their obligations which could adversely affect Investecs results of operations or financial condition.
These parties include clients, governments, trading or reinsurance counterparties, clearing agents, exchanges, other financial intermediaries or institutions as well as issuers whose securities Investec holds, who may default on their obligations to Investec due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure, economic or political conditions or other reasons.
In particular, Investec may suffer significant losses from its credit exposure to or from a default by a large financial institution that could either impact Investec specifically or the financial markets generally.
In addition, the information that Investec uses to manage its credit risk may be inaccurate or incomplete, leading to an inability on the part of Investec to manage its credit risk effectively.
Further information pertaining to Investecs overall level of asset quality and provision coverage can be found on pages 134 to 136.
Liquidity risk may impair Investecs ability to fund its operations and adversely affect its financial condition Ready access to funds is essential to any banking business, including those operated by Investec.
An inability on the part of Investec to access funds or to access the markets from which it raises funds may Annual Report 2003 23 lead to Investec being unable to finance its operations adequately, which in turn could materially adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition.
In particular, Investec takes deposits with maturities which are shorter than the loans it makes.
This exposes Investec to the risk that depositors could withdraw their funds at a rate faster than the rate at which borrowers repay their loans, thus causing liquidity strains.
Additionally, Investecs ability to raise or access funds may be impaired by factors that are not specific to it, such as general market conditions, severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the prospects for the industries or regions in which Investec operates.
This risk was prevalent in South Africa, as was the case in early 2001 when a number of South Africas banks experienced liquidity crises forcing them to withdraw their banking licences which ultimately resulted in a major contraction of the number of smaller banks operating in the country.
For a discussion of how Investec seeks to mitigate this risk through its risk management polices, refer to pages 142 to 144.
In addition, Investecs borrowing costs and access to funds may be adversely affected by any reduction in its credit rating and no assurance can be given that any rating agency will not at some time in the future reduce such credit ratings.
Investecs net interest earnings may be adversely affected by interest rate risk Investec is potentially exposed to the risk that interest rates paid to depositors and yields earned from loans change at different times with varying degrees of predictability.
If the interest rates paid to borrowers rise at a faster rate than the yields earned from loans, then Investecs results of operations may be adversely affected.
Further information in this regard is provided below and on page 145.
Investec may be unable to recruit, retain and motivate key personnel Investecs performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of key personnel, many of whom have been employed by Investec for a substantial period of time and have grown with the business.
Competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees is intense.
Investecs continued ability to compete effectively and further develop its businesses depends on its ability to retain and motivate its existing employees and to attract new employees.
In addition, the South African operations of Investec have been and may continue to be affected by the increase in recent years of the rate of emigration of skilled labour from South Africa.
In each of the markets in which Investec operates, the future loss of qualified employees, including in particular a team of traders or key fund managers, or the inability to identify, hire, train and retain other qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on Investecs business, financial condition or operating results.
Information pertaining to Investecs philosophy with respect to retaining and motivating employees can be found in its Journey to Sustainability Document which is produced together with the Annual Report.
Employee misconduct could harm Investec and is difficult to detect Investec runs the risk that employee misconduct could occur.
Misconduct by either existing employees or those inherited as a result of acquisitions could include binding Investec to transactions that exceed authorised limits or present unacceptable risks, or concealing from Investec unauthorised or unsuccessful activities, which, in either case, may result in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses.
Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory and legal sanctions and significant reputational and or financial harm and could have a material adverse effect on Investecs results of operations and financial condition.
It is not always 24 Annual Report 2003 possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions Investec takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases.
Operational risk may disrupt Investecs business or result in regulatory action Investecs business activities require it to record and process a very large number of transactions accurately on a daily basis.
Any failure or delay in recording or processing transactions, or other contractual relationships with clients, could result in losses to Investec and could subject it to claims for losses and regulatory fines and penalties.
Investec relies on its employees to operate and maintain its systems properly, and is similarly reliant on the continued functioning of the systems of the exchanges on which Investec operates and their supporting depository, clearing and settlement organisations.
Investecs recording and processing of trades is potentially subject to human and processing errors or a breakdown in its general internal controls.
Any operational failure may cause serious reputational or financial harm and could have a material adverse effect on Investecs results of operations and financial condition.
Information pertaining to how Investec manages operational risk can be found on pages 145 to 147.
Investec may be vulnerable to the failure of its systems and breaches of its security systems Investec relies on the proper functioning of its systems which may fail as a result of hardware or software failure or power or telecommunications failure.
The occurrence of such a failure may not be adequately covered by its business resumption and disaster recovery planning.
Any significant degradation, failure or lack of capacity of Investecs information systems or any other systems in the trading process could therefore cause it to fail to complete transactions on a timely basis, could have an adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition or could give rise to adverse regulatory and reputational consequences for Investecs business.
The secure transmission of confidential information is a critical element of Investecs operations.
Investecs networks and systems may be vulnerable to unauthorised access and other security problems.
Investec cannot be certain that its existing security measures will prevent security breaches including break-ins, viruses or disruptions.
Persons that circumvent the security measures could use Investecs or its clients confidential information wrongfully which could expose it to a risk of loss, adverse regulatory consequences or litigation.
Investecs future success will depend in part on its ability to respond to changing technologies and demands of the market place.
Investecs failure to upgrade its information and communications systems on a timely or cost effective basis could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and or operating results and could damage its relationships with its clients and counterparties.
Investec has a relatively fixed cost structure which could expose it to declining profit margins Some elements of Investecs cost structure, including the fixed component of its financing charges, salaries and group and central costs, do not decline if Investec experiences reductions in its operating income.
As a result, if market or any other conditions cause Investecs operating income to decline, it may be unable to adjust these elements of its cost structure on a timely basis.
Consequently, Investecs operating margins would fall.
An analysis of Investecs administrative expenses can be found on pages 40 to 42.
Annual Report 2003 25 Investec may have insufficient capital in the future and may be unable to secure additional financing when it is required Investecs business depends on the availability of adequate capital.
Investec may need to raise additional funds to, among other things, strengthen its capital adequacy ratios or support expansion.
It may also be required to obtain additional financing on short notice as a result of rapid, unanticipated developments, such as a steep market decline.
Investec cannot be sure that it will have sufficient capital in the future or that additional financing will be available on a timely basis or on terms that are favourable to it.
If financing is insufficient at any time in the future, Investec may be unable to comply with capital adequacy ratios, develop or enhance its businesses or services, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a negative impact on Investecs business, operating results and financial condition.
Investec however, continues to maintain a stable capital adequacy ratio and overall level of capital resources, further information in this regard can be found on pages 50, 51 and 53.
The financial services industry in which Investec operates is intensely competitive The financial services industry in which Investecs businesses operate is highly competitive.
Investec competes on the basis of a number of factors, including customer service and quality, transaction execution, its products and services, innovation, reputation and price.
Competition is expected to increase further due to a trend towards consolidation among companies in the financial services industry, particularly outside South Africa, where consolidation has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of Investecs competitors in some of the markets in which Investec operates.
In addition, Investec does not have a long operating history in any of its markets outside South Africa.
New competitors, including companies other than banks, may disintermediate the market and as a result they may acquire significant market share.
Some of Investecs competitors also offer a wider range of services and products than Investec offers and have greater name recognition, greater financial resources and more extensive customer bases.
These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than Investec and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities.
If Investec is unable to compete successfully, its future revenue and profit growth could be materially adversely affected.
Investec may have difficulty expanding and integrating its operations The continued expansion of Investec is an important part of Investecs overall business strategy and focus on internationalisation.
Over the past ten years, Investec has made numerous acquisitions of companies and businesses, including acquisitions outside South Africa, and Investec continues to evaluate potential acquisition and investment opportunities.
Any acquisitions which Investec has completed or does complete are accompanied by the risks commonly encountered with acquisitions of companies or businesses, such as the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, the potential disruption to Investecs own business, the assumption of unexpected liabilities relating to the acquired assets or businesses and the possibility that indemnification agreements with the sellers of such assets may be unenforceable or insufficient to cover potential liabilities, the imposition and maintenance of common standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the impairment of relationships with employees and counterparties as a result of difficulties arising out of integration.
Investec has an Organisational Development division that assists in facilitating processes to integrate organisations that are acquired, further information on this division can be found on page 122.
26 Annual Report 2003 Legal and regulatory risks are substantial in Investecs businesses Substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against Investec could have a material adverse effect or cause significant reputational harm to Investec, which in turn could seriously harm Investecs business prospects and have an adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition.
Legal liability Investec faces significant legal risks, and the volume and amount of damages claimed in litigation against financial intermediaries generally is increasing.
These risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with the sale of securities and other transactions, potential liability for advice Investec provides to participants in corporate transactions and disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements.
Investec also faces the possibility that counterparties in complex or risky trading transactions will claim that Investec improperly failed to inform them of the risks or that they were not authorised or permitted to enter into these transactions with Investec and that their obligations to Investec are not enforceable.
Particularly in those parts of Investecs business that are focused on the provision of portfolio management and stockbroking services, Investec is exposed to claims that it has recommended investments that are inconsistent with a clients investment objectives or that it has engaged in unauthorised or excessive trading.
Investec is also exposed to claims from dissatisfied customers as part of the increased trend of performance-related litigation.
Investec may also be subject to claims arising from disputes with employees for, among other things, alleged discrimination or harassment.
These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time.
Notwithstanding the assumption of appropriate group insurance cover, liability resulting from any of the foregoing or other claims could have a material adverse effect on Investecs results of operations and financial condition.
Research Investec has noted the allegations made, particularly in the US, against certain investment banks in connection with the independence and or quality of the research produced by their analysts.
In addition, various regulatory reforms relating to the publication of research have been proposed and or enacted in the US.
There can be no assurance that the outcome of these allegations and reforms, and any possible future regulatory reforms or litigation relating thereto, will not have an adverse effect on investment banks generally, including Investec.
Extensive regulation Investec is subject to extensive regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organisations in the jurisdictions in which it operates around the world, including, in particular, the South African Reserve Bank SARB in South Africa and the Financial Services Authority FSA in the UK.
The requirements imposed by Investecs regulators, including capital adequacy and those specifically imposed in respect of the Dual Listed Companies DLC structure are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with Investec.
Investec faces the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extended investigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations, and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties.
In addition, Investecs lead regulator may switch from the SARB to FSA.
Existing and future regulations imposed on Investec could adversely affect the way Investec operates its business.
Annual Report 2003 27 Tax residency Rulings that have been obtained from the UK Inland Revenue and the South African Revenue Service on the basis of which, Investec plc should be treated as tax resident in the UK and Investec Limited should be treated as tax resident in South Africa.
Any change in tax residency of Investec plc or Investec Limited whether as a result of changes in the management structure of Investec, the manner in which Investecs management operates or otherwise may result in different tax treatment, which may have an adverse effect on Investecs results of operations and financial condition.
Risks relating to the markets in which Investec operates Due to the nature of the businesses engaged in by the group, it has been and will continue to be affected by changes in a number of macro-economic fundamentals.
These include the condition of worldwide financial markets, general economic cycles, levels of exchange and interest rates, and inflation, in particular in South Africa, the UK and Australia, where the group derives the majority of its profit as well as, to a lesser extent, the US and Israel.
The following tables set out certain macro-economic data for the groups two principal geographies, South Africa and the UK, as of and for the two years ended 31 March 2003: South Africa 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 1 2 GDP real growth 3.0% 2.7% 1 Consumer price index % change over the period 10.4% 5.3% 4 JSE All-Share Index 7 679.9 10 999.5 JSE All-Share Index % change over the period 30.2% 36.3% 1 2 3 Per capita GDP Rand NA 14 554 1 2 3 Per capita GDP real growth NA 1.0% Notes: 1 Source: SA Statistics and Investec Securities.
2 Data for calendar year ending during the period.
UK 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 UK GDP % change over the period 2.2% 1.2% UK RPI % change over the period 3.0% 2.3% FTSE All Share 1 735.7 2 557.4 FTSE All Share % change over the period 32.1% 5.7% UK GDP per capita 17 968 17 075 UK GDP per capita % change over the period 2.1% 1.8% Source: Datastream 28 Annual Report 2003 Social, political and economic risk outside Investecs control may adversely affect its business and results of operations Investec operates in a number of jurisdictions, in particular South Africa and Israel, which have experienced or continue to experience periods of political, social and or economic instability.
Investec is exposed to political, social, economic, legal, operational and other factors affecting its operations in South Africa, Israel and other jurisdictions in which it has operations.
These risks range from difficulties in settling transactions in emerging markets to possible nationalisation, expropriation, price controls, war or other restrictive governmental actions or a significant downturn or collapse of financial markets.
Political, social and or economic instability in the markets in which Investec operates may have a material adverse effect on Investecs business operations and financial condition.
In addition, in South Africa Investec is exposed, inter alia, to the impact of exchange controls, a comparatively high inflation rate and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the Rand and major currencies.
Exchange control regulations may have a negative impact on Investecs business South African exchange control regulations provide for a common monetary area consisting of South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho and Swaziland.
Transactions between South African residents and non-CMA residents are subject to South African exchange control regulations.
South African residents, including companies, are generally not permitted to export capital from South Africa or to hold foreign currency without the approval of the SARB, and restrictions are imposed on their foreign investments.
This has historically imposed significant constraints on the development of Investecs business.
While Investec plc will not be subject to such restrictions, Investec Limited and its South African assets will continue to be bound by such restrictions.
The extent to which exchange control regulations will be relaxed by the South African Government cannot be predicted with certainty Further relaxation or abolition of exchange controls may change the capital flows to and from South Africa.
If changes to exchange controls result in large capital outflows, Investecs South African business could be adversely affected, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on Investecs results of operations and financial condition.
Fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect Investec Since the end of July 2002, post the implementation of the groups DLC structure, Investecs reporting currency has changed from South African Rand to Pounds Sterling.
A substantial proportion of Investecs operations are conducted by Investec entities outside the UK.
The results of operations and the financial condition of Investecs individual companies are reported in the local currencies in which they are domiciled, including Rand, Australian dollars, US dollars and Israeli shekels.
These results will then be translated into Pounds Sterling at the applicable foreign currency exchange rates for inclusion in Investecs consolidated financial statements.
In the case of the profit and loss accounts, the weighted average rate for the relevant period is applied, and in the case of the balance sheets, the relevant closing rate is used.
The exchange rates between local currencies and Pounds Sterling have historically fluctuated.
In particular, continued capital outflows from South Africa, together with economic and political uncertainty in South Africa, has resulted in a depreciation of the average Rand Pound Sterling exchange Annual Report 2003 29 rate of 51.5% over the four year period to 31 March 2003.
The translation effect of such fluctuations in the exchange rates of the currencies of those countries in which Investec operates, including South Africa, against Pounds Sterling may adversely or positively affect Investecs results of operations and financial condition.
Where the impact of the depreciation appreciation of these currencies against Pounds Sterling is key to understanding the performance of the groups businesses, this has been noted in this report.
The following table sets out certain relevant exchange rates against Pounds Sterling over the reporting period: 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Currency per 1.00 Period End Average Period End Average South African Rand 12.51 15.04 16.16 13.65 US Dollar 1.57 1.55 1.43 1.43 Israeli Shekel 7.43 7.41 6.77 6.19 Australian Dollar 2.62 2.75 2.67 2.78 Source: Reuters and Oanda.
com These rates are indicative only and are not necessarily the rates at which the relevant currencies were converted into Pounds Sterling for the purposes of preparation of the groups consolidated financial statements.
Fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect Investec The shape of the yield curve, the time lag between changes in interest rates applicable to assets and liabilities, and the volatility of interest rates in each of Investecs principal geographic markets can affect its net interest income by either positively or negatively affecting the spread between interest paid and interest earned.
As a matter of policy, the group does not take on unhedged, long-dated interest rate positions.
Sharply rising interest rates can also result in a higher number of defaults, as an increasing number of existing variable rate borrowers cannot service their obligations.
This can lead to higher bad debt charges and provisions.
The following table sets out certain interest rates affecting the groups businesses as at 31 March 2003 and 2002: 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Period End Average Period End Average South African Prime Overdraft 17.00 16.33 15.00 13.71 JIBAR - 3 month 13.42 12.56 11.03 9.92 UK Clearing Banks Base Rate 3.75 3.96 4.00 4.67 LIBOR - 3 month 2.52 3.15 3.97 4.57 Source: INET Bridge.
30 Annual Report 2003 Basis of preparation of the consolidated financial statements: changes in group composition Investecs consolidated financial statements, from which the financial information discussed below has been extracted, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
Investec has fully consolidated the financial statements of all subsidiary companies in which it holds more than one-half of the voting rights or over which it exercises control.
Majority interests in companies acquired are consolidated from the date of acquisition.
Companies in which Investec owns between 20% and 50% of the outstanding voting stock are accounted for using the equity method of accounting except where Investec does not exercise significant influence.
The minority interests of owners of shares in Investecs non-wholly owned subsidiaries have been reflected in the groups consolidated financial statements.
The acquisition of interests in the businesses discussed below was accounted for using acquisition accounting.
The financial performance of these acquisitions has had a significant effect on the comparability of Investecs results from period to period and is an important factor in interpreting its results.
Unless otherwise indicated, the results of operations of the businesses acquired were consolidated into Investecs financial results as of the date of acquisition.
Acquisitions of financial services companies usually result in a significant amount of goodwill arising on the balance sheet of the acquiror.
Accordingly, the goodwill that has arisen on the acquisitions made by Investec over the four years ended 31 March 2003 is significant a four year period is used as this is the period over which the group has had to record its results in UK GAAP.
It is Investecs policy to amortise goodwill over its estimated useful economic life.
The goodwill write-off period for the acquisitions described below is between three and ten years.
In May 1999, Investec acquired certain assets and 100% of the issued share capital of some of the subsidiary companies of Gandon Capital Markets Ltd, WIL Management Services Ltd & GE Capital Woodchester Bank Ltd for a total consideration of 18.6 million.
The excess of cost over estimated fair value of the assets acquired, totalling 18.5 million, was recorded as goodwill.
In June 1999, Investec acquired for 6.5 million the Johannesburg retail division of HSBC Simpson McKie Pty Ltd.
The excess of cost over estimated fair value of the assets acquired, totalling 6.5 million, was recorded as goodwill.
This operation was merged into the operations of Investec Securities Limiteds private client stockbroking business.
In September 1999, Investec acquired the private banking business of Kleinwort Benson in the UK and certain trade and assets of Royce Investment Group Inc. in the US for 9.7 million and 4.3 million, respectively.
The excess of cost over estimated fair value of the assets acquired, totalling 9.7 million and 3.0 million, respectively, was recorded as goodwill.
Kleinwort Bensons business was merged into Investecs UK private banking operations, and Royces business was merged into the private client stockbroking operations of Investec Ernst & Co. in the US.
In August 2000, Investec increased its interest in Securities Investment Bank Holdings SIBH, a South African holding company from 25.1% to 100%.
Its assets comprised a 100% interest in Securities Investment Bank SIB, a financial markets and instruments trading bank, and a portfolio of private equity and direct investments.
The aggregate purchase price was 45.0 million, in respect of which 20.0 million was recorded as negative goodwill.
The goodwill of 3.6 million relating to the previous investment in SIBH was transferred from interests in associated undertakings.
SIBH was Annual Report 2003 31 consolidated into the groups financial statements, with the results of SIB incorporated into the Treasury and Specialised Finance division and the income generated by the remaining assets of SIBH reflected in the Investment Banking division.
SIB ceased operating during the 2003 financial year and the remaining negative goodwill of 5.8 million was released to income.
In December 2000, Investec acquired a 100% interest in the international trust companies, Radcliffes Trustee Company SA Radcliffes and Theodore Holdings Limited Theodore, for aggregate consideration of 25.4 million, of which 23.0 million was recorded as goodwill.
The results of these subsidiaries are reflected in Investecs UK private banking business.
The downturn of the European economy necessitated an impairment of goodwill, in the current year, of 4.4 million relating to Radcliffes.
In March 2001, Investec acquired a 100% interest in Wentworth Associates Pty Limited, an Australian corporate finance boutique, for 24.5 million, of which 23.5 million was recorded as goodwill.
In June 2001, Investec acquired 100% of the issued ordinary share capital of Fedsure Investments Pty Ltd and Fedsure International Pty Ltd for a total consideration of 373.0 million.
The excess of cost over estimated fair value of the assets acquired, totalling 289.3 million, was recorded as goodwill, of which 41.7 million was written off as impairment of goodwill for the year ended 31 March 2002 and 45.2 million for the year ended 31 March 2003.
The assets of this business were allocated to Investecs assurance business, as well as its property and traded endowments businesses.
In June 2001, Investec acquired a 100% interest in PMG Group, a Pennsylvania based investment bank, and its subsidiaries.
The total consideration was 22.7 million of which 15.5 million was recorded as goodwill.
This business has subsequently been wound down.
Further information is provided on pages 12 and 13.
In October 2001, Investec purchased a 100% interest in European Capital Company Ltd. for total consideration of 2.6 million, which resulted in goodwill of 1.8 million.
This project finance advisory and arranging business is reflected in the Treasury and Specialised Finance division.
interest in Chronworth Pty Limited, an Australian corporate finance business, for total consideration of 1.8 million.
Goodwill of 1.8 million was recognised.
As a consequence of the foregoing and in light of Investecs strategy to seek to grow its operations in part through the acquisition of complementary businesses, intangible fixed assets and amortisation of goodwill could increase in future periods.
Due to the fact that Investec has integrated the operations of its critical mass enhancing acquisitions into its existing businesses, it is not possible to distinguish between organic and acquired growth over the various reporting periods.
Accounting policies The reported results of the group are sensitive to the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its consolidated financial statements.
The accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are set out in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
UK accounting standards require the directors, in preparing these accounts, to select suitable accounting policies, apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
32 Annual Report 2003 Where UK GAAP allows a choice of policy, Financial Reporting Standard 18 Accounting Policies requires the group to adopt those policies judged to be most appropriate to its particular circumstances for the purpose of giving a true and fair view.
The judgements and uncertainties involved in the groups accounting policies that are most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are discussed below.
Recoverability of loans and investments Where management perceives that there is a significant risk that Investec will not receive full repayment of the amounts advanced to clients or recover the original cost of investments in debt or equity securities, provisions are made in the financial statements to reduce the carrying value of loans and advances and investments to the amount expected to be recovered.
As at 31 March 2003, Investec held provisions for bad and doubtful debts of 83.0 million against total core loans and advances to customers of 4,006 million.
These provisions were determined through a combination of specific reviews and management estimates.
Certain aspects of this process require material judgemental evaluations, such as the amounts and timing of future cash flows and the assessment of the value of collateral held such as guarantees, which may be susceptible to significant variation and prevailing economic conditions.
Investec considers that the provisions for bad and doubtful debts, debt securities and equity shares at 31 March 2003 were adequate based on information available at that time.
However, amendments to the provisions may be required in the future as a result of changes in collateral values or in the timing and amounts of cash flows, or other economic events.
Goodwill As discussed above, Investec has made a number of acquisitions over the past few years.
Goodwill arising on these acquisitions is reviewed annually.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses from Fedsure Holdings by Investec in June 2001 is being amortised over eight years, its estimated useful economic life.
The goodwill is subject to an annual impairment review, evaluated by comparing the present value of future cash flows the value-in-use to the carrying value of the underling net assets.
In the event that the carrying value of the net assets exceeds the value-in-use, an impairment is deemed to have occurred resulting in a charge being made to the profit and loss account.
During the most recent impairment review conducted by Investec for the 2003 financial year, goodwill arising on the acquisition of the businesses from Fedsure Holdings was deemed to have been impaired, which has resulted in a charge to the profit and loss account of 45.2 million for the year ended 31 March 2003.
Any future adverse changes in the performance of the businesses acquired from Fedsure Holdings, or other businesses acquired by the group, affecting the amount and timing of future cash flows, or changes in the economic environment, may lead to related goodwill becoming further impaired in future periods.
Furthermore, during the current year, the group changed its policy for the translation of intangible assets in respect of foreign entities.
Intangible assets are now translated at the closing exchange rate instead of the exchange rate at the date of acquisition.
This change accords with both UK GAAP and SA GAAP.
As a recent exposure draft issued by the International Accounting Standards Board proposes to make this treatment mandatory, the group considers it appropriate to change the policy in the current period.
The effect in SA GAAP of this change is an increase in goodwill as at 31 March 2002 of R1.5 billion.
The effect in UK GAAP of this change in policy is a decrease in goodwill as at 31 March 2002 of 66.3 million.
The difference in each case has been taken directly to foreign currency translation reserves, Annual Report 2003 33 resulting in a corresponding increase in SA GAAP decrease in UK GAAP in ordinary shareholders funds as at 31 March 2002.
There is no effect on the tangible net asset value of the group.
Embedded value Investec accounts for the value of the shareholders interest in the long-term assurance business using the embedded value basis of accounting, which is in accordance with UK GAAP for banking groups owning life assurance operations.
The embedded value can be affected by assumptions over investment returns, lapse rates, mortality rates, investment expenses, basis of calculation and timing of other net cash flows, principally annual management charges and other fees levied upon the policyholders, which are reflected in the profit and loss account using smoothed fund values.
To the extent that actual experience is different from that assumed, the effect is recognised in the profit and loss account for the relevant period.
The effect of changes in the underlying assumptions and variations between actual and assumed experience on the results of the current and prior periods and the embedded value of the business are disclosed on pages 267 and 268.
Transfers between investment and dealing portfolios Investment securities, which are intended for use on a continuing basis in the activities of Investec, are carried in the accounts at cost, less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
Securities held for dealing or market making purposes are valued at market price, or in the case of unquoted securities, at managements estimate of market value.
Although investment securities are held for continuing use in the business, Investec may on occasions dispose of certain of these securities.
The incidence of profits arising from such securities will therefore depend on the timing of their disposal.
In rare circumstances, Investec may alter the purpose for which securities are held, subject to board approval, reclassifying them from an investment portfolio to a dealing portfolio or vice versa.
Transfers on reclassification are effected at market value and consequently transfers from investment to dealing portfolios will in general give rise to a profit or a loss.
The effect on the profit and loss account of transfers between investment securities and dealing securities portfolios is disclosed on page 259.
Changes in the purpose for which securities positions are held could give rise to further reclassifications between debt and equity securities which could result in changes in reported financial results.
Fair value Securities and derivatives held by Investec for trading purposes are carried at fair value.
Investec reflects changes in these values in the profit and loss account.
Fair values are based on quoted market prices for their components using appropriate pricing models.
Where Investecs position is of such a size that the price obtainable would be materially different from the quoted price, Investec adjusts the quoted price based on managements estimate of the price that Investec would realise from the holding in current market conditions.
Where instruments such as over-the-counter derivatives are valued using pricing models, the value of the instrument and changes in that value are determined by the model and its underlying assumptions.
The use of different models or other assumptions could result in changes in reported financial results.
34 Annual Report 2003 Share options In June 2002, Investec issued 6 700 000 options to staff at a strike price of R164.50 per share and 770 612 options at a strike price of R170 per share.
These options have vesting periods varying between 6 months and 5 years.
In December 2002, Investec issued 2 000 000 options to staff at a strike price of R111.32 and 1 200 000 options at a strike price of 7.93.
The Rand options vest in tranches over 5 years and the Pound options vest in tranches over 9 years.
Future accounting standards are likely to require that options are valued at the date of issue and expensed over the period that employees become entitled to them.
Had Investec applied this treatment to the options issued during the current period, reported earnings would have decreased by 4 million R60 million in respect of the June options and 320 000 R4 million in respect of the December options.
These charges have been calculated using a Black-Scholes model with an average implied volatility for the Investec share price of 43%, independently projected dividends, and a risk free rate appropriate to the period of the option.
The fair value of the options granted has been adjusted to take into account the expected future staff turnover rates and the vesting periods, as will be required by future accounting standards.
Restatements Investecs accounting policy is to show trading profits net of the funding costs of the underlying positions.
During the year the group conducted a thorough evaluation of the funding costs of trading desks as a result of which interest charges were reallocated between trading and funding desks within the Treasury and Specialised Finance division.
Comparative figures have been restated to be consistent with this.
Salient features of the groups results in the year under review - incorporating performance vs objectives Profit and loss account analysis Total operating income The following table sets out certain information on Investecs total operating income by geography for the period under review: % of total % of total year on year UK GAAP 000 31 March 2003 income 31 March 2002 income % change South Africa and Other 217 488 42.7% 235 110 38.0% 7.5% UK and Europe 219 948 43.1% 271 986 44.0% 19.1% Australia 18 053 3.5% 12 990 2.1% 39.0% Israel 20 485 4.0% 22 958 3.7% 10.8% USA 5 388 1.1% 17 721 2.8% 69.6% Discontinued Operations 28 587 5.6% 57 906 9.4% 50.6% Total operating income 509 949 100.0% 618 671 100.0% 17.6% Annual Report 2003 35 The following table sets out certain information on Investecs total operating income by division for the period under review: 31 March % of total 31 March % of total year on year UK GAAP 000 2003 income 2002 income % change Private Client Activities 171 222 33.6% 171 394 27.7% 0.1% Treasury and Specialised Finance 92 292 18.1% 107 820 17.4% 14.4% Investment Banking 64 184 12.6% 104 746 16.9% 38.7% Asset Management and Assurance 117 485 23.0% 119 744 19.4% 1.9% Group Services and Other Activities 36 179 7.1% 57 061 9.2% 36.6% Discontinued Operations 28 587 5.6% 57 906 9.4% 50.6% Total operating income 509 949 100.0% 618 671 100.0% 17.6% Total operating income declined by 17.6% from 618.7 million for the year ended 31 March 2002 to 509.9 million for the year ended 31 March 2003.
The various components of Investecs total operating income are analysed below.
In completing this analysis, commentary is only provided on the groups continuing operations as the decline in the earnings of the discontinued operations, in all cases, is obviously reflective of the winding down and closing down of those businesses in the US.
Further information on the discontinued operations, is provided in the geographical analysis provided on page 12 and 13.
31 March % of total 31 March % of total year on year UK GAAP 000 2003 income 2002 income % change Net interest income 131 466 25.8% 163 830 26.5% 19.8% Dividend income 3 597 0.7% 2 081 0.3% 72.8% Fees and commissions receivable 276 607 54.2% 341 247 55.2% 18.9% - Annuity net of fees payable 232 014 45.5% 261 174 42.2% 11.2% - Deal 44 593 8.7% 80 073 13.0% 44.3% Dealing profits 45 231 8.9% 49 485 8.0% 8.6% Income from long-term assurance business 27 779 5.4% 31 079 5.0% 10.6% Other operating income 25 269 5.0% 30 949 5.0% 18.4% Total operating income 509 949 100.0% 618 671 100.0% 17.6% Net interest income Net interest income represents interest earned net of interest paid in connection with Investecs portfolio of bank accounts, deposits, loans and financial structured products.
Net interest income declined by 19.8% to 131.5 million.
36 Annual Report 2003 The following table sets out Investecs net interest income by division for the period under review: UK GAAP 000 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Variance % Change Private Client Activities 70 817 71 524 707 1.0% Treasury and Specialised Finance 31 892 57 237 25 345 44.3% Investment Banking 4 992 3 207 1 785 55.7% Asset Management 5 376 3 466 1 910 55.1% Group Services and Other Activities 14 330 15 595 1 265 8.1% Discontinued Operations 4 059 12 801 8 742 68.3% Net interest income 131 466 163 830 32 364 19.8% Significant variances over the period can be explained as follows: The Private Banking businesses net interest income dropped slightly notwithstanding healthy growth in advances of 24.6% and 17.0% in South Africa and the UK respectively, largely due to the depreciation of the average Rand Pound Sterling exchange rate masking the underlying growth in South Africa.
The Treasury and Specialised Finance division experienced a significant decline in net interest income largely as a result of the winding down of the interest rate business in the UK and the depreciation of the average Rand Pound Sterling exchange rate over the period.
Net fees and commissions receivable Net fees and commissions receivable consists of fees receivable for the provision of fund management, investment advice, banking services, retainers, institutional stockbroking commissions and brokerage, and similar items that are likely to recur due to the repetitive nature of these activities i. e. fees and commissions receivable - annuity income, plus facility arrangement fees, corporate finance fees and similar items that are transactional in nature and therefore generate more volatile income streams i. e. fees and commissions receivable - deal income, offset by fees and commissions payable which predominantly comprise brokerage payable, banking fees and other similar charges i. e. fees and commissions payable.
Net fees and commissions receivable declined by 18.9% from 341.2 million for the year ended 31 March 2002 to 276.6 million for the year ended 31 March 2003.
The following table sets out Investecs net fees and commissions receivable by division for the period under review: UK GAAP 000 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Variance % Change Private Client Activities 94 816 92 467 2 349 2.5% Treasury and Specialised Finance 24 491 19 960 4 531 22.7% Investment Banking 36 141 69 361 33 220 47.9% Asset Management 83 592 83 780 188 0.2% Group Services and Other Activities 11 084 23 253 12 169 52.3% Discontinued Operations 26 483 52 426 25 943 49.5% Net fees and commissions receivable 276 607 341 247 64 640 18.9% Annual Report 2003 37 Significant variances over the period can be explained as follows: The Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking businesses have continued to be negatively impacted by the fall off in the markets over the past year.
On the other hand, the Private Banking businesses experienced a solid increase in annuity fees and commissions as a result of increased lending turnover in all operations.
The Treasury and Specialised Finance division experienced a solid growth in deal fees.
The Financial Products division in South Africa earned increased fees from an improved performance in scrip lending and increased activity in the debt origination market.
Furthermore, Structured Finance enjoyed an increase in fees.
In the UK, the division enjoyed a strong performance from the three relatively new banking teams: Project Finance December 2001, Structured Finance July 2002 and Financial Products.
Difficult market conditions continued to impact the Investment Banking division, particularly in the UK, where deal fees and commissions fell by 32.5 million.
In South Africa, deal fees and commissions declined marginally with the Corporate Finance division concluding 55 corporate finance deals in comparison to 65 in the previous year.
The Group Services and Other businesses were negatively affected by the poor performance of the US operations and the subsequent sale of the clearing and execution business to Fiserv.
Dealing profits trading income Dealing profits comprise trading income and the marking-to-market of interest rate instruments, equities and other securities such as foreign exchange instruments, and profit on the disposal of dealing properties and, as a result of the acquisition of Fedsure in June 2001, traded endowments.
Debt securities and equity shares held for trading purposes are revalued at each balance sheet date and the change in value is recognised as a charge or a profit under dealing profits.
Dealing profits decreased by 8.6% to 45.2 million for the year ended 31 March 2003.
The following table sets out Investecs dealing profits by division for the period under review: UK GAAP 000 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Variance % Change Private Client Activities 5 068 3 215 1 853 57.6% Treasury and Specialised Finance 35 454 28 853 6 601 22.9% Investment Banking 8 789 7 660 1 129 14.7% Asset Management 722 1 672 950 56.8% Group Services and Other Activities 3 841 15 266 19 107 100% Discontinued Operations 961 7 181 6 220 86.6% Dealing profits 45 231 49 485 4 254 8.6% 38 Annual Report 2003 Significant variances over the period can be explained as follows: The Trading Activities of the Treasury and Specialised Finance division in South Africa had a successful year with the majority of the desks contributing to the overall performance.
There was a significant improvement from the Forex, Interest Rate and Equity Derivatives desks in comparison to the previous year.
These results were partially offset by a decline in profitability of the Commodities desk.
In the UK there was a decline in income earned from the Treasury and Specialised Finance Trading Activities, in particular the Commodities desk.
Furthermore, the winding down of the Interest Rate business also negatively impacted these results.
In the Investment Banking division the increase in mark-to-market adjustments in the South African Private Equity division of around 2 million year on year was offset by a decline in UK market making revenues of over 80% in comparison to the prior year.
In the Group Services and Other businesses, the Traded Endowments business was the largest contributing factor to the decline in dealing profits approximately 11 million, with the divisions results negatively impacted by a fall off in business activity and bonus rates cuts announced by life insurance companies.
Furthermore, the closure and winding down of the operations in the US had a negative impact on these results.
Income from long-term assurance business Income from long-term assurance business was 27.8 million for the year ended 31 March 2003 2002: 31.1 million, and reflected the profits of the groups South African assurance business that was acquired in connection with Investecs purchase of Fedsure on 1 June 2001.
These profits are reflected in the results of the Asset Management division.
Operational earnings increased significantly from 15.5 million for the year ended 31 March 2002 to 51.7 million for the year ended 31 March 2003.
These results were largely attributable to further restructuring of the business and its investment portfolios particularly in the first half of the year.
However, since embedded value accounting is applied, the net movement in the value of in-force business is accounted for in the profit and loss account, with the result that the current years operational earnings were offset by a negative adjustment of 23.9 million, compared to a positive movement of 15.6 million in the prior year.
In the second half of the year the group concluded a deal with Liberty Group Limited Liberty whereby certain of the liabilities of the retirement fund administration business and the existing disability claimants business were reinsured with Liberty with effect from 31 March 2003 the deal is subject to approval by the Competition Commission.
As a result of the actuarial reassessment of policyholder liabilities and the value of in-force business at the year end, the effect of the deal with Liberty was to generate a profit of approximately 11 million, included in the operational earnings mentioned above, offset by a reduction in the value of in-force business of approximately 7 million, and the net effect has been recognised in the current period.
The group believes that the profits reported during the current year are not sustainable.
Other operating income investment income Other operating income declined by 18.4% from 30.9 million for the year ended 31 March 2002 to 25.3 million for the year ended 31 March 2003.
Annual Report 2003 39 The following table sets out Investecs other operating income by division for the period under review: UK GAAP 000 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Variance % Change Private Client Activities 521 4 127 3 606 87.4% Treasury and Specialised Finance 341 1 682 1 341 79.7% Investment Banking 12 654 22 914 10 260 44.8% Asset Management 16 312 328 100% Group Services and Other Activities 12 731 2 678 10 053 100% Discontinued Operations 994 140 854 100 % Other operating income 25 269 30 949 5 680 18.4% Significant variances over the period can be explained as follows: The decline in other operating income in the Private Client Activities division can be attributed to the profit made on the disposal of Carr Sheppards Crosthwaites shareholding in the London Stock Exchange in the prior year around 4 million, which was not repeated in 2003.
The Investment Banking division experienced a decline in other operating income largely as a result of the approximate net 15 million profit made on the disposal of investments after taking into account impairments, in the previous year.
This negative variance was offset by a strong performance from the UK Private Equity division which benefited from the realisation of the partial disposal of one of its investments amounting to approximately 9 million.
The Group Services and Other Activities division benefited from an increased return on an investment portfolio originally acquired from Investec Employee Benefits and on other long-standing investments.
The total increased return amounted to approximately 10 million.
Total annuity type income Investec defines annuity income as net interest income and net fees and commissions receivable - annuity income.
Annuity income as a percentage of total income increased from 68.7% to 71.3% for the year ended 31 March 2003.
Performance Objective Annuity income as a % of total income The extreme volatility experienced in international markets highlights the importance of the groups diverse portfolio of integrated businesses and profit UK GAAP streams.
The group aims to increase its focus on its % annuity income base, thereby increasing the stability of 80 its earnings.
74.5 75 Investec has set itself a target of 75% annuity recur- 71.3 ring income as a percentage of earnings.
While the 69.6 68.7 group strives to achieve this target, it still seeks to 70 maximise its non-annuity income which will be driven by transactional flow and financial market volatility.
65 2000 2001 2002 2003 Consequently, in years of market buoyancy, this ratio could drop to below 70%.
40 Annual Report 2003 Administrative expenses Administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs including wages and salaries, social security and similar pension related costs, business and equipment expenses, and premises and marketing costs.
Administrative expenses declined by 8.4% from 428.5 million in 2002 to 392.5 million in 2003.
31 March % of total 31 March % of total year on year UK GAAP 000 2003 expenses 2002 expenses % change Personnel costs 257 123 65.5% 275 231 64.2% 6.6% Business expenses 74 628 19.0% 79 717 18.6% 6.4% Equipment excluding depreciation 25 569 6.5% 31 980 7.5% 20.0% Premises excluding depreciation 22 303 5.7% 25 855 6.0% 13.7% Marketing costs 12 843 3.3% 15 727 3.7% 18.3% Total administrative expenses 392 466 100.0% 428 510 100.0% 8.4% Included in the numbers in the table above, for the year ended 31 March 2003, is 44.3 million in costs relating to the discontinued operations, broken down as follows: personnel costs 24.0 million: business expenses 11.4 million: equipment expenses 5.7 million: premises costs 3 million: marketing costs 0.2 million.
The following table sets out certain information on Investecs administrative expenses by geography for the period under review: 31 March % of total 31 March % of total year on year UK GAAP 000 2003 expenses 2002 expenses % change South Africa and Other 130 863 33.4% 130 710 30.5% 0.1% UK and Europe 187 767 47.8% 202 893 47.3% 7.5% Australia 11 449 2.9% 10 435 2.4% 9.7% Israel 14 525 3.7% 12 405 2.9% 17.1% USA 3 550 0.9% 14 442 3.4% 75.4% Discontinued Operations 44 312 11.3% 57 625 13.5% 23.1% Total administrative expenses 392 466 100.0% 428 510 100.0% 8.4% Annual Report 2003 41 The following table sets out information on Investecs administrative expenses by division for the period under review: 31 March % of total 31 March % of total year on year UK GAAP 000 2003 expenses 2002 expenses % change Private Client Activities 113 865 29.0% 115 633 27.0% 1.5% Treasury and Specialised Finance 58 824 15.0% 52 292 12.2% 12.5% Investment Banking 45 394 11.6% 56 969 13.3% 20.3% Asset Management 69 182 17.6% 66 585 15.5% 3.9% Group Services and Other Activities 60 889 15.5% 79 406 18.5% 23.3% Discontinued Operations 44 312 11.3% 57 625 13.5% 23.1% Total administrative expenses 392 466 100.0% 428 510 100.0% 8.4% Specifically the variance in administrative expenses can be explained as follows: The Private Banking divisions experienced an increase in expenses largely as a result of increased headcount and an increase in incentive-based remuneration in line with strong growth in profitability.
On the contrary, Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite and the UK Investment Banking divisions costs declined significantly, largely as a result of a sharp decline in incentive-based remuneration given declining profitability.
The decline in personnel expenses was around 6 million and 11 million respectively.
The large decline in expenses in the Group Services and Other Activities businesses can be attributed to the winding down of the US business and the subsequent sale of the clearing and execution business to Fiserv.
Performance Objective Cost to income ratio by geography 2002 2003 The cost to income ratio is still considered UK GAAP 89.1 88.2 % 90 to be high against group objectives.
This has 82.5 79.8 79.8 77.4 76.4 80 largely been as a result of international 72.0 expansion without full scale being realised 70 64.5 62.6 58.2 57.9 60 and declining revenues in certain of the groups businesses.
A strong emphasis on 50 cost containment has been entrenched in 40 the operational philosophies of both 30 business and central units.
Investec has set 20 itself the following targets over the medium 10 to long-term: SA cost to income ratio: 50% 0 South UK & Australia Israel USA Total Non-SA cost to income ratio: 65% Africa & Europe group Other 42 Annual Report 2003 Notwithstanding this nominal value decrease in administrative expenses, the ratio of operating expenses to total operating income increased from 72.0% to 79.8%.
The increase in the ratio is largely attributable to the reduced revenues in the groups equity related activities, particularly the Investment Banking division.
The cost to income ratio in South Africa increased from 58.2% to 62.6%, negatively impacted by the poor performance of the Traded Endowments operations.
The cost to income ratio for the non-South African businesses increased from 80.4% to 92.6%.
Provision for bad and doubtful debts Provision for bad and doubtful debts charged in the profit and loss account increased by 24.8% to 18.3 million largely as a result of increased provisions in the Private Banking operations and the additional provisioning of approximately 2 million made by the Treasury and Specialised Finance division in South Africa.
The percentage of gross non-performing loans to core loans and advances increased from 1.2% last year to 1.5%.
Notwithstanding, total provision coverage of non-performing loans remains conservative both on a gross and net basis with the relevant percentages being 136.8% and 337.4% respectively.
In addition, the groups general provision coverage as a percentage of net loans and advances increased from 1.1% to 1.3%.
Further information on the groups asset quality is provided in the Risk Management Section on pages 125 to 157.
Performance Objective Total provisions as a % of gross non-performing loans Setting a target in this area is susceptible to UK GAAP % 180 economic and market conditions.
The group, 168.5 160 however, strives to achieve a minimum 136.7 134.1 140 coverage of 100% of gross non-performing 117.3 loans.
120 100 In addition, a minimum percentage of 1% of 80 general provisions to total loans and advances 60 is targeted.
40 20 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 Annual Report 2003 43 Operating profit before taxation, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items As a result of the foregoing factors, Investecs operating profit before taxation, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items decreased by 46.5% from 158.6 million in 2002 to 84.8 million in 2003.
The following table sets out information on Investecs operating profit before taxation, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items by geography for the period under review: 31 March 31 March year on year UK GAAP 000 2003 % of total 2002 % of total % change South Africa and Other 68 543 80.9% 81 797 51.6% 16.2% UK and Europe 22 326 26.3% 64 770 40.8% 65.5% Australia 5 976 7.1% 1 232 0.8% 100% Israel 3 496 4.1% 9 129 5.8% 61.7% USA 1 086 1.3% 1 934 1.2% 43.8% Discontinued Operations 16 669 19.7% 295 0.2% 100% Total 84 758 100.0% 158 567 100.0% 46.5% The following table sets out information on Investecs operating profit before taxation, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items by division for the period under review: 31 March 31 March year on year UK GAAP 000 2003 % of total 2002 % of total % change Private Client Activities 40 911 48.3% 42 489 26.8% 3.7% Treasury and Specialised Finance 27 951 33.0% 51 784 32.7% 46.0% Investment Banking 17 294 20.4% 46 293 29.2% 62.6% Asset Management 19 479 23.0% 20 911 13.2% 6.8% Assurance Activities 27 779 32.8% 31 079 19.6% 10.6% Group Services and Other Activities 31 987 37.8% 33 694 21.3% 5.1% Discontinued Operations 16 669 19.7% 295 0.2% 100% Total 84 758 100.0% 158 567 100.0% 46.5% 44 Annual Report 2003 The following table sets out further information on Investecs operating profit before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items by division for the period under review: UK GAAP 000 31 March 2003 2H2003 1H2003 31 March 2002 Private Client Activities Private Banking 34 637 18 078 16 559 26 869 Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking 6 274 2 939 3 335 15 620 40 911 21 017 19 894 42 489 Treasury and Specialised Finance Banking Activities 27 409 16 543 10 866 39 661 Financial Market Activities 542 7 191 7 733 12 123 27 951 9 352 18 599 51 784 Investment Banking Corporate Finance 2 039 3 892 1 853 16 021 Institutional Research and Sales and Trading 2 597 2 631 34 9 637 Direct Investments 4 604 4 593 11 9 223 Private Equity 12 132 11 999 133 11 412 17 294 15 331 1 963 46 293 Asset Management Asset Management 19 479 9 091 10 388 20 911 Assurance Activities 27 779 9 050 18 729 31 079 47 258 18 141 29 117 51 990 Group Services and Other Activities International Trade Finance 1 123 429 694 2 425 Property Worldwide 5 986 3 034 2 952 5 782 US continuing operations 1 041 1 813 772 2 054 UK Traded Endowments 8 945 6 601 2 344 2 531 795 1 325 530 12 792 Central Funding 6 279 6 455 176 7 356 Central Costs 37 471 20 676 16 795 39 130 31 987 15 546 16 441 33 694 Discontinued Operations 16 669 12 080 4 589 295 Total group 84 758 36 215 48 543 158 567 In September 2002, the losses on private client stockbroking were shown as exceptional items i. e. the 4.6 million relates only to Investec Inc. corporate finance activities Annual Report 2003 45 The following table sets out information on Investecs operating profit before taxation, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items by business and geography for the year ended 31 March 2003: Southern UK & Disc.
Total UK GAAP 000 Africa Europe Australia Israel USA Operation group Private Client Activities 14 473 23 273 1 700 1 465 40 911 Treasury and Specialised Finance 31 411 2 850 728 118 27 951 Investment Banking 5 871 6 915 2 711 1 797 17 294 Asset Management 17 715 1 646 118 19 479 Assurance Activities 27 779 27 779 Group Services and Other Activities 28 706 6 658 2 293 2 1 086 31 987 Discontinued Operations 16 669 16 669 Total group 68 543 22 326 5 976 3 496 1 086 16 669 84 758 The following table sets out information on Investecs operating profit before taxation, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items by business and geography for the year ended 31 March 2002: Southern UK & Disc.
Total UK GAAP 000 Africa Europe Australia Israel USA Operation group Private Client Activities 12 832 28 485 2 655 3 827 42 489 Treasury and Specialised Finance 40 466 9 726 1 273 319 51 784 Investment Banking 18 567 20 255 2 724 4 747 46 293 Asset Management 18 154 2 439 318 20 911 Assurance Activities 31 079 31 079 Group Services and Other Activities 39 301 3 865 110 82 1 934 33 694 Discontinued Operations 295 295 Total group 81 797 64 770 1 232 9 129 1 934 295 158 567 A detailed description of the performance of the groups principal divisions as well as its Group Services and Other Activities division can be found on pages 78 to 124.
Furthermore, a detailed description of the performance of the group in the various geographies in which it operates can be found on pages 12 to 15.
46 Annual Report 2003 Goodwill amortisation and impairments The charge for amortisation and impairment of goodwill excluding exceptional items increased by 24.2% from 98.4 million to 122.3 million, of which 116.6 million relates to continuing operations.
Included in this amount is 45.2 million relating to additional impairments on the businesses acquired through the Fedsure acquisition, which was funded by the issue of shares at approximately 20 per share.
Furthermore, included in the total goodwill amortisation charge were impairments of 4.4 million relating to certain other group businesses in Europe.
The following table sets out information on Investecs amortisation and impairment of goodwill by geography for the period under review: UK GAAP 000 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Variance % Change Southern Africa 87 392 65 394 21 998 33.6% UK and Europe 23 979 18 769 5 210 27.8% Australia 5 195 4 879 316 6.5% Israel 33 20 13 65.0% USA 3 592 3 592 100% Discontinued Operations 5 703 5 781 78 1.3% Amortisation and impairment of goodwill 122 302 98 435 23 867 24.2% Share of income of associated companies The marked increase in associate income is attributable to the fact that the groups interest in its main associate, Capital Alliance Holdings Limited CAL was acquired in October 2001.
An amount of 11.3 million before amortisation of goodwill has been accrued, representing Investecs share in CALs estimated operating earnings for the twelve month period ended 31 March 2003.
Exceptional items The following table sets out information on Investecs exceptional items for the period under review: UK GAAP 000 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Variance % Change Provision for losses on termination and disposal of group  9 437 7 056 2 381 33.7% Impairment of goodwill on discontinued operations 19 047 - 19 047 100% Profits on termination and disposal of group operations - continuing 5 800 1 363 4 437 100% Reorganisation and restructuring costs - continuing 6 073 11 836 5 763 48.7% Exceptional items 28 757 17 529 11 228 64.1% Annual Report 2003 47 The exceptional items for the 2003 financial year, fall into four categories, namely: Losses on termination and disposal of the groups discontinued operations amounting to 9.4 million.
The amount includes 19.7 million reflecting the write down of assets and closure costs including settlement of legal action and contract terminations and provisions for future costs to be incurred on the winding down of these businesses.
This was partially offset by a net profit of 10.3 million on the disposals of certain of the businesses in the US as discussed on page 12 and 13.
Unamortised goodwill of 19.0 million written-off in respect of the discontinued operations.
Negative goodwill released to income in relation to the termination of operations previously conducted by the groups 100% held subsidiary, Securities Investment Bank amounting to 5.8 million.
Reorganisation and restructuring costs amounting to 6.1 million incurred in the groups continuing operations as a result of actions taken by the Board over the year to reduce operating costs.
These expenses relate to the reduction in head count and allied costs over the year, plus additional costs incurred for restructuring initiatives largely undertaken in the following businesses: UK Investment Banking, UK Interest Rates business, Traded Endowments, UK Private Banking shift of costs to South Africa.
Taxation The taxation charge has decreased significantly to 5.4 million largely as a result of recoverable tax charges and deferred tax assets raised in the groups UK operations.
The effective tax rate of the groups South African operations has also declined from 27.0% in the prior year to 14.5%, mainly as a result of losses brought forward in the long-term assurance business.
Despite the losses made in the groups US operations a net charge of 6.2 million arose due to the write off of all deferred tax assets as a result of the groups reduced potential to generate sizeable profits in the continuing businesses which would absorb these tax losses.
The following table sets out information on Investecs taxation charge by geography for the period under review: UK GAAP 000 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Variance % Change South Africa and Other 9 967 22 101 12 134 54.9% UK and Europe 13 704 8 014 21 718 100% Australia 2 452 413 2 039 100% Israel 427 3 524 3 097 87.9% USA - 1 852 1 852 100% Discontinued Operations 6 215 3 660 9 875 100% Taxation 5 357 28 540 23 183 81.2% 48 Annual Report 2003 Minority interest Minority interest reflects that portion of Investecs operating profit after taxation that is contributed to the minority shareholders of its subsidiaries.
Loss earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders As a result of the foregoing factors, earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders declined from 15.6 million in 2002 to a loss of 63.6 million in 2003.
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items declined by 30.5% from 127.6 million in 2002 to 88.7 million in 2003.
The following table sets out earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items for the period under review.
UK GAAP 000 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Loss earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 64 019 13 545 Amortisation and impairment of goodwill 122 302 98 435 Profit on termination and disposal of group operations 5 800 1 363 Provision for losses on termination and disposal of group operations net of deferred tax 9 437 80 Impairment of goodwill on discontinued operations 19 047 4 419 Amortisation of goodwill of associates 1 644 821 Reorganisation and restructuring costs - continuing 6 073 11 836 Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items 88 684 127 613 Earnings and dividends per share The following table sets out the relevant earnings per share EPS ratios and the dividends per share DPS for the period under review: UK GAAP pence per share 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 % Change EPS 70.4 14.8 100% Diluted EPS 70.4 13.9 100% EPS before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items 97.6 139.8 30.2% Headline EPS 90.9 126.8 28.3% DPS - interm 26.0 25.9 0.4% DPS - final 28.0 27.9 0.4% Total ordinary DPS 54.0 53.8 0.4% Further information in this regard can be found on pages 253 to 255.
Annual Report 2003 49 Performance Objective Dividend policy Dividend cover Investec intends to maintain a dividend cover UK GAAP of between 1.7 and 2.3 times based on Ordinary dividend paid mn times earnings per share before amortisation of 60 3.0 2.6 goodwill and exceptional items, denominated 50 2.5 in Pounds Sterling and prepared in accordance 40 2.0 1.8 1.8 1.8 with UK GAAP.
Interim and final dividends will be declared and proposed in accordance with 30 1.5 the above policy.
20 1.0 10 0.5 0 0.0 2000 2001 2002 2003 The following table sets out a reconciliation of the number of shares in issue for EPS purposes: Transaction Actual Weighted for UK GAAP date mn EPS mn Notes As at 31 March 2002 92.2 92.2 Per 2002 Annual Report page 147.
Conversion of compulsorily 18 June 2002 9.5 Per circular to members convertible debentures dated 20 June 2002 refer to para 4.2 page 21.
These shares are not included for EPS purposes as they do not rank for dividends.
Conversion of compulsorily 15 July 2002 2 1.4 Per circular to members preference shares dated 20 June 2002 refer to para 4.1.
Transfer of shares to the staff 18 July 2002 5.3 3.8 Per circular to members share scheme dated 20 June 2002 refer to para 4.3 page 21.
New issue in terms of global offering 29 July 2002 4 2.7 Total number of shares in issue at 31 March 2003 113 100.1 Less: weighted average number of own shares various 9.2 Number of shares in issue for EPS purposes as at 31 March 2003 90.9 50 Annual Report 2003 Balance sheet analysis Capital resources Total capital resources increased by 5.6% to 1.0 billion in 2003.
UK GAAP 000 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Subordinated liabilities including convertible debt 276 897 190 659 Minority interests - equity 38 804 33 473 Called up share capital 158 7 530 Share premium account 994 108 814 089 Shares to be issued 2 428 41 148 Revaluation reserves 29 160 11 202 Other reserves 173 877 176 833 Profit and loss account 155 009 37 166 Shareholders funds 696 968 734 302 - Equity 696 968 691 201 - Non-equity 43 101 Capital resources 1 012 669 958 434 Shareholders funds decreased by 37.3 million, primarily reflecting:- 1 Earnings before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items of 89.1 million 2 Goodwill and exceptional items of 152.7 million and 3 Dividends of 53.4 million.
This is offset by the net proceeds of share issues and cancellation of shares of 75.3 million which includes the fresh issue of shares as well as the conversion of all the instruments that took place at the time of implementing the DLC structure.
The balance of the change relates to the revaluation of investment properties of 18.3 million and a currency translation loss of 13.9 million.
Consolidated statements of reconciliations of shareholders funds and movements on reserves UK GAAP 000 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Balance at the beginning of the year 734 302 578 885 - as previously reported 800 555 579 170 - prior year adjustment 66 253 285 Foreign currency adjustments 13 870 69 737 Retained loss for the period 117 026 42 314 Share issues to be issued 112 588 391 526 Cancellation of shares 5 079 134 655 Conversions from debentures 1 343 Issue expenses 32 213 Revaluation of investment properties 18 265 10 254 Balance at end of the year 696 968 734 302 Loan capital increased by 86.2 million largely reflecting the raising of subordinated debt of 44.4 million towards the end of the financial period and the strengthening of the closing Rand Pound Sterling exchange rate of 22%.
Annual Report 2003 51 Net tangible value attributable to ordinary shareholders has increased from 349.4 million in 2002 to 397.2 million in 2003.
The groups return on average tangible net asset value declined from 37.2% to 23.8% and the return on average shareholders funds inclusive of goodwill declined from 19.4% to 12.4%.
Investec plc and Investec Limited are adequately capitalised and exceed the minimum SARB capital adequacy ratio of 10%.
The overall group capital adequacy applying SARB rules to the SA GAAP capital base is 12.6% 2002: 13.1%, on a pure accounting consolidated capital adequacy basis.
Performance Objective Total shareholders funds and capital adequacy Investec intends to maintain a sufficient Shareholders funds Capital adequacy ratio level of capital to satisfy regulatory mn % requirements, as well as take advantage of 15.3 800 16 opportunities that may arise in the financial 13.1 700 12.6 services industry, focusing on increasing the 11.9 600 12 groups return on equity in the medium to long-term.
500 400 8 The group would like to maintain a capital 300 adequacy ratio of between 13% and 15%.
200 4 100 0 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 Performance Objective Return on equity ROE and return on tangible net asset value RONAV Investecs objective is to continue to focus on RONAV ROE increasing the return on shareholders funds UK GAAP UK GAAP ROE, as opposed to nominal capital, through % % 40 37.2 the efficient deployment of its capital base.
35 31.6 29.0 30 Investec has set itself the following targets over the medium to long-term: 23.8 25 Group ROE: 20% - 25% 19.4 20 18.2 16.9 South African ROE: 30% - 35% 15 12.4 Non-SA ROE: 15%-20% Group RONAV: 30% - 35% 10 5 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 52 Annual Report 2003 Net tangible asset value per share In calculating net tangible asset value per share the group assumes that all previously issued Compulsory Convertible Debentures CCDs are treated as equity.
Under UK GAAP however, a portion of these CCDs is treated as debt and not included in shareholders funds.
As a result, the group believes that certain adjustments should be made to the shareholder base which should more appropriately reflect their permanent capital nature.
These adjustments are not required under SA GAAP as the full amount of the CCDs are treated as equity.
UK GAAP 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Notes 000 000 A Shareholders funds 696 968 734 302 Per the balance sheet.
B Convertible debt included Debt component of CCDs in subordinated liabilities 48 830 51 716 included in equity under SA GAAP relating to unsecured, Class A, Class A Series 11, Class B and Class C subordinated CCDs.
Refer to a more detailed explanation of the difference between SA GAAP and UK GAAP on page 385.
C CCDs issued by Investec Limited These CCDs 200,000 included in subordinated liabilities 4 189 relate to the groups staff share schemes.
The balance of these CCDs approximately 1.7 million have largely remained unallocated, and are therefore not included on the balance sheet under UK GAAP.
D Less: Intangible fixed assets 299 773 384 900 Per the balance sheet.
Tangible net asset value 450 214 401 118 Number of shares in issue 113.0 94.2 Refer to page 49. including non-equity shares CCDs 3.6 13.1 Relates to B above.
CCDs 0.2 Allocated in terms of C above.
Number of shares in issue for this calculation millions 116.8 107.3 Tangible NAV per share pence 385.5 373.8 Annual Report 2003 53 Managing the groups capital resources In line with Investecs objective to increase shareholder value through a group-wide discipline that links capital allocation and structuring, performance measurement, investment decisions, and capital-based incentive compensation into one integrated framework, a Capital Committee was established two years ago to oversee the various components contributing towards effective capital management.
The proposed capital management framework seeks to optimise the use of the groups capital by determining: The optimal amount of total capital commensurate with the groups overall risk profile in order to: - Support business strategies, including any growth assumptions inherent therein.
- Meet targeted credit ratings and regulatory ratios.
- Protect against losses, maintain liquidity and buttress the groups capital requirements to cater for future opportunistic acquisitions.
Capital allocation to activities with the most favourable returns and highlighting those activities which are unduly capital intensive.
The most efficient composition of the groups capital base.
Against this background, the Capital Committee manages the capital structure of Investec Limited and Investec plc.
The Chief Executive Officer chairs the Committee, and other permanent members include certain executive and non-executive directors, the Global Head of Finance and the Global Head of Corporate Governance and Compliance.
Management from various disciplines are co-opted onto the Committee where specific expertise is required for example, in relation to tax, exchange control, regulatory compliance, financial products engineering.
An assessment of economic capital utilised In order to assess the return on economic capital utilised, the group believes that certain adjustments should be made to the profit and loss analysis and balance sheet analysis as reflected under UK GAAP.
The group believes that these adjustments are necessary as they reflect the actual utilisation of capital and return thereon, notwithstanding accounting conventions.
"The methodology applied in assessing the utilisation of the groups economic capital is as follows: A portion of central costs incurred in ""Group Services and Other Activities"" is allocated to the business segments in proportion to their utilisation of the group's central functions."
"A notional return on capital net of the cost of subordinated debt which is managed and borne in the centre is allocated from ""Group Services and Other Activities"" to the business segments based on their total capital utilisation."
Shareholders' funds as shown under UK GAAP is increased to reflect permanent capital either reflected under subordinated debt or which are not included as equity in terms of UK GAAP convention.
The final dividend is added back to shareholders' funds which, under UK GAAP, reduces reserves.
54 Annual Report 2003 The following table sets out the calculation of average shareholders funds in terms of economic capital utilised.
000 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Average Shareholders funds including minorities per UK GAAP balance sheet 735 772 767 775 751 774 Add : Convertible debt included in subordinated liabilities 48 830 51 716 50 273 Other capital which is excluded under UK GAAP 26 133 20 249 23 191 Final dividend declaration 28 989 25 779 27 384 Adjusted shareholders' funds 839 724 865 519 852 622 Goodwill per UK GAAP balance sheet 299 773 384 900 342 337 Adjusted tangible shareholders' funds 539 951 480 619 510 285 Operating profit before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items 84 758 Share of profit of associated companies before amortisation of goodwill 11 350 Revised operating profit 96 108 Tax on ordinary activities 5 357 Revised operating profit after tax 90 751 Pre-tax return on average adjusted tangible shareholders' funds 18.8% Pre-tax return on average adjusted shareholders' funds 11.3% Post-tax return on average adjusted tangible shareholders' funds 17.8% Post-tax return on average adjusted shareholders' funds 10.6% Annual Report 2003 55 ROE by division for the year ended 31 March 2003 Disc 000 PB PCSB TSF IB AM ASU GSO Ops Total operating profit 34 637 6 274 27 951 17 294 19 479 27 779 20 637 16 669 Notional return on regulatory capital 19 569 611 22 885 2 712 1 630 2 577 50 098 114 Cost of subordinated debt 7 332 255 7 981 951 606 817 18 003 61 Central cost allocation 5 591 1 577 7 096 3 644 3 686 4 818 26 412 Adjusted earnings losses 41 283 5 053 35 759 15 411 16 817 24 721 26 320 16 616 Adjusted average shareholders funds 210 969 24 532 197 688 51 725 215 924 33 005 116 675 2 104 Adjusted average tangible shareholders funds 186 864 7 161 181 647 23 065 15 175 15 664 78 605 2 104 Adjusted tangible shareholders funds as at 31 March 2003 197 727 7 577 192 207 24 406 16 057 16 575 83 176 2 226 Return on adjusted average shareholders funds 19.6% 20.6% 18.1% 29.8% 7.8% 74.9% 22.6% 100% Return on adjusted average tangible shareholders funds 22.1% 70.6% 19.7% 66.8% 100% 100% 33.5% 100% Where: PB Private Banking PCSB Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking TSF Treasury and Specialised Finance IB Investment Banking AM Asset Management ASU Assurance Activities GSO Group Services and Other Activities Disc.
Operating profit per line of business as reflected under UK GAAP, including share of income of associated companies but before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items.
The remaining loss in the GSO category can be explained as follows: 31 March 2003 Adjusted losses of GSO per table above 26 320 Unrealised surplus on revaluation of investment properties 18 265 Revised earnings 8 055 Analysed as follows : Central costs remaining in the centre 11 059 Traded Endowments 8 945 Property Worldwide 5 986 International Trade Finance 1 123 US continuing businesses operations 1 041 Short-term Insurance Activities 933 Liquidation Activities 755 Remaining surplus generated from central capital 2 111 8 055 56 Annual Report 2003 ROE by geography for the year ended 31 March 2003 Southern UK & Disc.
Total 000 Africa Europe Australia Israel USA Operation group Total operating profit 68 543 22 326 5 976 3 496 1 086 16 669 84 758 Share of income of associated companies 11 333 35 52 11 350 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 9 967 13 704 2 452 427 6 215 5 357 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 69 909 36 030 3 524 3 034 1 138 22 884 90 751 Adjusted average shareholders' funds 326 645 432 500 43 084 48 289 2 104 852 622 Adjusted average tangible shareholders' funds 190 925 244 223 24 744 48 289 2 104 510 285 Adjusted tangible shareholders funds as at 31 March 2003 202 024 258 421 26 184 51 096 2 226 539 951 Pre-tax return on adjusted average tangible shareholders' funds 41.8% 9.1% 24.2% 7.2% 100% 18.8% Pre-tax return on adjusted average shareholders' funds 24.5% 5.2% 13.9% 7.2% 100% 11.3% Post-tax return on adjusted average tangible shareholders' funds 36.6% 14.8% 14.2% 6.3% 100% 17.8% Post-tax return on adjusted average shareholders' funds 21.4% 8.3% 8.2% 6.3% 100% 10.6% The calculations for the US are based on the numbers for the continuing and discontinued operations i. e. average shareholders' funds of 2.1 million and the resultant returns are shown for the US operations as a whole.
Amounts are shown before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items.
Annual Report 2003 57 Total assets Total assets declined by 11.8% from 16.9 billion at 31 March 2002 to 14.9 billion at 31 March 2003.
The following table sets out the groups assets by geography as at 31 March 2003.
Southern UK & Total UK GAAP millions Africa Europe Australia Israel USA group Loans and advances to customers 2 662 1 825 174 236 1 4 898 - Core advances 2 194 1 318 174 236 1 3 923 - Cash and cash equivalents 468 507 975 1 Other interest bearing assets 1 368 3 233 101 537 42 5 281 Interests in associated undertakings 584 62 Long-term assurance assets attributable to shareholders and policyholders 2 645 2 645 Intangible fixed assets 119 165 16 300 2 Other assets 1 361 374 9 40 11 1 773 Total assets 8 213 5 601 300 813 32 14 959 The following table sets out the groups assets by geography as at 31 March 2002.
Southern UK & Total UK GAAP millions Africa Europe Australia Israel USA group Loans and advances to customers 1 948 1 972 118 255 487 4 780 - Core advances 1 635 1 110 118 255 131 3 249 - Cash and cash equivalents 313 862 356 1 531 1 Other interest bearing assets 1 451 5 436 44 635 50 7 616 Interests in associated undertakings 4311 45 Long-term assurance assets attributable to shareholders and policyholders 2 422 2 422 Intangible fixed assets 149 188 21 27 385 2 Other assets 1 289 311 6 42 61 1 709 Total assets 7 302 7 908 189 933 625 16 957 Notes: 1 Includes: cash and balances at central banks, treasury bills and other eligible bills, loans and advances to banks, debt securities.
2 Includes: balance of total assets.
58 Annual Report 2003 Significant variances over the period can be explained as follows: The South African operations experienced a solid growth in all categories of assets largely as a result of the appreciation in the closing Rand Pound Sterling exchange rate over the period.
The assets of the UK operations declined significantly largely as a result of the winding down of the interest rate business during the year.
The Australian operation benefited from the receipt of a banking licence during the period.
The Israeli operation experienced a decline in all categories of assets largely as a result of the depreciation in the closing Israeli Shekel Pound Sterling exchange rate over the period.
The assets of the groups US operations declined significantly as a result of the closure and sale of a number of the businesses, as discussed on page 12 and 13.
Total assets under administration Total assets under administration decreased by 8.2% from 44.2 billion at 31 March 2002 to 40.6 billion at 31 March 2003.
This was mainly attributable to a decline in assets under management of 1.6 billion across all ranges of third party funds due to depressed equity values and the decline in the level of on-balance sheet assets of the group.
The following table sets out the groups assets under administration by geography as at 31 March 2003.
South UK, Africa & Australia, Total UK GAAP millions Other Israel & USA group Retail 2 224 1 994 4 218 Institutional 5 877 5 630 11 507 Private clients 2 066 6 306 8 372 - Private  364 2 681 3 045 - Private  1 702 3 625 5 327 Properties managed for third parties 423 14 437 Acceptances on behalf of clients 2 2 Scrip lending 1 109 1 109 Total third party assets 10 590 15 055 25 645 On-balance sheet assets 8 213 6 746 14 959 Total assets under administration 18 803 21 801 40 604 Note: The Assurance Assets approximately 1.2 billion are included in the on-balance sheet numbers but are managed by Investec Asset Management.
Annual Report 2003 59 The following table sets out the groups assets under administration by geography as at 31 March 2002.
South UK, Africa & Australia, Total UK GAAP millions Other Israel & USA group Retail 1 931 2 232 4 163 Institutional 5 324 6 491 11 815 Private clients 1 696 8 426 10 122 - Private  420 3 842 4 262 - Private  1 276 4 584 5 860 Properties managed for third parties 241 13 254 Acceptances on behalf of clients 3 3 Scrip lending 6 899 905 Total third party assets 9 198 18 064 27 262 On balance sheet assets 7 302 9 655 16 957 Total assets under administration 16 500 27 719 44 219 Note: The Assurance Assets approximately 0.9 billion are included in the on-balance sheet numbers but are managed by Investec Asset Management.
Additional information Number of employees The tables overleaf set out the number of employees by division and by geography over the four-year period to 31 March 2003.
The numbers reflected as at 31 March 2003, will be reduced by approximately 500 people during the first six months of the 2004 financial year, as result of rationalisation processes initiated, but not yet completed during the 2003 financial year.
The group will continue to assess its performance based on the following key indicators: Return on average shareholders funds.
Return on average tangible net asset value.
Annuity income as a percentage of total operating income.
Non-performing loans as a percentage of total loans and advances.
