4 Annual Report 2003 an overview of investecs dual listed companies structure Introduction Central to achieving Investecs mission to become one of the worlds leading specialist banking groups, the group sought to obtain a listing on the London Stock Exchange.
In November 2001, Investec received permission from the South African Minister of Finance and the South African Reserve Bank SARB to establish a Dual Listed Companies DLC structure with linked companies listed in London and Johannesburg.
This structure was implemented in July 2002 and represented a significant milestone in the history of the group.
The listing is a logical step in the groups international expansion strategy.
Investec competes in an increasingly global market where the availability and cost of capital are important.
The London listing should therefore benefit the group by increasing its global profile, enhancing its capital raising ability, lowering its cost of capital and improving access to international capital markets.
Implementation of a Dual Listed Companies Structure A circular regarding the establishment of a DLC structure was issued on 20 June 2002.
In summary, some of the salient features of the DLC structure include: The Investec Holdings Inhold pyramid structure, which had been in place since Investec Group Limited IGL listed on the JSE Securities Exchange South Africa JSE in 1988, was not considered appropriate under the changed circumstances, and Inhold unbundled its entire shareholding in IGL to Inhold members.
At the record date, Inhold members received 86.04 IGL ordinary shares for every 100 Inhold ordinary shares held.
With effect from 19 July 2002 Inhold ordinary shares were suspended on the JSE and the delisting of Inhold from the JSE took place on 26 July 2002.
In terms of the DLC structure, IGL has retained all its businesses in continental Southern Africa and Mauritius and its primary listing on the JSE.
Furthermore, as at 31 March 2003 the UK Traded Endowments business was still owned by Investec Limited.
IGL has been renamed Investec Limited.
Annual Report 2003 5 IGLs other businesses were placed into a UK company, Investec plc, and were unbundled from IGL after the close of business on 19 July 2002.
The mechanics of the IGL unbundling were arranged in such away that for every 100 ordinary shares held by an IGL shareholder, he she received 37 IGL Investec Limited and 63 Investec plc shares i. e. 100 instruments.
Investec plc was listed on the London Stock Exchange on 22 July 2002 and has a secondary listing on the JSE.
Investec plc and Investec Limited are separate legal entities and listings, but are bound together by contractual agreements and mechanisms.
The agreements are designed to ensure, insofar as possible, that the economic and therefore, market value, of a share in one company will be the same as the economic and market value of a share in the other.
The companies have the same Boards of Directors and management - the implementation of the DLC structure did not in any way change the way in which Investec manages its business.
Investec continues to operate as if it were a single unified economic enterprise.
Shareholders have common economic and voting interests as if Investec Limited and Investec plc were a single company: - Equivalent dividends on a per share basis.
- Joint electorate and class right voting.
Creditors are however ring-fenced to either Investec Limited or Investec plc as there are no cross guarantees between the companies.
Regulation of the DLC structure: - The SARB is the lead regulator of the group.
- The UK Financial Services Authority is the regulator of Investec plc while the SARB is the regulator of Investec Limited.
- The Memorandum of Understanding between the two regulators sets out that the role of the lead regulator would change if 70% or more of the on and off balance sheet assets are held by Investec plc.
6 Annual Report 2003 A simplified illustration of the DLC structure SA resident Non-SA resident SA resident Non-SA resident shareholders shareholders shareholders shareholders Sharing Investec plc Investec Limited agreement Non-SA operations SA operations LSE primary listing JSE primary listing JSE secondary listing Further information on the groups DLC structure can be found in the circular mentioned above as well as in the preliminary offering circular issued on 8 July 2002.
A copy of these circulars can be found on the groups website www.
Presentation of financial information Under the contractual arrangements implementing the DLC structure, Investec Limited and Investec plc effectively form a single economic entity, in which the economic and voting rights of shareholders are equalised.
In accordance with this structure, the directors of the two companies consider that for financial reporting purposes, the fairest presentation is achieved by consolidating the results and financial position of both companies using merger accounting principles.
Accordingly, the results for Investec plc set out on pages 222 to 308 presents the results and financial position of the combined DLC group under UK GAAP, denominated in Pounds Sterling.
The results for Investec Limited set out on pages 322 to 384 are also prepared on a DLC basis under SA GAAP, denominated in South African Rand.
The financial information contained throughout this document, other than on pages 322 to 395, has been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
All references in this document referring to Investec or the group relate to the combined DLC group comprising Investec Limited and Investec plc.
SA GAAP differs in certain respects from UK GAAP.
A high-level reconciliation and summary of the principal differences between SA GAAP and UK GAAP is set out on page 385.
