Annual Report 2003 117 group services and other activities Includes: Central Costs, the Central Funding of Investec and Other Activities UK GAAP 000 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 % Change Net interest income 14 330 15 595 8.1% Net fees and commissions receivable 11 084 23 253 52.3% Dealing profits 3 841 15 266 100% Other operating income and dividends 14 607 2 947 100% Provision for bad and doubtful debts 810 2 818 71.3% Admin expenses and depreciation 67 357 87 937 23.4% Operating profit 31 987 33 694 5.1% International Trade Finance 1 123 2 425 53.7% Property Worldwide 5 986 5 782 3.5% US Clearing and Execution Activities 1 041 2 054 49.3% UK Traded Endowments 8 945 2 531 100% Other Activities 795 12 792 100% Central Funding 6 279 7 356 100% Central Costs 37 471 39 130 4.2% Operating profit 31 987 33 694 5.1% South Africa and Other 28 706 39 301 27.0% UK and Europe 6 658 3 865 100% Australia 2 293 110 100% Israel 2 82 97.6% USA 1 086 1 934 43.8% Operating profit 31 987 33 694 5.1% Number of employees 1 159 1 412 17.9% Before taxation, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items.
118 Annual Report 2003 Contribution analysis - % of group total at 31 March 2003 Operating loss Employees Total assets 7.9% 23.8% The division made a loss of Total: Total: 32.0mn 4 874 14 959mn Group Services and Other Activities Investec group Before taxation, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items.
Management structure Chief Integrating Officer Marketing Allen Zimbler Raymond van Niekerk Corporate Governance and Compliance Organisational Development Bradley Tapnack Caryn Solomon Corporate Social Investment Risk Management Lisa Kropman Glynn Burger Economics Research Carole Mason Investec Property Group South Africa Facilities Sam Leon Craig Gunnell Sam Hackner Ronnie Sevitz Group Finance Norbet Sasse Rayanne Jacobson David Donald Human Resources Patsy McCue UK Paul Stevens Information Technology Simon Shapiro ReichmansCapital Howard Tradonsky Investor Relations John Wilks Ursula Munitich Robin Jacobson Secretarial and Tax Selwyn Noik and Richard Vardy Traded Endowments Justin Cowley and Nipan Malde Rob Cohen Annual Report 2003 119 Overview of performance Group Services and Other Activities posted an operating loss of 32.0 million.
The variance in the operating profit over the period can be explained as follows: Net interest income and net fees and commissions receivable were negatively impacted by the poor performance of the US operations and the subsequent sale of the clearing and execution business to Fiserv.
The significant decline in dealing profits can largely be attributed to the poor performance of the Traded Endowments business in the UK.
The business posted an operating loss as a result of a fall off in business activity and bonus rates cuts announced by life insurance companies.
The Group Services and Other Activities division benefited from an increased return on an investment portfolio originally acquired from Investec Employee Benefits and on other long-standing investments.
These developments resulted in an increase in operating income of approximately 10 million.
Administrative expenses were positively influenced by the winding down of the US business and the subsequent sale of the clearing and execution business to Fiserv.
Description of activities and developments Central Costs Central Costs is made up of functional areas that provide services centrally across all of the groups business operations.
Consistent with Investecs philosophy of operating as a single organisation, Central Costs provide integrating mechanisms between the business operations.
As these services do not form part of the four operating divisons, their costs are generally not allocated to any of those divisions.
Investecs principal Central Costs, relating to the operations and control of its business, are Group Risk Management, Group Information Technology, Group Finance, Investor Relations, Group Marketing and Organisational Development.
Other group support services include: Head Office, Internal Audit and Compliance, Legal, Company Secretarial, Tax, Information Center, Regulatory and Facilities.
Central costs of 37.5 million 2002: 39.1 million are allocated as follows: South Africa - 19.3 million 2002: 25.1 million.
UK and Europe - 16.7 million 2002: 14.0 million.
Australia - 1.5 million Group Risk Management and Corporate Governance and Compliance These functions are discussed in detail on pages 125 to 157 and pages 158 to 184 respectively.
Group Information Technology Investecs Group Chief Information Officer is accountable for the overall development of the technology direction of Investec.
The role involves the co-ordination of the information technology resources across 120 Annual Report 2003 Investecs operations and ensuring that all areas of the groups operations have the appropriate processes and controls.
The various information technology applications are electronically integrated through the central financial and risk systems.
Each division is responsible for ensuring best practice and appropriate governance standards in the operation of each of its information technology areas.
These standards, which include business resumption and security, are monitored and considered by Group Operational Risk and Investecs Internal Audit divisions.
The information technology division is structured so that each area has an established information technology capability with a Chief Information Officer who reports in a matrix fashion to the division as well as to the Group Chief Information Officer.
This matrix structure is designed to ensure that the group is agile enough to deal with the ever-changing business environment.
Developments A Group Information Security Officer was appointed to focus on enhancing all aspects of the security of the information assets of the group, including reviewing and upgrading the disaster recovery and response procedures.
The division rolled-out a comprehensive standardised IT risk assessment model that enables it to identify, monitor and mitigate many of the technology risks faced by the group.
Major upgrades and enhancements were made in terms of the South African online banking systems.
This has included a new facility for online statements and other documents that are produced by the group.
The division initiated a number of projects aimed at relocating business functions from the UK to South Africa in order to lower the cost base of the group and these are expected to deliver significant savings in the coming year.
Group Finance In line with Investecs objective to provide its stakeholders with meaningful and accurate information on which to base their investment decisions, Group Finance, working closely with Investor Relations, aims primarily to ensure that Investec operates in accordance with the highest standards of financial reporting discipline and control.
This includes compliance with international best practice for accounting policies, disclosure and adherence to applicable statutory requirements.
The division operates through a combination of local and central management.
Each of the four operating divisions and geographic businesses has its own finance function.
These functions interlink and are responsible for monitoring compliance with statutory, regulatory and management reporting standards.
Group Finance overlays these divisional and regional functions.
It is ultimately responsible for defining, reviewing and analysing all financial information prepared by the divisional and geographic functions, the consolidation of group-wide information, the management and reporting of group capital, the setting of disclosure standards and the dissemination of financial information to internal management and forums for onward submission by Investor Relations.
In addition, Group Finance is responsible for the control and integrity of the finance operating systems worldwide to ensure that all financially related information is provided in the most effective, automated and consistent manner.
Annual Report 2003 121 Investor Relations Investor Relations is responsible for ensuring appropriate communication with stakeholders.
Regular contact is maintained with domestic and international institutional shareholders, fund and asset managers, analysts and rating agencies through a comprehensive investor relations programme.
This includes meetings with executive management, investor road shows, presentations to the investment community, communication by email, regular telephone conferences and liaison with private shareholders in response to their enquiries.
Investor Relations regularly reports back to the operating divisions, the group executive and the board on various matters or concerns raised by stakeholders.
Furthermore, the division maintains a comprehensive investor relations web-site, which ensures that all stakeholders readily have access to historical and current information, including credit ratings, financial results and share price information.
Group Marketing Building the Investec brand is the primary function of Group Marketing which has members in the two main operating areas of the group, that is, Johannesburg and London.
The division takes responsibility for group advertising, sponsorship, events and promotions, publicity, e-branding, brand management and marketing strategy.
Well-defined brand controls cover all branded material, such as printed collateral, advertising, events, e-commerce, signage and interior design.
In addition, the group marketing staff provide strategic and tactical marketing services to the various business units who in some cases also have divisional marketing operatives.
Investec has a monolithic brand architecture and is focused on building equity in the primary brand over the long term.
This Investec brand is positioned as Out of the Ordinary, which is a reflection of the personality and self-image of the organisation.
Elements included in this Investec psyche are: passion, performance, focus and creativity.
This positioning is communicated through all the brand and communication elements and also serves as the requisite standard of performance for the organisation.
Investec advertising makes use of a zebra icon as a visual tool to get immediate recognition and stand out from competition in the cluttered world of marketing communication.
The style utilised is different from the more traditional financial communication styles associated with the majority of our direct competition.
The Zebra campaign runs in the UK, South Africa and Australia, with more limited exposure in Ireland, Mauritius, Hong Kong and the US.
Human Resources As the key enabler of human capital, the Human Resources division is positioned to facilitate superior business performance through the provision of innovative initiatives designed to maximise the groups internal resources and capabilities.
From a global perspective, the Human Resources division is operationally aligned through the South African and UK operations.
Local and global human resources forums, comprising human resources professionals and representatives from the business units, convene regularly to ensure the development of human resources best practice and the alignment of human resources strategy with business strategy.
122 Annual Report 2003 While the approach in aligning human resources and business strategy remains flexible in order to accommodate the geography and business focus of the respective divisions, on a global level the Human Resources division operates through four core areas of activity: Recruitment, focusing on equal opportunity employment.
Compensation and benefits, emphasising employee needs.
The staff share schemes, based on a philosophy of material employee ownership.
Employee relations, focusing on achieving a balance between efficient operation of the business and fair employment practice.
Human Resources works for the well being and development of employees, so helping to ensure that the groups human resources remain a core competitive advantage.
Organisational Development Organisational Development comprises a global team of specialists that provide independent support and consultancy for management.
A key aim is to assist Investec to achieve its strategic objectives by managing transformation as an ongoing, consultative process, rather than as a planned event.
The focus is on facilitating processes that ensure learning, sustainability and the capacity to thrive.
Organisational Development is committed to the creation of an entrepreneurial, collegiate environment in which people are encouraged to engage in open dialogue and debate in the interests of achieving extraordinary performance.
Organisational Development focuses on: Ongoing diagnosis of factors influencing organisational effectiveness.
Designing and implementing processes to address factors inhibiting organisational performance.
Facilitating strategy as a process, not a plan, and ensuring its assisting with implementation of strategic objectives through ongoing consultation and facilitation of customised processes with all business units.
Building awareness of cultural risk and facilitating the understanding and practice of Investecs values, philosophies and culture.
Facilitating effective working relationships between individuals and teams across business units, product areas and geographies.
Facilitating processes to integrate organisations and teams which are acquired.
Facilitating processes to enable teams to work together locally and across borders.
Managing organisational change in a way that is strategically aligned and culturally appropriate.
Central Funding Investec has a business model of maintaining a central pool of capital, to ensure that economies of scale for corporate investments, funding and overall management are obtained.
Investec employs various sources of funding, the determination of which depends on the specific financial and strategic requirements it faces at that time.
The funds raised are applied towards making acquisitions, funding central services and debt obligations, and purchasing corporate assets and investments not allocated to the four operating divisions.
Annual Report 2003 123 Investecs Capital Committee manages the groups central capital pool in order to assist in effective capital management governance.
Further information on the Capital Committee is provided on page 53.
Overview of performance The Central Funding division achieved a significant improvement in its performance, posting operating profit before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items of 6.3 million.
The division benefited from effective capital management facilitated through the groups restructure, as well as increased returns on shareholders funds within Investec Employee Benefits IEB, whose earnings were included for a full year in the current period as opposed to ten months in the prior period.
The year on year increase in operating profit before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items of 13.6 million can largely be explained as follows: Increase in margin income earned on the IEB shareholders portfolio 5 million.
Profit on unwinding of interest rate instruments recognised in 2002 not repeated in 2003 - 4 million.
Mark-to-market losses on the shareholders portfolio in the UK - 1.8 million.
Increase in return on an investment portfolio originally acquired from Investec Employee Benefits and on other long-standing investments 10 million.
Other Activities Other Activities comprise two types of operations: Those that are better managed separately due to the specific expertise that would be diluted if incorporated and split across the business operations.
Those that do not yet fall into one of Investecs four principal business divisions and have been grown organically by Investec or retained following acquisition due to their profitability and diversifying effect on the groups income streams.
These operations include Property Worldwide in South Africa and the UK, International Trade Finance and Investecs UK Traded Endowments business.
Property Division The services provided by the property division in South Africa include management of property investment funds listed and unlisted, property trading and development, property administration and listed property portfolio management.
In South Africa, assets under administration have grown to approximately R8.7 billion by the financial year end, an increase of 18%, making the division one of the largest property managers in South Africa.
The property division in the UK manages a portfolio of commercial properties inherited from the acquisition of Berkeley Hambro in 1998.
As at 31 March 2003, the UK property portfolio had a book value of 29.6 million.
Developments The world-wide property divisions continued to perform well posting an operating profit before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items of 6.0 million 2002: 5.8 million.
South Africa The division has two JSE listed Property Loan Stocks under its management and it is now the second largest manager of listed property vehicles in the South African market.
Metprol and 124 Annual Report 2003 Growthpoint have a combined market capitalisation of approximately R2.4 billion comprising 13.68% % of the combined Property Loan Stock and Property Unit Trust sectors of the JSE.
The Property Trading and Development division continued to perform well and successfully penetrated the market in developing properties and on-selling into the investment market for capital profit in its chosen niches of retail, industrial and commercial property.
It has also successfully moved into residential land conversion coinciding with the growth in that market.
The listed Property Asset Management division was established during the year through the strategic acquisition of Provest, one of South Africas best recognised portfolio asset managers of listed property, servicing both institutional and private clients.
The Property division is well positioned to continue to penetrate the market.
The positive sentiment surrounding South African property, driven by a falling interest rate environment and the current attractive returns relative to other asset classes, provides many opportunities for the division.
UK The property investment market remained buoyant driven by the low interest rate environment and poor performance of other asset classes.
The division consolidated its position on existing projects in an environment of weaker tenant demand.
The property division is increasingly involved in the mezzanine finance for the commercial property lending of the Private Bank.
International Trade Finance Investec acquired its International Trade Finance business, ReichmansCapital, in South Africa in 1990.
The divisions clients are small to medium sized owner managed businesses.
The division offers trade, asset and debtor finance to provide clients with working capital, funding for the acquisition of assets and to facilitate growth.
Developments Operating profit before amortisation and goodwill of 1.1 million 2002:2.4 million.
Reasonable performance from ReichmansCapital with solid growth in the divisions book, despite the strengthening of the Rand during the period.
The division focused on organic growth and exploiting opportunities in existing target markets.
Traded Endowments Investecs traded endowments business, which operates in the UK, was acquired in June 2001 as part of the acquisition from Fedsure.
This business involves the purchase of with-profit endowment policies in the secondary market at a price above their surrender value yet below the asset value.
These policies are then sold to investors who want to diversify their investment portfolios with an insurance product.
Most of Investecs traded endowments clients are UK-based independent financial advisors and a limited number of funds.
Developments The business posted an operating loss of 8.9 million as a result of a fall off in business activity and bonus rates cuts announced by life insurance companies.
The business was significantly rationalised with headcount being reduced from 138 to 38.
