26 DIRECTORS 1 611 2 7 12 3 8 13 4 9 14 510 Directors 27 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 1.
R A Scott, CBE: Non-executive Ken Carter, 60, joined Lloyd Thompson as Tony Hobson, 56, was appointed a Bob Scott, 62, was appointed a non-executive Chief Executive in 1986.
He continued as Chief non-executive director in January 2002 director in January 2002 and is a member of Executive of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group and is Chairman of the Audit & Compliance the Nominations and Remuneration following the merger with JIB Group in February Committee and a member of the Nominations Committees.
He is Chairman of Yell Group PLC 1997 until January 2002 when he was and Remuneration Committees.
He is Deputy and a non-executive director of the Royal Bank appointed Chairman of the Company.
He is a Chairman of Northern Foods plc and a nonof Scotland Group plc, Swiss Reinsurance director of our French associate SIACI SA and a executive director of HBOS plc and Glas Company Zurich, Focus Wickes Group non-executive director of City North Group plc.
Cymru, acting as chairman of the audit Limited, and a trustee of the Crimestoppers committee of these two companies.
He was previously Group Chief Executive 2.
C G R Leach: A Chartered Accountant, he was previously the of CGNU plc, a former Chairman of the Board Deputy Chairman, Non-executive Group Finance Director of Legal & General of the Association of British Insurers and a Rodney Leach, 69, was Chairman of Jardine Group plc for 14 years and was the senior member of the Presidents Committee of the Insurance Brokers, latterly JIB Group plc, independent director of Thames Water plc until Confederation of British Industry.
He was appointed its acquisition by RWE.
non-executive deputy Chairman of the 12.
T R Sermon, FCIS: Non-executive Company in February 1997.
G M T Howe: Non-executive Richard Sermon, 57, was appointed a nonthe Nominations Committee and a member of Geoffrey Howe, 54, was appointed a nonexecutive director in January 1996.
He is the the Audit & Compliance and Remuneration executive director in January 2002 and is a Senior Independent Director and member of Committees.
Other directorships include member of the Audit & Compliance and the Audit & Compliance, Remuneration and Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited, Matheson Nominations Committees and Chairman of the Nominations Committees.
He is Chairman of & Co. Limited and other Jardine Matheson Remuneration Committee.
He is a director of Gryphon Corporate Counsel Limited and Group companies.
The J P Morgan Fleming Overseas Investment associated private companies and a nonTrust plc, Ahli United Bank UK plc and executive director of The PBN Company 3.
S P McGill, ACII: Chief Executive Investec plc.
He is also an adviser to a number Limited and The Defence Storage and Steve McGill, 46, joined Lloyd Thompson in of leading professional service organisations.
A Chartered Secretary 1989 and was appointed a director of the He was formerly Chairman of Railtrack Group and a member of the Investor Relations Society, Company in December 1996.
He was plc, a director and group general counsel of he was formerly Chief Executive of Shandwick appointed deputy Chief Executive in January Robert Fleming Holdings and managing partner International plc.
He is also active in the not-for- 2001 and Chief Executive of Jardine Lloyd of Clifford Chance.
profit sector where he is Chairman of London Thompson Group in January 2002.
He is also Youth and of The Home Improvement Trust and Chairman of the Group Executive Committee, 9.
S L Keswick: Non-executive a Member of the Board of the City and Guilds JLT USA Inc and our Employee Benefits Group.
Simon Keswick, 61, was a non-executive of London Institute and The London Chamber He is a director of the International Insurance director of JIB Group plc between 1988 of Commerce & Industry.
Society, Inc and Vice President of the Insurance and 1997 and was appointed a director Institute of London.
of the Company in January 2001.
G W Stuart-Clarke: Finance director His other directorships include Jardine George Stuart-Clarke, 55, was appointed 4.
C Chouraqui France : Non-executive Matheson Holdings Limited, Matheson & Co. Finance Director of the Group in May 1994, Claude Chouraqui, 67, was a director of JIB Limited and other Jardine Matheson Group having been a non-executive director since May Group plc between 1991 and 1997 and was companies.
He is a director of Hanson PLC 1991.
He is a member of the Group Executive appointed a director of the Company in and The Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust Committee.
He was previously managing February 1997.
He is Chairman of our French plc.
He is a member of the Audit & Compliance, director of Arlington Securities Plc, prior to associate, SIACI SA and a member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
which he spent twelve years in corporate Nominations Committee.
finance with Hill Samuel & Co. Limited.
A D J B Collins John Lloyd, 48, was one of the founder 14.
V Y A C Wade Dominic Collins, 47, joined Lloyd Thompson members of Lloyd Thompson in 1981 and Vyvienne Wade, 42, joined JIB Group in 1987 in 1984 and was appointed a director of the was Chairman of Lloyd Thompson Group plc as Group Legal Adviser.
He is a member of the between 1993 and 1997.
He was reappointed member of the Inner Temple, she has been Group Executive Committee and Chief a director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Group Legal Director of Jardine Lloyd Executive of JLT Risk Solutions.
He is a plc in January 2002 having previously served Thompson Group plc since 1997 and is a non-executive director of Tribal Group plc.
on the Board between July 1993 and member of the Group Executive Committee.
He is a member of the She was appointed a director of Jardine Lloyd 6.
J P Hastings-Bass Group Executive Committee and Chairman Thompson Group plc in January 2002.
John Hastings-Bass, 49, joined the Jardine of JLT Risk Solutions.
He was a director of JIB Group plc between 1996 and 1997 and was appointed a director of the Company in February 1997.
He is a member of the Group Executive Committee and Chairman of JLT's worldwide retail broking operations outside the United States.
