Chief Executives review 13 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 OUR STRENGTHS WE PLAY TO OUR STRENGTHS - OUR PEOPLE, OUR EXPERTISE AND OUR EMPHASIS ON EXCEEDING THE EXPECTATIONS OF OUR CLIENTS.
We continue to put our Client service These increasing demands of clients provide In all sectors of our business, we are JLT with the opportunity to demonstrate its clients first.
Our most senior seeing the demands of clients increasing.
commitment to delivering first class service.
personnel are involved in In Risk & Insurance, many clients are still The more demanding clients become, the working directly with finding it difficult to purchase adequate greater the opportunities for JLT.
insurance cover at a price they consider clients and we seek to acceptable.
Todays clients require brokers Our people recruit and retain the very who can not only identify the most We have an extremely strong team of best in the industry.
appropriate solution but, as importantly, business leaders, management and staff have the skill and determination to execute throughout the world and as each year goes the deal and then follow up with outstanding by we keep adding to this strength, depth levels of service.
In 2005, our UK Risk & Insurance business During the last year we have recruited will be required to become authorised by the many high quality industry professionals, FSA.
Much of the work is already underway in continuing to achieve our aim of attracting preparation for this change, which will people of the highest calibre.
We have stated undoubtedly add further costs to doing constantly our belief that we must maintain business.
Whilst we are still working to our position as the employer of choice in our understand the detailed application of the industry.
This means not only attracting, but regulation, we do welcome this move as it also retaining, the best talent.
should ultimately be to the benefit of our industry and our clients.
In Employee Benefits, clients are concentrating more on their core competencies and are choosing to outsource various non-core activities.
In the rapidly changing employee benefits marketplace, clients rightly expect service providers to be leaders in best practice whilst also providing an efficient and cost effective service.
14 This we continue to do as evidenced by our This is perhaps best demonstrated through Our success is due to high levels of staff retention.
To retain staff we our Industry Focus Groups which currently the outstanding efforts must ensure that they feel an affinity with the include communications and technology, of our staff throughout organisation, its goals and, most importantly, construction, life sciences, marine its culture.
This is what sets JLT apart from transportation, mining, oil & gas and power.
These draw together the best expertise professionalism and from the Group worldwide to provide cutting technical ability have Our staff also have a right to expect edge solutions in a growing number of commitment from JLT and that commitment industry sectors.
made JLT what it is was most recently evidenced by our decision today.
I believe we have to make a special one-off contribution A consistent feature of JLT has been its senior a team that will relish any of 50 million to the UK pension scheme management having day-to-day involvement in 2004. in working closely with clients and the challenges we face and markets in which we trade.
The benefit of capitalise fully on the Teamwork will always be a very important this is two-fold.
Firstly it ensures that our many new opportunities characteristic of our culture.
We encourage clients continue to get the very best levels interaction between employees across the of attention.
As importantly, it also provides open to us.
I cannot whole Group with an emphasis on identifying JLTs senior personnel with first-hand and thank them enough for all the most appropriate solutions to meet each up-to-date knowledge of the issues in our that they do.
Putting diverse skills together markets, providing an invaluable insight when to address these needs is natural to us.
planning the future direction of the Group.
Accessibility and fast decision-making is what our clients need and this is what they get.
We are committed to understanding the ever-changing needs of our clients and Steve McGill, Chief Executive the industries in which they trade.
15th March, 2004 Chief Executives review 15 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 ALL THIS GIVES US THE CONFIDENCE THAT WE HAVE THE RIGHT COMPONENTS IN PLACE TO ENSURE JLT WILL CONTINUE TO ADAPT AND SUCCEED.
