Chief Executives review 5 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 OUR PERFORMANCE A STRONG UNDERLYING PERFORMANCE FROM AROUND THE WORLD.
Dividend growth 20.5p 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 2003 was a year of Risk & Insurance - investing for the future In JLT Risk Solutions, our position has been JLTs Risk & Insurance Group continued to strengthened by further significant recruitment further progress for JLT, make good progress with 12% growth in combined with bolt-on acquisitions as we with good growth in revenue and an increase in trading profit continue the drive for leadership in our revenue, trading profit and of 8%.
The trading margin fell slightly from chosen sectors.
This was most evident in 28% in 2002 to 27%, reflecting the costs aviation insurance broking where we achieved profit before tax.
associated with the recruitment and a leadership position of real significance after acquisitions undertaken during the year and we acquired a high quality team of 68 and in also the changing composition of business international property, where we acquired a within JLT Risk Solutions.
team of 16, considerably strengthening our existing capabilities.
JLT Risk Solutions JLT Risk Solutions achieved 10% revenue Capital Risk growth in 2003 at constant rates of exchange.
During the year significant steps were taken The majority of our business units achieved to expand Capital Risk, our US specialty strong growth, with the notable exception of retail insurance broking operation.
our high margin aviation and marine This began in the first quarter with the reinsurance broking operations in London and acquisition of Texas Specialty and culminated our reinsurance business in the US, which in December with the acquisition of HCCs were adversely affected by the hard market specialty life, accident and health insurance and the resultant change in the requirements broking business.
Today, Capital Risk has of clients.
over 130 employees in eight US offices.
Our Bermuda operation and Agnew Higgins The level of revenues achieved by Pickering again achieved excellent results.
Capital Risk in 2003 exceeded our expectations, although the Groups trading margins were inevitably impacted by associated start-up costs in the short term.
6 Performing in all our territories A strong performance was also achieved by Employee Benefits in the US saw modest Internationally, JLT has had an impressive our UK & Ireland retail broking operations, growth of 2% at constant rates of exchange, year and continues to demonstrate how our which benefited from the strategic withdrawal but achieved a meaningful improvement in culture, strong management and a clear from less profitable lines in 2002.
Revenue margin, from 11% in 2002 to 14% in 2003. strategy can achieve excellent results.
growth was 18% 17% at constant rates of exchange in 2003.
Our track record Australia and New Zealand had an excellent JLT has a track record of performing well, year, with revenue up 16% at constant Employee Benefits - whatever the prevailing market conditions.
rates of exchange and further strengthening good underlying growth of our market position was achieved in Our Employee Benefits Group delivered Although we face inevitable challenges going the areas of local government and a 5% increase in revenues at constant rates forward, the most obvious of which is the workers compensation.
Importantly, the trading margins weakness of the US dollar, our underlying continued to improve, with efficiencies and business is strong.
We are already beginning Canada continued its successful growth an evolving business strategy starting to to see the benefits of our recruitment and in revenue, up 23%, with particular success bring greater rewards.
In the UK and Ireland, acquisition strategy in 2003. in public sector accounts, oil & gas, mining revenue grew by 8%, although underlying and utilities.
growth was 15% excluding one-off pension Notwithstanding the challenges we face, review work.
The trading margin improved we see exciting opportunities to develop our In Asia, revenue increased 13% at constant from 11% to 13%.
business and continue to view the future rates of exchange, with particular new with confidence.
business successes in Singapore, Malaysia, After significant investment in recent years, Indonesia and the Philippines.
including the acquisition of Burke Ford and Abbey National Benefit Consultants, we are The trading margin in Australasia and now beginning to see levels of growth that Asia showed further improvement to 28% reflect the real potential of this business.
and 24% respectively and endorses our 2004 has started well with a strong new view that significant margins are possible business pipeline.
