28 DIRECTORS REPORT Principal activities and business review Relationship with Jardine Matheson Group Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc is a Trading: during the year the Group continued holding company, the principal subsidiary to have a number of arms-length trading and and associated undertakings of which are non-trading links with Jardine Matheson engaged in insurance & reinsurance broking Group companies, the financial implications and employee benefits.
A review of the of which are given in note 35 on page 76.
Groups trading activities and prospects is included in the Chairmans Statement, Business services: Jardine Matheson provides Chief Executives Review and Operational internal audit and certain other services to the Reviews on pages 2 to 20 and should be Group on an arms-length basis.
read as part of this report.
Trademark: The Company has entered into a Results and dividends licence agreement with Jardine Matheson The financial statements deal with the Bermuda Limited permitting the use of the results of the Group for the year ended Thistle trademark.
Jardine Matheson has 31st December, 2003 which are shown the right to terminate the agreement if its on pages 42 to 77.
The profit attributable interest in the share capital of the Company to shareholders amounted to 72,804,000 falls below 30%.
Shareholder Ordinary shares % Held JMH Investments Limited 28,757,494 14.26 The directors recommend the payment of a Matheson Insurance Investments Limited 19,518,149 9.68 final dividend of 12.0p net per share which, Boxwick Limited 4,094,400 2.03 together with the interim dividend of 8.5p net Matheson & Co. Limited 11,394,873 5.65 per share paid in October 2003 amounts to a Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited 63,764,916 31.62 total dividend of 20.5p net per share 2002: Silchester International Investors Limited 24,520,207 12.16 18.5p net per share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 4th May, 2004 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 2nd April, 2004.
Fixed assets Details of the changes in the fixed assets of the Group are shown in notes 17 and 18 on pages 58 to 59.
Substantial shareholders At the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the following major interests, each representing 3% or more of the existing issued ordinary share capital see table below.
JMH Investments Limited, Matheson Insurance Investments Limited, Boxwick Limited and Matheson & Co. Limited are wholly owned subsidiaries of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited, which has a total interest in 63,764,916 ordinary shares being 31.62% of the issued capital of the Company.
Jardine Strategic Holdings Limited is interested in the shares of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited under Section 203 2 b of the Companies Act 1985.
Directors report 29 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Directors Both the Board and the external auditors - monitor the independence of the The directors shown on page 27 held have safeguards in place to prevent the auditors and, specifically, to establish office at the date of this report and served compromise of the auditors independence a policy for the use of the auditors for throughout the year.
Details of services provided non-audit services.
by the Groups auditors are set out in Ken Carter, Simon Keswick, Steve McGill note 11 on page 55.
The Committee reviews the auditors' and Vyvienne Wade will retire in accordance independence on an annual basis.
with the Companys Articles of Association The external auditors also report regularly on at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the actions that they have taken to comply During the year, the Remuneration Committee and, being eligible, will offer themselves for with professional and regulatory requirements comprised Rodney Leach, Tony Hobson, re-election.
and current best practice in order to maintain Geoffrey Howe, Simon Keswick, Bob Scott that independence.
Geoffrey Howe was The service contract for Mr Keswick is appointed Chairman of the Committee in subject to a three month notice provision.
Compliance statement place of Rodney Leach effective from The Company is required to give 364 days The Board: at the date of this report the Board 1st November, 2003. notice under the service contracts with is comprised of seven executive directors, Ken Carter, Steve McGill and Vyvienne Wade.
including the Chairman and Chief Executive, The Remuneration Committee is responsible and seven non-executive directors.
for setting the remuneration and terms and Full details of the directors remuneration and There are established formal procedures for conditions of employment of the executive interests are shown in the Remuneration the structure and authorities through which the directors of the Company.
During the period, no director had any Board discharges its responsibilities for the the allocations under all long term incentive material interest in a contract, disclosable direction and management of the Group.
schemes and share option schemes.
pursuant to s. 317 Companies Act 1985, to The Board meets regularly to review the which the Company or any of its subsidiary performance of the Group and to discuss During the year, the Nominations Committee undertakings was a party.
matters which it has reserved to itself for comprised Rodney Leach Chairman, decision, as well as any other matters that are Ken Carter, Claude Chouraqui, Tony Hobson, Share capital referred to it.
It has established a number of Geoffrey Howe, Simon Keswick, Bob Scott Movements in share capital of the Company standing committees including an Audit & and Richard Sermon.
during the year ended 31st December, 2003 Compliance Committee, a Nominations are set out in note 26 on page 63.
Its purpose is to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of directors of At 31st December, 2003, the authorised share The Audit & Compliance Committee consists the Company.
capital of the Company was 12,500,000 of entirely of non-executive directors and its which 10,074,778 had been issued.
Of the membership during 2003 was Tony Hobson The Group Executive Committee is remaining unissued capital, 384,209 has Chairman, Geoffrey Howe, Simon Keswick, responsible for the management of the been reserved for the exercise of options Rodney Leach and Richard Sermon.
It is comprised of six under the Companys various executive and The Terms of Reference of the committee executive directors and two non-Board sharesave share option schemes detailed in include all matters indicated by the appointees.
The Board acknowledges that it has not Unissued and unreserved capital at The Committee generally meets at least four complied fully with the Code during the 31st December, 2003 was 2,041,013. times per year.
It meets with executive year with regard to the composition of the directors and management, as well as Remuneration Committee.
Corporate governance separately with both the external and internal Compliance with Combined Code: during auditors, to: In the context of the Code and its definitions 2003 the Company has complied with the as it applied in 2003, one half of the Board provisions set out in the 1998 Combined - review and advise the Board on the Groups is non-executive and a majority of the nonCode that applied for the year the Code interim and annual financial statements, its executives are independent.
The four except to the extent disclosed in the accounting policies and on the control of its independent non-executive directors are Compliance Statement.
financial and business risks: Tony Hobson, Geoffrey Howe, Bob Scott - review the nature and scope of the work and Richard Sermon.
A majority of the Audit The Code was revised in July 2003 and to be performed by the external and internal & Compliance Committee is independent as applies to companies with reporting years auditors, the results of this audit work and was required by the Code.
Whilst a majority beginning on or after 1st November 2003. of the response of management: of the Remuneration Committee is The Company will therefore report on its independent, it is not wholly comprised of compliance with the new Code in the - make recommendations on the independent directors and in this respect the Annual Report for 2004. appointment and remuneration of external Group did not comply with the Code.
auditors and to monitor the performance of the auditors: 30 DIRECTORS REPORT Rodney Leach deputy Chairman and Accountability and audit These include procedures to identify and then Simon Keswick both served on these The Board has overall responsibility investigate all types of risk.
committees during the year and both are for the Groups systems of internal control directors of Jardine Matheson Holdings and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Compliance and legal: the Groups legal, Limited which has a 31.62% interest in the The implementation and maintenance compliance and quality control departments Company.
The Board believes that the of the risk management and internal control establish compliance policy and carry out continued presence of Messrs Leach and systems are the responsibility of the regular audits.
The scope of work includes Keswick on the Board and its committees Executive Directors and Senior Management.
ensuring compliance with laws, regulations subject to re-election under the Articles is The system is designed to manage, rather and conduct of business which is reported to appropriate and in the interests of the than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Board and Audit & Compliance shareholders generally and does not detract business objectives and can provide only Committee.
from independence of judgement on any reasonable assurance, but not absolute relevant issue.
The non-executive directors assurance, against material mis-statement Going concern: the directors consider that the bring to the Board a wide range of experience or loss.
Group and the Company have adequate and expertise and the knowledge held by resources to continue in operational existence Messrs Leach and Keswick from the long Directors responsibilities: the following in the foreseeable future.
Consequently, the standing relationship between Jardine statement should be read in conjunction financial statements have been prepared on Matheson and JLT is particularly valuable.
with the Auditors report on page 41. a going concern basis.
The directors are required to present for each The relationship with Jardine Matheson is accounting period financial statements which Internal control: the directors acknowledge maintained on an arms-length basis as give a true and fair view of the state of affairs that they are responsible for the Groups detailed in note 35 on page 76. of the Company and the Group at the end of systems of internal control and for reviewing the financial year and of the profit or loss of their effectiveness.
Richard Sermon is the Senior Independent the Group for that period.
are prepared on the going concern basis Internal financial controls: the present unless it is inappropriate to presume that the framework of financial controls may be Directors remuneration: full details of Group will continue in business.
The financial summarised under the following headings: directors remuneration and a statement of statements must be prepared in compliance the Companys remuneration policy is set with the required formats and disclosures of Organisational structure: there are clearly out in the Remuneration Report on pages the Companies Act 1985 and with applicable defined areas of responsibility and limits of 34 to 40. accounting standards.
It is also the authority within the Group.
Annual budgets responsibility of the directors to ensure that are approved by the Board following detailed Relationship with shareholders: The Board arrangements are made for the maintenance reviews by management.
Group results are endeavours to maintain a dialogue with of adequate accounting records, to safeguard reviewed against budget and reported to the institutional shareholders and carries out a the assets of the Group and to prevent and Board on a regular basis.
programme of meetings and presentations detect fraud and other irregularities.
each year following the publication of interim Treasury: treasury policy is reviewed and and final results.
The directors confirm that suitable accounting approved by the Board and a review group policies, consistently applied and supported reporting to the Finance Director and Audit & At the Annual General Meeting, the Chairmen by reasonable and prudent judgements and Compliance Committee is responsible for of the Audit & Compliance, Nominations and estimates, have been used in the preparation monitoring treasury activity and performance.
Remuneration Committees will be available to of the financial statements and that applicable The Group has policies to cover the key answer questions.
accounting standards have been followed.
treasury activities of investment of funds, counterparty risk, foreign exchange and Operating Company controls: the interest rate risk.
identification and mitigation of major business risks is the responsibility of Cash and investments mostly consist of operating management.
Each operating money market deposits, commercial paper, company maintains controls and procedures certificates of deposit and money funds with appropriate to its own business environment prime banks and institutions.
while conforming to Group standards and guidelines.
Directors report 31 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 The Group maintains a counterparty policy Monitoring of risk is facilitated internally by The Group is an equal opportunities based on published rating criteria to limit the functional management and assurance gained employer and bases all decisions on individual concentration of funds and the exposure with through financial, compliance and quality ability regardless of race, religion, gender, age any one party.
Monetary limits are assigned to based auditing.
Significant failures are or disability.
each counterparty based on an agreed scale reported to the executive directors to ensure in relation to their rating.
Applications for employment by disabled persons will always be fully considered, The Group adopts a prudent approach to The Groups procedures for the management having regard to their particular aptitudes and the management of its US dollar foreign of risk have been reviewed by the Board abilities.
Should employees become disabled, exchange exposure by maintaining a hedging during the year.
The annual risk profiling every effort will be made to ensure that their programme based on the use of forward report has been reviewed by the Audit & employment with the Group continues and, foreign exchange contracts and, to a lesser Compliance Committee on behalf of the in the event that they are unable to continue extent, options with the objective of selling Board which is satisfied that appropriate to work, that their financial interests are forward a minimum of 50% of US dollar processes and procedures are in place in safeguarded.
It is the intention of the Group income projected to arise during the following order to identify and manage the significant that opportunities for training, career 12 months and 25% of that expected to arise risks faced by the Group.
development and promotion of disabled over the subsequent 12 months.
persons should, as far as possible, be Interest rate risk arises on the interest As noted above, the overall responsibility for identical with those for other employees.
earnings from both own and fiduciary funds internal controls within the Company and its held in the Group.
The Group policy is to subsidiary undertakings rests with the Suppliers protect its sterling and US dollar interest directors of the Company.
Reviewing and The Group agrees payment terms with earnings by maintaining on a rolling 12-month monitoring the effectiveness of such controls suppliers when it enters into contracts for the basis a minimum hedged position.
forms part of the duties of the Audit & purchase of goods or services and seeks to Depending on market conditions this Compliance Committee.
Monitoring abide by those terms when it is satisfied that minimum can alter between 25% and 75% procedures include detailed reviews of the supplier has provided the goods or of projected interest earnings during the operating company systems which are services in accordance with the agreed following 12 months and between zero and routinely undertaken by internal audit.
At 31st December, 50% over the subsequent 12 months.
The responsibility for internal controls within 2003 the Company did not have any direct associated undertakings rests essentially with external supplier creditors.
The Group does Risk management controls: in accordance the senior management of those operations, not have a standard or code which deals with the Code, a process has been the role of the Group being to monitor its specifically with the payment of suppliers.
established for identifying, evaluating and investments and to exert influence, normally managing risks faced by the Group.
Donations This process has been in place for the full During the period the Group made financial year and up to the date the financial Investment appraisal: major items of capital charitable donations totalling 246,000 statements were approved.
No political donations The Board is also responsible for the overall were made by the Group.
The Group conducts a formal annual strategy of the Group, including acquisitions risk profiling review to identify and profile and related due diligence requirements.
Annual General Meeting the significant risks, both operational and The notice convening the Annual General strategic, faced by the Group and to review Employment policies Meeting to be held on 30th April, 2004 the effectiveness of risk management It is the policy of the Group to provide an at 12 noon at 6 Crutched Friars, London controls including loss prevention and environment in which individual talents can EC3N 2PH is contained in the circular recovery planning.
This exercise involves the excel.
Employee involvement is encouraged accompanying this report.
The special senior management across the Group and with wide share ownership and participation in business comprises the following items: covers a broad range of risks, including share option schemes.
the renewal, within prescribed limits, of: operational, financial treasury, information technology, health & safety, human resource Employees are kept informed of the i the authority of the directors to allot and legal areas.
performance of the Group and all matters securities of the Company up to the affecting them as employees by means of available unissued capital: regular briefings and consultation.
ii the disapplication of the statutory preemption rights: 32 DIRECTORS REPORT iii the authority of the Company to Save for the allotment of shares under the purchase, for cancellation, its own shares Companys share option schemes or as may by way of market purchases: arise with the acquisition of minority interests, the directors have no present intention of iv a waiver of the requirement arising under utilising the authority under i and ii above.
Rule 9 of the City Code on Takeovers The directors will only consider making and Mergers, that Jardine Matheson purchases of the Companys shares if they Holdings Limited, together with parties believe that it would be in the best interests deemed to be acting in concert with it, of shareholders and would result in an be required to make a general offer for improvement in earnings per share.
the Company by reason of the change in its percentage holding in the capital of Auditors the Company arising from any such It is proposed that the auditors, purchase under  LLP, having iii above: signified their willingness to continue in office, be reappointed auditors of the Company.
v the approval of a new Long Term A resolution proposing their reappointment will Incentive Plan for the executive directors be put to the Annual General Meeting.
as referred to in the Remuneration Report and detailed in the circular: By order of the Board D J Hickman, Secretary vi adoption of a new Employee Share 15th March, 2004 Ownership Trust as described in the circular: vii approval of updating amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company which are described in the circular: and viii updating amendments to the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme as described in the circular.
