Chief Executives review 7 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 OUR MARKETS THE DYNAMICS OF CHANGING MARKETS PRESENT JLT WITH THE GREATEST OPPORTUNITIES.
Risk & Insurance The market is witnessing rate reductions in Factoring in systemic risks, insolvencies and certain classes, such as short-tail property.
the scope for catastrophic loss, and the ability Return to underwriting for profit Conversely, there is a continued rise in the for the market to surprise clearly remains.
2003 saw the market move to a state of need for, and cost of, insurance for financial fragile stability, with supply and demand and professional risks, such as directors & Historically, the financial success of an finding an equilibrium not present in 2002. officers liability, errors & omissions and underwriter was a combination of skilful professional indemnity.
Our belief is that, underwriting coupled with returns on A benign year for claims and a tougher pricing overall, the market will remain disciplined investment income.
In todays economic environment provided insurers and reinsurers in its underwriting approach through to the environment of low interest rates and poor the opportunity to begin to rebuild their end of 2005. equity returns, the focus has to be on balance sheets.
Gone are the days The one certainty about being in the risk of writing purely for premium income.
Although stability of sorts has been business is that it brings uncertainty.
achieved, we do not expect rates to decline The insurance market will continue to deliver to the degree they have in the past.
surprises and, when they come, they will often be unpleasant.
There are many factors that drive a stable profitable market.
These include: disciplined underwriting - not a feature of the market generally over the last 25 years: and adequacy of reserves - as the sins of the past continue to affect the prospects of the future.
8 Employee Benefits The proposed tax simplification of the many Human Resource outsourcing trend existing pension regimes is likely to lead to The requirement for integrated HR systems Competitive employment markets demand for consulting services and and efficient data management has grown accelerate the shift to defined contribution as companies seek greater levels of efficiency A competitive employment market and the demand for more flexible working pensions.
This will require flexible and quality of management information.
conditions and benefits means that broader pension planning, particularly at senior For many companies, the time and thinking is required regarding employee executive levels.
Products such as SIPPs are investment required makes outsourcing of gaining in popularity, as more people look to HR functions an attractive proposition.
This is resulting in an increasing number of companies introducing flexible take control over their pension provision.
US Employee Benefits The continued trend towards defined In the US, much work has been done to contribution pensions creates opportunities improve margins and exit unprofitable lines UK Pensions reforms The financial implications of UK accounting to provide run-off services for defined benefit of business.
Key areas for growth include the standards including FRS 17 are leading schemes.
This creates further opportunities development of our dental and medical to an increased focus on the true cost of to secure long-term revenue income as administration and claims services business.
typically these schemes take 20 to 30 years providing defined benefit pension schemes.
These costs have increased substantially to run-off.
Our ability to deliver cost efficient claims through factors such as longer life administration and claims management expectancy and lower anticipated real rates Life companies reviewing strategy services continues to be valued in a market The UK life insurance sector has been where underlying costs continue to rise.
impacted by lower investment returns, increased life expectancy and greater The rapidly changing marketplace provides scrutiny over delivering client expectations.
JLT with significant opportunities to continue As a result, life companies are rethinking to grow its employee benefits business.
unprofitable pension strategies and reviewing operating business models and the impact of increased regulatory solvency.
Chief Executives review 9 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 JLT HAS A HISTORY OF PERFORMING STRONGLY IN DIVERSE MARKET CONDITIONS.
THIS HAS NOT BEEN ACHIEVED BY STANDING STILL.
IT IS BUILT ON A CLEAR STRATEGY, OUR CORE STRENGTHS AND A DETERMINATION TO SUCCEED...
