10 OUR STRATEGY WE ARE VERY CLEAR ABOUT THE WAY FORWARD FOR JLT.
In 2003, we took advantage of significant It continues to be our objective to further At JLT, we have always opportunities to recruit high quality individuals strengthen our capabilities and broaden our been cautious but and teams and to make bolt-on acquisitions.
international reach, whilst remaining selective determined in our These opportunities have enabled us to build in our approach.
out our business in a way that has simply approach, choosing not been possible in recent years.
We see Building a strong US based business only to operate where these opportunities continuing, allowing us We have substantially invested in the we are or can become to further strengthen our business in the expansion of Capital Risk in the US to build a years ahead.
national specialist network with the credibility market leaders.
This core to compete against the giant global broking principle, which has Balanced insurance mix firms, whilst maintaining good relationships served us so well in the JLT has strength and capability in key with our regional broking partners.
There is industry sectors and expertise in all the clearly the need in the US for clients to be past, remains just as major classes of insurance and reinsurance.
provided with more choice and the early applicable for the future.
We also have a presence in many of the key successes of the expanded Capital Risk economies around the world.
This means we underlines the potential for this business.
are well placed to meet the needs of corporate clients, including the largest international organisations.
Chief Executives review 11 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 To continue this momentum and to maximise Growing Employee Benefits Our strategy for life companies is to form synergies between our US insurance and Building our Employee Benefits business will partnerships around the servicing of corporate reinsurance operations, we have created give us a balance against insurance market pension products with high levels of complexity, JLT USA, a holding company for Capital Risk cycles, as well as the secure revenue stream as this plays to our technical strengths and and JLT Re Solutions.
generated by many longer-term contracts.
We see excellent opportunities to grow our UK Employee Benefits US Employee Benefits US business still further through continued We are focused on forming service In the US, our future focus will be on the recruitment and bolt-on acquisitions and partnerships for clients in the life & pension development of our administrative and claims we are extremely enthusiastic about its and corporate sectors, both of which face services to US insurance carriers, where we future prospects.
increasing challenges in dealing with technical have a strong proposition.
Companies need to Expanding our international presence make best use of their assets and we are We are targeting value-added plan In addition to our US expansion plans, well placed to provide services that reduce administration in the dental and medical we will continue to grow our businesses costs and capital investment, as well as schemes market where both our service in existing territories including our highly maintaining and enhancing service.
ethos and our claims adjudication strengths successful operations in Asia and Australasia.
meet key client buying criteria.
Our strategy focuses upon maximising Furthermore, we are looking to develop our position in the traditional occupational In addition to increasing revenues, there a presence in new territories that offer pensions market, where the management remains scope to improve our profit margins the greatest potential for growth, such as of legacy schemes and products has through the effective deployment of IT and Latin America.
significant long-term value, and applying our business process efficiencies.
capabilities to defined contribution schemes.
Another area of strategic focus is benefits consulting, where there is a growing market for the design and administration of employee share option schemes, flexible benefit schemes and related employee reward programmes.
12 Acquisitions to accelerate growth We will also look to acquire individuals, JLT continues to look at potential acquisition teams and portfolios of business.
This has opportunities in both our Risk & Insurance been a particularly successful approach in and Employee Benefits Groups.
our Risk & Insurance Group and a strategy However, these must offer a cultural fit with we will continue to pursue in the future.
JLT, and they must meet our aim of only being in those sectors where we are, or can Many of our competitors are facing become, a market leader.
Finally, of course, challenging times and we are poised to they must also be at the right terms.
capitalise on any resultant opportunities.
JLT is presented with many acquisition opportunities and we reject most because they do not meet our demanding criteria.
