Introduction Introduction revenue, cost, asset or liability.
Products are aggregated to form the attribution methods and non-financial data sources on an ongoing basis and, regulatory Business and activities.
where deemed appropriate, will make improvements.
Depending on the nature of the change, this may require Oftels prior consent as specified The amounts of revenue, cost, and capital employed attributed to Businesses, under Condition 78 of the Licence.
activities and components depend critically on the methods of attribution adopted.
Typically, in a fully allocated accounting system, a range of Impact of Oftel Direction dated 27 November 2002 attribution methods is available.
In selecting appropriate attribution methods and appropriate non-financial data for use within the attribution models Amongst other matters, the Direction amended the Transparency principle employed in the production of these Current Cost Financial Statements, BT to read as set out on page 2 of the Accounting Documents dated 19 has had to make certain estimates and exercise its judgement, having regard September 2003, expressly to give consideration to the views of a suitably to the regulatory principles, including cost causality and objectivity, in order informed reader.
to comply with the requirements of the Accounting Documents.
The detailed processes by which revenues, costs and capital employed are attributed to In the time available BT was unable to implement this new principle in Businesses are set out in the Detailed Attribution Methods document the respect of the Current Cost Financial Statements for the year ended 31 DAM dated 19 September 2003.
To obtain copies of the DAM see page March 2002.
BT agreed with Oftel to re-consider the regulatory accounting 131. documentation, for the purposes of the Current Cost Financial Statements for the year ending 31 March 2003.
Therefore, BT has increased the level of The Current Cost Financial Statements include the current cost adjustments detail and granularity of the documentation to meet the regulatory principle.
prepared under the financial capital maintenance convention, including adjustments to historical cost depreciation and fixed assets to reflect current The Direction required BT to amend the form and content of the statement values.
The valuation methods are set out in the Detailed Valuation of costs on a current cost basis as part of the Financial Statement to the Methodology the DVM dated 19 September 2003.
To obtain copies of the Network Business such that the Network components listed at Annex A of DVM see page 131. the Direction are disclosed.
However, from 1st April 2003 improvements have been made to the distribution of Product Management, Policy and The detailed methods by which the long run incremental costs and stand Planning PPP costs identified as proper to Private Circuits.
These costs alone costs have been calculated are set out in the Long Run Incremental have now been apportioned directly to the relevant Private Circuit Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters the R&P dated 19 September components.
Consequently the Product Management, Policy and Planning 2003.
To obtain copies of the R&P see page 131. for Private Circuits component is no longer shown on the Network Statement of Costs.
The Direction also required BT to exclude all redundancy items The Current Cost Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2002 are from the Network Business for the year ended 31 March 2003. prepared in accordance with the detailed attribution processes, valuation methods and calculations for long run incremental costs and stand alone costs set out in the DAM, DVM and R&P all dated 6 December 2002.
BT seeks to review and update non-financial data used within the attribution models at least annually.
Certain non-financial data employed for the purposes of the Current Cost Financial Statements has been determined by sampling techniques appropriate to that data.
