Statement by the Director General continued Statement by the Director General continued prepare additional financial information to Oftel that will provide Disclosure Issues Disclosure Issues further analysis and reconciliation information to the Financial Statements.
It is important that the information presented in the Financial Statements adequately complies with regulatory obligations such as demonstrating cost orientation and non-discrimination.
I highlight below where and how issues Comments on the Financial Statements Comments on the Financial Statements regarding the level of detail and disclosure i. e. for cost components, volumes etc relevant to these Financial Statements are being taken forward 9.
This is the first set of Financial Statements to be prepared incorporating all by Oftel.
of the improvements required under the Direction referred to in paragraph 6 above.
I welcome the commitment and effort.
BT have displayed in the Partial Private Circuits course of its implementation.
My comments on issues for further work by both Oftel and BT in the remainder of this Statement need to be seen in this 14.
As indicated within the 'Review of the retail leased lines, symmetric context.
broadband origination and wholesale trunk segments markets' published 11 April 2003, I have commenced an analysis of BT's PPC costs with a view to setting a longer-term PPC price control.
This work will involve identifying Transparency Transparency the relevant network components, usage factors and services necessary for setting price control and consequently underpin obligations for cost 10.
The Detailed Attribution Methodology, Detailed Valuation Methodology orientation and non-discrimination.
and Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Relationship and Parameters are complex documents.
In the time available to me before publication, I have Wholesale Line Rental not formed a view on whether there are any issues in relation to BT's implementation of the revised principle of transparency, which may require 15.
As set out in my Wholesale Line Rental - Oftels Conclusions Statement further work.
published on 11 March 2003, I am reviewing the detailed reporting requirements as part of the WLR2 implementation programme.
Property Issues Property Issues Interconnect Specific Basket 11.
I am continuing my work, referred to in my statement last year, to review the regulatory accounting treatment of the sale and leaseback transaction 16.
In my Review of the Fixed narrowband wholesale exchange line, call with Telereal and the subsequent regulatory accounting treatment of origination, conveyance and transit markets Explanatory Statement and ongoing property rentals, which is referred to in note 3 c of these Notification published 26 August 2003, I stated that I had commenced a Financial Statements.
review to examine the costs and the recovery basis of PPP charge, one of the principle elements of the Interconnect Specific basket.
In addition, Note 2 c of the Financial Statements refers to a provision of involve reviewing all the elements, including network activities, comprising 198m against the costs of vacating and disposing of surplus office space.
am seeking further information about this provision in order to assess its regulatory accounting treatment.
