Introduction Introduction The Accounting Documents set out the framework under which the Current Applicable rate of return Applicable rate of return Cost Financial Statements are to be prepared.
The Accounting Documents also contain an Annex setting out those parts of Licence Condition 78 see The applicable rate of return for the Systems Business is 13.5% per annum, New Regulatory Regime above referred to in these statements.
To obtain except in relation to Access Network Facilities, for which the applicable rate copies of the Accounting Documents see page 131. of return for the year ended 31 March 2003 is 14.3%.
Hybrid Adjustment Hybrid Adjustment Basis of preparation Basis of preparation In its Direction of 27 November 2002 the Direction, Oftel required BT to Following the restructuring completed on 19 November 2001, the ultimate exclude all redundancy items from the results of the Network Business.
holding company of the BT group is now BT Group plc referred to together Previously, these costs had been excluded only from the calculation of the with its subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures as the long run incremental costs LRIC of the Network Business, via an Group.
Substantially all the Businesses and activities of the Group are adjustment which was known as the Hybrid Adjustment.
For the purposes carried out by British Telecommunications plc and its subsidiary and of these Financial Statements, the exclusion of the redundancy costs from associated undertakings and joint ventures.
the LRIC continues to be referred to as a Hybrid Adjustment.
BT does not believe this adjustment is appropriate and has presented the LRIC results of In accordance with the Accounting Documents, the Financial Statements and the Network Business both with and without the Hybrid Adjustment.
The the Standard Service Statements are prepared by disaggregating balances profit and loss account and the statement of mean capital employed of the recorded in the general ledgers and other accounting records of the Group Network Business exclude redundancy costs, as required by the Direction.
maintained in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and used, in accordance with that Act, for the preparation of the Group statutory consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 March 2003 and 31 Significant items within the 2003 Financial Statements Significant items within the 2003 Financial Statements March 2002 respectively the Statutory Financial Statements.
The structure of the Businesses defined by the Licence see New Regulatory Significant items in the Current Cost Financial Statements for 2003 are Regime, above does not correspond to the way in which the Group is explained in full in note 2.
These items relate to: organised for management and accounting purposes.
The Current Cost Financial Statements are therefore produced by overlaying the requirements a Concert unwind and reintegration into BT: of the Licence as above on the management and accounting structure of b Sale of fixed asset investments and group undertakings: the Group.
c Property matters: d Mobile Business: As far as possible, revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are directly e Product Management, Policy and Planning costs for Private Circuit associated with a product or component using information held within the components: Groups accounting records and are directly attributed to that item.
Where f Local Loop Unbundling LLU set up costs: no such direct association is possible, the remaining revenues, costs, assets g Redundancy.
and liabilities are apportioned between two or more Businesses, activities or components using a fully allocated accounting system and employing In addition, note 3 f describes the restatement of the Current Cost Financial apportionment bases that reflect as far as possible the causality of the Statements of the Residual Business for 2002.
