Introduction Introduction Business Business Disaggregated activity Disaggregated activity New Regulatory Regime New Regulatory Regime Network - With effect from 25 July 2003, the licensing regime for telecommunications Retail Narrowband Access Business companies was replaced with a new regulatory approach based on a general Residential authorisation to offer electronic communications networks and services.
This change is required to implement the new EC Communications Directives, Retail Systems Local calls which entered into force on 24 April 2002 and which require the repeal of the National calls licensing regime for telecommunications systems in the UK under the International calls Telecommunications Act 1984.
The key change is that the need to obtain a Calls to mobile licence prior to operating a telecommunication system is to be replaced by a Public Payphones general authorisation to provide electronic communications networks and Private Circuits services.
However, the 2002 03 Financial Statements have been prepared Other Retail Systems Business under the requirements of the licensing regime that existed prior to 25 July Mobile - 2003 consistent with a Continuation Notice issued by Oftel on 23 July 2003.
Apparatus Supply - References below, and elsewhere in these Financial Statements, to Supplemental Services - Condition 78 and the Licence should be read in this context.
The Residual - contents of the Accounting Documents also reflect this situation.
British Telecommunications plc BT is required, under Condition 78 as Statements of long run incremental cost LRIC for the Network Business set out in Schedule 1 of the Continuation Notice of the Licence granted to it are also included within the Financial Statements of that Business.
by the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry on 22 June 1984, as amended the Licence as above, Condition 78 is subject to a Continuation Notice Brief definitions of the Businesses and their activities are set out on pages issued by Oftel on 23 July 2003, to prepare Financial Statements under the 125 and 126. current cost convention in respect of each Business, as defined within the Licence and amended by Direction under the provisions of licence condition 78.14, regarding the regulatory Financial Statements of British Accounting Documents Accounting Documents Telecommunications plc dated 27 November 2002 the Direction, and insofar as a Business has been disaggregated in terms of activities of the The Current Cost Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2003 are Business, each activity of that Business the Current Cost Financial prepared in accordance with the Accounting Documents dated 19 September Statements.
2003 the Accounting Documents, which were initially agreed between BT and Oftel on 31 March 1995 and modified with Oftels agreement, as required The Current Cost Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2003 by Condition 78 of the Licence see New Regulatory Regime above.
have been prepared for the following Businesses, and the following activities within those Businesses: The Current Cost Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2002 were prepared in accordance with the Accounting Documents dated 6 December 2002.
