Ten Largest Equity Investments at 30th June 2003 Valuation 1 Company Country Sector 000 % Pfizer USA Pharmaceuticals 10,365 3.1 A leading global pharmaceutical company with dominant positions in cardiovascular and pain therapies.
Pfizer, with its highly rated sales force, is also marketing partner of choice for smaller pharmaceutical companies.
Citigroup USA Banking 9,655 2.9 Citigroup is the largest diversified financial services holding company in the world.
It provides a broad range of financial services to consumer and corporate customers around the globe.
The Companys services include investment banking, retail brokerage, corporate banking, insurance and cash management products and services.
With such broadly diversified revenue streams, Citigroup offers earnings and profitability stability well above that of its peers throughout the economic cycle.
Vodafone UK Telecoms 7,161 2.2 Vodafone is a leading provider of mobile telecommunication services.
The company has a dominant position in each of its key markets and has a geographically diverse earnings base, offering a full range of voice and data services.
Total Fina France Oil & Gas 6,985 2.1 Total Fina produces, refines, transports and markets oil and natural gas and undertakes exploratory work.
The company operates in over 100 countries.
The diversified nature of the business together with a strong balance sheet enable this company to be at the forefront of the industry in innovation and efficiency.
Microsoft USA Computer Software 6,5832.0 Microsoft Corporation develops, manufactures, licenses, sells and supports software & Services products.
The company offers operating system software, server application software, business and consumer applications software, software development tools, and internet and intranet software.
The company has the pre-eminent global operating system franchise which affords consistent growth coupled with high margins.
Altria USA Consumer Staples 6,300 1.9 Altria is the holding company for the Phillip Morris US and International cigarette brands.
Altria also has a controlling interest in Kraft Foods.
Both companies have premium positions in their respective industries, yet are under-appreciated by the market.
Exxon Mobil USA Oil & Gas 5,394 1.6 Exxon Mobil operates petroleum and petrochemicals businesses on a worldwide basis.
The companys operations include exploration and production of oil and gas, electric power generation and both coal and minerals operations.
With substantial scale efficiencies and broadly-diversified reserves and production capabilities, Exxon Mobil are leading the industry.
Johnson & Johnson USA Pharmaceuticals 5,201 1.6 Johnson & Johnson encompasses three main business lines: a consumer business, a focused pharmaceuticals portfolio and a fast growing medical technologies business.
The company continues to generate consistent growth at a reasonable valuation.
GlaxoSmithKline UK Pharmaceuticals 5,128 1.6 GlaxoSmithKline is a broad-based pharmaceutical company.
Although pricing and generic concerns have made this a difficult operating environment for GlaxoSmithKline, the business continues to offer an attractive valuation with under-recognised long-term growth potential.
United Technologies USA Industrials 4,9231.5 United Technologies encompasses a wide variety of businesses including lifts, air conditioning units, aero engines and helicopters.
Exceptional management of the company has yielded consistent shareholder returns from this portfolio of businesses that offers broad exposure to the industrial sector.
Total 67,695 20.5 1 Based on total assets less current liabilities of 329.4m.
