Directors Report Business of the Company Going Concern The Company carries on business as an investment After making enquiries, the Directors consider that trust and was approved by the Inland Revenue as the Company has adequate resources, an an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 appropriate financial structure and suitable of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for management arrangements in place for it to the year ended 30th June 2002.
In the opinion of continue in operational existence for the the Directors, the Company has subsequently foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue conducted its affairs so that it should continue to to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the qualify.
The Company will continue to seek accounts.
approval under Section 842 of the Income and Payment Policy Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
Approval for It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms the year ended 30th June 2002 is subject to review for all business and therefore there are no should there be any subsequent enquiry under standard payment terms.
In general the Company Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Company is agrees with its suppliers the terms on which not a close company for taxation purposes.
The business will take place and it is our policy to Company is an investment company within the abide by these terms.
As at 30th June 2003, the meaning of Part VIII of the Companies Act 1985.
Company had no outstanding trade creditors.
A review of the Companys activities and prospects Directors is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 1 The Directors of the Company at the end of the and 2 and in the investment managers report on year together with their beneficial interests in the pages 3 to 6. ordinary share capital are given below: Revenue and Dividends 30th June 2003 1st July 2002 Gross revenue for the year totalled 8,251,000 and Richard Barfield 4,621 1,253 distributable revenue after deducting interest, Simon Davies 500 500 administrative expenses and taxation amounted to Geoffrey Howe 4,062 1,843 3,847,000.
Raymond Mould 5,094 5,094 The Directors recommend a dividend of 5.0p per George Paul 15,000 15,000 share payable on 1st December 2003 to holders on John Rennocks 1,000 1,000 the register at the close of business on 31st October No changes in interest have been notified by any 2003.
This distribution will absorb 3,547,000 Director as at the date of this report.
No Director which results in a transfer to the revenue reserve has an interest in the Companys debenture stock.
The revenue reserve after this transfer will amount to 12,014,000.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Directors retiring by rotation are Mr George Paul Investments and Mr Simon Davies.
Being eligible, both The investments were valued at 326,986,000 as Directors offer themselves for re-election at the at 30th June 2003.
The notes to the accounts show forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the basis of this valuation.
A list of the Companys investments is given on pages 16 to 18.
Mr Raymond Mould has resigned from the Board and will not therefore be standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
20 JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Directors Report continued During the year an insurance policy has been accrued but not paid can be and is reduced by the maintained by the Company which indemnifies the extent of any underperformance in subsequent Directors of the Company against potential years.
Any adjustment in respect of liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
underperformance is deducted at the first opportunity from any amount accrued in respect of Management previous years outperformance.
The Companys assets are managed by J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited The amount of any performance fee paid in any JPMFAM.
one year is capped at 0.8% previously 0.4% of the published net assets of the Company at the JPMFAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan end of the relevant period.
Any excess is carried Chase & Co. which, through other subsidiaries, forward until paid in full or offset against also provides banking, dealing and custodian subsequent underperformance.
The results for the services to the Company.
year ended 30th June 2003 give rise to a Management and Performance Fee performance fee writeback of 980,000 as the The Manager and Secretary, JPMFAM, is employed total return did not exceed the benchmark.
The under a contract terminable on one years notice.
cumulative performance fee accrued in the accounts based on prior years outperformance The management fee is calculated and paid and this years writeback is 5,653,000, of which monthly in arrears at a rate of 0.4% per annum of 2,447,000 is payable in the current year.
The the Companys total assets less current liabilities, balance of 3,206,000 remains payable in future with the exception of the US smaller companies years but will first be reduced by any future portfolio on which the rate is 1% per annum.
managed or advised by JPMFAM or any of its associated companies which are held in the Notifiable Share Interests Companys portfolio of assets, are excluded from At the date of this report the following had the management fee calculation and therefore declared an interest in 3% or more of the attract no direct fee.
Companys ordinary share capital: Number of A performance fee is payable if the total return Shareholders shares held % attributable to shareholders change in net asset value plus dividend exceeds the total return of the 1 J. P. Morgan Chase & Co. 12,109,864 17.1 Companys benchmark by more than 0.5%.
The Included within this are terms of the performance fee were changed with the following: effect from 1st July 2002.
The performance fee JPMF Investment Trust Fund 4,823,142 6.8 payable is 15% previously 20% of any excess of JPMorgan Fleming Managed Growth plc 3,900,000 5.5 the total return excluding the effect of share 2 Cogent Nominees 3,964,009 5.6 buybacks over the benchmark total return.
Payment of any amount earned under the 1 Non-beneficial.
performance fee in any relevant period is spread 2 Held on behalf of JPMFAM Share Plan, PEP and ISA equally over four years.
Any performance fee JPMorgan Fleming Overseas 21 Directors Report continued Auditors A management agreement between the Company Following the conversion of our auditors, and JPMFAM sets out matters over which the , to a limited liability Manager has authority.
All other matters are partnership LLP from 1st January 2003, reserved for the approval of the Board.
 resigned on 21st May The Board meets on at least four occasions each 2003 and the Directors appointed its successor, year and between these meetings there is regular  LLP, as auditors.
A contact with the Manager who provides the Board resolution to reappoint  with appropriate and timely management LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed information.
JPMFAM also provide company at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board Corporate Governance regularly reviews both the performance of, and the To ensure the appropriate level of corporate contractual arrangements with, the Manager.
The governance, the Board has put in place Directors also have access, where necessary in the arrangements which it believes are suitable for an furtherance of their duties, to independent investment trust and which enable the Company to professional advice at the expense of the comply with the Principles of Good Governance Company.
and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code, Board Committees published by the Committee on Corporate The Board has appointed a Nomination Committee Governance in June 1998.
The Board considers that which meets when necessary to select and the Company has complied with the provisions propose suitable candidates for appointment to contained within Section 1 of the Combined Code the Board.
throughout the year ended 30th June 2003.
The The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the Board also considers that it has complied with the Remuneration Committee and reviews Directors principles of the AITC Code of Corporate fees on a regular basis.
The following describes how the relevant principles of governance are applied to To ensure its independence from the Manager, the the Company: Audit Committee excludes from membership any Director who is employed by, or who is a former The Board employee of JPMFAM, or any of its subsidiaries or The Board consists solely of non-executive associated companies.
The Audit Committee meets Directors, all but one of whom are independent of at least twice each year.
The Committee reviews the Companys Manager, including the Chairman.
the terms of the management agreement and Geoffrey Howe was, until 31st December 2000, a examines the effectiveness of the Companys Director of Robert Fleming Holdings Limited.
internal control systems, receives information from The Company has complied with the provisions of the Managers Compliance Department and also the Combined Code with regard to the re-election reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost of Directors every three years.
The Boards policy effectiveness and the independence and on tenure is that after every nine years, Directors objectivity of the external auditors.
The Directors should submit themselves to annual re-election by statement on the Companys system of internal shareholders.
22 JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Directors Report continued Directors Remuneration safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper Directors fees are set at a fixed rate of 30,000 for accounting records and ensure that information the Chairman, 20,000 for the Chairman of the used within the business, or published, is reliable.
Audit Committee and 17,500 for each other However, such a system is designed to manage Director.
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide In aggregate, fees must not exceed 150,000 per reasonable, but not absolute assurance against annum.
Directors fees are reviewed regularly and fraud, material misstatement or loss.
any increase in the aggregate amount requires both Board and shareholder approval.
Since investment management, custody of assets and administrative services are provided to the Relations with Shareholders Company by JPMFAM and its associates, the The Board regularly monitors the shareholder Companys system of internal control mainly profile of the Company.
comprises monitoring the services provided by At the Companys Annual General Meeting, the JPMFAM and its associates, including the operating Directors and representatives of the Manager are controls established by them, to ensure that they available in person to meet and answer meet the Companys business objectives.
In addition, a presentation The key elements designed to provide effective is given by the investment managers which reviews internal control are as follows: the Companys activities.
Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive During the year, the corporate brokers, the review by the Board of key investment and investment managers and JPMFAM hold regular financial data, including management accounts, discussions with institutional shareholders.
The revenue projections, transaction analysis and Directors are made fully aware of their views and performance comparisons.
responses are tailored as necessary.
The Chairman and Directors make themselves available as and Management Agreement Appointment of a when required to address shareholder queries, manager and custodian regulated by the FSA, which are normally channelled through the whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a Secretary.
Internal Control Management Systems Inclusion in the Managers The Combined Code requires the Directors at least system of internal control of organisation annually to conduct a review of the effectiveness agreements which clearly define the lines of of the Companys system of internal control and to responsibility, delegated authority, control report to shareholders that they have done so.
JPMFAM s Compliance has extended the previous requirement which Department regularly monitors compliance with focused on internal financial controls, and now FSA rules.
encompasses a review of all controls, which the Investment Strategy Authorisation and Board has identified as including business, monitoring of the Companys investment strategy financial, operational, compliance and risk and exposure limits by the Board.
The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of The Directors are responsible for the Companys the Companys system of internal control by system of internal control, which is designed to monitoring the operation of the key operating JPMorgan Fleming Overseas 23 Directors Report continued controls of the Manager and its associates as JPMFAM views seriously its obligation to follows: exercise voting authority over shares for which it has responsibility worldwide.
Proxies the Board, and its Audit Committee, reviews increasingly contain controversial issues the terms of the management agreement and involving shareholder rights, corporate receives regular reports from JPMFAM s governance and social concerns, among Compliance Department: others, which deserve careful review and the Directors review the report on the internal consideration.
Exercising proxy votes has controls and the operations of its custodian, economic value for our clients and, therefore, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is independently we consider it to be our fiduciary duty to audited: and preserve and protect the assets of our clients, including proxy votes, for their exclusive the Directors review every six months an benefit.
It is the policy of JPMFAM to vote in a independently produced report on the internal prudent and diligent manner after careful controls and operations of JPMFAM.
review of each companys proxy statement on By means of the procedures set out above, the an individual basis.
Our voting decision is Board confirms that it has reviewed the based exclusively on our reasonable effectiveness of the Companys system of internal judgement of what will best serve the financial control for the year ended 30th June 2003. interests of the beneficial owners of the Socially Responsible Investment SRI security.
In determining our vote, we do not The following, which has been reviewed and and will not subordinate the economic approved by the Board, is a summary of JPMFAMs interests of our clients to any other entity or policy statement on socially responsible interested party.
investment: Annual General Meeting JPMFAM has adopted a positive engagement A resolution relating to the following item of approach to SRI issues.
Specific assets or types special business will be proposed at the of assets are not excluded on purely social, forthcoming Annual General Meeting: environmental or ethical criteria unless Repurchase of the Companys shares specifically requested by clients.
Rather, The Company did not repurchase any shares for analysts take such issues into account as part cancellation during the year.
of the mainstream analytical process.
JPMFAM At the Annual General Meeting held on 26th then engages with company management on November 2002, shareholders gave authority to specific environmental and sustainability the Board to enable repurchases of up to 14.99% issues either at company meetings or by coof the then issued share capital.
At that time ordinated use of its proxy votes.
shareholders were informed that this authority Corporate Governance and Voting Policy would expire on 31st December 2003 or the The following, which has been reviewed and conclusion of the Companys Annual General approved by the Board, is an abbreviated version Meeting in 2003.
This being so, a resolution will of JPMFAMs statement on corporate governance be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General and voting policy: 24 JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Directors Report continued Meeting that the Company be authorised to immediately before the day on which the purchase purchase in the market up to 10,632,716 shares is made.
The minimum price that the Company will or, if less, the number of shares which is equal to pay for a share will be 25 pence the nominal value 14.99 per cent of the Companys issued share of each share.
The Company will utilise the capital as at the date of the passing of Resolution authority to purchase shares on an ad hoc basis by 7 set out in the Notice of Annual General either a single purchase or a series of purchases as Meeting, using its realised capital reserves.
The and when market conditions are appropriate.
actual cash required to repurchase shares will be The authority to purchase shares will last until the met either from cash available or from selling earliest of 26th May 2005, the conclusion of the investments in the portfolio.
Companys Annual General Meeting in 2004 or The decision as to whether the Company when 14.99 per cent of the issued share capital has repurchases any shares will be at the absolute been acquired.
The authority may be renewed by discretion of the Board and purchases will be shareholders at any time at a General Meeting.
made in the market and at prices below the prevailing net asset value per share.
Under the By order of the Board rules of the London Stock Exchange, the maximum J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, price that may be paid on a purchase by a Secretary company of its shares under a general authority is Philip Jones 105 per cent of the average of the middle market 9th October 2003 quotations of the shares for the five business days JPMorgan Fleming Overseas 25
