Investment Managers Report Peter Harrison Ed Walker INVESTMENT MANAGERS Global stockmarkets again produced disappointing In terms of currencies, the US Dollar continued to returns over the year, combined with significant weaken over the period.
The Euro rose over 16% volatility.
The year encompassed 2 significant falls against the US Dollar, briefly reaching an all time and 2 significant rallies in major markets.
In order to prevent a significant strengthening of the Yen, the Japanese Early in the period, stock markets were weak amidst authorities intervened a record 60bn in the six concerns about the strength of the global economy, months to the end of June.
and continued worries related to corporate credit worthiness and corporate governance and Despite the overall weakness in the Dollar, the US accounting issues.
Although markets did rebound was the best performing major stockmarket, during October and November, major stockmarkets although the S&P500 still fell 7% in sterling terms.
ended the first half of the year in negative territory, In contrast to last year, the technology-heavy with Germany the worst performing market, falling NASDAQ index outperformed the broader market, by over a third in sterling terms.
Elsewhere, the UK market fell over 10%, and Continental Europe by The second half of the year proved to be equally 15%.
In Asia, the Japanese market fell 21% and the volatile.
Global stockmarkets were again under Pacific Basin fell just 1%, due to strength of the pressure in early 2003 as nervousness surrounded Australian currency.
the build-up to military action in Iraq.
Oil prices rose to a 12 year high and confidence fell, leading Telecommunications was the best performing to concerns that the stimulus given by low interest sector, largely driven by the performance of the rates and increased government spending would incumbent European operators, whose debt and not be enough to offset these factors.
However, the share prices both rallied as the operators relatively swift conclusion of hostilities, combined aggressively pared back capital expenditure and with better than expected first quarter profits soon used their free cashflow to pay down debt.
Consumer confidence performing well in the second half, for the year as also rebounded in the aftermath of the conflict, a whole, cyclical sectors such as materials and allowing markets to progress steadily upwards industrials were among the worst performers.
JPMorgan Fleming Overseas 3 Investment Managers Report continued The following table provides a breakdown, relative to Performance the benchmark, of the contributions to total return.
During the year, the Companys performance was 1.8% behind the benchmark.
This shortfall was Performance attribution for the year largely due to the Companys borrowing, where the to 30th June 2003 1 Year difficult environment in the equity markets led to % the returns on assets failing to meet the costs of Net asset value total return in sterling terms 11.6 borrowing.
Positive stock selection was evident in Benchmark total return in sterling terms 9.8 the UK and Japan, and in the technology and Relative return 1.8 consumer staple sectors.
Asset allocation and Analysis of relative return Currency effect 0.1 currency effects, in total, were not material Allocation effect 0.2 contributors to relative performance.
Stock selection effect 0.3 Gearing Cash effect 1.5 Management fees and other expenses 0.6 Activity Performance fee 0.5 Other Residual item 0.4 The overall structure of the fund in geographical Total 1.8 terms was little changed during the year.
The Source: Frank Russell JPMFAM AITC Fundamental Data.
largest deviation from benchmark was the underweight to North America, where we Definitions Performance attribution: Analyses how the Company achieved continued to find many large companies trading at its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
Currency effect: Measures the impact of currency exposure a significant premium to comparable companies in differences between the Companys portfolio and its benchmark.
Exposure to Japan was modestly It also identifies the effects of holding forward currency contracts or currency futures.
increased, but on a highly stock specific basis.
The Allocation effect: Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios portfolio continues to avoid Japanese banks and weighting in different countries, sectors, or asset types.
Stock selection effect: Measures the effect of investing in low quality domestic companies.
On a sector basis, securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the exposure to industrials was increased to benefit benchmark, or of investing in securities outside of the benchmark.
Gearing cash effect: Measures the impact of returns on from the expected recovery in the economy, but borrowings, cash balances or cash substitutes on the Companys relative performance.
technology stocks continued to be underweighted Management fee and other expenses: The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets, and therefore has a despite their cyclical attractions, due to high negative effect on relative performance.
Stock selection was driven by the Performance fee effect: The underperformance of the benchmark leads to a reduction in performance fees earned in attractiveness of individual company prospects, previous years but not yet paid.
The reduction in this accrual has a positive impact on relative performance.
irrespective of the country of listing.
Other residual item: Arises when there is a divergence between total return as calculated by the AITC Fundamental Data, and total return as calculated by the attribution generating system.
This is a result of methodology differences with respect to the treatment of income and cash-flows, and timing differences.
4 JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Investment Managers Report continued We do not expect a substantial pick up in inflation.
Outlook US economic activity has accelerated, driven by a Company visits continue to suggest that very few companies command any degree of pricing power.
combination of very accommodative monetary policy and expansionary fiscal policy.
We expect This is supported by the recent corporate results announcements, in both the US and Europe, which these policies to be continued.
Interest rates are likely to remain low into 2004 as the Federal showed profit growth outpacing revenue growth as the recovery continues to be driven by cost cutting Reserve remains focused on job creation whilst inflation remains subdued.
US government and productivity gains.
spending is also likely to remain high in the US in In terms of our investment strategy, we maintain the run-up to the presidential election in late 2004, our bias away from the US market.
Our concerns and due to high levels of military expenditure.
We primarily revolve around valuations.
As measured expect the dollar to renew its long-term decline as by company market values relative to recent the weight of the current account and US profits, this indicator is at historically high levels.
government budget deficits once again exert This is a backward looking measure, but highlights downward pressure.
the fact that the market is pricing in a strong recovery in company profits already.
However, there are some structural issues, which may make it difficult for the US economy to sustain With fiscal policy in core Europe constrained by the above trend growth in the future.
With consumer Growth and Stability Pact, we expect further cuts in debt already at very high levels and the labour interest rates.
This will help counter the effects of market remaining weak, we do not see a the strong Euro and ease the threat of deflation.
significant pick up in consumption in the near Generally, we are still able to find European term.
The consumer may also be affected by a companies, of comparable quality to their US further rise in long-term interest rates, given the counterparts, which trade on more attractive impact on mortgage refinancing activity which, valuations.
We maintain our preference for UK with US homeowners having converted an equities largely due to low valuations and estimated US$230bn of home equity into cash attractive dividend yields.
since 2001, has been a major factor in sustaining Although our major structural concerns about consumption.
The outlook for business investment Japan have not disappeared, we are encouraged by is also relatively subdued, despite the recovery in some developments at the company level.
Corporates generally remain cautious, corporates have implemented aggressive with most still choosing to pay down debt rather restructuring programmes, which helped aggregate than invest in new capacity.
JPMorgan Fleming Overseas 5 Investment Managers Report continued operating profits to grow 26% in the year to March In sector terms, the portfolio remains biased 2003, despite a rise in sales of only 1%.
With towards industrials, financials and energy, and foreign investors still aggressively underweight, we away from technology and the US consumer.
In expect the Japanese stockmarket could continue to recent months, lower quality stocks have perform relatively well in the near term.
outperformed higher quality ones in most markets.
Hence we will continue to look for ways to utilise Asian stockmarkets remain attractive.
The regions the Companys borrowing facility in order to long-term prospects have not been seriously increase exposure to high quality companies which impacted by SARS.
There is a positive structural will be long-term winners in the low growth, low domestic demand story in most Asian economies, inflation environment.
whilst several countries are also major beneficiaries of the weak US Dollar, due to significant export exposure and US Dollar Peter Harrison denominated debt.
The China theme will remain an Ed Walker 9th October 2003 important factor in stock selection where we will look to increase exposure to companies which benefit from Chinas domestic demand and or its low manufacturing costs.
6 JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Report & Accounts.
