Faces Board of Directors George Paul Chairman Chairman of the Nomination Committee Age 63 Appointed on 7th January 1998 Chairman of Agricola Group Limited, formerly Agricola Holdings, since 1997.
He is also deputy chairman of AVIVA plc and was formerly chairman of Norwich Union plc.
Richard Barfield Age 56 Appointed on 1st November 2001 He is a director of Equitas and chairman of its investment committee.
He is also a director of New Look Group plc, Baillie Gifford Japan Trust plc, Edinburgh Investment Trust plc and Merchants Trust plc.
He was formerly chief investment manager of Standard Life.
Simon Davies Age 44 Appointed on 29th November 1999 Simon Davies is Threadneedle Asset Management Limiteds Chief Executive Officer.
He began his career in 1981 with Rothschild Asset Management, where he worked as an analyst and fund manager, before moving to Gartmore.
He became head of international equities and served on the Board until joining Threadneedle.
Geoffrey Howe Age 54 Appointed on 1st November 1999 He holds a number of directorships including Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc and Investec plc.
He was formerly Chairman of Railtrack Group plc, managing partner of Clifford Chance and director and group general counsel of Robert Fleming Holdings Ltd. Raymond Mould Age 62 Appointed on 1st January 1999 He is chairman of Pillar Property PLC and was previously a director of British Aerospace plc.
Owing to other commitments, he decided to resign from the Board of JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Investment Trust plc in August of this year.
John Rennocks Chairman of the Audit Committee Age 58 Appointed on 1st November 2001 He is deputy chairman of Inmarsat Ventures plc and a non-executive director of Foreign and Colonial Investment Trust plc, Babcock International Group plc, Wagon plc and Diploma plc.
He was previously finance director of Corus Group plc formerly British Steel plc, Powergen plc and Smith & Nephew plc.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee JPMorgan Fleming Overseas 19
