Ten Largest Investments at 31st December 2003 Valuation 1 Company Sector 000 % Pfizer Pharmaceuticals 14,878 4.1 Pfizer Inc. discovers, develops, manufactures and markets medicines.
With the acquisition of Warner-Lambert Co. in 2000, Pfizer now ranks as the worlds largest prescription pharmaceuticals company.
Citigroup Insurance 11,238 3.1 Citigroup is the largest diversified financial services holding company financials in the world.
It provides a broad range of financial services to consumer and corporate customers around the globe.
The Companys services include investment banking, retail brokerage, corporate banking, insurance and cash management products and services.
With such broadly diversified revenue streams, Citigroup offers earnings and profitability stability well above that of its peers throughout the economic cycle.
Microsoft Information 10,524 2.9 Microsoft, the dominant player in the PC software market, rose to technology prominence on the popularity of its operating systems software.
The company dominates the business applications software market and has set its sights on becoming the leading provider of software and services for the Internet.
General Electric Diversified 10,138 2.8 General Electric Company manufactures products for the electricity industrials market.
In addition its subsidiary, General Electric Capital Services, offers a variety of financial services.
General Electric also owns the National Broadcasting Company NBC.
Exxon Mobil Oil and gas 9,655 2.7 Exxon Mobil operates petroleum and petrochemicals businesses on a worldwide basis.
The companys operations include exploration and production of oil and gas, electric power generation and both coal and minerals operations.
With substantial scale efficiencies and broadly-diversified reserves and production capabilities, Exxon Mobil are leading the industry.
IBM Information technology 9,050 2.5 Provides customer solutions through the use of advanced hardware information technology.
American International Group Insurance 8,129 2.2 AIG Inc. through its subsidiaries, provides a variety of insurance and insurance-related services.
The company writes property, casualty and life insurance, as well as providing financial services.
Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceuticals 7,597 2.1 Johnson & Johnson encompasses three main business lines: a consumer business, a focused pharmaceuticals portfolio and a fast growing medical technologies business.
The company continues to generate consistent growth at a reasonable valuation.
JPMF America Micro-Cap Fund Small company 7,474 2.1 Diversified fund investing in microcap sector of the market, fund defined as companies under $500m in market cap.
Fleming US Discovery Fund III Small company 7,419 2.0 A fund investing in the private securities of small public companies.
fund Total 96,102 26.5 1 Based on total assets less current liabilities of 362.7m.
