Investment Managers Report Garrett Fish INVESTMENT MANAGER Tim Parton INVESTMENT MANAGER Market Review The following table provides a breakdown, relative to the benchmark, of the contributions to total return.
It was a rewarding year for the Company as markets had a strong recovery and the Companys net asset Performance attribution for the year to value NAV outperformed the S&P 500 benchmark 31st December 2003 1 Year by a healthy margin of 2.5% see table opposite.
% The three main drivers of the outperformance were Net asset value total return in sterling terms 17.8 the use of gearing, the allocation to small Benchmark total return in sterling terms 15.3 capitalisation companies and the effect of buying in Relative return 2.5 shares.
The large capitalisation portion of the Analysis of relative return Company did, however, detract from performance, as Large cap portfolio 2.6 the Company is invested in high quality, blue chip Small cap portfolio 1.0 type companies and this segment of the market, in the early stages of an economic recovery, tends to Gearing Cash effect Debenture hedging 3.7 trail other more highly leveraged areas.
Furthermore, Buybacks Issues 1.0 Management fee and other expenses 0.8 the share buyback program was utilised during the Residual item 0.2 year and this added to performance as the Company Total 2.5 continued to purchase shares at a discount to the Source: Frank Russell JPMFAM Fundamental Data AITC.
Definitions 2003 proved to be the year where the riskiest Performance attribution: Analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its assets performed the best.
If looked at by several benchmark.
measures: quality, market capitalisation, dividend Gearing Cash effect Debenture hedging: Measures the 1 yield and beta, the riskier the segment of the impact of returns on borrowings or cash balances, cash substitutes and effects of currency hedges on the market the higher the performance.
While not Companys relative performance.
wholly uncharacteristic to have lower quality, Buybacks Issues: Measures the net effect on relative 1 higher beta companies lead during a period of performance of decreasing and increasing the number of shares in issue.
economic recovery, we believe that the balance has Management fee and other expenses: The payment of now reversed.
fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets, and therefore has a negative effect on relative performance.
To put some of the information into US$ total return Residual item: Arises when there is a divergence between numbers, the 100 riskiest stocks, as defined by total return as calculated by the AITC Fundamental Data, 1 beta, climbed 52% for the year while the 100 least and total return as calculated by the attribution generating system.
This is a result of methodology differences with 1 risky the lowest beta increased by only 11%.
The respect to the treatment of income and cashflows, and S&P 500 Composite Index itself rose by 28.2%.
1 Beta describes the sensitivity of a funds return to the return of the market portfolio.
The market has a beta of 1.0 as it moves in line with itself.
A more aggressively positioned portfolio has a beta of greater than 1.0 so that if the market rises as expected, the fund will rise more than the market a higher beta means higher potential returns, but also higher risk.
A fund manager positions the portfolio with a beta of less than 1.0 if he thinks the market may fall so that the fund falls less than the market a lower beta means lower expected returns, but also lower risk.
6 JPMorgan Fleming American Investment Managers Report continued Furthermore the 100 highest dividend paying stocks In June the Federal Reserve, in its only interest rate in the S&P 500 lagged the rise in the index by more move for the year, lowered its target rate to 1%.
than 11% while the 129 stocks that do not pay a The Federal Reserve lowered the rate to ensure dividend rose on average more than 22% greater that the unfolding economic recovery would than the index.
Lastly the 100 smallest capitalisation strengthen as the year progressed.
While interest stocks in the S&P 500 rose 30% more than the index rates were at their lowest rates since 1958 the for the year while the 100 largest capitalisation inflation outlook continued to be very muted.
The stocks lagged the index by approximately 5%.
inflation rate for the year was only 1.1% and this was the lowest since 1960.
The year began with continued investor angst regarding corporate accounting scandals and With inflation and interest rates low, consumers increasing rhetoric regarding Iraq.
The markets and businesses alike took the opportunity to reached their lowest point for the year in early refinance debt at much more attractive rates.
The March, shortly before military action began.
After average 30-year mortgage rate hit a forty five year initial fears of the use of guerilla tactics and the low of 5.21% in June.
These rates helped propel ensuing brutal ground campaign dissipated, the new home sales to a record 6.1 million units, markets began to move higher from these breaking the previous years record high of 5.6 depressed levels.
The VIX index, which reflects a million units.
Heavily indebted companies which market estimate of future volatility, reached a level were severely hurt due to the recent recession and seen only a few times in the prior five years.
When weak equity markets were given a reprieve as there is a high degree of uncertainty regarding the investors appetite for risk increased.
This allowed outlook for the markets the VIX index will be companies to refinance at much lower rates and greater than 30 and in the early March the index save on interest costs which, coupled with an nearly reached 35.
By way of reference it ended improving economic outlook, led shares to the year below 18. respond very positively.
A further boost to the market was the passing of Economic and earnings growth, driven by robust the tax relief programmes that lowered the top tax productivity gains, led markets to finish the year on a rate for US residents on long-term capital gains very positive note.
The highest tax rate for As we look out to the year ahead we believe we dividends was as high as 39.6% before these new will see a shift in the market to the high quality, levels.
This helped spur many companies to either large cap companies where we are well positioned initiate the payment of dividends for the first time to capture performance going forward.
After the or to increase the proportion of earnings paid out period of rapid earnings acceleration that we have as dividends.
While advantageous to the individual just experienced, the outlook for the coming year, investor with lower tax rates, the share prices of while still positive, is not as positive as 2003.
This the highest dividend yielding stocks lagged those should favour our large cap style of high quality, with low or no dividends.
JPMorgan Fleming American 7 Investment Managers Report continued financially sound growth companies at reasonable benefit as their technology is better suited to these prices.
We will continue to monitor the pace of the bandwidth intensive applications.
The other strong recovery and earnings growth rates to performer in the technology sector for the year was appropriately shift the assets of the Company to Lexmark, one of the worlds largest designers and achieve the desired performance.
Lexmark continues to gain market share through its innovative designs Large Companies Portfolio and features and is benefiting from the very As mentioned in the Market Review, the market favourable economics in the inkjet and laser refill environment was not conducive to the large cap, category.
We added more shares of Lexmark during blue chip growth at a reasonable price focus that the year as the shares were weak after the second we have utilised over the years.
The biggest quarter earnings release, due to temporary detractor from performance was our weakness in the sales of new printers.
underweighting in the technology sector where we We were underweight in the utilities sector for the reduced our holdings early in the rally as their year and this also detracted from performance as valuations started to look expensive relative to several companies, which were on the verge of their historical rating.
In some momentum driven bankruptcy in 2002 and early 2003, were granted a sub-sectors, such as semiconductors, the earnings reprieve due to investors appetite for high yield rebound contributed to substantial share price bonds.
Many distressed companies were able to gains.
We have remained underweight in cyclical refinance high cost debt at much lower rates.
On technology leaders such as Intel and Cisco but the positive side, our holdings in the capital goods continue overweight in Microsoft.
We believe sector did very well for us.
We continued to hold Microsoft is more attractively valued on forward overweight positions in United Technologies and prospects and its balance sheet remains extremely Tyco and added General Dynamics early in the strong.
Furthermore, Microsoft initiated an annual year when its shares came under pressure due to dividend during the year to distribute some of its weakness in the corporate aircraft market.
General US$50 billion cash pile to shareholders.
While the Dynamics owns Gulfstream Aircraft, a leader in technology sector overall was the largest detractor corporate aircraft and specialty mission aircraft.
from performance for the year, two of the Other major divisions are Marine, which Companys top performers for the year were in this manufactures ships and nuclear submarines, sector.
Qualcomm performed very well as its Combat Systems, which manufactures armoured proprietary wireless technology, based on the Code vehicles and finally the Information Systems and Division Multiple Access CDMA, continues to gain Technology Group which designs, tests and market share in the US and Asia.
Furthermore as manufactures secure communications networks the wireless industry moves closer to third and other command and control systems.
Tyco, generation 3G applications, Qualcomm stands to despite the overhang from the very public press 8 JPMorgan Fleming American Investment Managers Report continued coverage of its prior managements escapades and The three largest positions sold from the portfolio personal dealings, managed to have a very strong during the year were PNC Financial Service Group year as the new management team continue to PNC, Brown Forman and The Hartford Financial focus on restoring the balance sheet and Services Group.
All three were sold on the grounds operational effectiveness.
United Technologies, a that their valuations had reached the upper limits long term holding of the Company, turned in of their relative valuation bands and we felt it was another very strong year as management prudent to sell our holdings and redeploy the continued to drive for margin improvement in all of assets elsewhere.
PNC, a regional bank and asset its main business lines: aircraft engines, aerospace manager, was sold later in the year as the shares systems, lifts escalators and air conditioning units.
recovered from earlier SEC investigations into the During the year United Technologies completed the accounting treatment of some securities in its purchase of the UK based Chubb, adding to its portfolio.
Brown Forman is a producer and marketer portfolio of commercial and residential security of consumer products, including Jack Daniels systems.
whiskey, Bolla wines, Lenox tableware and Hartmann luggage, and was sold after the company During the year we continued to look for attractive completed an auction for its shares.
Subsequently new purchases as well as to add to our existing the shares rallied with improving results.
As you holdings if an opportunity presented itself.
Two may recall from last years annual report we new holdings added during the year were Mattel highlighted The Hartford as one of the stocks we and Affiliated Computer Services ACS.
Mattel sold during the 2002 calendar year because we designs, manufactures and markets various toy thought the shares were overvalued.
In early 2003 products throughout the world.
Its best-known the shares retreated to a level where we thought product is the Barbie line of dolls as well as Fisher they were attractive and purchased shares in this Price toys.
The shares were beaten down during stock once more.
The shares then began to rise as the year as concerns were felt over competition the variable annuities business recovered and we from a newer line of dolls.
This provided an eventually sold the shares as the improved opportunity to purchase the shares near a multiprospects were reflected in the share price.
Mattel has a very strong management team, solid balance sheet and has Small Companies Portfolio substantially increased its dividend.
ACS competes The smaller companies portfolio made a strong in the business process outsourcing BPO and contribution to performance in 2003.
Following the information technology IT outsourcing sectors.
It three year bear market, it was not surprising that continues to gain market share through its the greatest potential for recovery resided among innovative solutions and the increasing move by the smallest companies, where many were valued commercial and government sectors to outsource as if destined for bankruptcy.
This played out in a their systems to companies that can manage them script which had many similarities to 1991: both more efficiently.
JPMorgan Fleming American 9 Investment Managers Report continued years marked recovery from recession and began allocation model, the profile of the smaller with war in the Gulf, and in both years small cap companies portfolio small, high growth stocks appreciated by more than forty percent.
complements the profile of the large company Technology was the best performing sector, but portfolio large, high quality, growth at a reasonable really the gains were very broadly spread.
The very price, to actually reduce the risk of the portfolio smallest companies did best, and in this regard the versus our benchmark.
Companys exposure to the JPMorgan Fleming After two years in which the hoped for year end America Microcap Fund, which appreciated by more recovery did not transpire, it finally did materialise than fifty percent, was beneficial.
The key impact for investors was that managers struggled to perform as the market business confidence began to recover, visibility of rotated from safe, defensive, high quality revenues and earnings began to improve and a long companies, in favour of lower quality, sometimes awaited recovery in capital spending hesitantly unprofitable companies with balance sheet issues.
This has powerful implications in The reopening of the capital markets allowed some many sectors, not least technology, where costs such balance sheets to be repaired, including a have been slashed dramatically, a lot of competition deluge of low cost convertible debt offerings earlier and capacity has disappeared, and there appears to in the year.
be considerable pent up demand.
As usual, the At the end of 2002 we implemented new procedures persistent slide in prices of technology products, a to more actively manage the Companys exposure to reflection of Moores Law that the number of smaller companies.
As a result, between zero and transistors on an integrated circuit doubles eleven percent of the Companys assets may now be approximately every eighteen months, has invested in small growth companies, with the stimulated demand and steadily absorbed the weighting determined by their relative valuation industrys oversupply.
Inventories of parts are very against large companies.
In addition, between zero lean, and already some shortages have become and four percent may be invested in microcap apparent.
Although in many cases the market has companies, so that in aggregate a maximum of anticipated this recovery, a further leg up is likely if fifteen percent of the assets may be invested in earnings continue to exceed expectations.
If 2004 these two asset classes.
In response to the strength follows the model described by 1992, we would of small companies during the year, our model has expect to see further, but more modest gains, with prompted us to shift assets to the large cap asset smaller companies continuing to outperform.
class, and we have adopted a neutral posture in the Garrett Fish middle of the range.
Our analysis confirms that in Timothy Parton 11th March 2004 the proportions prescribed by this refined asset Investment Managers 10 JPMorgan Fleming American Report & Accounts.
