Board of Directors Hamish N Buchan Chairman of the Board and the Nomination Committee Born 1944 A Director since November 2000 and appointed Chairman in April 2003 He is currently a Director of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc, Collective Assets plc, Personal Assets Trust plc, Shires Income plc, Standard Life European Private Equity Trust plc, The Scottish Investment Trust plc, Scottish Community Foundation and Scottish Council of Independent Schools.
He has been involved in the investment trust sector for 35 years, mainly as an investment trust analyst and is currently a Deputy Chairman of the Association of Investment Trust Companies and Chairman of its statistics committee.
James G Fox Chairman of the Audit Committee Born 1943 A Director since July 2003 He is a Director of Anglo-American Securities Corporation Limited, Deutsche Latin American Companies Trust plc, GHK Asset Management Limited and Limia Investment Trust plc.
He has over thirty five years experience of investment management and is a former Deputy chairman of the Association of Investment Trust companies.
George P Greener Born 1945 A Director since December 1999 He is Chairman of the British Waterways Board, chairman of The Big Food Group plc and a Director of Reckitt Benckiser plc.
He was formerly Chairman of Allied Dunbar Assurance plc, Eagle Star Holdings plc, Threadneedle Asset Management Limited and a Director of BAT Industries plc.
Iain OS Saunders Born 1947 A Director since April 1990 He worked for JPMorgan Fleming Asset Management and its predecessor companies from 1971 to 2001, retiring as Deputy Chairman.
Companies associated with the Manager with whom he has a connection are the JPMorgan Fleming Indian Investment Trust, of which he is a Director, and the Czech and Slovak Investment Company and a number of Luxembourg SICAVs, of which he is Chairman.
He is also Chairman of Baring Emerging Europe plc, MB Asia Select Fund and the Deutschland Investment Company.
James P Williams Born 1950 A Director since July 2003 He has worked in investment management for over 30 years.
He has recently retired from Baring Asset Management, where he was Chief Investment Officer, and head of global investment strategy.
He is also Chairman of Royal London Growth and Income Trust, and a Director of Pan-Asia Special Opportunities Fund.
Member of the Audit Committee Considered Independent of the Manager Member of the Nomination Committee 22 JPMorgan Fleming American
