Directors report The directors have pleasure in to elect to receive additional and awards under the Long Term % of Date issued submitting their annual report and shares in the Company in lieu Incentive Plan and Deferred of share the audited financial statements of the cash dividend through Annual Share Bonus Scheme Shareholder notification capital of the Company and its subsidiary the Companys dividend are set out in the Directors undertakings for the year ended reinvestment plan.
Further details Remuneration Report on pages Legal & General 31 December 2003. will be circulated to shareholders 32 to 37.
Investment with the notice of the Annual Management Ltd 18.02.04 4.05 Principal activities General Meeting.
Employment policies Scottish Widows and developments The employment policies of the Investment The principal activities of the Share capital Group have been developed to Partnership Ltd 16.02.04 3.99 Group are set out on the inside Details of the Companys share meet the needs of its different Prudential plc 26.11.02 3.36 front cover of the Annual Review capital, including shares issued business areas and the locations and Summary Financial Statement.
and purchased during the year, in which they operate worldwide, The Chairmans Statement, the are set out in Note 17 to the embodying the principles of Creditor payment policy Operating Review and the Financial financial statements.
The Group Group operating companies are Review on pages 4 to 17 and 20 has standards of business responsible for agreeing the terms and 21 of the Annual Review and Purchase of own shares conduct with which it expects and conditions under which Summary Financial Statement give As at 23 February 2004 the its employees to comply.
Bunzl business transactions with their details of the Groups activities, Company had purchased encourages involvement of its suppliers are conducted.
It is Group developments and performance 21,261,000 of its own shares employees in the performance policy that suppliers are made for the year and an indication pursuant to the existing authority of the business in which they aware of these terms and that of likely future developments.
which is due to expire at the are employed and aims to achieve payments to suppliers are made conclusion of the forthcoming a sense of shared commitment.
in accordance with them, provided Results Annual General Meeting and the In addition to a quarterly magazine that suppliers also comply with A summary of the Groups authority which expired at the and the Companys intranet, all relevant terms and conditions.
results is set out in the Chairmans Annual General Meeting in 2003. which provide a variety of Statement.
Note 1 to the financial The directors again propose to information on activities and The number of days billings statements sets out a segmental seek a similar authority this year.
developments within the Group from the Companys suppliers analysis of operating results.
and incorporate interim and annual outstanding at the end of the A financial review of the year Directors financial reports, newsletters are financial year was 30 2002: 30. is set out on pages 20 and 21 Mr M J Roney was appointed periodically circulated to give of the Annual Review and to the Board on 1 June 2003 and, details of corporate and staff Donations Summary Financial Statement.
being eligible, offers himself for matters together with a number During 2003, amongst other re-election at the forthcoming of subsidiary or business area worldwide charitable donations, Going concern Annual General Meeting in publications dealing with activities the Group contributed 193,000 The directors, having made accordance with the Articles of in specific parts of the Group.
to UK charities 2002: 185,000. appropriate enquiries, consider Association.
Mr L C McQuade No contributions were made for that the Group has adequate retired from the Board on 14 May It is the Groups policy that political purposes.
resources to continue in operational 2003.
All of the other directors, disabled applicants should be existence for the foreseeable who are named on pages 18 and considered for employment and Annual General Meeting future.
For this reason, the 19 of the Annual Review and career development on the basis The Annual General Meeting directors believe it is appropriate Summary Financial Statement, of their aptitudes and abilities.
will be held at the Hyatt Regency to continue to adopt the going served throughout the year.
Employees who become disabled The Churchill Hotel, 30 Portman concern basis in preparing the during their working life will be Square, London W1A 4ZX on financial statements.
Mr P G Lorenzini will retire retained in employment wherever Wednesday 19 May 2004 at from the Board on 31 July 2004. possible and given help with 11.00 am.
The notice convening Dividends Mr A P Dyer and Mr J F Harris rehabilitation and training.
the Meeting is set out in a An interim dividend of 3.85p retire by rotation at the Annual separate letter from the Chairman was paid in respect of the year General Meeting in accordance with Substantial shareholdings to shareholders which explains and the directors recommend the Articles of Association and, As at 23 February 2004 the the items of special business.
a final dividend of 8.25p per share, being eligible, offer themselves directors had been notified by the making a total for the year of for re-election.
following shareholders that they Auditors 12.1p 2002: 11.2p.
Dividend were each interested in 3% or A resolution is to be proposed at details are given in Note 5 to the Directors interests in ordinary more of the issued share capital the forthcoming Annual General financial statements.
Subject to shares are shown in Note 21 of the Company.
The notifications Meeting for the re-appointment of confirmation by the shareholders to the financial statements.
listed below are those which have KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the at the Annual General Meeting been most recently received for Company at a rate of remuneration on 19 May 2004, the final dividend Information relating to the the named shareholders.
to be determined by the directors.
will be paid on 1 July 2004 to those directors remuneration for the shareholders on the register at the year and details of the directors P N Hussey close of business on 7 May 2004. share options under the Secretary Shareholders will again be able Companys share option schemes 23 February 2004 Bunzl plc 1
