1 2 3 4 5 6 24 Board of Directors 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Board of Directors 1 6 11 Rob Margetts CBE Tim Breedon Robin Phipps Chairman.
He is also Group Director Investments.
Aged Group Director UK Operations.
Chairman of BOC Group PLC, 45.
Joined Legal & General in 1987 Aged 53.
Joined Legal & General a director of Anglo American Plc and became Director Index Funds in 1982 from British Gas and was and Chairman of their Remuneration in 1994.
Promoted to Managing appointed I. T. Director in 1985.
He Committee, and Chairman of the Director Index Funds on 1 January was appointed to the Board as Natural Environment Research 2000.
He was appointed Group Group Director Sales & Marketing Council.
Also a member of the Director Investments with effect on 1 January 1996 and became Council of Science and Technology, from 1 January 2002.
He holds a Group Director Retail Business a Trustee of the Council for Industry degree from Oxford University.
Appointed Group and Higher Education and a initially joined Standard Chartered Director UK Operations with effect Governor of the Imperial College of Bank before moving to the London from 1 January 2001.
Business School where he took an He was formerly a director and Vice MSc in Business Administration.
He is Chairman of Imperial Chemical 12 a member of the Corporate Social John Pollock Industries Plc.
Appointed in 1996 and Responsibility Committee.
Group Director Product and Chairman in 2000.
Joined of the Nominations Committee.
Legal & General in 1980 on 7 25 Frances Heaton graduating from Strathclyde 2 Independent, non-executive David Prosser University.
He worked in I. T. and director.
She is a nonGroup Chief Executive.
Aged 59. customer services before taking executive director of AWG PLC and Joined Legal & General in 1988 responsibility in 1994 for our Chairman of its Audit Committee.
In 1998, after She was previously Deputy Appointed Group Chief Executive two years as Managing Director, Chairman and Chairman of the with effect from 11 September 1991.
Legal & General Asia, he was Audit Committee of WS Atkins PLC Previously, he held positions at British appointed Director, UK Operations, and a non-executive director of the Coal, where he was Chief Executive running our large service units Bank of England.
She was formerly of CIN the pensions investment in Hove and Cardiff.
He was an executive director of Lazard management company, at Sun appointed to the Board with Brothers & Co. Limited.
Appointed in Alliance the insurance company effect from 11 December 2003.
She is a member of the and at Hoare Govett the Audit and Nominations Committees.
He is a non-executive director of the Intercontinental 13 Dr Ronaldo Schmitz Hotels Group PLC.
He is a Fellow of 8 Independent, non-executive Beverley Hodson OBE the Institute of Actuaries and holds director.
Non-executive Independent, non-executive a degree from the University College director of GlaxoSmithKline Plc, director.
Director of of Wales, Aberystwyth.
Rohm & Hass Co. and the Cabot the National College for School Corporation.
She was formerly 3 a director of Deutsche Bank AG.
Andrew Palmer Managing Director of UK Retail, Appointed in October 2000.
He is Group Director Finance.
WH Smith Group Plc, Managing Joined Legal & General in 1988 Director of Childrens World, which a member of the Remuneration from Commercial Union.
He was was part of Boots Company PLC, and Nominations Committees.
appointed to the Board as Group and Managing Director of Dolcis, Director Services on 1 January 1996 Bertie Shoes and Cable & Co. 14 and became Group Director James Strachan which were part of Sears Plc.
Independent, non-executive She was previously a non-executive Appointed Group Director Finance director of M&G Group Prudential director.
Chairman of with effect from 1 January 2001. and a member of the North the Audit Commission.
A member He is a non-executive director of Yorkshire & Humberside Regional of the Board and Audit Committee Slough Estates PLC.
He is a Fellow Development Agency.
Appointed of Ofgem and of the DTI Business of the Institute of Chartered in December 2000.
He was a Managing Director Accountants in England and Wales.
of the Remuneration and of Merrill Lynch and was previously Nominations Committees.
He is 4 Chairman of RNID and a Trustee of Bernard Asher Somerset House.
He was appointed Vice Chairman, Senior Independent 9 Barrie Morgans to the Board with effect from Director, Chairman of the Independent, non-executive 1 December 2003.
He is a member of Remuneration Committee and director and Chairman of the Audit the Audit, Nominations and Corporate a member of the Nominations Committee and member of the Social Responsibility Committees.
Vice Chairman He was formerly Chairman of Azlan of the Court of Governors of the 15 Group Plc and Chairman and Chief Sir David Walker London School of Economics and Executive of IBM UK Holdings Independent, non-executive Political Science.
Senior adviser to Morgan Stanley International 5 Kate Avery Limited, of which he was formerly 10 Tim Parker Group Director Retail Distribution.
Executive Chairman, and Chairman Independent, non-executive Aged 43.
Joined Legal & General of the London Investment Banking director.
Currently Chief in 1996 as Director Marketing.
He was previously an She became Director Group Executive of Kwik-Fit Holdings and Executive Director of the Bank of Marketing and Direct in 1997 and a non-executive director of Boots England, Chairman of the Securities Retail Customer Director in 1999.
Company PLC, he was previously & Investments Board and a Deputy Appointed to the Group Board on Chief Executive of C. & J. Clark Ltd. Chairman of Lloyds Bank.
She was previously Chief Executive of Kenwood in March 2002.
He is a member of Managing Director of Barclays Appliances Plc and a member the Remuneration and Nominations Stockbrokers Ltd. and Barclays Bank of the South West Regional Committees.
He will take up the Trust Company Ltd. She has an Development Agency.
Appointed appointment of Vice Chairman, MBA from Craneld School of in 2002.
He is a member of the Audit Senior Independent Director and Management.
She is a member and Nominations Committees.
Chairman of the Remuneration of the Governments Advisory Committee following the AGM Committee on Business Standards and the Environment.
Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Board of Directors
