INFORMATION SERVICES World-class data resources driving new products and revenue streams Our new information products and services are opening up additional revenue streams and markets, capitalising on our wealth of real-time and historical trading information.
Our Information Services division sells price Breaking new ground in products data and other information on securities and and services trading to a range of customers, including In April 2002, we successfully introduced companies, investors and specialist Extranex, our new Internet Protocol IP information vendors.
It also enables customers based global information network service.
to access our technology networks, such Extranex has increased the information as Extranex and our STX private telephone product range that we can offer and service for market participants.
widened the customer base to which we can sell it.
We are now able to provide more During the year, Information Services cost-effective services to any of the worlds revenues increased by 8 per cent to recognised financial centres.
This solid performance was achieved against the background of a rapidly Following a complete review of Information changing market for information services.
Services business strategy, and with Extranex in place, we have identified Terminal numbers a series of new initiatives that will enable Historically, over two-thirds of Information us to diversify the divisions range of Services revenue has come from real-time products and services and target them at data sold through the terminals of over 300 an increasingly international customer base.
third party vendors in 100 countries.
In the These initiatives build on our existing data last year, difficult global market conditions assets to help meet the specific have led to a decline in the number of needs of market users.
They include terminals taking Information Services the development of our Corporate Data data from 105,000 to 94,000.
Warehouse, the acquisition of Proquote, a quality, low-cost financial market software and data services provider, and the creation revenue 102m 8% 20 INFORMATION SERVICES LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 of a new global identifier system for of carefully targeted information services, securities based on the SEDOL code.
it creates a wealth of new commercial opportunities for the Exchange.
Introducing the Corporate Data The first stage of the Corporate Data Warehouse Warehouse was introduced in May 2003 Using our existing range of market data, with the launch of the Exchanges first we have developed our Corporate Data historical data services.
It will be followed Warehouse, which enables us to increase in June by the introduction of a value-added the range and depth of information we real-time data service.
deliver to investors, data vendors and other market participants.
This technology New global identifier for securities will form the basis for an expanding range An issue of keen concern to our customers of information products.
It enables us is the estimated 125 million wasted by to customise the real-time data we send the global securities industry every year to customers via our London Market because of problems identifying securities Information Link LMIL, and provides in cross-border transactions.
A key cause easier access to our archived trading data.
of these losses has been the lack of a The technology delivers several benefits unique market-level, global identifier for to the Exchange and our customers.
Many stocks require multiple enabling data to be accessed from a single codes, depending on where they are listed authoritative central source, it reduces costs and traded to ensure accurate identification.
for data vendors and member firms.
By acting as the core of a new generation INVESTING FOR GROWTH Proquote positioned ourselves to offer an increasingly comprehensive range of Proquote-based information Our purchase of Proquote, the privately owned products and trading services across both our financial market software and data services provider, Extranex network and the internet.
Proquote also in February 2003 represented a major strategic offers us the potential to recruit new member firms diversification of our business.
As an independent particularly outside the UK by offering them a company, Proquote had already established a low-cost terminal product enabling direct access leading reputation as a supplier of cost-effective to our markets.
information products and trading services directly to brokers.
By buying Proquote, we immediately David Lester gained entry to the financial market software and Chief Information Officer data services sector.
It also enables us to use our brand and global reach to drive more rapid growth of the existing Proquote business.
We have now INVESTING FOR GROWTH 21 INFORMATION SERVICES: CONTINUED We are now in a position to provide a company with eight offices around the world market-wide solution thanks to our longand clients from 77 countries.
FTSE has a established international market experience portfolio of highly-regarded indices including and our large database of SEDOL securities the FTSE 100 and the FTSE All-World Index codes.
After extensive consultation with Series.
The success of FTSE in recent third parties, we are updating these codes years has seen the business expand to uniquely identify securities and the rapidly, generating increasing revenues markets they trade on, covering all asset for our Information Services division.
From the time of the systems planned launch in January 2004, subscribers www.
com will have round-the-clock internet access The popularity of www.
com to request SEDOL codes in real time and continues to grow, with over a billion hits search our enhanced database.
This will registered on the site over the last year.
augment the efficiency of global capital Developments delivered include e-commerce markets, reduce costs for participants, products such as the online Historic Price and create a sustainable new revenue service, together with new content that stream for the Exchange.
incorporates leading edge web design, such as the City Media Centre promotional site.
FTSE Group Other new initiatives have focused on A further source of revenue is FTSE Group, enhancing the usability and customer the index provider of choice for the worlds friendliness of the site.
FTSE is a 50 50 joint the online Answer Engine and the Product venture originated in 1995 between the Diary, which is a communication and Exchange and the Financial Times, owned reference tool for our customers.
FTSE now calculates overall look and feel of the site has also over 20,000 indices daily, including more been refreshed with the implementation than 600 real-time indices, and is a global of new online branding.
22 INFORMATION SERVICES LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 RNS A leading provider of business communication tools RNS remains the foremost company news distributor in the UK and continues to develop its services to meet the current and future needs of its customers.
Since the deregulation of regulatory news press wires across Europe and the US.
This distribution in April 2002, RNS has operated enhancement to the range of services that in a competitive environment, creating the RNS offers enables companies to achieve opportunity for a valuable new revenue maximum coverage simply and effectively for stream for the Exchange.
The reliability, their important news stories.
expert knowledge and high levels of customer The growing demand on companies to service that RNS offers have enabled it to provide audio and video presentations meet this challenge to the full.
It has retained to a wider audience is now being met by its position as the UKs leading distributor of RNS through its webcasting facilities.
RNS company news with over 90 per cent of FTSE Webcasting provides a full range of services, 100 companies continuing to use its services.
ranging from high quality production of content to notification of and distribution A broader range of communication tools to target audiences.
As well as providing news distribution services to meet companies UK regulatory Continuing innovation requirements, RNS has increased the depth By developing new channels and methods and reach of its distribution channels.
It has for business communications, we are also developed complementary tools to developing our existing services.
This has help the companies traded on our markets resulted in the creation of a new tool, RNS communicate more effectively and efficiently Submit, which makes it even easier for with their investors.
companies and their advisers to distribute RNS now assists companies in meeting their their announcements online.
RNS Submit, regulatory obligations in the United States launched in March 2003, enables documents by providing a streamlined service for in Microsoft Word format to be submitted making mandatory electronic filings with the directly from the users desktop, while also Securities and Exchange Commission.
It also enhancing control over how announcements distributes announcements to the audiences appear on an end users screen.
recommended by the US exchanges where By maintaining its market-leading position the companies have a listing.
and providing new and innovative products, RNS can help companies to communicate RNS aims to continue building on its their messages to a broader media audience commercial success to date.
by reaching journalists desks directly through INVESTING FOR GROWTH 23
