BROKER SERVICES Generating growth opportunities through new markets and services Amid strong growth in trading volumes on our markets, we are broadening and enhancing the trading opportunities we offer to an ever-wider range of customers.
Our Broker Services division is responsible for At the same time, we invested in a number the product management and development of of new initiatives and ventures that will create our trading markets, and related products and growth opportunities for the Exchange and services.
It also manages our relationships help our members offer a fuller and more with broking firms and promotes our markets cost-effective service to their clients.
These to potential new customers around the world.
included our new covered warrants market and the formation of EDX London, our We have nearly 300 firms from 13 different international equity derivatives business countries and overseas territories that trade under a joint-venture agreement with OM, as members of the London Stock Exchange.
During the year we attracted 26 new members, including seven from overseas.
Powering growth in electronic trading Our expanding range of products, services The SETS electronic order book, on which and trading opportunities continue to enhance our most liquid UK securities are traded, again our appeal to existing and potential customers experienced record levels of trading.
The daily all over the world.
average number of SETS trades reached Broker Services main sources of revenue are 109,000, up from 69,000 the previous year.
charges for the processing of trades between The 58 per cent increase in equity bargains members.
During the year, the divisions came on top of an 86 per cent rise the revenues rose by 8 per cent to 87 million.
previous year, reflecting our customers continuing move towards electronic trading The daily average number of equity bargains and technical trading strategies.
Our trading systems proved resilient, providing The arrangement with which we supply the uninterrupted access throughout a year of rising JSE Securities Exchange South Africa with volumes and volatile global trading conditions.
access to SETS on an Application Service revenue 87m 8% 14 BROKER SERVICES LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Provider basis went live in May 2002. have been almost 10,000 trades totalling During the year, SETS transacted a over 25 million in value.
This makes the daily average of 14,000 JSE trades.
UK one of the fastest growing covered warrants markets in the world.
While SETS remained robust throughout the year, the rapid increase in trading Bargains in Exchange Traded Funds ETFs necessitated further investment to expand tripled following a successful integrated its capacity.
This investment will ensure that marketing campaign to private client brokers customers continue to get the standards and investors.
We are continuing to raise of performance and reliability they require.
awareness of ETFs as an effective tracking instrument amongst both institutional and The development of our trading services private investors.
In September 2003, we will be growth following the launch of new ETF introducing a new trading mechanism, products during the coming year.
SETSmm, to support trading of FTSE 250 securities.
At the same time, we will be Our RSP Gateway sevice was launched introducing an iceberg order type, which last July, giving private client brokers will enhance order book trading.
Iceberg access to Retail Service Providers through functionality allows order book participants a single connection.
Five RSPs are now to enter large limit orders onto the book offering trading in a wide range of UK while revealing only a portion of the order equities and bonds.
This will enable users to work larger orders through the book with reduced Cutting the costs of clearing market impact and makes London an even and settlement more attractive place to do business.
We continue to encourage the lowering of clearing and settlement costs, launching Enhancing retail trading several initiatives to help member firms The covered warrants market was settle trades more cheaply and efficiently.
successfully launched in October, providing In May, we became a CREST Network a new product to private investors.
The provider, offering access to the CREST development of the market has been settlement service at highly competitive supported by a high-profile educational and rates.
The client list for the CREST promotional campaign.
Since launch, it has Network Service has risen steadily since grown steadily.
There are currently over the introduction of the service.
We estimate 430 covered warrants in the UK on stocks, that our entry to this market has delivered international indices, baskets of equities and a multi-million pound saving to the industry.
commodities, including gold and oil.
There INVESTING FOR GROWTH 15 BROKER SERVICES CONTINUED 16 BROKER SERVICES LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Following the successful introduction of investors.
Our advanced technology enables the Central Counterparty the year before, us to monitor market activity cost effectively we again worked with CRESTCo and and unobtrusively in real time, and to LCH to make the clearing and settlement maintain integrity and fair dealing.
of SETS trades even more efficient by The Exchange is regulated by the Financial introducing a facility for netting trades.
Services Authority FSA as a Regulated The netting capability, launched in July, has Investment Exchange RIE under the enabled participating firms to achieve huge Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. productivity gains and has reduced the EDX London, our new equity derivatives number of settlements by some 98 per cent.
business, has applied to the FSA for approval as an RIE and will operate to Our campaign continues for a more the same high regulatory standards.
streamlined, user-governed settlement solution in Europe.
This would reduce Last year, we undertook a fundamental settlement costs and stimulate a review of our trading rules to ensure they greater level of cross-border trading.
remain clear, concise and relevant, resulting In September, we strongly encouraged in a major revision in July.
We consult with and supported the merger of CRESTCo customers and investors about possible and Euroclear which has created Europes developments to our rules, while remaining largest settlement organisation.
committed to high-quality regulation across our markets.
Promoting cross-border investment We continue to shape the European Professional investors can gain low cost regulatory landscape as it develops following access to international markets through the gradual implementation of the Financial the International Order Book IOB, while Services Action Plan.
After widespread the International Retail Service caters for consultation, the new Investment Services private investors.
Over the last year, we Directive, central to a European single have added 37 new securities to the IOB, market in financial services, is entering the including 25 from Hong Kong, while the initial stages of the legislative process.
value of trading increased by 37 per cent.
We are committed to working with customers, practitioner groups and the Proper protection for investors European Commission to promote open Our markets are well regulated to ensure and competitive trading practices, high that business is conducted in an orderly standards of regulation, and choice and manner with proper protection for opportunity for investors.
INVESTING FOR GROWTH for wholesale market participants, which will provide EDX London capital and operational savings.
This will reduce the In December, we announced the creation of EDX cost and risk of conducting OTC business and is a London, our new international equity derivatives facility not currently available for the growing OTC business.
EDX London is a joint venture with OM, equity derivatives market in London.
In the longer the trading technology provider, and will use OMs term, EDX London will seek opportunities to increase CLICK exchange technology platform together trading in a broader range of order book traded with its SECUR clearing technology solution.
Initially, EDX London will take responsibility for the operation of the Scandinavian equity derivatives We have communicated our vision and objectives Marc Bailey business of OMs UK subsidiary, OM London both to existing OM London Exchange customers Exchange.
Managing Director and to London Stock Exchange members in a series EDX London Part of EDX Londons initial focus will be on the of customer information seminars, and the response development, in conjunction with London Clearing has been encouraging.
Subject to regulatory House LCH, of an over-the-counter OTC equity approval by the FSA, EDX London will begin derivatives trade confirmation and clearing service trading in June 2003.
