ISSUER SERVICES Creating value for the companies on our markets We are making the most of the opportunities our markets offer to strengthen our domestic presence and extend our global reach.
Issuer Services is the focal point for We also recognise the importance of the Exchanges primary market activities.
diversifying revenues and the coming year Its strong markets continue to attract will see a major focus on the development companies worldwide.
of new products and services.
During the last year, our ability to invest in our markets The Main Market provides the majority and in related services for our customers of the divisions revenues, and supports was strengthened by a simplified tariff trading in 2,072 issuers, including 410 structure, which remains highly competitive.
Our fee levels remain well below those of AIM, our international market for smaller, our international competitors.
growing companies, has 705 constituent companies, including 50 overseas issuers.
The value of our market offering The division derives its revenues from Our markets, which are competing with the tariffs paid by issuers for having their those of stock exchanges in Europe and the securities admitted to our markets at United States, have proven to be the most IPO and in connection with subsequent resilient worldwide during a year of difficult corporate activity.
Revenues also come market conditions.
from annual fees and from the nominated advisers that support AIM.
Issuer Services increased its revenues by 34 per cent to 36 million.
revenue 36m 34% 10 ISSUER SERVICES LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Key to this is the strength of our customer European IPOs, up from 64 per cent the Main Market offering including: previous year.
A total of 17.9 billion of new capital was raised on our markets.
a choice of markets and effective structures AIM goes from strength to strength the credibility conferred on companies by AIM continued to set the pace as the worlds the strong reputation of the Exchange and most dynamic market for smaller quoted our world-leading regulatory standards companies.
During the year, the low costs Londons recognised industry knowledge and tailored regulation of AIM drew a steady and expertise flow of new issuers, despite the weaker IPO environment.
In June, we welcomed the an unrivalled institutional investor base, largest IPO in the seven year history of AIM providing access to Londons deep pool when PRI Group, a new insurance company, of capital.
London is the most raised 131 million at launch.
At the end of international market in the world with the year, there were 705 companies on AIM, 260 billion in international assets under compared with 641 in the previous year.
management almost twice as large as Overall, 154 companies joined AIM including New York and 75 per cent larger than our 12 overseas issuers.
New joiners included closest European competitor Source: seven North American companies, three 2002 Thomson Financial.
of which were Canadian mining companies.
These qualities helped us to attract 202 During the year, we also welcomed three companies during the year, including 81 IPOs.
This accounted for 69 per cent of all Western INVESTING FOR GROWTH 11 ISSUER SERVICES CONTINUED City Media Centre Our City Media Centre CMC, which provides broadcasting, presentation and training facilities to external customers, continued to generate increasing interest and activity.
Broadcasters including the BBC, CNN, CNBC and Sky News benefited from newly upgraded and refurbished studio facilities.
This helped to raise the number of broadcasts during the year by 41 per cent to 9,652 and enabled us to benefit from significant media exposure.
We implemented a redesign of the CMC website to incorporate virtual tours of the facilities.
The events and presentation business also grew, hosting 135 events during the year, an increase of 37 per cent.
Plans are already in hand for further expansion of our media and business facilities following the move of our headquarters to Paternoster Square in 2004.
12 ISSUER SERVICES LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Serving customers worldwide We are campaigners on behalf of our issuers.
In the UK, we are contributing to the current Our international strategy is focused review of the Listing Rules.
In Europe, we on three regions Europe, Asia Pacific continue to lobby for a single market in financial and the Americas with activity centred services that will recognise the needs of all on the countries with greatest potential.
issuers that wish to access our markets.
In Opportunities within each country differ particular, we have been pressing the case for and we are taking a considered approach a more flexible approach to reflect the interests to the strategies and tactics we use to and requirements of AIMs growing community exploit them, including: of companies, advisers and investors.
co-listing agreements, such as the one We continue to develop our range of services being developed with Hong Kong for companies.
The introduction of dedicated Exchanges and Clearing relationship managers has been widely direct sales trips to key countries to target welcomed by issuers and has enabled us to: prospective issuers and their advisers increase our understanding of, and developing a strong local presence, such responsiveness to, our customers as opening an office in the Nordic region ease the process for companies coming building and strengthening networks to market and alliances to gain greater access to companies, their advisers and other create a channel through which we key influencers.
This activity resulted in 18 issuers from nine In order to deepen Londons liquidity, we have countries being admitted to our markets in developed new routes to market, using our the last year including Lukoil, our first wealth of regulatory experience.
Our objective Russian share listing and Banco fide Chile, is to make it simple for all issuers to gain access our first Chilean company.
to the benefits of Londons capital markets.
For example, we are developing a faster and More than just a market provider easier route to AIM for companies already quoted on selected international markets.
The role of Issuer Services extends beyond that of providing markets for trading and facilitating access to capital.
INVESTING FOR GROWTH Deepening international relationships in provides an excellent growth opportunity.
Conversely, Hong Kong and the Nordic countries as mainland China increasingly deregulates and liberalises its financial markets, we expect European In May 2002, we announced a collaboration companies to be interested in seeking listings in agreement with Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Hong Kong in order to tap into Chinas huge savings to make it easier for companies to list in both Hong and investment pools.
Kong and London, boosting the long-term growth prospects of both markets.
We expect to implement Our new Nordic office opened in October to realise a co-listing programme with Hong Kong in 2003, the potential of our relationships with issuers, designed with the support of our respective securities brokers and advisers across the region.
Based in Philip Mastriforte regulators.
This will make it easier for companies Stockholm, the office creates a single local point Head of Issuer listing in Hong Kong to obtain a simultaneous of contact for Exchange-related information, advice secondary listing in London.
With many mainland Services and support.
It is delivered by a small, local team Chinese companies targeted for privatisation over the with experience and knowledge of the Nordic next five years and a fast growing economy, this commercial, legal and regulatory environment.
