TECHNOLOGY Increasing capacity, services and revenues To maintain and extend our position in a demanding financial services arena, we must be ready for increasing competition.
At the same time, we are looking for ways to extend our technology offerings and create value for our shareholders.
During the year we developed our relationship Charting the future with Accenture to meet our changing Over the last decade, the Exchange has requirements.
The result was the Exchange seen a period of continuing technological Solution Centre, a dedicated on-site change allied to significant increases in order Accenture development facility that enables volumes.
We anticipate that the rate of us to reduce costs significantly and gain change and volume growth will accelerate more efficient and effective access to the in the future.
To help us meet both our resources we need.
own and our customers needs, we have constructed a strategic technology roadmap, In January, with the help of Hewlett Packard, charting the future shape of our systems we increased the capacity of the SEQUENCE platform.
Our technology will evolve both to Tandem Non-Stop trading platform to address support our intention to broaden our range the rapid growth in trading volumes.
This of financial products and to meet the expansion, the second in just over a year, specific needs of the market speed, ensures that SEQUENCE and the wide scalability, global reach, reliability and cost range of market models it supports, such effectiveness.
as the SETS electronic order book will continue to provide the resilience, World-class supplier partnerships functionality and cost efficiency that our customers require.
We work closely with world-class technology partners, such as Accenture, Our high-capacity Internet Protocol IP Hewlett Packard, Microsoft, MCI and NCR network, supported by MCI, enhances the Teradata to ensure our products and capacity, flexibility and reach of SEQUENCE, services are constantly upgraded and and forms the basis of Extranex, our global remain leading edge.
18 TECHNOLOGY LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 In November, we announced the launch Relocation to Paternoster Square of the Corporate Data Warehouse, based The planned relocation to our new on Windows Server 2003 and NCR headquarters at Paternoster Square in Teradata technology.
The Warehouse 2004 will provide the catalyst to upgrade will calculate value added market data in the Exchanges desk top, messaging and real time for onward transmission to our intranet internet infrastructure.
It will also capture in-depth infrastructure will realise important benefits, historical information and aims to be such as: the definitive source for all UK financial support for remote working both for our market data sets.
Regional Offices and travelling staff Microsoft selected us as a partner of easier integration and support of new choice for the launch of Windows Server technology for the use of the Exchange 2003, the technology that underpins our and its clients.
new market data distribution platform.
Microsofts enterprise technologies allow us to reduce the total cost of ownership of our platforms, and enable flexible development techniques that help us to bring new data products to market faster than ever before.
IP-based products and services During the year, we added several more products and services around our IP network to create an ever-expanding suite of IP-based facilities for our customers.
The new market data distribution functionality, based on the Corporate Data Warehouse, the acquisition of Proquote, and the launch of the RSP Gateway and CREST Network services now make up a cost-effective range of services linked directly to our central systems.
