Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 34 Directors Report Directors Report Statement by the directors on compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code The directors submit their report, together with the audited accounts The Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the for the year ended 31 March 2003.
Combined Code throughout the year.
Principal activities The Board of Directors Man Group plc the Company is the holding company for the As at 31 March 2003, the Board comprised three executive directors Man group the Group.
A detailed review of the Groups strategy, and five non-executive directors including the Chairman.
There have activities and financial performance is given in the Chief Executives been no changes to the Board since the year-end.
Biographical Strategic and Operating Review on pages 8 to 20 and in the Finance details of the directors are set out on page 30.
In accordance with Directors Review on pages 22 to 29.
Details of the principal the Articles of Association, Peter Clarke and Kevin Davis will retire operating subsidiaries are set out on page 78. at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment.
Results and dividends The audited accounts of the Group appear on pages 47 to 77.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with The Group profit after taxation but before ordinary dividends responsibilities divided between them.
Non-executive directors amounted to 234.5 million.
represent the majority of the Board.
Of the five non-executive directors, Alison Carnwath, Dugald Eadie and Glen Moreno are The directors recommend a final dividend of 14.1 pence per ordinary considered to be independent non-executive directors and share giving a total of 23.2 pence per ordinary share for the year.
accordingly independent non-executive directors comprise the Subject to shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting, majority of non-executives.
The Board is well advanced in its search the final dividend will be paid on 15 July 2003 to shareholders on the for at least one additional independent non-executive director so that register at the close of business on 27 June 2003.
The shares will be independent non-executive directors will comprise at least half of the quoted ex-dividend from 25 June 2003.
The Dividend Reinvestment members of the Board, excluding the Chairman.
Glen Moreno is Plan first introduced for the 2001 interim dividend will be available recognised as the senior independent non-executive director and is again in respect of the 2003 final dividend.
The retained profit available to shareholders in the event that they have concerns which transferred to reserves amounted to 159.3 million.
have not been resolved through the normal channels with the Chief Executive or Chairman.
Harvey McGrath and Stephen Nesbitt, the It is the Groups policy to honour all of its contractual commitments other two non-executive directors, are not considered to be wholly and this includes paying suppliers according to agreed payment independent under the provisions of the Combined Code, having terms, which are agreed when negotiating transactions.
The both previously held executive office.
The non-executive directors Company had no external trade creditors at 31 March 2003 or met together once during the year without the Chairman or 31 March 2002. executive directors present.
Corporate governance Prior to their appointment, potential non-executive directors are asked The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance to confirm that they have sufficient time available to meet what is and supports the need for clear standards to be laid down to expected of them, including the membership of relevant Board safeguard the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
They are also subject to a review to assess their The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good independence and to confirm that they have no other relationships corporate governance.
Corporate governance continues to be a high that might affect their judgement.
The non-executive directors are profile issue and the Board has taken careful note of the matters appointed by the Board and stand for re-election at the first Annual raised in the recent Higgs Review of the role and effectiveness of General Meeting of the Company following their appointment.
non-executive directors and Sir Robert Smiths report on Audit They hold office for a three-year period, subject to the Companys Committees, Combined Code Guidance, although these have not Articles of Association, whereupon they may stand for re-election yet been incorporated into the Combined Code.
During the year the by shareholders in General Meeting.
They are entitled to a fee for Board reflected many of the recommendations contained in the Higgs their services plus reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred for and Smith reports in its most recent review of the terms of reference Company purposes.
They are not entitled to any pension or bonus of the principal Board committees.
and cannot participate in any Man Group share based incentive schemes.
They are not entitled to any compensation for early This statement describes how the Company applies the principles of termination, save as may be provided for in general law.
Noncorporate governance and how it complies with the provisions of the executive directors are not required to hold shares in the Company Combined Code, and the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for but are actively encouraged to do so and each of the non-executive Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of directors does currently hold shares.
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 35 Directors Report All directors are subject to re-election at intervals of no more than Remuneration Committee three years.
Any directors appointed by the Board are subject to reThe Remuneration Committee is appointed by the Board and is election by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following responsible for setting remuneration for all executive directors and the their appointment.
All directors have access to the advice and Chairman of the Board, and agreeing the framework and policy for services of the Company Secretary, Peter Clarke, who is responsible the remuneration of directors and other members of senior executive to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and management, including eligibility for benefits under long-term incentive that there is compliance with applicable rules and regulations.
The Committee approves the terms of any service removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a agreement to be entered into with any executive director and any whole.
In addition, the Board has established a procedure that proposed compensation for termination.
The Committee is exclusively enables any director to have access to independent professional responsible for selecting and appointing any remuneration consultants advice at the Groups expense.
The Remuneration Report, set out on pages 39 to 44, includes details of the Committees activities, a The Board holds meetings on a regular basis, at least six times per statement of the Companys remuneration policy and the procedures year and additionally for specific purposes as and when required.
for determining executive directors remuneration.
The Remuneration During the year there were eight Board meetings including a four Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors: day strategic planning session attended by senior executives below Dugald Eadie appointed Chairman 11th September 2002, Glen Board level from across the Groups activities.
All Board members Moreno and Alison Carnwath.
The Committee met three times during attended every meeting during the year.
To enable the Board to the year with all members present on each occasion.
During the year discharge its duties effectively, all directors receive appropriate and the Committee reviewed its terms of reference.
timely information with briefing papers distributed in advance of Board meetings.
All new directors receive an appropriate introduction to Audit and Risk Committee their responsibilities and the Groups operations, by way of a detailed The Audit and Risk Committee is appointed by the Board.
The briefing pack and meetings with senior management.
Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors: Alison Carnwath Chair, Dugald Eadie and Glen Moreno.
The The Board determines the strategic direction of the Group and Committee met five times during the year, with all members is ultimately responsible to shareholders for the good corporate present on each occasion.
The Committee is responsible for: governance and the proper management of the Groups businesses.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to Selecting and appointing the external auditors, approving their it for decision and has adopted written delegated authorities terms of reference and fees, and determining with the auditors providing for a tiered approval process for decisions below Board the nature and scope of the audit work.
The levels of delegated authority are kept under continual review and were reviewed during the year.
The Board formally Reviewing the performance, independence and objectivity of the delegates certain of its responsibilities to committees by way of external auditor and ensuring appropriate rotation of audit partner.
Details of each committee, its membership and the terms of reference are summarised below.
As usual, the Monitoring and reviewing the resources and effectiveness of Internal Chair of each Committee will be attending the Companys Annual Audit including approving the appointment or removal of the head General Meeting to answer any questions regarding the Committees of Internal Audit and agreeing the Internal Audit programme for the activities and responsibilities.
Nomination Committee Considering all Internal Audit reports, managements response to The Nomination Committee is appointed by the Board and is any recommendations, and monitoring the progress of any required responsible for identifying, assessing and nominating for the approval actions.
of the Board, candidates to fill vacancies as and when they arise.
This includes consideration of the reappointment of non-executive Reviewing the procedures for handling allegations from whistle directors at the conclusion of their specified term of office and the blowers.
re-election by shareholders of any director under the retirement by rotation provision of the Companys Articles.
It is also responsible Reviewing managements and Internal Audits reports on the for considering succession planning for both the Board and senior effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial management positions.
The Committee comprises all of the nonreporting and risk management including review of the Groups executive directors and accordingly has a majority of independent corporate governance procedures, Enterprise Wide Risk non-executive directors.
The Board considers that the position of Management process, Group Risk Committee and regulatory Group Chairman necessitates a leading role in the composition and reporting and compliance reports.
balance of the Board and accordingly the Committee is chaired by Harvey McGrath.
The Committee meets at least once a year and Reviewing, prior to formal submission to the Board, the Groups otherwise as and when required.
There was one meeting during the interim and annual financial statements, in particular: any significant year with all members present.
During the year the Committee issues arising from the audit: the accounting policies: any issues reviewed its terms of reference.
requiring a significant element of judgement: the clarity of disclosures: compliance with applicable accounting and legal standards: and the statements on internal control systems and business risk assessments.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 36 Directors Report In furtherance of the need to monitor and report external auditor place.
The process is regularly updated by the divisions so as to reflect independence, the Committee and the Board have adopted a formal their current business activities and changing markets.
The ERM output policy regarding the engagement of the external auditor in the is reviewed by the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee and provision of any non-audit services.
This policy precludes the external accords with the guidance in the Internal Control: Guidance for auditor from providing certain services including internal audit work Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance.
and permits limited other services subject to low fee thresholds and or to prior approval by the Committee.
The key elements of the system of internal control are reflected in the processes, structures and reporting systems summarised below: The proceedings of the Committee are reported to and discussed by the Board.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and other directors A clear organisation and reporting structure established by the attend Committee meetings by invitation but are not members.
The Board, with business units operating under clearly defined policies Groups external auditors and the head of Group Internal Audit are and within written levels of delegated authority.
Careful attention is also invited to attend for all or part of meetings.
Senior management given to segregation of duties in the business units.
representatives of business areas frequently attend meetings when the Committee is considering Internal Audit reports on their activities.
Regulatory, risk and compliance resources embedded within Risk, compliance and regulatory reports are also made available to divisional businesses, charged with monitoring and reporting the Committee together with the attendance of the relevant senior independently of their line management compliance with local managers.
The Committee is empowered to seek the attendance regulatory and legal requirements, and appropriate Group policies.
of any Group employee and to engage at the Companys expense the services of such external professional advice as it may A structure of investment committees within Asset Management, consider appropriate.
responsible for determining, monitoring and overseeing internal and external investment management processes and compliance with The Committee has a discussion with the head of Internal Audit and product mandates.
the external auditors at least once a year without executives present to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
During the The ERM process for identifying and evaluating the significant year the Committee reviewed its terms of reference.
strategic, financial and operational risks facing the Group at business unit level and at Group level, which is reviewed and Internal control updated at least annually at all levels including at the Group The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems Board and the Audit and Risk Committee.
of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The systems aim to safeguard assets, and ensure The assessment and documentation, through the ERM process, proper accounting records are maintained so that the financial of the Groups appetite for risk at all levels and a regular review information, used within the business and for publication, is reliable.
and testing by Internal Audit in the case of all significant risks of The systems are designed to manage key risks rather than eliminate the stated and documented control environment.
Careful attention the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide is given to segregation of duties.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A regular review by Internal Audit of the system of internal control, based on an audit programme approved annually by Audit and Risk The directors and senior managers of the Group are committed to Committee, and focusing on areas of greatest perceived risk as maintaining high standards and a control conscious culture, so as identified through ERM.
to preserve and enhance the Groups reputation in its markets.
The Groups activities are subject to high levels of regulatory oversight in Clearly defined limits for position, market, counterparty and credit many jurisdictions, particularly in the UK and the US, and significant by customer and by market, set and monitored by the Group Risk Group resources are allocated to ensure compliance.
This oversight Committee within the authority approved by the Board and the includes obligations of regular compliance reporting, the maintenance Audit and Risk Committee.
The Group Risk Committee comprises of minimum levels of capital and periodic audit by regulators.
the executive directors and other senior executives, including the head of Group Risk, Treasury, Tax and Internal Audit personnel.
The Board operates an enterprise-wide risk management process Group financial risk data is collected globally and reported on ERM for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks through a Group Risk database.
The ERM process is now well established and has been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of Formal business continuity plans and appropriate remote data this report.
ERM provides a systematic context for the identification, back-up and disaster recovery facilities for each of the Groups key understanding and treatment of risk at the inherent level and also at locations to ensure the rapid recovery of business critical systems the residual level, after taking account of the control environment in and functions in the event of disruption at any key location.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 37 Directors Report A medium and long-term strategic planning process, approved by Statement of directors responsibilities the Board, addressing the projected financial performance, capital The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare and liquidity needs of the Group and reviewing consistency with accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of financial and business objectives.
The formal Board approval of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at the end of the major investments and business developments, with centralised financial year and of the profit or loss and cash flows of the Group control of due diligence and acquisition appraisal.
An annual budget approved by the Board and monthly financial The directors, in preparing the accounts set out on pages 47 to 77, reporting to the Board by the Finance Director, including consider that the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, comparisons against budget and forecasts for the full financial year, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent together with a review of key performance indicators.
The monthly judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which reporting includes liquidity, risk and compliance information and they consider to be applicable have been followed.
Monthly business updates are provided in writing to the Board by the chief executive of each division.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that proper accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy the Clearly defined operational policies regarding funding and liquidity financial position of the Company and of the Group and which enable requirements, which are provided via the central Group Treasury them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act function which also hedges foreign exchange and interest rate risks 1985.
The directors also have general responsibility for taking such on behalf of the individual businesses on the basis of established steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the policies.
A Banking and Guarantees Committee of the Board Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
approves the documentation supporting the Groups funding and guarantee requirements.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group website.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept control.
Compliance with the system of internal control is monitored no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the Accounts by line management, regular reporting through subsidiary boards since they were initially presented on the website.
It should be noted and Board committees, and through the Internal Audit programme.
that information published on the Internet is accessible in many The Board receives annual written confirmation from subsidiary countries, some of which have different legal requirements relating directors and divisional management that the Groups approach to, to the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements.
and required standards for, risk management and internal control is understood and that risk is consistent with and managed in The directors confirm that they have complied with the above accordance with the Group ERM framework.
provide for assurance to be given at higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
Going concern After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation This process is facilitated by Internal Audit who also provide a degree that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to of assurance as to the operation and validity of the system of internal continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and control and the self assessment process.
Internal Audits programme accordingly continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing of independent review is driven by the results of the risk identification the accounts.
process and work performed includes a detailed examination of related key controls.
The results of internal audits and investigations Share capital are reported to the Audit and Risk Committee, which reviews the Details of movements in the share capital of the Company are given assurance procedures and reports to the Board.
During the year, the Company purchased in the market for cancellation 4,140,000 of its ordinary shares of 10p In the case of companies acquired during the year, including RMF each at a total cost of 38.5 million, giving an average repurchase Investment Group, which was acquired on 30 May 2002: and GNI cost of 930 pence per share.
This was done to return capital to Holdings Limited, which was acquired on 6 November 2002, the shareholders at share prices that were earnings enhancing.
These internal controls in place in these companies have been reviewed transactions represented some 1.3% of the issued ordinary share as part of the due diligence process prior to their acquisition and capital at 31 March 2003.
As at 22 May 2003, the Company has an have been integrated into the Groups systems.
unexpired authority to repurchase further shares up to a remaining maximum of 22,582,017 ordinary shares.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 38 Directors Report Resolutions relating to the Companys share capital are to be Employees, environment and charitable donations proposed at the Annual General Meeting and are set out in the The Groups policies in relation to employees and the environment Notice of Meeting.
Further details are given in the accompanying and details of the Groups charitable donations in the year are letter from the Chairman.
included in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report, which immediately precedes the Directors Report.
As at 15 May 2003, the Company had been notified of three holdings of 3% or more, in its share capital, being that of D H Rosenblum, a Auditors former director of the Company 3.63%, Rainer-Marc Frey, a current Following the conversion of our auditors,  employee of the Group 3.07%, and Barclays Plc 3.01%.
to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003,  resigned and, upon the recommendation of Details of the directors interests in the share capital of the Company the Audit Committee, the directors appointed  and details of directors share options are set out in the Remuneration LLP as auditors.
 LLP have indicated their Report.
There have been no changes in the directors share interests willingness to continue in office and resolutions will be proposed at between 31 March 2003 and the date of this report.
the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them as auditors of the Company and to authorise the directors to determine their Investor relations remuneration for the current year.
The Company enters into a dialogue at appropriate times with its institutional shareholders, whilst having regard to the UK Listing The Board and the auditors as a matter of professional practice Authoritys guidance on the dissemination of price sensitive maintain safeguards to avoid the objectivity and independence of information.
The Groups non-executive Chairman frequently attends the auditors from becoming compromised.
The Board and the Audit meetings with institutional investors and always attends results and Risk Committee have adopted a formal policy regarding the presentations.
Copies of all results announcements are carried in full engagement of the external auditor in the provision of any non-audit on the Companys website www.
com as soon as they services.
For the year, the ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees was are published, together with announcements required to be made 65%.
This is higher than historically and is due to the work carried in accordance with the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules and other out by the Groups external auditors in connection with due diligence investor presentation material.
The Company encourages research and financial reporting relating to the acquisition of RMF and the coverage of its business activities by analysts and rating agencies exchangeable bonds issue, both of which required the issuance of and for this purpose makes available the time of the Chief Executive Listing Particulars.
Further controls over the relationship of the Group and Finance Director.
with the auditors are operated by the Audit and Risk Committee and are noted above.
Full use is made of the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors.
The Company will continue the practices of making available at the Annual General Meeting the level of proxies lodged on each resolution, despatching the notice of the Annual General By Order of the Board Meeting and related papers more than 20 working days before the Peter Clarke meeting, and proposing each substantially separate issue as an Company Secretary individual motion.
It is intended that all members of the Board will, as 22 May 2003 usual, attend the 2003 Annual General Meeting and will be available to answer questions both during and after the Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 11 am on 9 July 2003, at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
