corporate overview CORPORATE OVERVIEW The telecommunications industry is currently facing The aim of the Company is to deliver sustainable and unfavourable market conditions, including, amongst others, a acceptable returns over time with manageable residual risk.
decline in investment in the industry, a decline in demand With this in mind the Companys management has for certain telecommunications products and services, pricing announced a number of initiatives: pressures and over-capacity.
These conditions have contributed to a general, and often significant, decline in Develop national businesses share prices for telecommunications companies, including The aim of the Group is to create a group of profitable Cable & Wireless, which has seen its share price decline by national telecommunications companies with strong positions 154p from 223p at 31 March 2002 to 69p at 31 March 2003. in their primary markets where they offer both domestic and These market conditions have also precipitated restructurings international services.
The Group already has the building and bankruptcy and insolvency lings by several blocks, and is making strategic changes and restructuring telecommunications companies.
plans which represent the next steps along the road to achieving this ambition.
Consistent with the new national The last year was a turbulent one for Cable & Wireless.
The approach, Cable & Wireless will no longer be divided into Company started the year optimistic that its diversication the Global and Regional business divisions, instead it will be into data highways, hosting and internet services organised on a geographic basis.
collectively called Global would position it well for a prosperous future.
A deterioration in Cable & Wireless Restructure the UK business Globals business performance has, however, resulted in xed asset and goodwill impairment as forecast performance Cable & Wireless is second only to BT in the United has been revised downwards.
In September 2002, xed Kingdom, which is one of worlds largest assets were impaired by 787 million and goodwill of telecommunications markets.
However, performance has 2,713 million was written off, principally in the United declined and, as a result, the business is being restructured Kingdom.
In November 2002, Cable & Wireless then to drive efficiency, improve network services and focus the announced the need to restructure its US operations to Company on building market share with target customers.
reduce the running losses and cashow drain to which it The plans include a reduction in headcount of 1,500.
As a realised it was exposed.
In January 2003, as a consequence consequence of eliminating Cable & Wireless Global, and of a downgrade by Moodys of the Companys long term focusing clearly on the national businesses, Royston debt from Baa2 to Ba1, the Company had to place in escrow Hoggarth has been appointed as Chief Executive of Cable & 1.5 billion pursuant to a tax indemnity granted to Deutsche Wireless UK.
Telekom in connection with the sale of Cable & Wireless stake in One2One.
After agreement was reached with the Withdraw from US operations Inland Revenue to settle the Groups outstanding UK The US subsidiaries make losses, consume cash and require Corporation Tax Affairs for the ten years to 31 March 2001, significant management attention.
Furthermore, their services which included the year in which the One2One transaction have limited interaction with the rest of the Group.
These took place, these funds were released from escrow at the businesses may have value to the right owner but they are year end.
not sustainable with the current cost structure.
A wideranging cost control programme has been initiated.
The Following the retirements of Sir Ralph Robins and David Company intends to withdraw from the US businesses Nash in January 2003, Richard Lapthorne was appointed altogether: all options are being explored.
On 21 January 2003, it was announced that the consideration of a variety of options, Cable & Wireless Graham Wallace would be leaving the Company and in US subsidiaries have taken some initial steps.
April 2003, the Company recruited Francesco Caio as its new Chief Executive and Kevin Loosemore as its new Chief Rationalise continental Europe and, in due course, Operating officer.
The transfer of Rob Rowley from Nonimprove results in Japan executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee to Executive Deputy Chairman has brought timely support to In continental Europe, the Group provides services to other the finance function.
New Non-Executive Directors licensed telecommunications operators and to multinational appointed in the last six months Bernard Gray, Graham corporate customers, some of which are headquartered in the Howe, Tony Rice and Kasper Rorsted bring a range of United Kingdom.
However, it also operates a number of highly relevant skills from their backgrounds in finance and businesses, which provide services to smaller corporate restructuring, telecommunications and IT, government and customers and act as internet service providers.
Wireless has either completed or is in advanced discussion Page 4 corporate overview on the sale of non-core businesses across continental Europe Regional divisions.
Going forward the Group will have a in order to reduce exit costs.
country-based structure, with country CEOs responsible for profit and loss, cash ow and balance sheet and reporting Cable & Wireless IDC provides international voice and data directly to the Chief Operating officer.
This new services to companies in Japan and South East Asia.
organisational structure will, the Company expects, result in Although it operates in a market dominated by Nippon lower overheads, clear accountability and more effective Telegraph and Telephone Corporation NTT, it delivers transfer of knowledge and skills.
acceptable results and has good prospects.
Focus on profit before tax and cash The Group faces a number of challenges in implementing its Across the Group the focus will now be on profit before tax new strategic initiatives, including those linked to turmoil in and cash.
More rigorous cost control and capital the industry, global economic challenges, as well the management disciplines have been introduced to ensure that markets in which the Group operates.
The Group, however, the restructuring plans can be accommodated within the remains committed to capitalising on its core skills and key Groups existing financial resources.
customers, to return it to profitability.
See Risk Factors for a further discussion of certain of the challenges facing the To support these initiatives, Cable & Wireless has adopted a Group.
simpler organisational structure, eliminating the Global and Page 5 business description BUSINESS DESCRIPTION This section contains: Summary 6 Property 18 Business overview 8 Legal proceedings 19 Regulatory framework 14 SUMMARY Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications Wireless other similar operations to form Cable & Wireless business with annual revenue of 4.4 billion in the year to Global, which brought together the Groups operations in the 31 March 2003 and customers in 80 countries.
United Kingdom, continental Europe, the United States and Headquartered in London, Cable & Wireless principal Japan.
operations are in the United Kingdom: the Caribbean: the At the same time, the Groups other operations were brought United States: Japan: continental Europe: Panama and together under Cable & Wireless Regional.
Cable & Wireless provides voice, data and IP services to business and residential customers and wholesale In August 2000, Cable & Wireless disposed of its interest in services to carriers, mobile operators and content, application Cable & Wireless HKT Limited based in Hong Kong to a and internet providers.
Cable & Wireless received cash and shares in PCCW equivalent to an interest of History approximately 20 per cent in the enlarged company.
PCCW For over 120 years, Cable & Wireless has provided shares were sold in September 2000 for consideration of telecommunications services, networks and equipment to approximately 930 million reducing the holding to business and residential customers around the world.
In June 2003, the Company sold for some 30 years as a state-owned company after the the remaining holding in PCCW as part of a market Second World War, Cable & Wireless has been a publicly placement for a consideration of approximately 233 owned limited company since its earliest days.
In the United Kingdom, Cable & Wireless, through Mercury In September 2001, Cable & Wireless disposed of its interest Communications, was an early competitor in the liberalised in Cable & Wireless Optus Limited based in Australia to a telecommunications market.
In April 1997, Cable & subsidiary of Singapore Telecommunications Limited Wireless Communications plc CWC was formed by the SingTel.
Cable & Wireless received cash and SingTel merger of Mercury Communications with Nynex shares and bonds which were subsequently sold.
CableComms, Bell Cablemedia and Videotron.
The web services and hosting businesses, Digital Island, Inc.
In September 1998, Cable & Wireless acquired MCI DI and selected assets and the majority of business Telecommunication Corporations internet business in the activities of EXDS, Inc formerly Exodus Communications, United States and world wide.
In the Asia-Pacic region, Inc Exodus were acquired in 2002.
Cable & Wireless acquired International Digital Communications Inc. now re-named Cable & Wireless Recent acquisitions and disposals IDC, one of Japans international telecommunications In May 2002, Cable & Wireless purchased Guernsey carriers, in June 1999.
Telecoms Limited from the States of Guernsey for In October 1999, Cable & Wireless completed the sale of its consideration of 22.5 million.
The Group paid a further interest in One2One, its UK mobile phone business, to 1.3 million for the assignment of the rights that the States Deutsche Telekom.
One2One was a joint venture with of Guernsey had in a bre optic cable project which when MediaOne Group Inc and the joint venture partners received completed will run from Guernsey to Jersey and France.
30 September 2002, the company was renamed Cable and Wireless Guernsey Ltd.
The company is a full service In May 2000, Cable & Wireless took full ownership of the provider serving the Bailiwick of Guernsey.
corporate, business, IP and wholesale operations of CWC CWC DataCo, while the consumer telephone, internet and In September 2002, the Company sold its US retail voice cable TV operations CWC ConsumerCo were acquired by customer base for an aggregate consideration of 11 million ntl Incorporated.
CWC DataCo was integrated with Cable & in cash, payable over approximately two years.
This disposal Page 6 business description was part of the restructuring of the Companys US business, operating profit or loss attributable to a given geographical announced in May 2002.
The Company also announced the region that was included within the business of Cable & disposal of certain US retail data customers as part of the Wireless Global.
However, as announced, Cable & Wireless same restructuring.
intends to focus its business around the key geographical regions in which it operates and will track and report results In November 2002, the Company announced that Cable & on that basis.
Consequently, in the future, the geographical Wireless would withdraw from domestic business markets in breakdown of the Groups results for those portions of its the United States and in continental Europe except for business that used to be part of Cable & Wireless Global multinational and wholesale customers.
It was also may not be entirely comparable to the results by geography announced that Cable & Wireless established businesses in disclosed when Cable & Wireless reported results by Cable the United Kingdom and Japan would be reshaped to reduce & Wireless Global and within Cable & Wireless Global, costs and produce greater focus on profitability and cash Wholesale, Enterprise and Business Markets and Cable & ow.
In December 2002, as part of the Initial Public Offering of Capital expenditure shares in the Singapore mobile operator MobileOne Ltd, Capital expenditure on plant, equipment and property Cable & Wireless sold 60 per cent of its stake in that totalled 0.8 billion in 2003 compared with 1.9 billion in company, realising a profit of 54 million before minority 2002 and 3.4 billion in 2001. interests.
Cable & Wireless capital expenditure in 2003 included the Organisational structure following third party investments: From mid-2000 Cable & Wireless was organised into two business divisions: Cable & Wireless Global and Cable & r network build, totalling 310 million, mainly relating to Wireless Regional.
Cable & Wireless Global comprised international and pan-regional capacity as well as the operations in the United Kingdom, the United States, Japan UK network: and continental Europe and concentrated on the provision of r the rollout out of a GSM mobile network in the services to large and multinational corporates and other Caribbean and Panama, together with further expansion service providers.
Cable & Wireless Regionals operations of the TDMA mobile network in the Caribbean, were in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Rest of World.
totalling 113 million: Rest of World comprises Cable & Wireless Regionals r Information Technology IT, totalling 134 million, operations in Yemen, Bahrain and the Maldives, together including expenditure on billing systems and IT support with smaller operations in Seychelles, Diego Garcia, for capital projects: and Falkland Islands, Ascension, St. Helena, Guernsey and r network terminating equipment and customer premises Sakhalin in Russia.
From June 2003, the Company is organised with a The above numbers include working capital allocations.
geographical and customer focus and the Global and At 1 April 2003, Cable & Wireless was committed to 135 Regional distinction has been eliminated.
million of capital expenditure as set out in Note 27 to the Current geographical financial data for Cable & Wireless Financial Statements.
The Group is currently reviewing all Global included in this business description are based on capital expenditure projects with a view to reducing capital managements estimates of the allocation of turnover and expenditure in 2004 compared with 2003.
Page 7 business description BUSINESS OVERVIEW Products and services In addition, Cable & Wireless operates a GPRS Roaming Exchange service, GRX, which enables mobile operators to Cable & Wireless provides a variety of services including offer users secure, high-speed wireless access to data voice, data, IP, mobile and hosting services to its customers services, such as email or corporate intranet access, in its various national operations.
wherever they are in the world.
As at 31 March 2003, Cable & Wireless has connected 31 mobile operators direct to the GRX and links more than 90 mobile operators world wide through interconnect agreements.
Other Hosting Mobile IP IP Cable & Wireless focuses on three IP product sets: IP communications that enable customers to migrate from Voice traditional telecommunications services to IP services with Data improved functionality: access solutions: and transit to IP networks and the internet.
Access solutions include valueadded security services such as managed rewalls, intrusion detection and response, scanning and analysis eg email Voice virus protection and authentication and encryption services.
Cable & Wireless offers domestic and international connectivity via switched and dedicated services to In the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Rest of World, Cable residential, business, corporate and multinational customers.
& Wireless also provides residential and business customers Cable & Wireless also offers leased circuit and facsimile with dial-up IP and other internet services, including broad telecommunications services.
band ADSL asymmetrical digital subscriber line solutions.
Cable & Wireless is a supplier of wholesale voice services and interconnect to mobile operators and carriers with Hosting customers including incumbent former monopolies, mobile Cable & Wireless offers a range of integrated managed operators and regional telecommunications companies and hosting, intelligent network services, content delivery and service providers.
other value-added services to business customers.
Cable & Wireless US operations generate some 75 per cent of these Cable & Wireless offers mobile voice and messaging revenues.
services, principally using GPRS GSM technology and TDMA technology.
As at 31 March 2003, Cable & Wireless subsidiaries and branches provided mobile Geographic Markets telecommunications services to 1.6 million customers around the world.
Where Cable & Wireless is the local incumbent operator the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Rest of World, Rest of World business customers are typically served through Cable & Macau Wireless own xed line and mobile network facilities.
In Caribbean other regions, business customers are primarily connected to the Cable & Wireless network via third party local loops and leased line facilities or directly via bre or microwave links.
Japan UK Data US Cable & Wireless has a portfolio of data services including traditional data transport services frame relay and national Continental and international switched and dedicated services based on Europe Panama ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode, a high speed digital transmission technology.
Page 8 business description Cable & Wireless operates in the United Kingdom, the range of services from international and domestic voice and Caribbean, the United States, Japan, continental Europe, data and IP services to complex web hosting solutions.
Panama, Macau and Rest of World.
At 31 March 2003, Cable & Wireless UK provided services Cable & Wireless provides voice, data and IP services to to approximately one third of the UK wholesale market and large corporates Enterprise, SME Business and residential one sixth of the UK retail telecommunications market.
In addition, in the United Kingdom, the Caribbean, the United States, Japan and continental Europe, Enterprise Revenue 449 million Cable & Wireless provides specialist wholesale services to Enterprise customers consist of large international and carriers, mobile operators and content, application and national corporate customers to which Cable & Wireless internet providers Wholesale.
provides a range of direct services and outsourced or customised solutions.
In the United Kingdom, Cable & For a discussion of Cable & Wireless revenue by Wireless provides international services to some customers, geographic market for the past 3 years, see Operating and principally those in the Financial Markets and Media sectors.
United Kingdom Wholesale Revenue 725 million Wholesale operations generate some 40 per cent of Cable & Wireless UKs revenue.
The market is highly competitive.
Demand from other carriers has fallen as they migrate to their own networks or face lower customer demand and financial difficulties.
Business Wholesale In the United Kingdom, the primary customers are mobile operators and the companies which developed after fideregulation other licensed operators, and Cable & Wireless provides interconnect capacity to enable them to offer national and international coverage to their customers.
Enterprise Wholesale launched Carrier pre-select CPS in July 2002 a method of indirect voice access, which enables UK residential consumers to select an alternative operator to BT for their voice calls in advance, without having to dial additional codes or programming on-site equipment.
Hosting IP Business Revenue 554 million Services to Business customers generated approximately one third of 2003 revenue in the United Kingdom.
Data Business provides direct and telesales services to smaller corporate customers with less complex requirements.
At 31 Voice March 2003, it had approximately 1,000 such customers.
Business also handles central government agencies and institutions.
Overview In addition, approximately 54,000 SME businesses are served by selling the whole range of products and services The UK telecommunications market is mature with a with and through partners, alliances and third parties.
considerable number of competitors, significant network capacity and competitive pricing.
Cable & Wireless formed the ALLnet group during the year In the United Kingdom, Cable & Wireless is the largest from the integration of six smaller entities.
ALLnet provides xed line telecommunications services provider after British a single source for hardware installation and maintenance of Telecommunications BT, the former state-owned monopoly voice, data and cabling systems, together with systems telecommunications provider.
UK operations provide a full development and integration for the information and Page 9 business description communications technologies industry in the United Many of the Caribbean markets in which Cable & Wireless Kingdom and Ireland.
operates are in transition from long-standing monopoly environments to competitive markets.
With the global trend Caribbean towards liberalisation of telecommunication markets, Cable & Wireless is actively engaged with host governments, where they desire to reach agreement to end exclusive licences and provide for an orderly transition to a Other competitive environment.
These discussions involve negotiating regulatory arrangements to provide for the International Mobile Voice orderly introduction of fair, sustainable competition.
The implementation of the liberalisation process is well IP advanced in many Cable & Wireless host territories.
The Data table below shows the dates of market liberalisation for the principal Caribbean subsidiaries.
Domestic Territory National International Mobile Data & Internet Voice Jamaica Sep-01 Mar-03 Mar-00 Mar-00 Barbados 2011 2011 2011 Long standing Cable & Wireless operates in 15 Caribbean territories.
The principal territories are Jamaica, Barbados, Cayman Islands Cayman 2011 2011 2011 2011 and Trinidad and Tobago.
Indicates discussions about the future of the market are underway.
Dates given are relevant to the current licence arrangements.
In nearly all of the Caribbean territories in which it operates, Cable & Wireless is the incumbent, xed and mobile Subsequent to the commencement of the phased operator providing some or all of the domestic and liberalisation process in Jamaica, several other Caribbean international telecommunications.
governments, notably Barbados and some members of the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States OECS have In the Caribbean territories where Cable & Wireless endorsed a broadly similar approach.
subsidiaries and branches provide domestic telephone services, the total number of telephone lines in service On 20 May 2002, the leaders of certain OECS Countries totalled approximately 860,000 at 31 March 2003, an overall Grenada, St Lucia, St Vincent & the Grenadines, St Kitts & decrease of approximately 20,000 in the year.
During the Nevis and Dominica and Cable & Wireless signed an same period, the mobile subscribers of these subsidiaries and agreement which paves the way for fully competitive branches increased by approximately 370,000 to 940,000. markets in these territories.
Under this agreement, these Cable & Wireless has mobile licences in all of its Caribbean markets were fully liberalised with retrospective effect from 1 April 2002. territories with the exception of the British Virgin Islands and Bermuda.
The Caribbean operations provide a range of mobile services, including preand post-paid subscriptions, Jamaica short messaging service SMS and international inbound Jamaica is the largest of the Caribbean operations generating and outbound roaming.
over 40 per cent of the Caribbeans revenue in 2003.
Cable & Wireless holds an 82 per cent interest in Cable & Cable & Wireless is investing in a new GSM GPRS Wireless Jamaica Limited, the largest provider of General Packet Radio Services network in the Caribbean telecommunications services in Jamaica.
which is expected to be rolled out during 2004, commencing with Jamaica, Barbados and the Cayman Islands.
GSM Cable & Wireless Jamaica provides domestic and GPRS technology provides higher transmission speeds international xed line and mobile telecommunication enabling Cable & Wireless to offer new mobile services services to consumers and business customers.
In addition to including internet access, multimedia messaging and Cable & Wireless Jamaica, there are currently three E-banking.
competitors in the mobile and domestic xed line sectors, as The Caribbean operations also provide a full range of well as a number of resellers.
internet services to customers, including dial-up, direct connect, web hosting, web-site design and its ADSL services The Jamaican telecommunications market is dominated by which provide broadband access.
Cable & Wireless estimates that there are Page 10 business description approximately 2.5 times more mobile subscribers in the market than xed line.
Barbados Voice Cable & Wireless Barbados Limited is 81 per cent owned and provides domestic and international xed line and Data mobile telecommunications services to consumers and business customers.
Hosting There are currently no competitors for mobile services but on 7 March 2003 the Government announced its intention to IP issue three new mobile licences.
There are four other ISPs who offer internet services to end customers over Cable & Wireless network.
Overview Cayman Islands The US business, which includes a number of legal entities, including Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. and Cable & Cable and Wireless Cayman Islands Limited provides Wireless Internet Services, operates under the brand name domestic, international and mobile services in the Cayman Cable & Wireless America, and was formed during 2002.
Islands under an exclusive licence, signed in 1991, which Cable & Wireless America serves the Wholesale, Enterprise expires in 2011.
Negotiations are under way with the and Business customer segments with hosting and IP government to address the future of this licence.
services generating nearly three quarters of revenue.
Trinidad and Tobago The US telecommunications market is a mature market with Cable & Wireless owns 49 per cent of Telecommunications a considerable number of participants and over capacity in Services of Trinidad and Tobago Limited TSTT.
The many areas leading to intense competition.
In addition, controlling 51 per cent shareholding is owned by National certain competitors in the United States have led for Enterprises Limited, a state-owned company.
TSTT provides Chapter 11 protection and may emerge with a signicantly domestic and international xed line and mobile lower cost base than the Group and so be able to compete telecommunications services to consumers and business more effectively.
In May 2002, Cable & Wireless announced a restructuring In March 2003, TSTT launched its Mobile GSM GPRS of its existing US business and, in line with this strategy, service, being one of the first islands in the Caribbean to announced the disposal of the retail voice and data customer launch a full GSM service.
In response to a further deterioration in trading conditions between March and United States September 2002, Cable & Wireless conducted a further business review.
In November 2002, a further restructuring of the US business was announced.
As part of this restructuring, Cable & Wireless America terminated its international voice and Wholesale Business domestic e-messaging businesses in the second half of 2002.
During the same period, Cable & Wireless America initiated the migration of customers from data centres to be closed, network rationalisation and consolidation, and headcount reductions.
The restructuring anticipated the closure of 11 data centres, and a reduction in headcount of 2,400.
Since making the announcement 5 of the data centres have been closed, and a Enterprise headcount reduction of 1,900 has been achieved.
The US business continues to be loss making.
In 2003, Cable & Wireless America generated revenue of 512 million Page 11 business description and incurred a total operating loss of 1,681 million.
As exclusively through a direct sales force and with smaller discussed in the Corporate Overview, Cable & Wireless has business customers and residential customers now being announced its intention to withdraw from its US operations.
served exclusively through indirect channels and resellers.
Cable & Wireless IDC has 80,000 residential and 20,000 In connection with consideration of a variety of options, Cable business customers.
& Wireless US subsidiaries have taken some initial steps.
Wholesale Revenue 75 million Japan Cable & Wireless IDC sells mostly voice products to other operators.
This market is in transition as many carriers shift from leased facilities to their own networks.
Enterprise Revenue 40 million Wholesale Cable & Wireless IDC, together with operations across the rest of Asia, also provides a full range of services to large nationals and multinationals from voice and data and IP services to complex web hosting solutions.
Enterprise Business and Residential Continental Europe Business Hosting Enterprise IP Voice Wholesale Data Overview Hosting In Japan, Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation NTT, the former national incumbent, has approximately IP 75 per cent of the overall market.
Cable & Wireless IDC Inc has about 3 per cent of the remaining market, as the fifth largest provider.
Cable & Wireless operations in Japan serve a full range of Voice customers including residential, local and international businesses.
They also provide wholesale services to other Data operators.
The principal operations in Continental Europe are in Business and Residential Revenue 208 million France, Italy, Germany and Spain, together with smaller In Japan, Cable & Wireless IDC sells mostly voice and data operations in Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland products into the small and medium sized business market and Russia.
both directly through its own sales force and also through a variety of agents and partners to access target customers.
The continental European operations are currently being Over the last year, this particular customer base has been refocused on Enterprise customers and the existing segmented further with larger corporations being accessed wholesale business.
Operations providing services to the Page 12 business description small and medium sized customer market are being sold or During 2002 and 2003, approximately 40 new licences were shut down.
issued to operators to commence offering basic voice telephony services during 2003.
Cable & Wireless Panama is in the process of negotiating interconnection agreements It is anticipated that the reorganisation will result in a with several of these operators.
At 31 March 2003, reduction in the European network coverage from 33 to 19 competition in xed line services was largely confined to nodes and a reduction in customer numbers from 15,000 to international and national long-distance services.
There are two licensees in the mobile market in Panama: Wholesale revenues of 223 million represent some three Cable & Wireless Panama and BSC fide Panama SA Bell quarters of revenue in continental Europe.
Cable & Wireless was the second entrant into this wholesale customers are mobile operators and market.
Cable & Wireless believes that mobile penetration in telecommunications operators.
Panama is relatively low at approximately 15 per cent.
Cable & Wireless Europe intends to substantially withdraw Cable & Wireless Panama provides a full range of internet from the business customer sector, which accounted for 62 services to customers, including dial-up, web hosting, webmillion in 2003, as it is not a nancially attractive segment.
site design and broadband access.
The internet sector has always been competitive and at 31 March 2003 there were Cable & Wireless has completed disposals of certain non some 70 competitors in the sector.
core businesses and assets that had focused on supporting small and medium sized customers in continental Europe.
Macau These include the sale of a number of operations in Northern Europe Belgium, Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland and Germany.
In addition, Cable & Wireless has reached binding agreement subject to completion of certain preconditions on the sale of its non-core business in Russia.
Cable & Wireless Other International is in advanced discussions on the sale of its non-core Voice businesses in France and Spain and expects to complete a transaction in France by September or earlier.
The impact of these transactions, taken together, has been to reduce substantially the potential costs of exit from these non-core Domestic businesses.
Mobile Voice Panama Data IP In Macau, Cable & Wireless subsidiary is Companhia fide Other Telecomunicac o es fide Macau S. A. R. L. CTM.
CTM is International Voice managed and 51 per cent owned by Cable & Wireless.
The Mobile other shareholders of CTM are Portugal Telecom Group, 28 per cent, CITIC Pacic Limited, 20 per cent, and IP Direcc a o dos Servic os fide Correios fide Macau, 1 per cent.
Data CTM has exclusive rights to operate xed local and international telecommunications services within, to and from Macau until the end of 2011.
Domestic In the Macau telecommunications market, mobiles Voice outnumber xed lines.
The mobile market was liberalised in Cable & Wireless owns a 49 per cent interest in, and has 2001 and two competitors launched services in August 2001. management control of, the largest telecommunications company in Panama, Cable & Wireless Panama S. A.
The In Macau, CTM offers xed local and international services Panamanian government holds 49 per cent of the shares and a full range of mobile services including GSM GPRS while the remaining 2 per cent are held by the companys and Multi-Media Messaging Services via eight branded retail employees through a trust fund.
CTM also provides a full range of internet services Page 13 business description to customers, including dial-up, web hosting, web-site design Maldives and broadband access.
Cable & Wireless has a 45 per cent interest in, and management control of, Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private In 2002, Cable & Wireless was granted international Limited Dhiraagu.
The remaining 55 per cent is held by services-based telecommunications licences in Hong Kong the government of the Maldives.
Dhiraagu provides domestic and Singapore and now provides data and internet services and international xed and mobile telecommunication to business customers.
The facilities in Hong Kong started services to consumers and business customers.
Internet carrying commercial trafc in January 2002, those in services were liberalised in January 2003.
Macau provides back ofce and management services to these operations.
Bahrain Rest of World Cable & Wireless owns 20 per cent of Bahrain Telecommunications Company Batelco.
Batelco provides domestic and international xed line and mobile telecommunication services to consumer and business customers.
The telecommunications market in Bahrain has Other begun liberalisation and Batelco has begun discussions with Mobile the government in respect of future licensing arrangements.
International Voice Infrastructure In the Caribbean, Panama and Macau, Cable & Wireless IP typically operates as the domestic incumbent, owning and Data operating the domestic xed line networks and associated international interconnect facilities.
Cable & Wireless also Domestic Voice has network reach within the domestic markets of the United Kingdom, Japan and the United States.
In other countries Rest of World comprises Cable & Wireless businesses in and territories, including Yemen, Cable & Wireless operates Yemen, Bahrain and the Maldives, smaller operations in the primarily as an international gateway, without extensive Seychelles, Diego Garcia, Falkland Islands, Ascension, St domestic networks.
Helena, Guernsey and Sakhalin in Russia, together with Cable & Wireless Regionals head ofce functions.
Yemen Cable & Wireless is the worlds fourth largest international and the Maldives account for 59 per cent of the Rest of carrier of voice trafc and operates significant international World revenue.
submarine cable and satellite systems which are centrally managed within the United Kingdom.
The IP backbone Yemen AS3561, provides seamless IP connectivity to the United Cable & Wireless provides international services to and from Kingdom, United States, European and Japan regions.
the Yemen through the Yemen International Telecommunications Company L. L. C. TeleYemen of Many of Cable & Wireless subsidiaries also own and which Cable & Wireless owns 51 per cent.
TeleYemen holds operate mobile networks, including in the Caribbean TDMA the exclusive licence to provide international services to and network in Jamaica, GSM GPRS in Trinidad and Tobago, from the Yemen.
TeleYemen also has licences to provide an Panama TDMA and GSM GPRS, Macau GSM GPRS, the analogue mobile service and is an Internet Service Provider.
Maldives GSM and Bahrain GSM.
Cable & Wireless These licences expire on 31 December 2003.
Cable & companies also operate 45 data centres within the United Wireless has begun negotiations with the government in States, Japan and United Kingdom offering a wide selection respect of these licences.
of web-based and hosting services.
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK Cable & Wireless, in common with other international service, a history of special or exclusive rights to provide telecommunication providers, faces regulatory and market services and, often, a structured move towards liberalisation access constraints in various countries resulting from and the introduction of competition.
Generally, specialist restrictive laws, policies and licensing requirements.
This telecommunications regulation is administered through reects the perception of telecommunications as a public Page 14 business description enforcement of conditions contained in operating and service required, either as a xed annual fee or a fee equal to a licences held by the Group and its subsidiaries.
percentage of the revenue arising from the licence.
Approximately 60 per cent of Cable & Wireless network Following the implementation of the European Electronic services revenues are derived from the United Kingdom, the Communications Directives on 25 July 2003, Member States United States and continental Europe, in each of which the of the European Union will no longer issue individual telecommunications sector has been largely liberalised and telecommunications licences to companies except in competition introduced in the services Cable & Wireless exceptional circumstances such as the allocation of provides.
Therefore, Cable & Wireless expects that substantially all telecommunications licences Cable & Many of the other markets in which Cable & Wireless Wireless holds in European Union Member States will be operates are in transition from long-standing monopoly revoked.
However, Cable & Wireless will continue to offer environments to competitive markets.
With the global trend telecommunications services subject to obligations set forth towards liberalisation of telecommunication markets, Cable in general conditions as dictated by the Electronic & Wireless is actively engaged with host governments who Communications Directive and individual member states.
desire it to reach agreement to end exclusive licences and Some licences provide that, upon their termination, the provide for an orderly transition into a fully competitive government may purchase, or have the option to purchase, environment.
The discussions involve negotiating fair the property, plant and equipment of the licensee in that regulatory arrangements to provide for equal treatment and territory.
In some cases where the Group owns an operating opportunity during the transitional period.
company jointly with government, that government has the Nevertheless, some restrictive telecommunications laws and right to purchase, at specified times, the whole or part of the regulations are expected to continue in force, giving rise to Groups shareholding in the operating company.
residual constraints, risks and uncertainties that will affect Across the world, the trend in telecommunications regulation Cable & Wireless ability to develop and market its full is for governments and regulators to promote liberalisation portfolio of services.
and to replace exclusive licences with non-exclusive licences A key regulatory issue in many markets is the need for and rules governing competition between operators.
rebalancing, the removal of cross-subsidies between Jurisdictions that currently support monopoly provision may international services and domestic services by increasing also decide to promote competition, and Cable & Wireless domestic charges and reducing international rates.
There is expects that some of the remaining exclusive licences will further impetus to rebalance in the form of external pressure not be renewed on an exclusive basis or that governments on international settlement rates.
will seek to withdraw their exclusivity before the licence expires.
The Group believes it materially complies with regulatory obligations and where regulatory compliance issues emerge The Group has committed itself to entering discussions it intends to take action as necessary to ensure compliance.
regarding the introduction of competition in any territory where government wishes to do so.
Licensing There is no guarantee that an agreement to provide either a Cable & Wireless provides international and domestic monopoly or franchised service will remain in effect for the telecommunications services under exclusive and nonfull term of the agreement.
exclusive licences in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
These licences are either held by Cable & Wireless itself or Regulation by Jurisdiction by local operating entities owned either wholly or partly, The regulatory institutions and policies of the jurisdictions in directly or indirectly, by Cable & Wireless.
which the Group operates are varied.
Regulators in markets The Group believes it has all licences material to the for the Group include the Ofce of Telecommunications and running of its business.
It is possible that from time to time, Ofce of Fair Trading in the United Kingdom, the Ministry as further products and services are deployed or changed, of Public Management, Home Affairs, Posts and additional licences or authorisations will be required.
Where Telecommunications in Japan, and the Federal the Group identies the need for further licences or Communications Commission and Department of Justice in authorisations, it intends to acquire such licences.
The terms the United States.
Cable & Wireless USA is also subject to of the Groups licences vary, although most remain in effect state regulations when it provides intra-state services.
for a xed period of between 10 and 25 years, or for an National regulators and competition authorities in continental indefinite period subject to notice of termination after a Europe are also significant.
The regulatory framework for specified minimum period.
Licence fees are sometimes member states of the European Union is principally Page 15 business description established through directives of the European Parliament requirements of the EU Telecommunications Directives.
It and Council developed at the working level by the European will also layout the powers held by the Ofce of Commission.
The Groups operations in the Caribbean are Communications Ofcom, the new regulator that was regulated by national or regional regulators, some of which created in 2002.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and various are independent statutory bodies like the Ofce of Utilities Board Members of Ofcom have now been appointed, Regulation in Jamaica, the Eastern Caribbean although they have no power to act until Ofcom formally Telecommunications Authority, which is the regional replaces the existing broadcasting and telecommunications regulator for several member countries of the Organisation regulators in late 2003 or 2004. of Eastern Caribbean States, and the Fair Trading Commission in Barbados.
The national regulator, Ente Europe Regulador fide los Servicios Publicos, regulates the Groups Cable & Wireless operates under separate licences in operations in Panama.
Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Ireland, the Isle of Man, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, United Kingdom Portugal, Russia, Spain, Switzerland, and the United The telecommunications market in the United Kingdom is Kingdom.
The regulatory framework in member states of the regulated under the Telecommunications Act 1984 UK European Union is harmonised by EU directives though, in Telecoms Act.
The UK Telecoms Act established the practice, there are divergences in regulatory policy and Director General of the Ofce of Telecommunications practice between member states.
Oftel as the independent industry regulator.
As a member The European Union adopted a new package of harmonising of the European Union, the UK government must also directives Framework, Authorisation, Universal Service, ensure that the UK regulatory framework for Access and Interconnection and Data Protection Directives communications complies with relevant EU directives.
Member states must implement the directives As a network operator, Cable & Wireless UK has the right by 25 July 2003.
The package uses the concept of significant to request and receive cost-based interconnection for market power to determine which operators should have switched voice services and leased line access circuits prior obligations placed on them, on the grounds that such Partial Private Circuits from BT on non-discriminatory operators might exploit that market position to the detriment terms.
Such services are subject to network charge controls.
of competition and therefore consumers.
Oftel is currently formulating a new proposed framework for One of the markets being reviewed is the market for call regulating dominant providers of network facilities.
termination on xed public telephone networks.
It is likely However, Cable & Wireless expects that the regulation of that National Regulatory Authorities will decide that all BT with respect to Partial Private Circuits and switched operators of public voice telephony networks have voice interconnect will be broadly similar to the regulations significant market power on calls terminating on their own in place today.
If this is the case, Cable & Wireless would be Cable & Wireless has been designated as having Market designated as having significant Market Power for calls influence on a number of International Direct Dial IDD terminating on each of Cable & Wireless national voice routes from the United Kingdom.
In total there are 37 retail networks.
However, due to this concept being applied to all IDD routes and 38 wholesale IDD routes where Cable & operators, obligations are likely to be minimal and the Group Wireless currently is designated with Market influence expects there will be little or no competitive impact.
status, although these designations are currently under review as part of the process for implementing EU Japan directives.
Subject to consultation, it appears that following the implementation of the package of Directives, Cable & Cable & Wireless IDC holds a Type I facility holding and service providing licence and a General Type II service Wireless will have a designation of significant Market providing licence.
Among the services Cable & Wireless Power on wholesale IDD services from the United Kingdom IDC provides in Japan are web hosting, international and to four destinations: Andorra, Ascension Island, Montserrat domestic voice and data services, Internet Protocol access, and Turks & Caicos.
managed corporate services, and wholesale services to other The British government is reforming existing carriers in the Asian region.
telecommunications and broadcasting legislation and draft legislation was introduced to Parliament in November 2002 The Japanese legislature is undertaking a reform of in the form of a Draft Communications Bill.
It is proposed Telecommunication Business Law.
This reform is likely to that the Bill will update broadcasting and abolish the separation of telecommunication business telecommunications legislation taking into account the licences between Type I and Type II, and allow a significant Page 16 business description degree of tariff deregulation, relieving non-dominant international communications by wire.
Cable & Wireless operators of the need to le tariffs.
This revision may also USA is licensed under the US Communications Act.
introduce a degree of tariff deregulation to Nippon Because it offers interstate and international Telegraph and Telephone Corporation NTT, the incumbent telecommunications services to businesses generally and not telecommunications provider, which could impact Cable & just to selected customers, Cable & Wireless USA Inc. for Wireless IDCs pricing competitiveness in certain instances.
regulated services, is a common carrier subject to Title II The legislature is expected to pass the new regulation.
Telecommunication Business Law in the first half of calendar year 2003, with related implementation ordinances Title II requires common carriers to provide drafted during the second half of 2003.
The new telecommunications services upon reasonable request, to Telecommunication Business Law is expected to come into provide services on rates and terms which are just and force during calendar year 2004. reasonable, to obtain the approval of the Federal Communications Commission FCC for the construction of NTT East and NTT West, which serve the eastern and new or the extension of existing international facilities and western areas of Japan respectively, have secured for the initiation and discontinuance of service offerings, and authorisation for regional IP access services within their to comply with any applicable orders issued by the FCC.
These authorisations may increase the degree The FCC has, by regulation, suspended certain other of competition faced by Cable & Wireless IDC, but also requirements for non-dominant common carriers providing provide some benets to the company through the domestic interstate telecommunications services.
Cable & availability of cheaper wholesale data services.
Wireless USA is deemed a non-dominant common carrier in the provision of interstate domestic service.
Cable & Interconnection charges for origination and termination of Wireless USA may thus, under the current FCC regulation, trafc on the networks of NTT East and NTT West impact construct new interstate facilities, offer new services and set the profitability of Cable & Wireless IDCs voice business.
interstate prices with minimal FCC review, subject only to The Ministry of Public Management, Home Affairs, Posts general FCC reporting requirements.
As a common carrier of and Telecommunications MPHPT regulates these interstate telecommunications services, Cable & Wireless interconnection charges.
Certain interconnection charges USA is also required to contribute to the Federal Universal used by Cable & Wireless IDCs voice services increased by Service Fund.
12 per cent on 1 April 2003 and there is the possibility of further retrospective increases later this year.
Current Cable & Wireless USA offers international regulatory proceedings could assist Cable & Wireless IDC telecommunications services principally on a resale basis.
On by allowing it to set retail prices for calls-to-mobiles, which some routes, Cable & Wireless USA is deemed a dominant prices are currently set by the mobile network operators.
A carrier because it is an afliate of a foreign carrier that is MPHPT working group is currently studying these considered by the FCC to be dominant in that foreign arrangements, particularly in relation to calls originated on market.
the subscriber lines of NTT East and NTT West.
The MPHPT working group is due to report during calendar year Subsequent to its acquisition of selected assets of Exodus, 2003.
Cable & Wireless began discussions with the US government regarding the terms on which the company Legislation to establish a Universal Service Fund was passed might le and clear review by the Committee on Foreign in 2001, but the Japanese government has not yet announced Investment in the United States CFIUS.
Given Cable & an intention to impose levies on carriers.
There remains, Wireless announcement of its intention to exit the US however, a possibility that Cable & Wireless IDC will be business market, the discussions have been discontinued.
liable to make payments in future years.
There is also a proposed cap on contributions at 3 per cent of retail voice Other markets revenue, thereby limiting overall liability in any given year.
During the year, both Panama and Jamaica reached the conclusion of a phased liberalisation process, with the United States opening of all market sectors to competition in January and The principal legislation regulating telecommunications March 2003, respectively.
Both these processes proceeded as services in the United States is the Communications Act of contemplated in agreements struck between Cable & 1934 as amended by the Telecommunications Act of 1996 Wireless and the governments of those territories.
Title II of the US Subsequent to the commencement of the phased Communications Act establishes a comprehensive regulatory liberalisation process in Jamaica, several other Caribbean regime for common carriers involved in interstate or governments, notably Barbados, and some members of the Page 17 business description Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States, have endorsed a report criminal content mainly child pornography is broadly similar approach.
operating well, co-funded by industry and government.
Between countries there is the possibility for conict Regulation relating to Online Content and Internet concerning the denition of illegal internet content.
Protocol Networks Consequently, Cable & Wireless recognises the risks that Online Content content legally hosted in one jurisdiction may give rise to a Governments around the world are adopting and proposing breach of national laws when accessed in another legislation and regulations, and courts are creating case law, jurisdiction.
The industry as a whole faces this situation and making certain types of online content illegal.
A critical it remains one of the key policy issues to be resolved as issue in the development of those legislative and regulatory national governments determine the appropriate legal arrangements is whether Cable & Wireless, as a web hosting framework for the internet.
and internet service provider, might be deemed responsible An increasing number of countries have strengthened for illegal content or illegal conduct related to legal content national anti-terrorism laws and the protection of national eg downloading copyrighted material operated or communications infrastructure.
Measures include controlled by customers of Cable & Wireless services.
At modications to the framework for legal interception, access present, most jurisdictions have taken a position that the to retained or preserved data and, in the case of the United content provider, not the web hosting provider or internet Kingdom and some continental European countries, moves service provider, is responsible for the content that it to extend retention periods for law enforcement purposes.
develops or posts, an approach supported by Cable & Wireless.
Copyright law in the United States and European Union extends protection to digital works distributed over Internet protocol IP networks the internet and claries the hierarchy of liability for At present, regulation of IP networks is minimal.
Also, the European Union has national regulators and international organisations eg the adopted a Directive that makes it clear that service providers International Telecommunication Union have been are not liable for hosted content but must take appropriate discussing market concentration in IP backbone services.
action when notied that illegal content resides on their Also, there is ongoing debate in international regulatory network.
circles about the cost of connectivity from developing In addition, industry self-regulation is actively encouraged in countries to the internet and the impact that such costs may the United States and by the European Commission and the have on the digital divide.
In the United States and the industry supports a number of successful self-regulatory European Union, regulators appear to be of the view that at initiatives world wide.
For example, many governments have this time, there is an acceptable level of market endorsed the Internet Content Rating Association as a model concentration in IP backbone services and competition law is for the self-labelling and rating of websites, which empowers an adequate safeguard against excessive concentration and parents to lter internet content viewed by their children.
An the abuse of market power and that, consequently, no special extensive network of national hotlines for internet users to regulation of IP networks is required.
PROPERTY The property portfolio of Cable & Wireless and its Over the last few years, most Cable & Wireless companies subsidiaries at 31 March 2003 amounted to approximately have initiated major projects with the aim of substantially 16 million square feet of freehold and leasehold technical reducing the size of their property portfolios, to match and ofce space, located primarily in the United Kingdom Cable & Wireless streamlined headcount and business and United States, although the spread of properties extends rationalisation.
Project planning is well advanced, generally across continental Europe, Asia, and the Caribbean.
focusing on reducing ofce space which is easier to dispose Numerically, the bulk of properties are technical and house of because there are fewer constraints than apply to equipment necessary to support Cable & Wireless technical properties and there is a larger market for ofce operations world wide.
Whilst disposals are being pursued across the Group as part The vast majority of the existing portfolio is leased.
In of these projects, acquisition of both ofce and technical general, Cable & Wireless technical properties enjoy the sites still occurs where required.
protection of telecommunications legislation, which has the aim of ensuring the continuity of Cable & Wireless networks.
Page 18 business description LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Class action litigation against Cable and Wireless plc Between December 2002 and February 2003, ten shareholder to which IBM agreed to supply to Cable & Wireless class action lawsuits were led in the United States District information technology services.
Court for the Eastern District of Virginia naming Cable and In order to monitor the quality of the services provided by Wireless plc and several of its ofcers and directors as IBM, including price and service levels, the GFA contains defendants.
benchmarking provisions, which set out the processes and procedures by which the services provided by IBM are to be In March 2003, the court consolidated all of the cases into assessed against a pre-determined objective.
In February one action, styled as In re Cable and Wireless plc Securities 2002, the parties engaged Compass America Inc Compass Litigation, Civil Action No.
The Court has to conduct a benchmark for the 14 month period from 1 appointed Ontario Teachers Pension Plan Board, an January 2001 to 28 February 2002, the results of which institutional investor located in Canada, and Alex Osinski, a revealed significant levels of overcharging by IBM.
U. S. citizen, as co-lead plaintiffs collectively lead plaintiffs to prosecute on behalf of all plaintiffs.
Disputes arose as to whether the GFA obliged IBM to repay to Cable & Wireless the amounts that the benchmark In May 2003, the lead plaintiffs led a consolidated established it has been overcharged and as to whether the complaint that alleges violations of certain sections of the Compass reports were valid both in terms of their substance Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and conformity with the GFA benchmarking requirements.
A central allegation is that the On 4 July 2002, the Company issued proceedings for a defendants made false and misleading statements about the declaration that it is entitled to compensation from IBM UK Companys financial condition by failing to disclose on a for any period of overcharging, including past overcharging, timely basis the existence of a tax indemnity and a ratings and to compensation in respect of overcharging as identied trigger to place money in escrow until any liability which by Compass.
the Company may have had under the tax indemnity was nally determined.
The indemnity and ratings trigger appear After an inconclusive Court-ordered mediation that took in an agreement between the Company and Deutsche place in December 2002, the Court ordered an expedited Telekom for the sale of the Companys interest in the trial of all matters in issue between the parties.
Full mobile telephone company that operated under the name pleadings were then exchanged.
declaration as to the meaning of certain overcharging related provisions of the GFA and compensation for overcharging In addition to the allegations relating to the tax indemnity, by IBM.
From January 2001 to the date Cable & Wireless the consolidated complaint also alleges that the defendants proceedings were issued, its claim in respect of overcharging made false and misleading statements by: 1 failing to by IBM amounts to approximately 115 million in respect of disclose certain lease liability commitments and 2 the United Kingdom and approximately US$22 million in improperly recognising revenue received from sales of respect of the United States.
For each month that IBM capacity to other carriers.
refuses to reduce its charges a further substantial overcharge arises.
IBM UK and IBM US seek the declaration in respect The plaintiffs seek unspecified money damages in their of the Compass reports referred to above and IBM UK has complaints.
brought counterclaims in respect of work it alleges Cable & Wireless should have given to it under the GFA and claims Cable & Wireless believes that it has meritorious defences to damages to be assessed.
IBM Japan Limited seeks payment these claims and intends to vigorously defend itself in this of certain charges allegedly due and payable to it by Cable litigation.
Subsequently, on 21 February 2003, the Court directed that Cable & Wireless claim as to the Dispute with IBM UK Limited meaning of certain overcharging related provisions of the Disputes between 1 Cable and Wireless plc and IBM GFA should be heard separately from the other claims and United Kingdom Limited, 2 Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. counterclaims as a preliminary issue.
The preliminary issue and International Business Machines Corporation and 3 has been set for trial in September 2003.
IBM Japan Limited and Cable & Wireless IDC Incorporated collectively Cable & Wireless and IBM respectively Cable & Wireless believes that it has meritorious defences to have arisen out of a Global Framework Agreement GFA the counter claims asserted by IBM and intends to dated 20 December 2000, and related agreements, pursuant vigorously defend itself in this litigation.
Page 19 business description Claim by APCC Services, Inc. and others Court entered a permanent injunction prohibiting further infringement of certain of the surviving claims.
Cable & On 30 March 2001, a complaint was led in the US District Wireless has revised its content delivery service at little Court for the District of Columbia against Cable & Wireless cost to and with no other effect on its customers in such a USA, Inc. and was served on Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. way that Cable & Wireless believes that the infringement no on 25 June 2001.
The complaint was led by a group of longer exists and that the injunction is of no effect.
billing and collection agents on behalf of hundreds of Nevertheless, on 17 September 2002, Akamai led a entities that own and operate public payphones throughout contempt motion with the Court asserting that Cable & the United States.
The complaint alleges that Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. is violating the injunction by Wireless USA, Inc. violated the US Communications Act continuing to infringe the surviving Akamai claims.
The and the rules, regulations, and orders of the Federal Court denied Akamais motion on 1 November 2002.
A Communications Commission by not adequately damages trial has not yet been scheduled on the infringed compensating the independent payphone operators for toll claims.
free and access code calls that were made from the independent payphone operators payphones and carried over On 22 January 2003, Akamai led a patent infringement suit Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. s network.
against Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, alleging The complaint seeks approximately US$5 million in that the Cable & Wireless content delivery service infringes monetary damages.
In August 2001, Cable & Wireless USA, a recently-issued patent owned by Akamai.
Upon motion by Inc. and the plaintiff entered into a tolling agreement Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. the case was whereby the obligations of the parties in litigation would be transferred to the District Court for the District of suspended until 1 November 2001, while the parties Massachusetts.
attempted to resolve the dispute informally.
Plaintiffs refiled their complaint which is now pending in the US District On 22 April 2003, Akamai led a patent infringement suit Court for the District of Columbia.
The parties agreed to a against Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. in the US condential, non-binding, third-party neutral evaluation for District Court for the District of Massachusetts, alleging that settlement purposes which is currently ongoing.
the Cable & Wireless content delivery service infringes a patent issued to Akamai that same day.
Akamai has not yet Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. believes that it has meritorious effected service of the complaint in this case.
If the dispute is not resolved through the neutral evaluation process, Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. On 29 August 2002, Teknowledge Corporation intends to vigorously defend the action.
Teknowledge led a patent infringement suit against Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. Akamai, and Inktomi Litigation against Digital Island, Inc. Cable & Corporation in the US District Court for the District of Wireless Internet Services, Inc. Delaware, alleging that the content delivery service of each As described in Business Description - History, in 2002 defendant infringes a patent owned by Teknowledge.
Upon Cable & Wireless acquired 100 per cent of Digital Island, motion by Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. the case which is now known as Cable & Wireless Internet was transferred to the District Court for the Northern District Services, Inc. of California.
Akamai Technologies, Inc. Akamai and the Massachusetts Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. believes that it has Institute of Technology MIT led a patent infringement meritorious defences to the outstanding claims asserted in suit against Digital Island on 13 September 2000 in the US these cases and intends to vigorously defend itself in these District Court for the District of Massachusetts, alleging that cases.
a version of Digital Islands content delivery service infringes a patent owned by MIT and licensed exclusively to Class actions against Digital Island, Inc. in Akamai.
On 20 September 2000, Akamai and MIT led a connection with its initial public offering further claim alleging infringement by Digital Island of a In August 2001, Digital Island became aware that two second Akamai patent.
purported shareholder class action lawsuits were led in the On 21 December 2001, a jury invalidated three of the claims US District Court for the Southern District of New York related to one of the Akamai patents.
The jury also found naming Digital Island as a defendant along with certain of that Digital Island infringed one independent claim and three its present and former ofcers and directors and alleging dependent claims of this patent.
Digital Island was found not violations of certain sections of the Securities Act 1933 and to have infringed the other patent.
On 23 August 2002, the the Securities Exchange Act 1934.
Page 20 business description The actions which now include a third suit making virtually securities all-holders rule.
One state lawsuit alleged identical claims and allegations allege that the Registration violations of Delaware law based upon similar allegations.
Statement and Prospectus through which Digital Island conducted its initial public offering IPO in June 1999 was The other two state lawsuits alleged various violations of false and misleading because it failed to disclose, amongst Delaware law against the same corporate defendants and the other things, that: present and former Digital Island directors, including that they failed to disclose all material facts relating to Digital i the underwriters of the IPO allegedly had solicited and Islands relationship with Microsoft, and that they failed to received excessive and undisclosed commissions from obtain a fair price for Digital Island shares.
certain investors in exchange for which the underwriters allocated to those investors material portions of the On 10 September 2002, a federal judge granted the restricted number of Digital Island shares issued in defendants motion to dismiss the federal lawsuits with connection with the IPO: and prejudice.
Plaintiffs have appealed the decision to the US Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
Cable & ii the underwriters allegedly had entered into agreements Wireless believes that it and its subsidiaries have meritorious with customers whereby the underwriters agreed to defences to the claims asserted in these lawsuits, and intends allocate Digital Island shares to those customers in the to continue to vigorously defend itself in that litigation as IPO in exchange for which the customers agreed to well should the plaintiffs pursue those claims.
purchase additional Digital Island shares in the after market at pre-determined prices.
Litigation with Cibertec International, S. A. and Inversiones Kamasu, S. A.
On 15 July 2002, Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. moved to dismiss all claims against it.
On 19 February 2003, Cibertec International, S. A. and Inversiones Kamasu, S. A. the Court denied the motion to dismiss.
initiated proceedings against Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. and Cable and Wireless CALA Management Services Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. is now engaged in Limited in Panama on 29 October 1999.
The claim is for settlement discussions with the plaintiffs.
Notwithstanding approximately US$125 million and alleges breach of this, Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. believes that it contract.
On 18 November 2002, the Panamanian Circuit has meritorious defences to these claims and, should the Court handed down a decision against Cable & Wireless settlement discussions prove unsuccessful, intends to Panama, S. A. awarding damages of US$67,255,000, vigorously defend itself in any such litigation.
including moral damages and costs.
The Court decided that Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. had failed to maintain in Class action securities litigation against Digital sufficient confidence certain of the proprietary information of Island, Inc. Cable & Wireless and others the plaintiffs.
Digital Island, Cable and Wireless plc, Dali Acquisition Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. appealed the judgement on Corp. Dali a former subsidiary of Cable & Wireless, and 3 December 2002 and intends to pursue this appeal certain of the then present and former directors of Digital vigorously.
Pending the resolution of its appeal, Cable & Island, have been named as defendants in six separate Wireless Panama, S. A. is not obliged to pay, and has not putative class action lawsuits alleging various claims arising paid, any of the awards against it.
out of Cable & Wireless acquisition of Digital Island in August 2001.
Three of the lawsuits were led in the US District Court for the District of Delaware and three were Claim against the Minister of Finance and Economy led in the Delaware Court of Chancery.
The three federal On 16 December 2002, a complaint was led at the Supreme lawsuits were consolidated into a single case, and, while the Court of Justice of Panama against the Minister of Finance plaintiffs motion to consolidate the three state cases was and Economy in Panama alleging that the Operating granted on 24 April 2002, the plaintiffs have yet to le a Agreement executed between Cable and Wireless CALA consolidated, amended complaint.
Management Services Limited and INTEL, S. A. now Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. as part of the privatisation The federal suit alleged that the defendants violated federal agreements was null and void ab initio, on the grounds that securities laws by failing to disclose on a timely basis that it had not been published in the Ofcial Gazette in Panama.
Digital Island had entered into certain business agreements with Bloomberg, L. P. and Major League Baseball.
It further alleged that compensation agreements with certain ofcers On 21 March 2003, the Court admitted the claim against the and or directors of the company violated the federal Minister of Finance and Economy.
Page 21 business description Panamanian counsel consider this claim to be without merit that it was entitled to disconnect Caribtels services under its and none of Cable and Wireless plc, Cable & Wireless contract with Caribtel.
If the settlement negotiations prove Panama, S. A. or Cable and Wireless CALA Management unsuccessful, Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited will Services Limited are parties to the complaint.
However, if continue to defend itself vigorously in this matter.
the complaint were to be successful and the Operating Agreement declared null and void, then the complainants Arbitration between Tilts Communications A S could le a complaint against Cable and Wireless CALA Cable and Wireless plc Sonera OY and Republic of Management Services Limited requiring the return of all Latvia Lattelekom SIA management fees collected under the agreement since its In September 2001, Cable and Wireless plc was joined as a execution.
This would amount to approximately 60 million.
party to an arbitration in connection with its former In the event that this complaint is successful, Cable & participation with Sonera OY Sonera in the joint venture Wireless and its subsidiaries intend to vigorously pursue any Tilts Communications A S Tilts.
Through Tilts, Cable and legal recourse available to them.
Wireless plc and Sonera purchased a 49 per cent shareholding in a Latvian telecommunications company, Claim by Caribtel Caribbean Limited Lattelekom SIA Lattelekom in 1994.
Cable and Wireless On 9 May 2003, Caribtel Caribbean Limited, a plc sold its interest in Tilts to Sonera in June 1998. telecommunications operator specialising in calling cards, Tilts commenced arbitration proceedings in August 2000 led a suit against Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited in the against the Republic of Latvia alleging a number of breaches Supreme Court of Judicature of Jamaica.
Caribtel has alleged that Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited wrongfully of an agreement signed in 1994 by Tilts, Lattelekom and the disconnected Caribtels local access telephone services, Republic of Latvia the Umbrella Agreement.
Tilts claims resulting in a breach of contract and a violation of the a total of approximately LVL87.6 million approximately Jamaican Fair Competition Act and the Telecommunications 95 million from the Republic of Latvia as compensation Act.
Caribtel is claiming US$50 million of lost income to its for, amongst other things, losses sustained as a consequence pre-paid local access calling card business for the period of the shortening of the twenty year exclusivity period from 25 April 2003 to 25 April 2006.
Caribtel has also granted to Lattelekom as the provider of xed line claimed aggravated and or exemplary damages of Jamaica telecommunications services.
$300 million approximately 2.94 million and is seeking The Republic of Latvia has asserted nine counterclaims for a injunctive relief to have Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited total of approximately LVL599.5 million approximately reinstate Caribtels local access telephone service.
656 million against Tilts, alleging that Tilts has failed to On 22 May 2003, Caribtel presented a petition for injunctive comply with various obligations it assumed under the relief before the Supreme Court of Jamaica requesting that Umbrella Agreement including i to digitalise and otherwise improve Lattelekoms network in accordance with its Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited be required to reinstate contractual commitments, ii to meet certain quality of Caribtels local access telephone service: be restrained from service and network performance commitments, and iii to disconnecting any other telecommunications facility procure that Sonera sell its shares in GSM operator Latvijas currently supplied to Caribtels business premises until trial: and be prevented from calling on a prior bank guarantee that Mobilais Telefons to Lattelekom.
Tilts considers that the Caribtel had provided to Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited counterclaims asserted by the Republic of Latvia are in conjunction with a settlement agreement entered into unfounded.
between the parties in February 2003 relating to breaches of Cable and Wireless plc was joined as a party to the contract by Caribtel in December 2002.
The injunctions were arbitration by the Republic of Latvia because it and Sonera not granted by the court.
However, Cable & Wireless guaranteed the performance by Tilts of its obligations under Jamaica Limited gave an undertaking that it would not the Umbrella Agreement to the Republic of Latvia by disconnect the direct internet access facility pending a performance and parental guarantees.
However, as part of hearing scheduled for 2 June 2003. the arrangements relating to Soneras purchase of Cable and Prior to the hearing of 2 June 2003, Caribtel approached Wireless plcs shares in Tilts, Sonera provided Cable and Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited with a view to arriving at Wireless plc with an indemnity for any liability incurred by a settlement.
The parties entered into negotiations as a result Cable and Wireless plc under these guarantees.
Provided of which the matter was taken off the court list by consent Sonera honours its obligations under the indemnity, Cable of both parties.
A new court date will be set if the parties and Wireless plc will not be exposed to any liability under are unable to arrive at a settlement.
Cable and Wireless plc has taken legal Jamaica Limited believes that its actions were lawful and advice.
Based on this advice, Cable and Wireless plc Page 22 business description believes that the indemnity is binding.
In addition, Sonera stating that TeliaSoneras acquisition of Sonera did not alter provided Cable and Wireless plc with a letter dated the validity of the conrmations given by Sonera in its 11 December 2001, conrming that in its view all liabilities, earlier letter of 11 December 2001. costs and expenses incurred by Cable and Wireless plc in connection with the arbitration fell within the scope of the Other than the above, there are no pending legal or indemnity.
Following the acquisition of Sonera in 2002, the regulatory proceedings against the Company or any of its successor entity to Sonera, TeliaSonera, provided Cable and subsidiaries, which the Company believes will if determined Wireless plc with a further letter dated 23 February 2003, adversely to the Group have a material adverse effect on the acknowledging Soneras obligations under the indemnity and Groups liquidity or results of operation.
Page 23 operating and financial review OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW This section contains: Overview 24 Five year summary 41 Group operating performance 26 Critical accounting policies 42 Review by division 32 New UK accounting standards adopted 43 Liquidity and capital resources 36 US GAAP reconciliation 44 Cash Flow 39 Risk factors 45 Disclosures about market risk 39 The following discussion should be read in conjunction with differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP, as they relate the Financial Statements and notes thereto included to Cable & Wireless, are described and reconciliations of elsewhere in this Annual Report.
These financial statements net income and shareholders equity to US GAAP are set out have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, which in Note 36 of Notes to the Financial Statements.
differs in significant respects from US GAAP.
The principal OVERVIEW The analysis and commentary included in this Operating and report results on that basis.
Consequently, in the future, the Financial Review is based on the Groups structure and geographical breakdown of the Groups results for those reects the manner in which the business was organised and portions of its business that used to be part of Cable & managed during the three years ended 31 March 2003.
Wireless Global, may not be entirely comparable to the results by geography disclosed when Cable & Wireless reported results by Cable & Wireless Global and within In June 2003, the Company announced that the Group will Cable & Wireless Global: Wholesale, Enterprise and withdraw from the United States, take steps to radically Business Markets and Cable & Wireless Regional.
improve the unsatisfactory results in the United Kingdom and build upon its strong positions in national telecommunications companies round the world.
To simplify Trading conditions in the telecommunications markets have the management of the business, Cable & Wireless now has remained challenging in 2003.
In the United Kingdom, a country-based structure.
continental Europe, the United States and Japan, the trading market remains intensely competitive, with overcapacity in many areas resulting in downward pricing pressure.
In the Prior to this reorganisation, Cable & Wireless was organised United Kingdom, there has been a significant reduction in into two business divisions: Cable & Wireless Global and the volume of national interconnect business as other carriers Cable & Wireless Regional.
Cable & Wireless Globals main migrate to their own networks.
operations and subsidiaries were in the United Kingdom, Europe, the United States and Japan delivering IP, data and voice solutions to wholesale Service Provider and business A deterioration in Cable & Wireless Globals business customers.
Business customers were divided into two performance has resulted in xed asset and goodwill customer segments: Enterprise, comprising major corporate impairment charges as forecast performance has been revised customers, and Business Markets, comprising SME and retail downwards.
In September 2002, xed assets were impaired voice customers.
Cable & Wireless Regional comprised by 787 million and goodwill of 2,713 million was written operations in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, the Middle off.
This goodwill write off largely related to the UK East and the Atlantic, Pacic and Indian Oceans providing a corporate, IP and wholesale businesses acquired as part of range of telecommunications services to businesses and the Cable & Wireless Communications restructuring in May consumers.
In March 2003, xed assets were further impaired by an additional 1,479 million and goodwill by an additional 12 million.
These impairment charges mean that the Current geographical financial data for Cable & Wireless Groups depreciation charge will be signicantly lower in Global included in this Operating and Financial Review are 2004. based on managements estimates of the allocation of turnover and operating profit or loss attributable to a given geographical region that was included within the business of As part of the Groups reorganisation, Cable & Wireless Cable & Wireless Global.
However, as announced, Cable & may incur additional costs as the Group implements the new Wireless intends to focus its business around the key strategy and determines the steps necessary to reorganise the geographical regions in which it operates and will track and business.
Cable & Wireless cannot predetermine what these Page 24 operating and financial review costs are likely to be.
It is possible, however, given the The following sections set out, for each of the three years scope of the intended reorganisation, that further significant ended 31 March 2003, turnover, operating costs and exceptional charges could be incurred in 2004. operating profit or loss of the Group and of the divisions Cable & Wireless Global and Cable & Wireless Regional.
In Cable & Wireless Regional, liberalisation in many of the The analysis of turnover between Cable & Wireless Global markets has increased competition, particularly in mobile, and Cable & Wireless Regional is provided as an indication international and local data and IP services.
of the sources of growth of the Groups businesses.
The Groups operations are all considered to fall into one class During 2003, the phased liberalisation processes in Panama of business, namely telecommunications.
and Jamaica concluded with the opening of all market sectors to competition in January and March 2003 respectively.
Page 25 operating and financial review GROUP OPERATING PERFORMANCE 1 1 2003 2002 2001 m m m Turnover Continuing operations 4,247 4,703 4,688 2 Discontinued operations 144 1,045 3,163 Group turnover 4,391 5,748 7,851 Outpayments 1,675 2,301 2,803 Network costs 778 947 1,187 Staff costs 915 988 1,263 Property 289 275 309 Administration 400 502 632 Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items 4,057 5,013 6,194 Depreciation before exceptional items 735 1,072 1,126 Amortisation before exceptional items 126 562 469 Share of operating profits in joint ventures and associates 75 115 114 Operating loss profit before exceptionals 452 784 176 Exceptional operating costs: depreciation 2,381 1,909 444 amortisation 2,725 2,007 other operating costs 442 210 Total operating loss 6,000 4,910 268 of which: continuing operations 5,824 4,444 242 discontinued operations 176 466 26 Loss profit on sale or termination of operations 147 1,057 4,311 Fundamental reorganisation costs 530 Losses less profits on disposal of xed assets 62 7 46 Exceptional write down of investments 390 904 43 Loss profit on ordinary activities before interest 6,475 4,764 3,516 Net interest 102 215 Loss profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,373 4,549 3,516 Tax on loss profit on ordinary activities 36 311 520 Loss profit on ordinary activities after taxation 6,409 4,860 2,996 Equity minority interests 124 94 258 Loss profit for the financial year 6,533 4,954 2,738 1 On 27 March 2003, the Urgent Issues Task Force of the ASB issued UITF Abstract 36, Contracts for sales of capacity.
UITF 36 is applicable for accounting periods ending on or after 30 June 2003 although early adoption is encouraged.
The Company has adopted UITF 36 for the year ended 31 March 2003 and adjusted 2002 and 2001 comparative figures to reflect the required retrospective application of the UITF to those periods.
The impact of adopting UITF 36 is set out in Note 4 to the Financial Statements.
Cable & Wireless revised accounting policy for Capacity Sales is set out in New UK Accounting Standards Adopted.
2 In May 2002, Cable & Wireless announced its intention to restructure its US business and, as part of this restructuring, announced the disposal of the US retail voice and data customer bases in September 2002.
Under FRS 3 - Reporting Financial Performance, these businesses have been classified as discontinued.
Comparatives for the years ended 31 March 2002 and 31 March 2001 have been adjusted accordingly.
In November 2002, Cable & Wireless announced its withdrawal from the US and continental Europe domestic markets apart from the provision of services to multinational Enterprise and wholesale customers.
The results of these operations are included within continuing operations as the restructuring does not meet all of the FRS3 criteria for discontinued operations.
Page 26 operating and financial review Year ended 31 March 2003 compared with year ended held in ntl, CMGI and PCCW Limited.
This write down was 31 March 2002 offset by a profit on the sale of Optus of 1,057 million.
profit before tax in 2001 included a 4,311 million proton Cable & Wireless recorded a total operating loss of 6,000 the disposal of the HKT and ConsumerCo businesses, a million in 2003, compared with 4,910 million in 2002. charge of 530 million for the fundamental reorganisation of Exceptional costs of 5,548 million were charged in 2003 the Groups activities and a charge of 43 million for the reecting the difficult trading conditions in the write down of certain xed asset investments.
telecommunications sector, particularly the markets in which Cable & Wireless Global operates.
Goodwill of 2,713 In 2002, there was an operating loss before exceptional million was written off at 30 September 2002 and xed items of 784 million compared with an operating profit assets were impaired by a further 787 million.
Additional before exceptional items of 176 million in 2001.
Excluding impairment charges of 1,491 million were recognised at exceptional items, Cable & Wireless Global recorded 31 March 2003 as the Groups assessment of future operating losses of 1,092 million in 2002 reecting intense performance was again revised downwards, together with a competition in the market and continued investment spend.
115 million writedown of redundant xed assets.
In addition, the new DI and Exodus businesses recorded an operating loss before exceptional items of 195 million.
Operating losses before exceptionals at 452 million in 2003 were 332 million lower than in 2002.
There was a 773 Cable & Wireless Regionals operating profit before million reduction in the charge for depreciation and exceptional items increased by 35 million, or 7 per cent, amortisation before exceptionals reecting the lower xed from 485 million in 2001 to 520 million in 2002. asset base following asset impairments in March and September 2002.
Operating profit in continuing operations, Group turnover before depreciation, amortisation and exceptionals, deteriorated.
The UK operating profit before depreciation, 2003 2002 2001 amortisation and exceptionals, at 110 million in 2003 was m m m 217 million lower than 2002 reecting a 23 per cent decrease in wholesale revenues and a change in mix towards Cable & Wireless Global 2,867 3,271 3,362 lower margin products, together with reduced revenues from Cable & Wireless Regional 1,411 1,466 1,433 business customers.
US operating losses in the continuing Intra-Group turnover 31 34 107 business, before depreciation, amortisation and exceptionals, were 56 million higher than in 2002 at 211 million in Continuing operations 4,247 4,703 4,688 2003.
Discontinued operations 144 1,045 3,163 Cable & Wireless Regionals operating profit before Group turnover 4,391 5,748 7,851 exceptional items and including joint ventures and associates at 505 million in 2003 was 15 million lower than 2002.
At constant exchange rates operating profit before Year ended 31 March 2003 compared with year ended exceptional items increased by approximately 5 per cent.
31 March 2002 Year ended 31 March 2002 compared with year ended Group turnover at 4,391 million in 2003 was 1,357 31 March 2001 million, or 24 per cent, lower than in 2002 primarily due to Cable & Wireless recorded an operating loss of 4,910 discontinued operations in Australia and the United States.
million in 2002 compared with 268 million in 2001.
The Turnover from continuing operations was 456 million, or 2002 operating loss included the write down of certain xed 10 per cent, lower in 2003 compared with 2002, reecting assets of 1,909 million and goodwill of 2,007 million to excess capacity and downward pricing pressure in Cable & their recoverable values, and costs relating mainly to the Wireless Globals trading environment.
withdrawal from certain products and businesses of 210 million.
The 2001 operating loss included a xed asset Turnover in Cable & Wireless Global at 2,867 million was impairment charge of 444 million against certain network 404 million lower in 2003 compared with 2002.
UK assets employed in the Groups switched circuit voice revenues were 347 million lower in 2003 compared with business.
Reductions in wholesale and business revenues, of The 2002 loss before tax was 4,549 million compared with 215 million and 187 million lower than 2002 respectively, a profit of 3,516 million in 2001.
The loss before tax in were only partly offset by a 55 million increase in 2002 included a 904 million write down of investments Enterprise.
Page 27 operating and financial review The reduction in UK wholesale revenues reected in part the decrease due to the disposal of the Mitratel business in migration of national interconnect business to carriers own Indonesia in 2002, was more than offset by increases in networks and a change in the mix of international voice other regions.
The underlying growth in 2002 reected the trafc, from mobile to xed, which generates lower revenue continuing success of the business in rebalancing away from per minute.
international towards domestic revenue, growth in the mobile and IP and data markets and the development of new The reduction in UK Business revenues compared with 2002 businesses.
reected continued pricing pressure and the impact of a 2002 management decision to focus on high margin services Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation with growth potential.
and exceptional items The increase in Enterprise revenues was partly due to a focus on higher value managed services and away from more commoditised products, together with new contract 2001 wins and increased business with existing clients.
2002 Cable & Wireless Regional reported a 55 million, or 4 per cent, decrease in revenues in 2003 compared with 2002.
2003 Many of Cable & Wireless Regionals revenues and costs arise in currencies that are linked to the US dollar.
As a 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 consequence, the results were affected by a 8 per cent Network costs Outpayments Staff costs Property Administration devaluation in the US dollar against sterling and a 14 per cent devaluation in the Jamaica dollar.
At constant exchange rates, Cable & Wireless Regionals revenue increased by 5 2003 2002 2001 per cent in 2003 compared with 2002.
The increase reected m m m the inclusion of Cable & Wireless Guernsey for the 10 months since its acquisition, together with underlying Outpayments 1,675 2,301 2,803 revenue growth.
Revenue growth was driven by further 1 Network costs 778 947 1,187 increases in mobile revenues and continued demand for IP Staff costs 915 988 1,263 and data services, underpinned by growth in domestic voice Property 289 275 309 business.
Administration 400 502 632 Year ended 31 March 2002 compared with 31 March Total 4,057 5,013 6,194 2001 Group turnover was 5,748 million in 2002 compared with of which: 7,851 million in 2001.
The reduction in group turnover Cable & Wireless Global 2,987 3,072 3,023 during these periods primarily relates to the disposal of HKT Cable & Wireless Regional 821 837 834 and the disposal of CWC ConsumerCo.
Other 10 16 126 Discontinued operations 239 1,088 2,463 Turnover of 4,703 million from continuing businesses in 2002 was broadly in line with 2001.
Total 4,057 5,013 6,194 Turnover from Cable & Wireless Global at 3,271 million 1 Network costs include customer acquisition costs and the cost of goods was 91 million lower in 2002 compared with 2001: sold.
decreases in Business Markets, 133 million, and Service Providers, 163 million, were only partly offset by a 38 Year ended 31 March 2003 compared with year ended million increase in Enterprise revenue and 167 million of 31 March 2002 revenue from the new DI and Exodus businesses.
The Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and decreased revenues from Business Markets and Service exceptional items at 4,057 million in 2003 were 956 Providers reected weak market conditions and a decision million or 19 per cent lower than in 2002. by Cable & Wireless to move away from lower margin business.
Excluding discontinued operations, costs before depreciation, Cable & Wireless Regional turnover at 1,466 million was amortisation and exceptional items of 3,818 million in 2003 33 million higher in 2002 than 2001.
A 62 million were 107 million lower than in 2002.
Lower outpayments Page 28 operating and financial review and network costs were partly offset by increases in all other was an underlying increase in operating costs before categories largely due to the inclusion of a full years costs depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items of 194 for the DI and Exodus businesses.
2002 included the results million, or 5 per cent, during 2002 compared with 2001, of of DI for nine and a half months and Exodus for two which 241 million was due to the acquisition of DI and months.
Outpayment and network costs in continuing operations were Outpayments and network costs for continuing operations 2,616 million in 2002, 38 million higher than in 2001.
In were 2,274 million in 2003, 342 million or 13 per cent Cable & Wireless Global, a 71 million increase in lower than in 2002, principally reecting a 345 million outpayments and network costs in 2002 compared with 2001 reduction in such costs for Cable & Wireless Global.
This relating to the new DI and Exodus businesses, was more reduction was largely due to lower volumes of voice trafc than offset by a 7 per cent reduction in the rest of Cable & in the United Kingdom, reduced trafc in the United States Wireless Global mainly reecting lower volumes of voice and the benefit of network streamlining in the United trafc.
In Cable & Wireless Regional, outpayments and Kingdom, Japan and the United States.
network costs were 47 million higher in 2002 than in 2001, Cable & Wireless Regionals outpayments and network costs up 9 per cent in constant currency terms principally due to at 443 million in 2003 were in line with 2002.
At constant rapid growth in the competitive mobile markets in Jamaica exchange rates, there was an underlying increase in and Macau.
outpayments and network costs of 13 per cent mainly due to Staff costs for continuing operations were 16 million higher increased volumes and third party terminations, particularly in 2002 compared with 2001 and included 110 million in in mobile and in xed to mobile trafc, network expansion respect of the new DI and Exodus businesses.
Staff costs in and customer acquisition costs, including mobile handset the rest of Cable & Wireless Global were 75 million lower subsidies.
where a staff reduction programme reduced headcount by Staff costs for continuing operations were 47 million, or over 8,000 from a peak of 18,600 in December 2000.
Staff 6 per cent, higher in 2003 compared with 2002.
In Cable & costs in Cable & Wireless Regional were 10 million lower Wireless Global, increased costs in the United States due to in 2002 compared with 2001, again reecting headcount the inclusion of a full years results for DI and Exodus offset reductions and the impact of the disposal of Mitratel the benefit of reductions elsewhere due to lower headcount.
Year end headcount in Cable & Wireless Global was 10,749 at 31 March 2003 compared with 12,543 at 31 March 2002.
Depreciation before exceptional items 2003 2002 2001 Staff costs in Cable & Wireless Regional were 11 million m m m lower in 2003 compared with 2002, or 3 per cent higher at constant exchange rates.
There was an 11 per cent reduction Cable & Wireless Global 547 725 469 in headcount, from 11,465 to 10,193, the full benetof Cable & Wireless Regional 161 185 175 which will be recognised in future years.
Other 3 25 Property costs for continuing operations at 278 million Discontinued businesses 24 160 477 were 65 million higher in 2003 compared with 2002.
Property costs in Cable & Wireless Global were 64 million Total 735 1,072 1,126 higher, mainly reecting the inclusion of a full years costs for the DI and Exodus businesses.
Year ended 31 March 2003 compared with year ended Administration and other costs for continuing operations 31 March 2002 were 123 million higher in 2003 compared with 2002.
This Depreciation before exceptional items at 735 million in increase reected the inclusion of a full years costs for the 2003 was 337 million lower than in 2002.
The 201 DI and Exodus businesses together with the effect in 2002 of million decrease in depreciation before exceptional items in a release of bad debt provisions raised in prior years.
continuing operations in 2003 compared with 2002 reected the impact of a lower xed base following asset impairments Year ended 31 March 2002 compared with year ended in March and September 2002.
31 March 2001 Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items were 1,181 million, or 19 per cent, lower in 2002 than 2001.
Excluding discontinued operations, there Page 29 operating and financial review Year ended 31 March 2002 compared with year ended Year ended 31 March 2003 compared with year ended 31 March 2001 31 March 2002 Depreciation before exceptional items at 1,072 million in Cable & Wireless Regional recorded a 2 million reduction 2002 was 54 million lower than in 2001.
The increase in in the share of operating profits in joint ventures and depreciation before exceptional items in continuing associates.
At constant exchange rates, there was underlying businesses of 263 million was primarily due to a 256 growth of 4 per cent compared with 2002. million increase in Cable & Wireless Global of which 35 In December 2002, as part of the Initial Public Offering of million related to the new DI and Exodus businesses.
The shares in the Groups Singapore associate, Mobile One underlying increase of 221 million reected the impact of Limited, Cable & Wireless sold 60 per cent of its stake in 2001 capital expenditure, including the roll out of the global that company, realising a profit of 54 million before IP backbone.
Goodwill amortisation before exceptional items The remaining Cable & Wireless shareholding in Mobile 2003 2002 2001 One is now classied as a trade investment.
m m m Year ended 31 March 2002 compared with year ended Cable & Wireless Global 127 560 267 31 March 2001 Cable & Wireless Regional 1 11 Cable & Wireless share of operating profits in joint Other 2 ventures and associates was 115 million in 2002, compared Discontinued businesses 1 199 with 114 million in 2001.
A reduction due to a number of disposals, including by virtue of the sale of Cable & Total 126 562 469 Wireless interest in Optus Southern Cross a submarine cable system linking Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Hawaii and the US Mainland, were offset by increased profits in Year ended 31 March 2003 compared with year ended 2002 from the Groups interests in the Caribbean, Singapore 31 March 2002 and Bahrain.
Goodwill amortisation of 126 million in 2003 was 436 million lower than in 2002.
The reduction reected lower Exceptional operating costs goodwill carried on the balance sheet in 2003 following the 2003 2002 2001 impairments booked in March and September 2002.
As a result of these impairments, substantially all goodwill of the m m m Group had been fully written off by the year end.
Depreciation 2,381 1,909 444 Amortisation 2,725 2,007 Year ended 31 March 2002 compared with year ended Other 442 210 31 March 2001 Goodwill amortisation before exceptionals at 562 million Total 5,548 4,126 444 was 93 million higher than in 2001.
The increase was largely due to the acquisition of the DI and Exodus Cable & Wireless Global 5,454 3,629 353 businesses, 59 million, and a full years charge for 2001 Cable & Wireless Regional 35 191 acquisitions.
Other 2 Discontinued businesses 57 306 91 Share of operating profits in joint ventures and associates.
Total 5,548 4,126 444 2003 2002 2001 m m m Year ended 31 March 2003 compared with year ended Cable & Wireless Global 6 11 31 March 2002 Cable & Wireless Regional 75 77 62 Discontinued businesses 44 41 difficult trading conditions in Cable & Wireless Globals markets led to further xed asset and goodwill impairment Total 75 115 114 charges in 2003 as forecast revenues were revised downwards and the Groups cost of capital increased.
Page 30 operating and financial review In September 2002, xed assets were impaired by 787 recorded a net profit of 4,311 million on the sale of its million and the remaining goodwill of the Group was interests in HKT and CWC ConsumerCo.
Early redemption substantially written off.
These impairments arose as penalties on the sale of CWC ConsumerCo of 110 million estimates of future revenues were revised downwards.
The are reported in net interest.
goodwill write-off largely related to CWC DataCo acquired as part of the Cable & Wireless Communications Fundamental reorganisation provisions restructuring in May 2000.
The fundamental reorganisation charge booked in the year ended 31 March 2001 of 530 million included provisions of At 31 March 2003, a further xed asset impairment charge 239 million in respect of the consequences of the of 1,594 million arose.
Continued problems in the market announcement made in March 2001 regarding the intention led to revenue forecasts being further reduced.
to cut staff numbers by at least 4,000 heads in Cable & Wireless Global and 2,485 heads in Cable & Wireless Other exceptional operating costs of 442 million mainly Regional and reduce operating costs.
The provision at 31 related to the costs of exiting and restructuring primarily in March 2001 included redundancy provisions of 138 million the US business.
and provisions for exiting surplus properties of 68 million.
Year ended 31 March 2002 compared with year ended Taxation 31 March 2001 Fixed assets in Cable & Wireless Global were written down 2003 2002 2001 by 1,631 million in 2002, principally relating to redundant m m m cables and network assets.
Cable & Wireless Regional wrote down 191 million of xed assets, mainly relating to TDMA Loss profit on ordinary mobile network assets.
In 2001, Cable & Wireless Global activities before taxation 6,373 4,549 3,516 recorded an impairment charge of 353 million relating to network and assets in its switched circuit voice business.
Tax on loss proton ordinary activities 36 311 520 Exceptional goodwill amortisation in 2002 represents a 2,007 million impairment charge to eliminate unamortised Effective tax rate 0.6 % 6.8 % 14.8% goodwill on the US MCI acquisition, 697 million, and the European IP acquisitions, 190 million, together with the partial writedown of goodwill on the CWC DataCo Year ended 31 March 2003 compared with year ended acquisition, 996 million, and the Cable & Wireless IDC 31 March 2002 acquisition, 124 million.
A tax charge of 36 million arose in 2003 on the loss before The other exceptional operating costs in 2002 mainly related tax of 6,373 million.
The Group continued to generate tax to the costs of exiting certain products and businesses.
losses in 2003 for which no immediate benefit was recognised as realisation of the benefit is not considered probable.
These tax losses have been carried forward to Exceptional loss profit on disposal or termination future periods.
The negative tax rate of 0.6 per cent in 2003 of operations is lower than the negative tax rate of 6.8 per cent for 2002, 2003 2002 2001 primarily because the tax charge on exceptional items is m m m lower than 2002 due to there being no material disposals of investments in 2003.
The tax charge on exceptional items in Loss profit on disposal or 2002 could not be reduced by surplus tax losses, as they termination of operations 147 1,057 4,311 arose in different jurisdictions.
As with 2002, in the United Kingdom, tax relief is denied on certain costs and provisions, including the amortisation and write-down of In 2003, a loss on disposal of operations of 231 million goodwill and xed asset write-downs.
which relates to the termination of the US voice retail business was partly offset by a release of accrued costs Year ended 31 March 2002 compared with year ended relating to disposals in previous years.
31 March 2001 profit on disposals of operations in 2002 represented a Cable & Wireless recorded a tax charge of 311 million in 1,057 million profit on the sale of the Groups 52.5 per 2002 despite incurring pre-tax losses of 4,549 million.
The cent investment in Optus.
In 2001, Cable & Wireless movement in the effective tax rate from 14.8 per cent in Page 31 operating and financial review 2001 to negative 6.8 per cent in 2002 is primarily because, in 2002.
In addition, the Group has carried tax losses in the United Kingdom, tax relief is denied on certain costs forward to future periods, for which no immediate tax and provisions, including the amortisation and write-down of benefit was recognised as realisation of the benefit is not goodwill and xed asset write-downs, which were incurred considered probable.
REVIEW BY DIVISION This section provides a discussion of Cable & Wireless 2003 2002 2001 results by division.
Cable & Wireless Global m m m Operating loss profit by division Of which: United Kingdom 3,935 2,135 698 2003 2002 2001 United States 1,681 1,880 2 m m m Continental Europe 367 543 164 Japan 265 163 121 Cable & Wireless Global 6,248 4,721 739 Cable & Wireless Regional 470 329 485 Operating loss 6,248 4,721 739 Other 46 52 12 Discontinued 176 466 26 Year ended 31 March 2003 compared with year ended 6,000 4,910 268 31 March 2002 Operating losses were 1,527 million higher in 2003 Cable & Wireless Global compared with 2002.
Cable & Wireless Global comprises Cable & Wireless UK operating losses rose by 1,800 million as further xed operations and subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, the asset and goodwill impairment charges were recognised.
UK United States, Japan Asia and continental Europe.
operating losses before exceptional items at 365 million in 2003 were 51 million higher than in 2002.
The benetof 2003 2002 2001 reduced charges for depreciation and goodwill amortisation Cable & Wireless Global m m m in 2003, following asset impairments in March and Turnover 2,867 3,271 3,362 September 2002, were offset by a 217 million reduction in Costs the UK business operating profit before exceptionals, Outpayments 1,380 1,661 1,817 depreciation and amortisation to 110 million in 2003.
This Network costs 482 546 472 reduction was largely due to a poor business performance, Staff costs 630 571 536 particularly in the wholesale markets.
Property 229 165 152 Administration 266 129 46 Cable & Wireless Americas operating losses at 1,681 2,987 3,072 3,023 million in 2003 were 199 million lower than in 2002.
At Depreciation before exceptionals 547 725 469 constant exchange rates there was an underlying decrease of Amortisation before exceptionals 127 560 267 4 per cent.
Decreased charges in 2003 for asset impairments Joint Ventures and associates 6 11 and the benefit of reduced charges for depreciation and amortisation more than offset higher losses in underlying Operating loss before business.
exceptionals 794 1,092 386 Exceptional items: In Continental Europe, operating losses at 367 million in depreciation 2,324 1,631 353 2003 were 176 million or 32 per cent lower than in 2002. amortisation 2,723 1,794 This decrease was largely due to the non-recurrence of a other operating costs 407 204 190 million goodwill impairment charge in 2002.
Operating loss 6,248 4,721 739 In Japan, operating losses at 265 million in 2003 were 102 million or 63 per cent higher than in 2002 mainly due to increased charges for asset impairment and lower revenues, particularly in wholesale.
Page 32 operating and financial review Year ended 31 March 2002 compared with year ended 31 March 2001 2500 Operating losses at 4,721 million in 2002 were 3,982 million higher than in 2001, of which 1,278 million was 2000 attributable to increased xed asset impairment charges and 1,794 million to goodwill write-downs.
Fixed asset 1500 impairment charges in 2002 mainly related to the writedown of cables and bres where the Groups ownership is in 1000 excess of predicted future trafc levels and a write-down of the global network based upon net recoverable values.
A 997 UK US Europe Japan & Asia million charge for goodwill impairment was recognised in Other Voice Data IP Hosting 2002 relating to the CWC DataCo acquisition and xed asset impairment charges were 311 million higher in 2002 than in 2001.
Cable & Wireless America recorded operating losses in 2002 2500 of 1,880 million compared with an operating protof2 million in 2001.
The loss in 2002 was primarily attributable 2000 to xed asset and goodwill impairment charges of 1,206 million and losses of 239 million for the newly acquired DI 1500 and Exodus businesses.
In Continental Europe, operating losses at 543 million in 1000 2002 were 379 million higher than in 2001, of which 401 million related to xed asset and goodwill impairment 500 charges in 2002.
Wholesale Business Enterprise Operating losses in 2002 included 157 million related to xed asset and goodwill impairment charges.
Turnover Year ended 31 March 2003 compared with year ended 31 March 2002 2003 2002 2001 Turnover was 12 per cent lower in 2003 compared with m m m 2002 as a result of weak market conditions in the wholesale market and the impact of a deliberate decision by Cable & United Kingdom 1,728 2,075 2,158 Wireless in 2002 to withdraw from the provision of lower United States 512 530 503 margin products to Business customers.
Revenue in the Europe 304 305 251 Enterprise segment grew by 21 per cent in 2003, including Japan & Asia 323 361 450 the benefit of new contract wins and expansion of contracts with existing customers.
Total 2,867 3,271 3,362 Year ended 31 March 2002 compared with year ended 31 March 2001 Turnover at 3,271 million in 2002 was 91 million or 3 per cent lower than in 2001 with decreases in Service Provider and Business revenues of 163 million and 133 million respectively, only partly offset by a 38 million increase in Enterprise revenues and 167 million of revenues from the new DI and Exodus businesses.
The decrease in Service Page 33 operating and financial review 2003 2002 2001 Provider revenues mainly reected lower voice revenues, Cable & Wireless Regional m m m due to declining prices, customer bankruptcies and a decision to move away from lower margin business.
Turnover 1,411 1,466 1,433 Costs Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation Outpayments 203 208 259 and exceptional items 1 Network costs 240 235 137 2003 2002 2001 Staff costs 206 217 227 m m m Property 49 48 51 Administration 123 129 160 United Kingdom 1,618 1,748 1,974 821 837 834 United States 723 685 469 Depreciation before Europe 345 331 324 exceptionals 161 185 175 Japan & Asia 301 308 256 Amortisation before exceptionals 1 1 1 Total 2,987 3,072 3,023 Joint Ventures and associates 75 77 62 Operating profit before Year ended 31 March 2003 compared with year ended exceptionals 505 520 485 31 March 2002 Exceptional items: depreciation 191 Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and other operating costs 35 exceptional items in Cable & Wireless Global were 85 million lower in 2003 compared with 2002.
A 345 million Operating profit 470 329 485 reduction in outpayments and network costs was offset by increases in all other cost categories largely due to the of which: inclusion of a full years costs for the DI and Exodus Caribbean 234 118 275 businesses.
The reduction in outpayments and network costs Panama 77 62 83 was mainly attributable to lower volumes of voice trafcin Macau 42 38 33 the United Kingdom, reduced trafc in the United States and Rest of World 117 111 94 network streamlining in the United Kingdom, Japan and the United States.
Total 470 329 485 Year ended 31 March 2002 compared with year ended 1 Network costs include customer acquisition costs and the cost of goods 31 March 2001 sold Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptionals at 3,072 million in 2002 were 49 million or 2 Year ended 31 March 2003 compared with year ended per cent higher than in 2001.
An increase of 241 million 31 March 2002 due to the newly acquired DI and Exodus businesses was partly offset by lower outpayments and network costs in the Cable & Wireless Regionals operating profit at 470 million rest of Cable & Wireless Global, mainly reecting lower in 2003 was 141 million or 43 per cent higher than in 2002 volumes of voice trafc, and lower staff costs as headcount largely due to exceptional asset impairment charges in 2002. was reduced.
Many of the territories in which Cable & Wireless Regional operates have currencies that are linked directly or indirectly Cable & Wireless Regional to the US dollar.
As a consequence, an 8 per cent strengthening of sterling against the US dollar and a 14 per The largest businesses within Cable & Wireless Regional are cent strengthening against the Jamaica dollar had a in the Caribbean, Panama and Macau.
Cable & Wireless significant effect on Cable & Wireless Regionals reported Regional also operates in the Middle East, South East Asia results.
At constant exchange rates operating profit in 2003 and in the Pacic, Indian and Atlantic Oceans, which was 62 per cent higher than in 2002. together with head ofce functions are referred to as Rest of World.
In the Caribbean, operating profit at 234 million in 2003 was 116 million or 98 per cent higher than 2002.
This increase was largely attributable to the non-recurrence of a 172 million impairment charge to write down network and Page 34 operating and financial review TDMA mobile assets in 2002, partly offset by 20 million In Panama, operating profit at 62 million in 2002 was 21 of exceptional costs relating to reorganisation and million or 25 per cent lower than in 2001.
This decrease was redundancy incurred in 2003.
Operating profit before primarily due to an exceptional impairment charge of 19 exceptional items in the Caribbean at 254 million in 2003 million in 2002 to write off TDMA and network assets.
was 36 million or 12 per cent lower than in 2002.
At constant exchange rates 2003 operating profit before Macaus operating profit at 38 million in 2002 was 5 exceptional items in the Caribbean was 5 per cent lower.
A million or 15 per cent higher than in 2001 mainly due to 7 per cent increase in costs at constant exchange rates was good revenue growth, headcount savings and reduced partly offset by a 1 per cent increase in revenues and a depreciation.
Rest of World delivered operating profit of 111 million in In Panama, operating profit at 77 million in 2003 was 15 2002, 17 million or 18 per cent higher than in 2001.
Strong million or 24 per cent higher than in 2002.
At constant performances in Yemen, the Seychelles, Maldives and exchange rates there was a 34 per cent increase in operating Bahrain more than offset the impact of disposals.
This increase was largely attributable to lower outpayments, headcount savings and reduced depreciation and exceptional charges.
Turnover Macaus operating profit at 42 million in 2003 was 4 2003 2002 2001 million or 11 per cent higher than in 2002.
At constant Cable & Wireless Regional m m m exchange rates there was a 16 per cent increase in operating profit.
This increase reected a good performance in data Caribbean 783 858 779 and IP, driven by growing demand for broadband services Panama 279 296 302 and other value added internet services, together with the Macau 150 145 130 launch of services in Singapore and Hong Kong.
Rest of World 199 167 222 Rest of World delivered operating profit of 117 million in Total 1,411 1,466 1,433 2003, 6 million or 5 per cent higher than in 2002.
At constant exchange rates, operating profit in 2003 was 13 per cent higher than in 2002.
A good performance in the Maldives and Bahrain and the inclusion of 10 months Year ended 31 March 2003 compared with year ended activity for Cable & Wireless Guernsey were offset by 31 March 2002 mixed performances in Yemen and the smaller territories.
Turnover at 1,411 million in 2003 was 55 million or 4 per cent lower than in 2002.
At constant exchange rates, Year ended 31 March 2002 compared with year end turnover in 2003 was 5 per cent higher than in 2002 partly 31 March 2001 due to the inclusion of 10 months results for Cable & Wireless Guernsey.
At constant exchange rates, mobile Cable & Wireless Regionals operating profit at 329 million revenues were 26 per cent higher in 2003 than 2002 in 2002 was 156 million or 32 per cent lower than in 2001. reecting increased customer bases across all geographies.
IP This decrease was mainly attributable to a 191 million and data services increased, particularly in Macau where the impairment charge in 2002 to write off network and TDMA launch of Asia Cities was combined with strong demand for mobile assets.
broadband services and other value added IP products.
In the Caribbean, operating profit at 118 million in 2002 was 157 million lower than in 2001, primarily due to a International voice revenues were 5 per cent lower at 172 million impairment charge in 2002 to write down constant exchange rates largely due to declining tariffs and network and TDMA mobile assets.
Before exceptional items, settlement rates.
Part of the reduction in tariffs reected operating profit in 2002 was 15 million higher than in 2001 tariff rebalancing, the removal of cross subsidies between up 5 per cent in underlying constant currency terms.
The international services and domestic services.
There was a 5 softening of margins in Jamaica reecting rapid growth in per cent increase in domestic voice revenues which reected mobile was offset by strong performance in the rest of the the impact of rebalancing and market growth, particularly in Caribbean particularly in Trinidad and Tobago and xed to mobile trafc.
The number of xed lines increased Barbados.
Page 35 operating and financial review Year ended 31 March 2002 compared with year ended addition, customer acquisition costs, including mobile 31 March 2001 handset subsidies also rose.
Turnover at 1,466 million in 2002 was 33 million or 2 per Year ended 31 March 2002 compared with year ended cent higher than in 2001.
Excluding Mitratel Indonesia, 31 March 2001 which was disposed of in May 2001, Cable & Wireless Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation at 837 Regional revenue increased by 8 per cent in the year ended million in 2002 were broadly in line with 2001.
Excluding 31 March 2002 to 1,459 million from 1,357 million in the Mitratel Indonesia, there was a 4 per cent increase at prior year.
At constant exchange rates, turnover, excluding constant exchange rates primarily due to increased customer Mitratel, was 6 per cent higher in 2003 than 2002.
This acquisition and network costs reecting growth in the growth reects the continuing success of the business in mobile, IP and data businesses.
At constant exchange rates, rebalancing away from international and towards domestic staff costs in 2002 were 2 per cent lower than in 2001 as the revenue, growth in the mobile and IP and data markets, and restructuring programme to reduce headcount by 2,500 was the development of new businesses.
Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation Joint ventures and associates and exceptional items Cable & Wireless Regional has equity holdings giving it 2003 2002 2001 significant influence in the operations and management of a m m m number of telecommunication operators world wide.
These are accounted for as Joint Ventures and Associates.
Caribbean 485 504 448 Panama 143 163 172 Share of operating protof 2003 2002 2001 Macau 90 87 76 Joint Ventures and Associates m m m Rest of World 103 83 138 TSTT Trinidad and Tobago 34 34 28 Total 821 837 834 Batelco Bahrain 23 21 19 MobileOne Singapore 12 16 9 Other 6 66 Year ended 31 March 2003 compared with year ended 31 March 2002 Total 75 77 62 Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items were 821 million in 2003, 16 million or In December 2002, as part of the Initial Public Offering of 2 per cent lower than in 2002.
At constant exchange rates, shares in the Groups Singapore associate, Mobile One operating costs were 8 per cent higher in 2003 than 2002 Limited, Cable & Wireless sold 60 per cent of its stake in primarily due to increased outpayments and network costs.
that company, realising a profit of 54 million before The growth in outpayments and network costs was mainly minority interests.
attributable to the revenue growth against a background of liberalisation leading to increased trafc volumes, customer The remaining Cable & Wireless shareholding in Mobile numbers and terminations on third party networks.
In One is now classied as a trade investment.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Treasury policy The Groups treasury operations are managed on the basis of by the local board of directors, which are substantially objectives, policies and authorities approved by Cable and consistent with Group policy.
Wireless plcs Board of Directors.
Cable & Wireless uses derivatives and financial instruments including forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate The key responsibilities of the treasury function include swaps, cross currency swaps and options in the management funding, investment of surplus cash and the management of of financial exposures.
Derivatives are not used for trading interest rate and foreign currency risk.
All derivative transactions and positions are monitored and reported to the Board.
To the extent that subsidiary operating companies undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by policies adopted Page 36 operating and financial review Investment of surplus cash matured in June 2003 and a US$400 million bond will mature in December 2003.
During the year ended 31 March At 31 March 2003, Cable & Wireless had gross cash 2003, Cable & Wireless purchased US$600 million of the including treasury instruments held as current asset principal amount of the US$1,504 million bond 31 March investments of 3,165 million 2002: 4,888 million and 2002: US$200 million.
The remainder of the Group debt represents primarily This surplus cash is a significant component of the Groups amortising loans with the exception of a loan of 121 million overall liquidity and capital resources.
Approximately 90 per maturing in 2006. cent of the Groups cash is held centrally and is The US$1,504 million bond represented zero coupon predominantly invested in short-term bank deposits up to exchangeable bonds, which were exchangeable into ordinary 1 year and AAA-rated money market funds.
The bonds were issued on 9 April 2001 at In certain circumstances, it has been efficient to use surplus 100 per cent of their US$1,504 million principal amount.
A total of US$800 million of the The bonds were redeemed at their principal amount on US$1,504 million zero coupon exchangeable bonds was 9 June 2003. bought back at an average of 97 per cent of face value.
In On 16 June 2003, the Company announced that it was addition, a total of US$19 million of the US$400 million offering 258 million Senior Unsecured Convertible Bonds, bond has also been bought back.
due 2010, with a cash coupon of 4 per cent per annum, and The Group also purchased 75 million of Credit Linked an initial conversion price of 145 pence per share: the bond Notes issued by an AA-rated bank and referenced to the will be redeemed at par.
It is anticipated that this offering Companys 200 million bond which matures in 2012.
This will complete prior to 25 July 2003, subject to the transaction has a similar economic effect to repurchasing the satisfaction of certain conditions.
The funding will be used bonds for the period of the investment.
Further information to strengthen the Companys balance sheet and increase its on these transactions is given in Note 26 to the Accounts.
Approximately 10 per cent of the Groups cash is held in Cable & Wireless believes that its capital resources are foreign subsidiaries some of whom operate in jurisdictions sufficient to meet its current and planned requirements for at which may, and do, restrict the ability to repatriate cash to least the next 12 months.
The Groups ability to meet longthe parent company.
In addition, some of the Groups cash is term capital requirements beyond this 12-month period will required as cash collateral.
depend on many factors both inside and outside of its 2003 2002 control.
Cable & Wireless cannot be certain that additional m m nancing, if required, will be available on terms favourable to the Group, if at all.
Restricted Jurisdictions 49 45 Cash Collateral 30 3 Borrowing facilities The total amount of the Groups undrawn committed Total Restricted Cash 79 48 facilities as at 31 March 2003 was 30 million.
This facility matures on 30 June 2003.
Funding Credit ratings At 31 March 2003, Cable & Wireless had gross debt of The Companys long-term credit rating was downgraded 1,546 million 2002: 2,259 million and 2001: 2,931 during the year to below investment grade.
3 June 2003 are detailed in the table below.
The rating from The Groups debt comprises both bank debt and publicly Moodys is under review at the date of ling for a possible quoted bonds of which 825 million matures during the downgrade.
Cable & Wireless debt has Cable and Wireless plcs debt ratings an average maturity of 4.7 years.
Excluding the 825 million maturing in the next year, the average maturity increases to Standard & Poors BB 9.0 years.
Moodys Ba1 Approximately 70 per cent of the Groups debt is Fitch BB represented by public bonds denominated in Sterling and US Dollars.
Two Sterling denominated bonds of 200 million each mature in 2012 and 2019 respectively.
With respect to the US dollar denominated bonds, a US$1,504 million bond Page 37 operating and financial review The ratings downgrade has no impact on the interest cost of In addition, under certain property operating leases Cable & existing debt.
However the downgrade may limit future Wireless and its subsidiaries could be required to make access to the debt capital markets and may both increase the payments to lessors at the end of the lease to restore the future cost of funding and impact adversely the terms on condition of the properties.
These amounts will not be which debt may be available.
In addition, cash collateral or known until the leases expire.
The actual amounts paid may guarantees may be required to support any future credit be reduced in the event that Cable & Wireless is able to exit terms.
the contracts prior to the minimum lease term expiring.
In November 2002, Cable & Wireless disclosed estimated Escrow account gross property and other lease costs in the region of 2.2 On 6 December 2002, following a decision by Moodysto billion as at 30 September 2002.
Since announcing this downgrade the long term rating of the Company from Baa2 amount, the Group has continued to review its property to Ba1, the Group disclosed that a ratings trigger clause portfolio.
The outcome of that review, together with the became operative.
The clause was contained in the tax impact of lease exits achieved and payments made by indemnity which formed part of the agreement with 31 March 2003 reduce this gure to 1.6 billion.
This is Deutsche Telekom for the disposal of the Groups50 per analysed in the table below.
This disposal was completed on Continental 1 October 1999 for a total cash consideration of 3.45 Property and US Europe UK Japan Regional Total other lease costs m m m m m m billion.
Cable & Wireless provided Deutsche Telekom with an indemnity in the event of the Inland Revenue assessing Total estimated full term payments at 30 September 2002 937 130 950 135 87 2,239 tax liabilities against the companies sold by Cable & 1 Reclassication 34 34 2 Wireless to Deutsche Telekom.
As a result of the Property rates taxes 128 128 3 Impact of minimum break clause 203 32 235 downgrade, the Company paid 1.5 billion into escrow on Lease payments extinguished in 4 13 January 2003.
Following the agreement reached with the period 61 7 33 1 102 Lease payments made in period 60 28 39 23 12 162 Inland Revenue to settle the Groups outstanding UK Corporation Tax affairs for the ten years to 31 March 2001, Total at 31 March 2003 850 61 547 79 75 1,612 the monies held in escrow were released by 31 March 2003 Of which: and the funds received on 1 April 2003.
Provided in balance sheet at 31 March 2003 348 19 36 2 405 Guaranteed by Cable and Other loans and contractual obligations under Wireless plc 71 13 30 114 leases 1 A property located in Europe but managed by the US business has been reclassified from Continental Europe to United States in the table.
Cable & Wireless loans and contractual obligations under 2 Certain property rates taxes were included in the estimated property lease finance and operating leases are analysed in Notes 22 and 26 commitments for the United Kingdom at 30 September 2002. to the Financial Statements.
3 Estimated minimum lease commitments in respect of UK and Japan leases have been reduced significantly following a detailed review of None of the above funding arrangements and facilities have break clauses within the lease agreements entered into by the Group.
covenants that are expected to restrict normal business 4 Payments extinguished in the period represent ongoing lease commitments activities.
that have been avoided by exiting the leases.
Cable & Wireless other contractual obligations at the end of Operating lease commitments 2003 include capital expenditure commitments and other In the normal course of its business, Cable & Wireless and financial commitments.
Details are set out in Note 27 to the its subsidiaries enter into operating leases, relating to Financial Statements.
Details on derivatives are given in property, customer terminating equipment and other Note 26. operational commitments.
Minimum lease terms range from 1 year to 50 years.
The effect such obligations are expected to have on liquidity and cash ow in future periods is summarised below.
Less than 1 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 After 5 Payments due Total year years years years years years by period m m m m m m m Operating lease payments undiscounted 1,612 245 182 160 140 132 753 Page 38 operating and financial review CASH FLOW and amortisation, 861 million, and exceptional asset Summary consolidated cash 2003 2002 2001 impairment charges, 5,106 million.
ow statement m m m Tax paid in 2003 includes 380 million with respect to Net cash inows from settlement of the Groups UK tax affairs for the ten years operating activities 95 94 1,287 ended 31 March 2001.
Details of the settlement are given in Return on investments and Note 12 to the Accounts.
servicing of finance 65 159 212 Taxation paid 438 139 310 Capital expenditure of 810 million in 2003 included Capital expenditure 810 1,868 3,293 network build of 310 million and the rollout of a GSM Financial investment 595 194 771 mobile network in the Caribbean and Panama and expansion Acquisitions and disposals 110 1,845 4,932 of the TDMA network in the Caribbean 113 million, Equity dividends paid 119 669 395 together with expenditure on billing systems, IT support for Movement in liquid resources capital projects and network terminating and customer movement in premises equipment.
short term deposits 1,040 2,586 129 Net nancing repaid 578 567 944 Financial investments generated net cash of 595 million in 2003 of which 600 million related to the proceeds on Decrease Increase in cash disposal of a portfolio of preference shares.
in the year 2,120 1,635 423 Liquid resources increased by 1,040 million in 2003.
At 31 March 2003 liquid resources included the 1.5 billion placed into escrow that was released by 31 March 2003 and There was a net decrease in cash of 2,120 million in 2003, the funds received on 1 April 2003. largely due to a 1,040 million increase in liquid resources and capital expenditure of 810 million.
Net nancing repaid of 578 million in 2003 included long term debt repayments of 649 million partly offset by long Operating activities generated net cash of 95 million in term debt issued of 88 million.
2003 despite operating losses of 6,000 million as these included significant non-cash item charges for depreciation See also Description of the Business Capital Expenditure.
DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Credit risk Exchange rate risk Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates in credit risk, which represents the loss that would be relation to foreign currency payments, dividend income from recognised if a counterparty failed to perform as contracted.
foreign subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign subsidiaries The counterparties to the Groups financial instruments are and the net asset carrying value of foreign investments.
major international institutions and the credit rating of these counterparties is monitored on a regular basis in accordance Cable & Wireless trades in 80 countries and much of its with guidelines established by the Board.
revenue is from international trafc ows settled in major currencies, principally US dollars.
In addition, many of the Interest rate risk currencies of the countries in which Cable & Wireless operates are linked, directly or indirectly, to the US dollar.
The Group is exposed to movements of interest rates on its debt, surplus cash balances and derivative instruments.
The The Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange treasury function seeks to reduce volatility by xing a rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange proportion of interest rates in advance.
contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposure.
Taking account of such actions, a 50 basis point increase in interest rates to which the Group is exposed would increase net interest income by 9 million.
A 50 basis point reduction As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure in interest rates would reduce net interest income by the arising from foreign exchange movements relating to the same amount.
carrying value of foreign investments, the Group may, from Page 39 operating and financial review time to time, elect to match certain foreign currency In broad terms, based on the 2003 mix of profits, the impact liabilities against foreign investments.
of a unilateral 1 per cent weakening of sterling would have been to increase the operating loss by 32 million.
During the year the Group reversed a previous decision to match foreign currency liabilities totalling 486 million.
Overseas subsidiaries generally finance themselves in their These liabilities were re-denominated into Sterling.
However, in Jamaica it is impractical to was no cost to the Group from this transaction.
Currently implement this policy due to limited availability of local there are no foreign currency liabilities matched against currency funding.
Consequently Cable & Wireless Jamaica is foreign investments.
predominantly funded with US dollar denominated bank No foreign currency exposure arose from the US$1,504 debt.
million PCCW zero coupon exchangeable bond since this was matched by US dollar cash investments.
See note 36 Summary of differences between United Kingdom and United States GAAP to the Financial Statements.
2 ADR American Depositary Receipt amounts have been computed on the basis that one ADR represents three Ordinary Shares of 25p each in the Company Ordinary Shares.
3 Dividends per share and per ADR are based on interim and final dividends paid per Ordinary Share before deduction of withholding taxes.
4 Current assets exclude debtors due after more than one year.
5 The results for 2002 and 2001 and balance sheet for 2002 have been adjusted to reflect the change in accounting policy for capacity sales in light of the adoption of UITF Abstract 36 Contracts for sales of capacity and related consequential effects.
Page 41 operating and financial review CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES In the preparation of Cable & Wireless consolidated which Cable & Wireless operates, and a discount rate of financial statements a number of estimates and assumptions 14 per cent which represents the estimated weighted average are made relating to the reporting of results of operations cost of capital for Cable & Wireless.
Changes to the and financial condition.
Results may differ signicantly from assumptions used by management to determine the level of those estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
impairment required, such as the discount rate or growth rate Cable & Wireless believes that the following discussion used, could signicantly affect Cable & Wireless results.
addresses its most critical accounting policies, which are those that are most important to the presentation of its Depreciation and amortisation of xed assets consolidated financial condition and results.
These policies Cable & Wireless assigns useful lives to xed assets based require managements most difficult, subjective and complex on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the intended use judgements, often as a result of the need to make estimates for those assets.
Changes in circumstances such as about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
technological advances, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition of the assets concerned could result in the Valuation of xed assets and goodwill actual useful lives differing from initial estimates.
Where Cable & Wireless assesses the impairment of xed assets Cable & Wireless determines that the useful life of property and goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances and equipment should be shortened, Cable & Wireless indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
depreciates the net book value in excess of the residual Factors that are considered important which could trigger an value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby impairment review include the following: increasing depreciation expense.
Any change in asset lives would be reported in Cable & Wirelessnancial statements r significant under-performance relative to expected when the change in estimate is determined.
There have been historical or projected future operating results: no material changes in asset lives during the periods r significant changes in the use of its assets or the presented.
strategy for its overall business: r significant negative industry or economic trends: and Revenue recognition r significant decline in its stock price for a sustained period and its market capitalisation relative to net book Turnover, which excludes value added tax, represents the value.
amount receivable in respect of telecommunications services provided to customers and is accounted for on the accruals Cable & Wireless determines any impairment by comparing basis.
Revenue is recognised monthly as services are the carrying values of each of Cable & Wireless income provided.
Revenue in respect of services invoiced in advance generating units to their recoverable amounts the higher of is deferred and recognised on provision of the service.
net realisable value and the present value of the future cash Revenue in respect of unbilled services is accrued.
ows obtainable as a result of an assets continued use.
During 2003, Cable & Wireless impaired tangible xed Interconnection with other operators assets by 2,381 million 2002: 1,909 million and goodwill In Cable & Wireless normal course of business it by 2,725 million 2002: 2,007 million.
The impairment interconnects its networks with other telecommunications represented the amount by which the carrying value operators.
In certain instances it uses estimates to determine exceeded the present value of the future cash ows.
the amount of income receivable from or payments to these Future cash ows were determined with reference to Cable other operators.
The prices at which these services are & Wirelessve year plan using a growth rate of 2.5 per charged are sometimes regulated and may be subject to cent in the period beyond Cable & Wirelessve year plan retrospective adjustment.
Estimates are used in assessing the based on a nominal increase in GDP for the countries in likely effect of these adjustments.
Page 42 operating and financial review Exceptional items Provisions The Company complies with FRS 12 Provisions, contingent Under UK GAAP, the Company classied the following liabilities and contingent assets.
A provision is recognised income costs as exceptional items: when there is a constructive obligation in respect of a past event.
Provisions were recognised for tax, pensions, 2003 2002 2001 redundancy costs, property costs and onerous contracts m m m during 31 March 2003.
Managements judgement is required to quantify such provisions.
Exceptional operating costs 442 210 Exceptional depreciation 2,381 1,909 444 Pensions Exceptional amortisation 2,725 2,007 Exceptional profits less The regular cost of providing benets under dened benefit losses on sale or termination schemes is charged to operating profit over the expected of operations 147 1,057 4,311 remaining service lives of the members of the schemes so as Exceptional costs of to achieve a constant percentage of pensionable pay.
fundamental reorganisation 530 Variations from the regular cost arising from periodic Exceptional write down of actuarial valuations of the principal dened benefit schemes investments 390 904 43 are allocated to operating profit over the expected remaining Exceptional finance charges 110 service lives of the members.
Exceptional profits on disposal of xed assets 62 42 The expected cost of providing these dened benefit pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as: r the life expectancy of the members: Judgement is required to classify such items as exceptional r the length of service: items.
The Company is guided by FRS 3 Reporting r the rate of salary progression: Financial Performance which provides that material items r the rate of return earned on assets in the future: and which derive from events or transactions that fall within the r the rate used to discount future pension liabilities.
ordinary activities are disclosed as exceptional items by virtue of their size or incidence such that the financial The assumptions used by Cable & Wireless are set out in statements give a true and fair view.
Exceptional Note 8 to the accounts and are estimates chosen from a depreciation and amortisation arise from the impairment range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not review discussed above.
necessarily be borne out in practice.
Changes to these assumptions could materially impact the size of the unfunded dened benefit scheme liability of 578 million, Exceptional operating costs calculated under FRS 17, Retirement Benets, disclosed in Note 8.
In the year ended 31 March 2003 exceptional items included in other operating costs related principally to provisions for Restructuring charges ongoing obligations associated with US businesses from which Cable & Wireless withdrew, impaired assets and In the year ended 31 March 2001, restructuring charges were redundancy and reorganisation costs incurred during the recorded as a result of additional actions to reorganise, reyear.
These provisions are based on various assumptions, size and reduce operating costs and create greater efficiency including future severance costs, sublease or disposal costs in various areas.
These charges, for both severance and exit and contractual termination costs.
Such estimates are costs, required the use of estimates.
Actual restructuring judgmental and may change based on actual experience.
results did not differ materially from those estimated.
NEW UK ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ADOPTED Capacity Sales As disclosed in prior years, the Group sells network capacity rewards of ownership were transferred to the purchaser over to third parties pursuant to indefeasible rights-of-use the economic life of the asset, these transactions were agreements IRUs.
In prior periods, in accordance with UK accounted for as sales and recognised in turnover at fair accounting standards, where substantially all of the risks and value at the time of delivery and acceptance.
Page 43 operating and financial review On 27 March 2003, the Urgent Issues Task Force of the UK the conditions of the new abstract and will continue to be Accounting Standards Board issued UITF 36, Contracts for recognised at the time of delivery and acceptance.
The abstract is applicable for accounting The Groups new accounting policy in respect of capacity periods ending on or after 30 June 2003, although early sales is set out in the Groups statement of accounting adoption is encouraged, and application is retrospective.
The impact of adoption on the reported Group has adopted UITF 36 for the year ended 31 March results of the Group is set out in Note 4 to the Financial 2003.
Statements, including the impact on prior periods as the abstract applies retrospectively.
As a result of the adoption of the new abstract, revenues or gains in respect of capacity sales to carriers from whom Under US GAAP, cash capacity sales entered into after 30 capacity or other services were also acquired are no longer June 1999 are required to be accounted for as operating recognised as the transactions are not considered to meet all leases unless title under the lease is transferred to the lessee.
the conditions required under the new abstract, in particular Accordingly in reconciling the Groups results to US GAAP the requirement for the capacity provided or received to an adjustment is made to defer all revenue in respect of cash have a readily ascertainable market value as set out in FRS capacity sales recognised in accordance with UK GAAP and 10, Goodwill and intangible assets.
The Groups cash sales instead to recognise revenue over the period of the contract to carriers with no related purchase are largely unaffected by see Note 36.
US GAAP RECONCILIATION The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred.
in accordance with UK GAAP, which differs in significant When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalises respects from US GAAP, see Note 36 Summary of a cost by increasing the carrying amount of the related longdifferences between United Kingdom and United States lived asset.
Over time, the liability is accreted to its present GAAP.
A comparison of net profit loss and shareholders value each period, and the capitalised cost is depreciated equity of Cable & Wireless when applying UK and US over the useful life of the related asset.
Upon settlement of GAAP is provided in the table below: the liability, an entity either settles the obligation for its recorded amount or incurs a gain or loss upon settlement.
Net loss profit Management has not determined the effect of the adoption UK GAAP US GAAP of FASB Statement No.
143. m m In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No.
148, Year ended 31 March 2003 6,533 6,214 Accounting of Stock-Based Compensation Transition and Year ended 31 March 2002 4,954 5,371 Disclosure an amendment of FASB Statement No.
Year ended 31 March 2001 2,738 2,716 This statement amends SFAS No.
123 to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value Shareholders based method on accounting for stock-based employee Equity compensation.
148 requires prominent UK GAAP US GAAP disclosures about the method of accounting for stock-based m m employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results.
As Cable & Wireless continues to apply As at 31 March 2003 2,149 2,125 the provisions of APB No.
25, Accounting for Stock Issued As at 31 March 2002 8,958 9,158 to Employees, the adoption of SFAS No.
148 will not impact reported net income or shareholders equity.
Adjusted to reflect adoption of UITF 36.
In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No.
149, Amendment US accounting standards issued but not yet of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging adopted Activities.
SFAS 149 amends and claries accounting for In June 2001, the FASB issued FASB Statement No.
143, derivative instruments, including certain derivative Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.
The standard instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging is effective for scal years beginning after 15 June 2002, activities under SFAS 133.
SFAS 149 is effective for with earlier application encouraged.
This standard requires contracts entered into or modied after 30 June 2003 and for entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset hedging relationships designated after 30 June 2003.
Page 44 operating and financial review Management has not determined the effect of the adoption guidance, issuers could account for as equity.
SFAS 150 of SFAS 149. requires these instruments be classied as liabilities in the balance sheet.
SFAS 150 is effective from 15 June 2003.
In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No.
150, Accounting SFAS 150 is not expected to have an impact on the for Certain Financial Instruments with characteristics of both consolidated financial statements.
SFAS 150 improves the accounting for certain financial instruments that, under previous RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual anticipated and that prevent it from fully implementing the Report, investors in Cable & Wireless should consider reorganisation or fully achieving its strategic goals.
As a carefully the risks described below.
The Groups financial result, the Group cannot assure shareholders that the goals of condition or results of operations could be materially its strategy or reorganisation plan will be fully achieved.
adversely affected should any of these risks arise.
The risks Cable & Wireless also cannot assure shareholders that described below are not the only risks facing the Group.
completion of the reorganisation plan will result in the Additional risks not currently known to the Group or risks success of its strategy.
that the Group currently regards as immaterial could also have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial Withdrawal from the US market may require the condition or results of operations.
expenditure of additional resources, including management time and capital resources.
Failure to improve the performance and financial In June 2003, Cable & Wireless announced its intention to position of the Group successfully or to adapt as withdraw from the US market.
Cable & Wireless is currently needed to changing market conditions could adversely considering the options it will pursue in exiting this market, affect the Groups business, results of operations and but has yet to identify a specic approach that it intends to potential for growth.
It is possible that these options may be subject to In June 2003, Cable & Wireless announced that it would regulatory or other approval.
Among the approaches withdraw from the United States, take steps to radically Cable & Wireless is currently considering is a sale of its improve the unsatisfactory operating results in the United businesses in the United States.
Cable & Wireless, however, Kingdom and build upon its strong positions in national may not be able to identify potential purchasers for all of the telecommunications companies around the world.
US businesses or complete any sale of the US businesses in Cable & Wireless cannot assure its shareholders that it will a timely manner, on a cost effective basis, at the optimum be successful in implementing the strategy as currently price, or at all.
In addition, Cable & Wireless is also planned, that the planned strategy will prove to be successful considering a number of alternative options and, if in an otherwise difficult market or that the Group will Cable & Wireless cannot nd a suitable purchaser for its US achieve all of its strategic goals.
Failure in any of these businesses or if it determines that an alternative will be regards could adversely affect the Groups profitability and preferable, the Group may choose to wind-down its US its strategic and competitive positions.
operations or exit this market through some other means.
Any approach Cable & Wireless takes is likely to require a In addition, as part of this strategy, Cable & Wireless is considerable amount of managements attention, may not undertaking a reorganisation of its businesses to improve its ultimately be cash generative and may in fact require that it position in a rapidly changing market place.
It may also lead to customer Cable & Wireless plans for the implementation of this retention issues, which in turn may affect the expected reorganisation are incomplete in many respects, and the financial performance of the business detrimentally.
As a success of the reorganisation will depend in part on factors result, the steps Cable & Wireless may take to exit the US that are beyond the Groups control.
Delay in market could in the shorter term impact on operating profit implementation of the reorganisation may lead to the and liquidity while it incurs any necessary costs associated management not being able to concentrate on developing with exiting this market.
their businesses with certainty, or to pursue opportunities in their respective marketplaces.
It may lead to staff retention Transformation initiatives can lead to execution risk.
problems, or staff resistance, such as industrial action or non-compliance with Group policies.
Furthermore, as The Group has been in rapid transition in the past few years, Cable & Wireless renes the plans for its reorganisation, the acquiring and disposing of a number of businesses, as well Group may encounter significant obstacles that it has not yet as implementing a number of reorganisation initiatives.
In Page 45 operating and financial review June 2003 Cable & Wireless announced its intention, over Regulatory risk time, to expand its investment in national Cable & Wireless business may be materially adversely telecommunications operations.
This may include acquiring affected by changes in regulation and government further entities and businesses.
policy in the countries in which it operates.
The Group operates in some highly regulated markets in The Group has in the past and expects in the future to which its exibility to manage its business is limited.
dedicate significant resources to integrate any businesses that Regulatory decisions and changes in the regulatory it has or will acquire and to effect any rationalisation of its environment or in government policy may materially operations.
Implementation is complex, time-consuming and adversely affect its business, particularly in those markets in expensive and, without proper planning and execution, could which it is classied as a dominant carrier.
In some signicantly disrupt the Groups business.
The challenges jurisdictions, the Group is currently required to offer involved include: competitors access to its networks, supply subscribers with r combining service and product offerings and preventing various telecommunications services at regulated rates or on customers and distributors from deferring purchasing regulated terms and or contribute to universal services funds.
decisions or switching to other suppliers due to In other jurisdictions, the Group is itself dependent upon uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings customer access, interconnection services and leased lines and our willingness to support and service existing supplied under regulated terms and conditions by local or products, which could result in incurring additional national incumbent telecommunications operators.
Future obligations in order to address customer uncertainty: regulation may impact the terms of interconnection agreements with other network operators and other similar r demonstrating to customers and distributors that the transaction or organisational changes will not result in agreements: impose market-access barriers: set price caps or adverse changes in service standards or business focus regulate prices directly: impose limitations or investment and helping customers conduct business easily: obligations on construction of new facilities and impose other restrictions on the scope of the Groups operations.
r consolidating and rationalising corporate and subsidiary The number of regulatory measures may also signicantly IT infrastructure, including implementing information increase, or become signicantly more onerous as the management and system processes that enable increased jurisdictions in which the Group operates reform their customer satisfaction, improved productivity, lower telecommunications and related laws.
Complying with new costs, more direct sales and improved inventory or more onerous regulations and restrictions may be costly management: for the Group, and may adversely impact the results of the r consolidating administrative infrastructure, including IT Groups operations and business condition.
systems, and maintaining adequate controls throughout The Groups ability to provide telecommunications services the integration: depends in most countries on receiving and maintaining r coordinating sales and marketing efforts to government licences and authorisations.
Failure to acquire communicate the Groups strategy effectively: and retain necessary regulatory approvals could impair its r preserving distribution, marketing or other important results of operations.
Furthermore, regulatory regimes in relationships and resolving potential conicts that may some countries in which the Group operates are often less arise: well established than in other countries where competition in r minimising the diversion of management attention from the telecommunications sector has been established for ongoing business concerns: longer.
As a result, its business in these countries, especially r coordinating and combining operations, subsidiaries, where it maintains a large, dominant or exclusive market relationships and facilities, which may be subject to share, could be subject to unexpected political, economic or additional constraints imposed by local laws and legal developments that impact telecommunications regulations and also may result in contract terminations regulations and lead to the Group being unable to acquire or or renegotiations and labour and tax law implications: retain the regulatory approvals necessary to its business.
Any and such development could have a material adverse effect on its r managing integration issues shortly after or pending the results of operations either in that jurisdiction or in completion of other independent reorganisations.
Page 46 operating and financial review Regulation of ISPs could adversely affect Generally unfavourable telecommunications market Cable & Wireless operations conditions may adversely affect the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
Governmental and regulatory agencies have yet to The telecommunications industry is currently facing promulgate comprehensive regulations specic to Internet unfavourable market conditions, including amongst other Protocol IP networks.
Therefore, the Group accepts that factors, the decline in investment in the industry, decline in risks could exist arising from future changes to the legal demand for certain telecommunications products and framework that could impose greater burdens on it for services, pricing pressures and over-capacity.
These example, increased costs or restrictions on the ability to conditions, amongst other factors have led to a general provide services.
In addition, the Groups ability to adapt to decline in share prices for telecommunications companies, multiple national regulatory regimes may be limited, and including Cable & Wireless.
These market conditions have uncertainty regarding the regulations applicable to some precipitated bankruptcy and insolvency lings by several services may prevent or delay its expansion in certain telecommunications companies.
In some cases the Group has markets.
outstanding debts with these companies and may not be able to collect all the debts due.
If a jurisdiction in which the Group operates adopts measures which affect the regulation of the internet and or Some telecommunications markets in which the Group other aspects of the industry, it could experience both operates are in very early stages of development.
If decreased demand for its products and increased costs of unfavourable market conditions prevent some or all of these selling such products.
Changes in laws or regulations markets from developing, or if they develop more slowly governing the internet, internet commerce and or other than Cable & Wireless anticipates, then the Groups results aspects of the industry could have a material adverse effect of operations could be materially adversely affected.
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect the Groups reported results.
Economic risks A significant percentage of Cable & Wireless 2002 and The Groups business may be affected by a business 2003 revenues were generated outside the United Kingdom.
Accordingly, the value of those investments and associated revenues will be affected by uctuation of the pound sterling A significant percentage of the Groups revenue is generated against the currency in which the investments, nancing and by providing business customers with telecommunications, revenue is denominated, as reected in the Groups pound IP, voice, data, managed hosting services and content sterling denominated financial statements.
out foreign exchange hedging operations to manage its exposure in respect of material transactions.
To the extent A continued slowdown in capital spending by service that this hedging activity does not cover the exposure then providers and other customers may affect revenues more the Groups results of operations and financial condition may than currently expected.
Moreover, the existing economic be negatively impacted by currency exchange rate and geopolitical uncertainties and their potential impact on movements.
customer demand, has created uncertainty as to market demand.
As a result, revenues and operating results for a The Group may not have or may be unable to obtain particular period can be difficult to predict.
In addition, there sufficient insurance to cover all foreseeable risks.
can be no certainty as to the severity or duration of the current industry adjustment and the downturn in the business As a result of restrictions in global insurance capacity environment.
The Groups revenues and operating results following the events of 11 September 2001, insurers have have been and may continue to be materially and adversely imposed certain limitations on the availability of insurance.
affected by the continued reductions in demand from its These limitations affect the ability of the Group to insure customers.
adequately against certain catastrophic risks in the manner previously undertaken.
Whilst the Group continues to In addition, a business downturn, fear of terrorist attacks or purchase such insurance coverage as is prudent and is the impact of SARS may reduce the number of international commercially available to it, in certain circumstances a tourists.
This may depress local economies in some areas particularly severe loss may exceed the limits of available where the Group has businesses for example in the insurance.
For example, it cannot fully insure against the Caribbean and Macau and consequently adversely impact risk of a catastrophic hurricane destroying Group assets the financial results of the Groups operations.
concentrated in multiple locations in the Caribbean.
If a Page 47 operating and financial review severe loss were to be incurred, it could have a material reinsurers, but, as certain of the insurance claims have not adverse impact on the Groups business, results of operations yet been fully quantied or substantiated by the claimants, it and financial condition.
is not currently practicable to estimate their financial effects.
In the event that Pender is unable to resist these insurance The activities of the Groups insurance subsidiary may claims successfully and, in those cases where reinsurance result in material claims exists, its reinsurance cover were to prove inadequate, Pender Insurance Limited Pender is the Cable & Wireless Pender may be subject to significant liabilities which its Groups wholly owned insurance subsidiary.
It was assets may not be sufficient to meet.
Moreover, there can be established in the Isle of Man in 1990 to provide insurance no assurance that these arrangements will not have a to the Cable & Wireless Group and is regulated by the Isle material adverse effect on the Cable & Wireless Group.
of Man Insurance and Pensions Authority.
It provided cover for various types of potential claims against or losses Future cashow uctuations may affect the Groups incurred by the Cable & Wireless Group.
The cover ability to fund working capital requirements.
included, for example, catastrophe cover, property damage, The Groups cashows are expected to continue to be business interruption, professional indemnity and directors subject to uctuations, depending on such factors as timing and ofcers liability.
and size of capital expenditure, cost of property disposals, levels of sales, timing of collection of receivables and Pender is managed by Willis Corroon Management Isle of supplier terms and conditions.
Cable & Wireless continues to Man Limited and directed by an independent board.
It is have ongoing discussions with its banks and other financial also advised by other insurance and reinsurance brokers and institutions to explore additional nancing opportunities and service providers in the placing of its cover.
Some of its credit and support arrangements.
operations were carried out by Cable & Wireless Group personnel under contract to Pender.
The Group believes that its cash on hand and its secured nancing facilities will be sufficient to fund its current During calendar year 1997, Pender began to write policies business model and future strategy for at least the next 12 for other companies connected with the telecommunications months.
However, future revenues and cashows may be industry on a shared limits basis.
Pender off-laid some of its materially less than expected and Cable & Wireless may exposure under these policies to the insurance market by seek further funding.
However, Pender retained some exposure itself.
Notwithstanding the reinsurance, Pender Cash generated overseas may not all be available for remains legally liable for all its policies.
As at 31 March 2003, Pender had 43 policyholders, Cable & Wireless currently is able to repatriate most of its including Cable & Wireless.
Cable & Wireless and certain surplus cash generated overseas but there is a risk that of the other policyholders established a mutual insurance governments could apply severe restrictions and this could company for new business from 1 April 2003.
On the basis result in the Group seeking further nancing.
of advice from its insurance brokers, the Cable & Wireless Group decided itself to purchase insurance from the mutual Changes in Credit Ratings may impact the Groups insurance company for the period commencing 1 April 2003. future access to cash funding From 1 April 2003, Pender began running off its old Cable & Wireless currently has a range of nancing insurance claims and has not taken on any new business for arrangements in place.
Any change in Cable & Wireless non-Cable & Wireless Group companies since then.
Certain credit ratings could impact Cable & Wireless interest rates, of Penders pre-existing policies with third parties are still ability to raise debt, access to the commercial paper market current.
and ability to engage in alternative nancing arrangements.
Any inability to access adequate nancing at an acceptable The mutual insurance company provides some reinsurance cost could adversely impact the Groups ability to implement for a number of these policies.
The adverse factors affecting the telecommunications Volatility in the financial markets may require the Group industry, particularly as a result of US securities class to provide further cash funding to its pension funds.
actions, have led recently to a significant increase in the seriousness of insurance claims against Pender, testing policy Cable & Wireless currently maintains various dened benefit terms and limits.
Pender is resisting such insurance claims plans which cover various categories of employees and vigorously, in conjunction where appropriate with its retirees.
The Groups obligations to make contributions to Page 48 operating and financial review fund benefit obligations under these plans are based on Competitive position risks external competitive actuarial valuations, which themselves are based on certain pressures assumptions about the long-term operation of the plans, The Groups operations could suffer from adverse including employee turnover and retirement rates, the effects of competition and price pressures on the performance of the financial markets and interest rates.
If the demand for products and services.
actual operation of the plans differs from the assumptions, The Group faces competition and downward pressure on additional contributions may be required.
The equity markets prices in many areas and markets of its business.
The can be, and recently have been, volatile, and therefore the Groups competitors may be able to expand their network estimate of future contribution requirements can change infrastructures and service offerings more quickly than the signicantly in a short period of time.
In addition, some competitors have entered and will interest rates may also impact funding requirements.
In a likely continue to enter into joint ventures or alliances to low interest rate environment, the likelihood of required provide additional services against which the Group may be contributions in the future increases.
If the Group is required unable to compete.
The Group also believes the sector may to make significant contributions to fund the dened benefit experience consolidation in the near future, which could plans, the reported results could be materially and adversely result, amongst other things, in further competition that affected and the cashow available for other uses may be would make it more difficult for Cable & Wireless to signicantly reduced.
Dependency on a small number of personnel As the markets for some of the Groups services expand in A small number of key executive ofcers manage the certain locations, additional competition may emerge and businesses.
In addition, the Groups future success will existing competitors may commit more resources to the depend in a large part on its continued ability to attract and markets in which it participates.
For example, governments retain highly skilled and qualied personnel.
The loss of key in various countries in which the Group provides personnel or an inability to attract personnel of suitable telecommunications services, in some cases on an exclusive calibre could have a material adverse effect on the business basis and in others where it until recently provided services of Cable & Wireless.
on an exclusive basis, have begun liberalising the telecommunications industry by introducing regulated Class Actions may adversely impact the Groups competitive markets for some products and services in place financial condition of exclusive licences.
The Group may lose market share to some of the competitors entering the market as a result of A number of class actions have been led against the Group this transformation and its operating results and revenues in the United States alleging violations of certain sections of may be adversely affected.
the US Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
In March 2003, the Court consolidated these cases into one action.
Competitors of Cable & Wireless may gain competitive Cable & Wireless believes it has meritorious defences to advantage by successfully completing a restructuring or these claims and intends to defend itself vigorously but, if bankruptcy reorganisation process.
the action is upheld by the US courts, it could adversely impact on the Groups financial condition.
Certain of the Groups competitors in the United States have led for bankruptcy or Chapter 11 protection.
There is a In addition, Cable & Wireless is from time to time involved possibility that such competitors will emerge from their in other litigation, which if decided adversely to the Group restructuring with a signicantly lower cost base than could, individually or in the aggregate, adversely impact its Cable & Wireless and be able to compete more effectively financial condition or reputation.
Further details of the class than the Group.
This could result in the Group losing market action litigation in the United States and other material legal share which could in turn negatively impact the Groups proceedings are set out in Business Description Legal financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, given its own recent losses, the Group may lose Failure to pay a dividend in the future may adversely customers to competitors if the customers have significant affect the Groups share price concerns over the future financial strengths and strategy of the Group.
Cable & Wireless has announced that there will be no final dividend for 2003 and no interim dividend declared for 2004.
Failure to pay a dividend in the future may adversely affect the Groups share price.
Page 49 operating and financial review Continued overcapacity and other factors could lead to Costs incurred in connection with restructuring efforts may lower prices for the Groups products and services.
Any decision by management to further limit investment or exit, or dispose of, businesses The transatlantic, pan-European and US markets are all may result in the recording of additional charges or currently experiencing considerable levels of overcapacity.
adversely impact the Groups ability to meet its current or future business objectives.
As a result, the costs actually Overcapacity coupled with lower than expected levels of incurred in connection with the restructuring efforts may be demand growth contributed to a severe price decline in these higher than originally planned and may not lead to the markets.
This in turn resulted in many network operators anticipated cost savings and a return to profitability.
becoming nancially distressed and ling for bankruptcy or Chapter 11 protection.
This could compel the Group to Changes in future technology lower prices to prevent erosion of its market share or to continue attracting new customers.
If the Group is forced to The Group may not be able to adapt adequately to lower its prices the financial condition and results of technological changes in communication and operations may be adversely affected.
In addition, if the information technology.
Group is unable to sufciently reduce its costs, for example because it is obliged to honour existing contracts containing The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and commercial terms which are onerous in the context of significant changes in technology.
The development of new current market conditions, this too may materially adversely technologies could render its current services obsolete and affect the Groups business, financial condition and results of non-competitive and require the Group to write-down the operations.
book values of investments it has made in existing technologies.
The Groups business plan contemplates the In addition, the Group may lose business to its competitors introduction of services using new technologies and it may if they offer contract terms to customers which the Group is have to make substantial additional investments in new unable to match.
technologies in order to remain competitive.
New technologies that it chooses to acquire may not prove to be successful, and the cost of implementation for emerging and If the current overcapacity situation is not resolved or worsens, prices may continue to decline in the affected future technologies could be significant and constitute a regions and such price decline could have a material adverse negative return on the investment.
In addition, Cable & Wireless may not receive the necessary licences to effect on the Groups operations.
provide services based on new technologies in jurisdictions in which it operates.
It may also be forced to change its Competitive position risks internal competitive product and service offerings or pay higher costs if the thirdpressures party technology that it employs changes or if the price of Cable & Wireless depends on the ability to achieve such technology increases.
As a result, the Group could lose cost-savings to respond to industry and market customers, fail to attract new customers or incur substantial conditions.
costs to maintain its customer base.
Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial The Group continues to restructure its business to realign results.
resources and achieve desired cost savings.
The Group has based its restructuring efforts on certain assumptions regarding the cost structure of its business and the nature, The Groups results depend on the introduction of severity and duration of the industry downturn which may or appropriate new products and services as the industry may not be correct.
The Group must be able to successfully undergoes rapid changes.
implement its work plan and rene, expand or extend it if All sectors in which Cable & Wireless operates are necessary, if it is to reduce its cost structure appropriately to characterised by changing customer demand for new respond to changing market conditions.
The restructuring products and services as new technologies become available.
efforts may not be sufficient to achieve profitability and meet the changes in industry and market conditions.
If the new products and services that the Group develops While restructuring, the Group has made, and will continue and implements do not meet the demands of its existing and to make, judgements as to whether it should further reduce target customers, then the Group may not be able to recover its workforce or exit, or dispose of, certain businesses.
These its costs in developing such new products and services and it workforce reductions may impair its ability to achieve its may lose market share.
This could result in a material current or future business objectives.
adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
Page 50 operating and financial review Service delivery quantities of data between multiple locations.
The Group also operates national and international voice networks.
Exposure to other telecommunications operators and Catastrophic network failure or a major network interruption the behaviour of other market participants may have a may occur as a result of natural disasters, a loss of a major detrimental effect on the Groups operations.
element of the network, security breaches, terrorist action or The Groups operations in some countries are dependent computer viruses.
These failures or interruptions could cause upon access to networks that it does not own or entirely delays or service interruptions and could expose the Group control, including networks controlled by current or former to claims from customers or could require expensive repairs government-owned public telecommunications operators.
or modications, any of which could have a material adverse Cable & Wireless operations depend on these network effect on the Groups business.
operators to provide interconnection services for the origination and or termination of some of its The Group may lose revenue if unlicensed operators telecommunications services.
are able to gain access to the Groups network undetected.
The Group has experienced interconnection capacity In certain markets where the Group operates it suffers from shortages in the past, and it may do so again if it is unable revenue leakage where operators gain illegal access to its to obtain and maintain the necessary interconnection and network.
The Group takes considerable action to identify and other transmission services in a timely fashion and on prevent such occurrences, but the level of actions available acceptable commercial terms in each country in which it to it may be limited by local regulation.
To the extent that intends to introduce or continue to offer its the Groups efforts are not wholly successful, it may lose telecommunications services.
The Group may also be subject revenue and the Groups financial performance be adversely to the constraints, including financial constraints, of the impacted.
relevant network operator, which may be unable to provide any or all of the capacity that the Group requests.
If it cannot obtain the capacity it requires to adequately serve all Other risks of its existing customers or to connect all of its potential The Group is reliant on third parties for certain activities new customers, the Group may lose them to its competitors.
Failure of those third All of this could adversely affect the Groups business, parties to provide the contracted services may expose financial condition and results of operations.
the Group to additional cost and liability.
As part of the development of the Cable & Wireless The Group has outsourced a number of support activities to network, some Group companies have acquired Indefeasible third parties, including the provision of certain IT services in Rights of Use IRUs from a number of carriers including the United Kingdom and United States.
In the event that the Global Crossing, Level 3, Qwest, WorldCom and Flag outsourcing company fails to deliver the contracted services, Financial Corporation.
An IRU gives the purchaser a the Group may incur additional costs as it attempts to nd guaranteed right to use the network asset cable, bre or an alternate supplier and its financial results might be wavelength over a contractual period.
A number of the IRU adversely impacted.
On 6 June 2003, the Group gave notice providers have led for Chapter 11 or similar bankruptcy of termination under its outsourcing contract with IBM see protection or are in financial difficulty.
The risk to the Business Description Legal Proceedings.
In the event Group is that such a company may not be obliged or may be that transferring the activities outsourced to IBM to an unable to continue to honour its agreement to grant the alternative supplier or to the Group itself is more difficult exclusive right of use to the Group even if that grant is than the Group anticipates it may incur additional costs and already effected or to maintain the asset in which the IRU its financial results and operations might be adversely resides.
If this occurs then there can be no assurance that impacted.
Cable & Wireless will be able to nd alternative providers and that the provision of network will be on the same terms The Group is dependent on a number of critical IT as before.
As a result, the business, financial condition or systems to be able to conduct its business and process results of operations of the Group may be adversely affected.
In carrying out its business, the Group is dependent on the Catastrophic network failure may expose the Group to availability and reliability of a number of IT systems.
event that any of these systems fail and disaster recovery The Groups network uses a collection of communications and business continuity plans are ineffective, the Group may equipment, software, operating protocols and proprietary be exposed to additional costs and liabilities.
In addition, applications for the high-speed transportation of large many of these IT systems, such as billing, are legacy Page 51 operating and financial review systems that operate on different platforms.
The Group may other developments, as well as the public perception of risk be exposed to additional costs and liabilities in endeavouring arising from the use of mobile telephone handsets.
scientific to upgrade or integrate systems and may sustain costs or research on mobile telephone handsets and health has been liabilities as a result of the inefficiencies posed by having reviewed by a number of independent expert scientific multiple systems that in some instances cannot be readily panels.
None of these panels has concluded that the use of reconciled.
mobile telephone handsets is harmful to health.
Mobile communications devices may pose health risks.
Nonetheless, increased speculation regarding health risks Media reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions associated with mobile telephone handsets and transmission from mobile telephone handsets and transmission facilities facilities or any subsequent substantiation of such risks could may pose various health risks, including cancer, and may have a material adverse effect on the Groups business interfere with various electronic medical devices, including including through: hearing aids and pacemakers.
Research and studies into the health risks posed by mobile telephone handsets and transmission facilities are ongoing.
Cable & Wireless r a reduction in the number of actual and potential provides mobile services principally in the Caribbean, customers: Panama and Macau and also provides national and r reduced usage per customer: international network capacity to mobile operators.
r exposure to potential litigation or other liability: Cable & Wireless continues to monitor scientific and r regulatory intervention and new legislation: or medical research and studies, media, legal, regulatory and r exposure to adverse publicity and damage to reputation.
Page 52 corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE This section contains: Social, environmental and ethical report 53 Directors report 59 Directors and senior management 57 Directors Remuneration Report 65 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND ETHICAL REPORT Cable & Wireless recognises the importance of building Customers sound relationships with all its stakeholders and is Everybody must play their part in providing quality and committed to approaching social, ethical and environment efficient service to customers.
matters in the same way as it approaches core business activities.
The Board therefore sets standards of behaviour Health, Safety and Environment that go beyond minimum legal standards.
The Company cares for the health and safety of those affected by its actions and for the environment in general.
Board Review of Social, Environmental and Ethical Issues Competition The Board of Cable and Wireless plc takes regular account of The Company engages in fair competition and acts in the signicance of social, environmental and ethical matters to accordance with the law.
the business of the Company.
The Board identies and assesses whether there are any potential significant risks to the Representation Companys short and long term value arising from social, environment and ethical matters, as well as opportunities to Employees must act in a professional manner.
All dealings enhance value that may arise from an appropriate response.
by the Company are to be fair, honest and legal, without taint of corruption.
specifically the Board: Conict of Interest r appointed the Chief Executive Regional Robert Lerwill to be responsible for social, environmental and Employees must ensure that their actions are not affected by ethical matters for the year ended 31 March 2003: conicts of interests.
This covers interests in businesses r arranged for the co-ordination and management of outside Cable & Wireless, the receipt or giving of gifts of social, environmental and ethical matters to be carried hospitality and insider dealing.
out by the Companys Public Policy Council which meets quarterly.
Members of the Public Policy Council Information at 31 March 2003 were Robert Lerwill Chief Executive The Company respects intellectual property rights and Regional : Tom Phillips Group Director Public Policy : condential information.
David Prince Group Finance Director : Adrian Chamberlain Group Director, Strategy and Business Records Development : and Dan Fitz Group General Counsel : and The Company will keep honest, complete and accurate r receives a report on social, environmental and ethical records.
matters at least annually and more frequently if required.
Property All property including computer software and records must ETHICS POLICY be cared for responsibly and in accordance with the law.
Cable & Wireless has a Group-wide Ethics Policy, which The Ethics Policy contains notication procedures setting out was adopted by the Board.
The Ethics Policy focuses on a variety of routes for employees to raise ethical issues nine key areas: through their line manager or alternatively via human resources, internal audit, the company secretarysofce or Employees the law department.
The intention is that issues are generally Employees are the Companys most valuable resource.
dealt with at local business unit level but employees are also Selection and development must be based on merit.
able to raise issues with the Chairman or Chief Executive of Page 53 corporate governance Cable and Wireless plc or through other contacts at head r addressing the digital divide: ofce named in the Ethics Policy.
r internet safety and security: and r encouraging positive use of the internet.
There is an annual audit of all business units to review implementation of the Ethics Policy and obtain conrmation Addressing the Digital Divide from business units Chief Executives and Chief Financial Growth in internet has brought huge advantages to those Ofcers that the Ethics Policy is being complied with.
who use the web, both at home and at work.
Compliance with the Ethics Policy is also reviewed through the normal internal audit programme, Operational Risk Cable & Wireless companies therefore work to ensure that Reviews of the business units and the corporate governance the benets of the internet can be extended to communities review programme.
and individuals that nd themselves without the necessary skills and infrastructure required to access the web.
For Internet Acceptable Use Policy example Cable & Wireless provides free internet access to For the majority of its customers, Cable & Wireless has an schools in many Caribbean countries.
Internet Acceptable Use Policy designed to protect and limit exposure to legal action.
The Policy confirms that Cable & Supporting School Based Internet Access in Wireless customers are solely responsible for their content Jamaica and messages.
It contains a list of activities which customers are prohibited from undertaking such as those which violate To address the widening digital divide in Jamaica, Cable & the law or threaten the integrity of any network or computer Wireless recently announced a three-year commitment to system.
Cable & Wireless encourages customers to self-rate provide free internet access to the islands 980 primary and their content using a rating such as that provided by the secondary schools.
Following the success of similar Internet Content Rating Association ICRA.
programmes in Barbados and St Lucia, the initiative aims to create opportunities for as many of Jamaicas children as COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT possible, enabling them to participate fully in the digital age.
Cable & Wireless is committed to making a positive social Reducing the Digital Divide in Panama contribution to the communities in which it operates.
Cable & Wireless has developed a community investment In early 2003, Cable & Wireless established the Cable & programme designed to support local communities and Wireless Panama Foundation.
The Foundation helps reduce respond to their needs.
Cable & Wireless recognises the the digital divide in Panama by providing opportunities for positive role that the Internet and information the countrys least privileged citizens to access the latest communications technologies can play in facilitating information and communication technologies.
This charitable personal, social and economic development.
foundation is the first of its kind for Cable & Wireless and will channel contributions, including internet access and Cable & Wireless develops projects in partnership with telephone lines, directly to local community organisations.
charitable, not-for-profit and community based organisations.
Already, the companys Centre for New Technologies has Preference is given to projects that focus on education and provided hands-on IT experience and internet access for training and those which demonstrate substantial grass roots young people from disadvantaged local communities.
Foundation also aims to help support projects which help to restore national heritage and initiatives to promote local art This approach makes it easier to monitor progress and and culture.
Importantly, it also offers valuable opportunities for Cable & Wireless employees to make an Internet Safety and Security active contribution.
The internet has transformed the way many children and Community Contributions young people communicate, learn and interact.
With a wealth of content, the internet can be a positive resource, In 2003, Cable & Wireless total world wide community offering exciting opportunities at home and in the classroom.
Of this, 1.3 million was Yet the web can also have hidden dangers.
spent in the United Kingdom.
In line with its business activities, the Cable & Wireless Cable & Wireless companies are committed to working with community investment programme focuses social investment industry partners in the countries in which they operate to in the following three key areas to make a real and protect children from unsuitable internet content and, at the substantial difference to local communities: same time, raise awareness and understanding of internet Page 54 corporate governance safety issues, encouraging individuals from all generations to 2003.
The winners, drawn from Canada, Italy, United stay safe online.
Kingdom, Sierra Leone, Australia, Egypt and the United States, illustrate just how powerful the internet can be when Raising In-school Awareness used in a positive way.
As part of this commitment, Cable & Wireless works in Supporting Older People partnership with the Childrens internet charity, Childnet International to ensure that young people are aware of how In a new initiative, Cable & Wireless has teamed up with to stay safe on-line.
With additional backing from the UK Age Concern, Microsoft and UK Online to encourage older Department for Education and Skills, Childnet has developed people to use the internet for the first time.
Age Concerns Kidsmart, a schools-based internet safety education Silver Surfers Festival offered free internet sample and programme, designed to help primary school pupils, teachers demonstration sessions at Age Concern centres across the and parents understand internet safety issues.
A specialist information pack was distributed as part of the festival, highlighting how the Promoting Internet Content Labelling internet can enrich the lives of older people.
Cable & Wireless works in conjunction with the Internet Providing Employment Related Information Content Rating Association ICRA to empower members of Technology Training the public to protect children and young people from potentially harmful internet content.
ICRA offers a selfSince 1982, Cable & Wireless has worked in partnership labelling system to enable website owners to rate their own with Camden IteC to offer employment related training to content and label their websites accordingly.
To complement disadvantaged communities close to Cable & Wireless this process, ICRA has also developed an easy-to-use corporate headquarters in the London Borough of Camden.
software tool which lters websites with ICRA labelling Information Technology IT skills are now intrinsically which allows parents to set viewing preferences and protect linked to employability, yet many people continue to enter their children online.
the workplace without IT skills or hands-on employment related experience.
Support from Cable & Wireless helps Encouraging Positive Use of the Internet Camden IteC to extend its local reach via a designated UK Online learning centre and an online learning programme, Cable & Wireless works in partnership with a range of which enables members of the local community to access charities and not-for-profit organisations to develop creative training opportunities via remote learning.
and innovative internet content and to encourage individuals to use the internet as a tool for education, communication Technology as a Lifeline and learning.
Cable & Wireless works in partnership with the international Supporting Young People humanitarian organisation, Te le coms sans Frontie `res TSF, to provide emergency telecommunication assistance in Run in partnership with the childrens internet charity, disaster areas world wide.
Using specialist equipment, TSF Childnet International, the Cable & Wireless Childnet technicians are able to set up satellite based Awards highlight inspirational web projects created by and telecommunications equipment in almost any location to with the involvement of young people.
Cable & Wireless has provide telephone, data and internet services in emergency been closely associated with the initiative since its inception situations.
For local people, this technology can be a lifeline six years ago, enjoying support from many employees who which allows them to contact close relatives and friends to promote the programme across the business.
For international and local relief agencies The sixth annual international awards, which drew over 300 the technology plays a similarly critical role by helping to entries from 50 countries, were held in London in April ensure the successful co-ordination of relief work.
Page 55 corporate governance ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY In 1996, Cable & Wireless produced its first Environmental importance.
The Group continues to track scientific and Policy and published an Environmental Review.
Every year medical research, media, legal, regulatory and other since 1999, Cable & Wireless has produced an developments as well as the public perception of risk arising Environmental Report detailing its performance across its from the use of mobile phones.
The scientific research on world wide operations.
mobile phones and health has been reviewed by a number of independent expert scientific panels.
None of these panels has concluded that the use of mobile phones is harmful to Environment Management System health.
Cable & Wireless has a worldwide, environment management system based on the international environment Global e-Sustainability Initiative management standard, ISO 14001.
Through this environment Given that the Groups partners and suppliers generally management system, Cable & Wireless aims to minimise pursue the same social and environment goals, Cable & harm to the environment, to prevent pollution and to use Wireless is developing a series of environment key best practice environment management solutions wherever performance indicators for the industry as a whole by possible.
Cable & Wireless businesses use a risk assessment approach to manage environment matters, identify and assess participating in the European Telecommunications Network key environmental hazards arising from business activities Operators Environment Charter Group and the Global and manage them appropriately.
Global e-Sustainability Initiative activities include producing Cable & Wireless aims to engender a culture of environmental responsibility throughout the business and to a set of sustainability reporting guidelines for the enlist the support and commitment of employees, suppliers telecommunications industry, based on guidelines developed and business partners.
under the Global Reporting Initiative.
Cable & Wireless believes that all members of the The environment management system also includes an telecommunications industry whether network service annual environmental data survey across the business.
This survey provides data to incorporate in Cable & Wireless providers, suppliers or manufacturers have a responsibility annual Environmental Report.
The fifth such report, covering for sustainability.
Cable & Wireless is working with its Cable & Wireless programme in 2003, will be available on partners in the industry to identify best practice economic, the environmental website link on the Cable & Wireless ecological and social so that all can learn without compromising competitive advantage.
Cable & Wireless has set targets for all majority-owned Employment Policies operations relating to minimising ozone-depleting gases and Cable & Wireless operates throughout the world and has greenhouse gas emissions, pollution prevention, waste employment policies that meet local conditions and management, protection of landscape and biodiversity and requirements.
There are policies that address health, safety the implementation and development of environment and environment, business ethics, diversity, disability, management systems.
performance management, harassment and employee relations issues.
In addition, Cable & Wireless encourages Group businesses to set their own environment targets and to report their Both formal and informal channels for employee progress at the end of each year.
Targets and performance consultation and communication have been in place for are detailed on the website along with details of progress many years and Cable & Wireless regularly consults and new commitments for the coming year.
Cable & employees and their representatives on matters affecting both Wireless also carries out environment audits of its subsidiary them and their future interests.
The Group values the businesses.
involvement of its employees and continues to keep them informed.
Cable & Wireless aims to pay market competitive Mobile Phone Safety Issues rates and does not employ child labour.
Employees are free As a provider of mobile phone services, Cable & Wireless to join employee representative bodies or trade unions or not has pro-actively monitored and managed issues related to as they wish.
Training and development opportunities are alleged mobile phone effects for many years.
Cable & Wireless believes that the safety of customers, The Group gives particular attention to the employment of employees and the general public is of paramount disabled people.
Applicants who are disabled and those who Page 56 corporate governance become disabled during employment are offered the widest Group businesses adopt a continuous risk assessment range of training and opportunities appropriate to their skills.
approach to the management of health and safety matters, ensuring that potential hazards arising from work activities The Cable & Wireless Group Health & Safety policy sets are identied, assessed and managed in proportion to the out to ensure, so far as reasonably practicable, the health and risks that they present.
safety of everyone involved in, or affected by its business activities.
This is achieved by the management team of each Cable & Wireless business having responsibility for the operation of the Health and Safety Management System and In the United Kingdom, Cable & Wireless was awarded its a health and safety culture that enrols the support and fifth consecutive Royal Society for the Prevention of commitment of employees, suppliers and business partners.
The Cable & Wireless Cable & Wireless aims for best practice health and safety Health and Safety Report will be published on the management solutions and will ensure compliance with Companys website in July 2003. appropriate legal requirements.
DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT The following are the Companys directors and senior Robert Rowley is a Non-executive Director of Prudential management as at the date of this report.
plc, where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee, and of Taylor Nelson Sofres.
He was on the Board of Reuters from 1990, serving as Finance Director of Reuters Group from Richard D Lapthorne 1990 until 2000, then as Chief Executive of Reuterspace Chairman and Non-executive Director until he retired in 2001.
Richard D Lapthorne was appointed to the Board as a NonSir Winfried F W Bischoff executive Director and Chairman on 10 January 2003.
He is a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Non-executive Deputy Chairman: Chairman, Remuneration Committees.
Richard Lapthorne is Non-executive Chairman Committee of Morse PLC, Avecia plc, Tunstall Holdings Ltd, TI Automotive Limited, Oasis International Leasing in Abu Sir Winfried F W Bischoff was appointed a Non-executive Dhabi, Vice Chairman of JP Morgan Investment Bank and Director in 1991 and Deputy Chairman in 1995.
He is also the former Chairman of Amersham plc.
Richard Lapthorne Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of joined the Board of Amersham International plc in 1988 as a the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Sir Winfried is Non-executive Director and became Chairman of Amersham Chairman of Citigroup, Europe, and a member of the plc in 1999.
He was Finance Director of British Aerospace Management Committee of Citigroup Inc. Sir Winfried plc from July 1992 and was appointed Vice Chairman in joined Schroders plc in 1966 and on completion of the April 1998 before retiring in September 1999.
During his merger of Schroders investment banking business with that time at BAe, Richard Lapthorne was a key member of the of Salomon Smith Barney in May 2000, he assumed his management team responsible for transforming the company current position.
Sir Winfried is a Non-executive Director of into Europes leading aerospace and defence company.
He Land Securities plc, The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. IFIL was awarded the CBE for services to British aerospace Finanziaria di Partecipazioni SpA, Eli Lilly and Company industry in 1997.
He was Finance Director of Courtaulds plc and Siemens Holdings plc.
Age 62. from 1986 to 1992, having previously been Group Financial Controller.
Francesco Caio Executive Director: Chief Executive officer Robert O Rowley Francesco Caio was appointed to the Board as Chief Executive Director: Executive Deputy Chairman Executive officer on 4 April 2003.
Francesco Caio founded Robert O Rowley was appointed a Non-executive Director Netscalibur, the European business telecommunications and on 2 September 2002 and became Chairman of the Audit internet service provider, in 2000.
Prior to that, from 1997 to Committee on 1 January 2003.
Following a restructuring of 2000 he was Chief Executive officer of Merloni the Board on 21 January 2003, he relinquished his Elettrodomestici, one of Europes leading household Chairmanship of the Audit Committee and was appointed as appliance companies.
In 1996 he was Chief Executive Executive Deputy Chairman and, for an interim period, has officer of Olivetti having previously headed the responsibility for the Groups Finance and Legal functions.
He also led Page 57 corporate governance the creation and launch of Omnitel Pronto, Italys second Business Media.
Prior to taking his current role in 2001, he largest mobile company before its acquisition by was Director of Group Strategy for UBM.
Previous roles Mannesmann, and was its first CEO from 1994 to 1996. have included a period as Special Advisor to the Secretary Francesco Caio has also worked with McKinsey in London.
of State for Defence during the UKs Strategic Defence Francesco Caio is a Non-executive Director of Merloni Review, and almost ten years with the Financial Times Electrodomestici and Netscalibur Italia and was a board Group, including two years on the Lex column.
Bernard member of Motorola between November 2000 and May Gray began his career working in capital markets in London 2003.
Kevin Loosemore Graham E Howe Executive Director: Chief Operating officer Non-executive Director Kevin Loosemore was appointed to the Board as Chief Graham E Howe was appointed a Non-executive Director on Operating officer on 2 April 2003.
He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration appointed Corporate Vice President and General Manager, and Nominations Committees.
Graham Howe was most EMEA, Global Telecommunications Solutions Sector, recently Deputy Chief Executive officer and Chief Motorola in June 2001, becoming President EMEA in Operating officer of Orange S. A. having joined them in September 2001 and President, Motorola Professional 1992 as one of the founding Directors.
Before that, his Services Group, developing wireless and communications experience in the telecommunications sector included senior solutions for this market.
Kevin Loosemore was previously positions at Hutchison Telecom, First Pacic Company and CEO of IBM UK from 2000 to 2001 and from 1997 to 1999 Touche Ross Management Consultants.
Managing Director for fide La Rue Card Systems.
He began his career with IBM in 1981, remaining with them until Kasper B Rorsted 1997.
Kevin Loosemore is a Non-executive Director of The Non-executive Director Big Food Group plc.
Kasper B Rorsted was appointed a Non-executive Director Adrian Chamberlain on 27 May 2003.
He is a member of the Audit, Executive Director: Group Director, Strategy and Business Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Kasper Rorsted Development is Senior Vice President and General Manager, EMEA for Hewlett Packard holding this role since the merger of Adrian Chamberlain was appointed to the Board on 15 May Hewlett Packard and Compaq in May 2002.
He was 2002 as Group Director, Strategy and Corporate previously with Compaq as Vice President and General Development having previously been on secondment to Manager for EMEA having held various other senior Cable & Wireless Optus in Australia as Managing Director management positions since 1995.
He has previous Consumer & Multimedia.
Prior to that he was Chief experience with Oracle, Digital and Ericsson.
Executive of the Consumer Division of Cable & Wireless Communications plc.
On 10 December 2002 Adrian Dr Janet P Morgan Chamberlain was appointed Chief Executive officer Global Non-executive Director Services and Europe Asia and on 3 June 2003 he was appointed Group Director, Strategy and Business Janet P Morgan was appointed a Non-executive Director in Development.
Adrian Chamberlains career prior to joining 1988.
She is a member of the Audit, Remuneration, Cable & Wireless in 1995 included strategy and business Nominations and Community Investment Committees.
Janet development roles with the Boston Consulting Group and Morgan is also a Non-executive Director of the Scottish BT.
American Investment Company plc, the Nuclear Generation Decommissioning Fund Ltd. the Scottish Oriental Smaller Bernard P Gray Companies Investment Trust plc, NMT Group plc, BPB plc Non-executive Director and Stagecoach plc.
Bernard P Gray was appointed a Non-executive Director on David N Prince 21 January 2003 and is a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees.
Executive Director, Finance Bernard Gray is Chief Executive of CMP Information, the David N Prince was appointed Group Finance Director and a UK headquartered publishing and events division of United member of the Board on 1 July 2002.
David Prince Page 58 corporate governance originally joined Cable & Wireless in 1981, undertaking a He is also a member of the Remuneration and Nominations variety of senior finance and commercial roles before being Committees.
Tony Rice is Chief Executive of Tunstall appointed Finance Director of Cable & Wireless HKT in Holdings Ltd and his career has largely been spent with 1994.
He was appointed Deputy Chief Executive and British Aerospace plc, including a period as Group Treasurer Finance Director of HKT in 1999 and became Group Chief during the restructuring in the 1990s.
Tony Rice was Financial officer of PCCW formerly Pacic Century involved in the nancing and otation of Orange plc and is a CyberWorks Limited following the merger of PCCW and Non-executive Director of Telewest plc and Atlantic Coast HKT in 2000.
David Prince stepped down from his role with Airlines.
Kenneth K Claydon W Anthony Rice Company Secretary Non-executive Director: Chairman, Audit Committee W Anthony Rice was appointed a Non-executive Director Ken Claydon has been with Cable & Wireless for 40 years and Chairman of the Audit Committee on 21 January 2003. and was appointed as Company Secretary in 1991.
DIRECTORS REPORT To be presented to the Seventy Fourth Annual General authorising the Company to purchase up to 14.99 per cent of Meeting AGM to be held at The Queen Elizabeth II the Companys issued share capital as at 14 May 2002 357 Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London, million Ordinary Shares.
This authority has not been used SW1P 3EE on Friday 25 July 2003 at 11.30 a. m. and will expire on conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 July 2003.
Principal activities and business review Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications Acquisitions and disposals company.
It operates in the United Kingdom, the Caribbean, the United States, Japan, continental Europe, Panama and Details of acquisitions and disposals in the year are set out Macau.
Cable & Wireless provides voice, data and IP in Business Description Recent acquisitions and services to business and residential customers and wholesale disposals.
services to carriers, mobile operators and content, application and internet providers.
Results and dividends Cable & Wireless provides voice, data and IP services to The Groups loss for the year after taxation and minority major corporates, SME and residential customers.
In interests amounted to 6,533 million.
An interim dividend of addition, Cable & Wireless provides specialist wholesale 1.6 pence per Ordinary Share was paid on 3 March 2003. services to carriers, mobile operators and content, application The following has been paid as a dividend for the year and internet providers.
ended 31 March 2003: Details of the Groups performance during the year are m contained in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 24 to 52.
Ordinary dividends Interim paid 37 Overseas trading branches of the Company exist in Ascension Islands, Diego Garcia, Falkland Islands, Singapore and St. Helena.
To give greater financial exibility during the current transitional period, the Board decided in June 2003 to Share capital suspend dividends for 12 months.
Thus no final dividend will be proposed for 2003 and no interim dividend declared Details of shares issued during the year are shown in Note for 2004.
However, the Board intends to pay a final dividend 24 to the accounts.
The level of this payment will be determined by At the Companys Annual General Meeting held on 12 July reference to progress made against the restructuring plan and 2002, a special resolution was approved by shareholders the resultant financial performance of the Group.
Page 59 corporate governance Directors Charitable and political donations and community responsibility The following served as Directors during the year under review: During the year, 1.3 million was donated for charitable purposes in the United Kingdom.
World-wide, including the Sir Winfried Bischoff United Kingdom, the total expenditure on donations and Adrian Chamberlain appointed 15 May 2002 sponsorship for the benefit of the community amounted to Bernard P Gray appointed 21 January 2003 5.6 million.
The Company has made no political donations Richard D Lapthorne appointed 10 January 2003 in the United Kingdom.
It is not proposed to change the Robert E Lerwill resigned 3 June 2003 Companys policy of not making contributions to any Dr Janet P Morgan political party.
However as a precautionary measure in light David P Nash resigned 31 December 2002 of the wide denitions in The Political Parties, Elections and David N Prince appointed 1 July 2002 Referendums Act 2000, a resolution to permit the Company Donald B Reed resigned 31 January 2003 to make political donations and incur political expenditure W Anthony Rice appointed 21 January 2003 up to an aggregate limit of 0.2 million will be proposed at Sir Ralph Robins resigned 28 February 2003 the 2003 AGM.
Full details of this are given in the Robert O Rowley appointed 2 September 2002 Chairmans letter accompanying the Notice of AGM.
Raymond Seitz resigned 31 January 2003 Graham M Wallace resigned 4 April 2003 As authorised by US federal law, Cable & Wireless sponsors a political action committee Cable & Wireless USA PAC Since the year end, Kevin Loosemore was appointed on supported solely by contributions from employees.
This 2 April 2003, Francesco Caio was appointed on 4 April provides an opportunity for employees to make voluntary 2003, and Graham E Howe and Kasper B Rorsted were contributions to support candidates and public ofcials appointed on 27 May 2003. whose views are consistent with the Companys long term legislative and regulatory goals regarding Biographical details for the current Directors are set out on telecommunications and electronic commerce industries.
Company has established policies and procedures to ensure In accordance with the Companys Articles, Sir Winfried that employee contributions to the Cable & Wireless USA Bischoff will be retiring at the 2003 AGM of the Company PAC are strictly voluntary.
Contributions may not be and will not be offering himself for re-election.
In solicited or secured through the use of job discrimination or accordance with the Articles, Richard D Lapthorne, financial reprisal, or the threat thereof, or as a condition of Francesco Caio, Kevin Loosemore, Robert O Rowley, employment.
The Cable & Wireless USA PAC is not W Anthony Rice, Bernard P Gray, Graham E Howe and afliated with any political party or with any specic candidate for election.
Kasper B Rorsted, having been appointed Directors since the 2002 AGM, will retire at the 2003 AGM, and being eligible, will offer themselves for election.
The unexpired portion of Payments to suppliers the service contracts for Kevin Loosemore, Francesco Caio In the United Kingdom, the Group agrees payment terms and Robert O Rowley is disclosed on pages 69 and 71. with its suppliers when it enters into binding purchase contracts.
The Group seeks to abide by the payment terms Disclosable interests agreed with suppliers whenever it is satisfied that the The Directors have no interest in the Ordinary Shares of the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance Companys subsidiaries.
The beneficial interests of the with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group seeks to Directors and their immediate families in the Ordinary treat all its suppliers fairly and has a standard which deals Shares of the Company are shown in the Directors specifically with the payment of suppliers.
The Company had 70 days purchases 2002 58 days Employment policies purchases outstanding at 31 March 2003 based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year Details of employment policies are set out in Social, ended 31 March 2003.
Environmental and Ethical Report Employment Policies.
Substantial shareholdings Except for the holdings of Ordinary Shares listed below, the Directors are not aware of any person holding 3 per cent or more of the Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at Page 60 corporate governance 3 June 2003, the latest practicable date prior to the issue of associates, which are considered to be material, are disclosed this report.
below and in Notes 17, 20 and 22 to the Financial Statements.
2003 Number of Percentage Cable & of Issued For the year ended 31 March 2003 2002 2001 Wireless Ordinary m m m Ordinary Share Shares capital Turnover 2 736 Outpayments 4 67 Shareholder Other operating expenses FMR Corporation & Fidelity payable 215 International Ltd 93,127,830 3.91 Dividends received 28 26 81 Franklin Resources, Inc 108,105,460 4.54 Purchase of xed assets 497 Legal & General Investment Management 80,687,822 3.39 Loans to joint ventures and associated companies, amounts owed by joint ventures and associated companies and owed 2002 Number of Percentage to joint ventures and associated companies are set out in Cable & of Issued Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained Wireless Ordinary herein.
The largest loan amount outstanding since 1 April Ordinary Share 2002 was 10 million.
The amount outstanding at 3 June Shares capital 2003 was nil.
The interest rate on the loan is nil.
Shareholder Transactions with Directors Franklin Resources, Inc 237,485,398 9.97 Except as disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, Verizon Inc Bell Atlantic and as of 3 June 2003, neither the Company nor any of its Corporation 128,378,147 5.39 subsidiaries was a party to any material transactions, or Legal & General Investment proposed transactions, in which any Director, any other Management 78,079,443 3.28 executive officer, any spouse or relative of any of the Prudential Plc 74,004,717 3.11 foregoing, or any relative of such spouse had or was to have a direct or indirect material interest.
Number of Percentage During the years ended 31 March 2001, 31 March 2002 and 2001 Cable & of Issued 31 March 2003, and as of 3 June 2003, no Director nor any Wireless Ordinary other executive officer, nor any associate of any Director or Ordinary Share any other executive officer was indebted to the Company or Shares capital any of its subsidiaries.
Shareholder Bell Atlantic Corporation 128,378,147 4.58 Corporate governance M&G Investment Management Good governance has been and remains the responsibility of Limited 95,604,901 3.41 the whole Board.
The Combined Code Principles of Good Morley Fund Management Governance and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code Limited 93,405,596 3.33 is issued by the UK Listing Authority.
This statement Schroder Investment describes how the Company applies the principles and Management Limited 87,162,287 3.11 complies with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Board is currently considering the impact of the Higgs Related Party Transactions Review of the role and effectiveness of Non-executive Directors and the Smith Report on audit committees on the Transactions with joint ventures and associated Companys corporate governance arrangements.
The companies Financial Reporting Council is currently producing a revised All transactions with joint ventures and associates arise in draft of the Combined Code after considering the Higgs and the normal course of business.
The aggregate transactions Smith reports.
The Board broadly supports the principles recorded by Cable & Wireless with joint ventures and contained in the Higgs Review and Smith Report and will Page 61 corporate governance report on compliance with the new Combined Code as and and speak at meetings of the Committee.
Meetings are when it is implemented.
normally held in February, April and May each year but may be held at other times.
All the Committees members Compliance attended its meetings during the course of the year with the exception of The Hon Raymond Seitz who did not attend the The Board confirms that the Company was fully compliant May 2002 meeting and Dr Janet P Morgan who did not with all the provisions of section 1 of the current Combined attend the March 2003 meeting.
The Directors Code throughout the period with the exception of Directors Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 78 includes details on service contracts, as set out on pages 68 to 71.
The remuneration policy, practices and the remuneration of the Statement of Directors Responsibilities for preparing the Directors.
financial statements is set out on page 79.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The Board The Nominations Committee reviews the composition of the The Board meets at least nine times a year and concentrates Board and recommends to the Board appointments of new mainly on strategy, direction and financial performance.
The Executive and Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman, Board is chaired by Richard D Lapthorne, Francesco Caio is Richard D Lapthorne, chairs the Committee which also the Chief Executive officer and Kevin Loosemore is the comprises the Chief Executive officer, Francesco Caio, and Chief Operating officer.
Robert O Rowley is the Executive any two of the Non-executive Directors namely Sir Winfried Deputy Chairman.
Sir Winfried Bischoff is Non-executive Bischoff, Dr Janet P Morgan, Bernard P Gray, W Anthony Deputy Chairman.
Details of the full Board are set out on Rice, Graham E Howe and Kasper B Rorsted.
Sir Winfried Bischoff is the recognised Committees terms of reference are available either from the Senior Independent Director.
For the purposes of the Company Secretary or on the Companys website.
Combined Code, the Board considers that all of the Nonexecutive Directors are independent, namely Sir Winfried AUDIT COMMITTEE Bischoff, Dr Janet P Morgan, Richard D Lapthorne, W Anthony Rice, Bernard P Gray, Graham E Howe and Kasper The Audit Committee comprises all of the Non-executive B Rorsted.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters Directors of the Company, namely: W Anthony Rice reserved to it for decision, but also delegates specic Chairman, Richard D Lapthorne, Bernard P Gray, Dr Janet responsibilities to Board committees, notably Audit, P Morgan, Sir Winfried Bischoff, Graham E Howe and Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The Executive Directors attend meetings receive Board and committee papers several days in advance of the Committee by invitation but are not members.
The of Board and committee meetings and also have access to Committees full terms of reference are available either from the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The the Company Secretary or on the Companys web site.
The Board has adopted a procedure whereby Directors may, in Committee meets at least five times a year, generally in the furtherance of their duties, take independent professional February, April, May, September and November.
Meetings advice on any matter at the Companys expense.
are timed to coincide with the reporting of the Companys financial results.
All of the Committee members attended The Group operates through Boards of Directors of meetings held during the financial year ended 31 March subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates with clear 2003 with the exception of The Hon Raymond Seitz who did reporting lines and delegated powers.
not attend the meetings in May 2002, November 2002 and January 2003, Sir Winfried Bischoff who did not attend Board Committees meetings held in November 2002 and January 2003 and REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Robert O Rowley who did not attend the September 2002 meeting.
The Committees responsibilities include: The Remuneration Committee determines and recommends to the Board the framework or broad policy for the r making recommendations to the Board on the remuneration of the Companys Executive Directors and appointment of the Companys auditors: senior executives.
The Committees full terms of reference r determining the level of audit fees and scope of audit: are available either from the Company Secretary or on the r assessing the independence of the auditors: Companys website.
The Committee comprises all of the r recommending the policy in relation to the provision of Non-executive Directors of the Company, namely: Sir non-audit services: Winfried Bischoff Chairman, Dr Janet P Morgan, W Anthony Rice, Bernard P Gray, Richard D Lapthorne, r regularly reviewing the internal audit programme and Graham E Howe and Kasper B Rorsted.
The Chief considering the effectiveness of the internal audit Executive officer and HR Director may be invited to attend function: and Page 62 corporate governance r reviewing and challenging where necessary the Using a common risk management framework, each judgements of management in relation to the principal business and functional unit identies risks that Companys financial results.
could impede the achievement of their objectives and records them in a Risk Register.
For each significant risk, line managers document an overview of the risk, consider Annual General Meeting the effectiveness of the current mitigating controls in place Business at the Companys AGM will cover the Annual and identify any improvement actions required.
In addition Report and Accounts, Directors Remuneration Report, to this, the Groups Executive Directors monitor all election of Directors, the re-appointment of the auditors and significant risks through a structure of Risk Review Boards.
the authorisation for the Directors to set the auditors fees.
The Risk Review Boards comprise the Chief Executive Special business will cover the renewal of authority for the officer, Group Finance Director and other senior executives Directors to allot unissued Ordinary Shares, disapplication of within the Groups principal trading units.
There is also a pre-emption rights, renewal of UK and Global Sharesave schedule of the Groups risks that covers significant Schemes, change the denition of market value in the Share operational, financial and strategic risks and this is reviewed Purchase Plan, general authority for political donations and by the Group Audit Committee.
A risk assessment process is cancellation of the share premium account.
also adopted as an integral part of major capital or change programmes.
Full details and an explanation of these resolutions are set out in the Notice of AGM and Chairmans Letter.
At the The past few years have been transitional ones for the AGM, a business review is presented to shareholders.
All Group, with the Company making a number of acquisitions Directors including the Chairman of the Audit and and dispositions and having undergone a number of Remuneration Committees attend and are available to answer restructurings.
As with all acquisitions or reorganisations, the shareholders questions.
Apart from the AGM, the Company Company has had to dedicate resources to try and bring the communicates with its shareholders by way of the Annual embedded processes and controls across its businesses up to Report or the Annual Review and Summary Financial standards acceptable to the Group and its new managment.
The Companys website also contains investor A comprehensive control self assessment exercise has been relations material including results presentations.
In addition, conducted to complement the work of Group Internal Audit, the Company communicates with its institutional the risk management framework and the external auditors.
shareholders through analysts briengs throughout the year This exercise required management to assess the but particularly at the interim and year end results stages.
effectiveness of their fundamental operating controls over all The Company clearly recognises the importance of aspects of their operations, not just financial controls.
The maintaining a regular dialogue with shareholders to ensure results of this exercise have been considered by Group that the Companys strategy and performance are Internal Audit in planning their work for the forthcoming understood.
Internal control and risk management In addition to the self-assessment and management review procedures, the Group monitors its internal financial control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal system through a programme of internal audits.
The Groups control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board Internal Audit function has a formal charter approved by the confirms that it has adopted a process for identifying, Board that describes its purpose, authority and responsibility.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Its annual audit plan is approved by the Group Audit Group in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee.
It supports the Board in assessing key internal Committee on Internal Control.
controls through a structured review programme.
The Board considers that the Groups system of internal control is appropriately designed to manage, rather than At the end of the financial year, the finance and general eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives management of operating units are required to sign a letter and provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against of representation to confirm that their financial reporting is material misstatement or loss.
The concept of reasonable based on sound data, that they are fully aware of their assurance recognises that the cost of a control procedure responsibility to operate internal control systems and that should not exceed the expected benets.
The Board reviews their results are properly stated in accordance with Group the Groups systems of internal control to improve it as and statutory requirements.
Additionally, a structure has necessary, taking into account emerging best practice.
been developed to assess the Groups corporate social During the year and up to the date of this report procedures responsibility including social, environmental and ethical were in place throughout the Group to ensure compliance matters and this is covered in Corporate Governance with the report of the Turnbull Committee.
Social, Environmental and Ethical Report.
Page 63 corporate governance The Audit Committee meets at least five times a year and receives regular reports on internal controls from both the external and internal auditors.
Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new and enhanced standards of corporate governance, and business and financial disclosure, will apply to US public companies and non-US companies, including the Company, with securities registered in the United States.
Some of the new standards and rules affecting the Group are already in force and others will come into force in the future.
For example, in February 2003, a Disclosure Committee chaired by the Groups General Counsel and reporting to the Audit Committee, was established to support the Groups process of disclosure controls and procedures.
Going concern After making enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements on pages 82 to 143.
By order of the Board of Directors.
K K Claydon Secretary 3 June 2003 Sarbanes-Oxley conrmation Within the 90 days prior to the date of this report, the Company carried out an evaluation under the supervision and the participation of the Companys management, including the Chief Executive officer and Group Finance Director Chief Financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Companys disclosure controls and procedures.
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.
Based upon and as of the date of the Companys evaluation, the Chief Executive officer and Group Finance Director concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports the Company les and submits under the US Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported as and when required.
Page 64 corporate governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Introduction The Remuneration Committee comprises all the independent details of the resolution are set out in the Notice of Annual Non-executive Directors, Sir Winfried Bischoff Chairman, General Meeting.
Richard D Lapthorne from 10 January 2003, Dr Janet P Morgan, Bernard P Gray from 21 January 2003, and Statement of Remuneration Policy W Anthony Rice from 21 January 2003.
David P Nash Remuneration Philosophy until 31 December 2002, Sir Ralph Robins until 28 Cable & Wireless is a an international company, operating February 2003, Robert O Rowley from 2 September 2002 in 80 countries around the world.
Attracting, retaining and until 21 January 2003, and The Hon Raymond Seitz until motivating high quality people is key to the Companys 31 January 2003 were also members of the Remuneration success.
Remuneration arrangements are designed to enable Committee during the year ended 31 March 2003.
Since the the Company to maintain a competitive position in each year end, Graham E Howe and Kasper B Rorsted have been country in a cost-effective way and are continually reviewed appointed members of the Remuneration Committee with against best practice.
The Companys remuneration philosophy for Directors is The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to based upon creating a strong link between performance and the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the reward, underpinned by the following guiding principles: Companys framework of executive remuneration and on the specic remuneration of the Executive Directors.
During the r total reward levels should reect the markets in which year the Board approved all recommendations without the Company competes.
The terms of reference for the Remuneration position is regularly monitored by independent analysis Committee are obtainable from the Companys website or against market peer groups of companies selected on from the Company Secretary.
the basis of relevant size, business and geographic focus: In forming these recommendations, the Committee received r the majority of total direct remuneration for executives advice and information from the former Chief Executive, should be linked to the achievement of demanding Graham M Wallace, the Group Company Secretary, Kenneth performance targets.
Fixed salaries and benets are set K Claydon, and the Group Director, Human Resources, at the market median: and Martin Hayton.
The Remuneration Committee has not r an appropriate mix of short and long-term incentives appointed remuneration consultants but seeks independent combined with stretching performance targets provides market information and professional advice from external executives with the opportunity to achieve upper advisors as it sees t. The following advisors were consulted quartile total remuneration for upper quartile during the year ended 31 March 2003: performance.
r Manches: In order to attract and retain high calibre individuals to the r New Bridge Street Consultants: Company against the background of turmoil in the r Speechly Bircham, who in addition provide the telecommunications industry and the associated decline in Company with corporate legal advice and share scheme the Companys share price, the Remuneration Committee services: and felt it necessary to set some elements of the remuneration r William M Mercer, who in addition provide the package for Robert O Rowley, Francesco Caio and Kevin Company with general remuneration surveys and market Loosemore outside the Companys normal policies on information.
Details of their remuneration packages are provided in the relevant sections of this report.
The Executive Directors and ofcers attending any meeting abstain from any discussion or decision on their own Elements of Remuneration remuneration or the design or operation of any incentive schemes from which they may derive benefit.
Executive Directors direct remuneration consists of salary, annual bonus and long-term incentives.
The Directors Remuneration Report will be subject to an advisory vote at the Annual General Meeting of the The Remuneration Committee believes that the majority of Company to be held on 25 July 2003 in accordance with the Executive Directors potential direct remuneration should be Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The appropriate mix and level of Page 65 corporate governance performance related awards may vary from year to year and The target cash bonus payable under the STIP is 50 per cent between each Executive Director according to the judgement of base salary, and the maximum is 100 per cent of base of the Committee.
The actual value delivered is dependent salary.
upon the achievement of stretching performance conditions.
Deferred Short Term Incentive Plan In the year ended 31 March 2003, two-thirds of Executive Directors potential direct remuneration was performance The Executive Directors may elect to defer up to half of any related see illustrative chart below.
STIP bonus earned into the Deferred Short Term Incentive Plan Deferred STIP.
The Deferred STIP is designed to encourage participants to invest in shares to align their interests more closely with Base salary those of shareholders.
Under this plan any bonus deferred is used to purchase shares in the Company, which are held in Performance trust for three years before being released to the participant.
related long term incentives Participants may also be awarded matching shares based on the relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance of Performance the Company measured over the three-year period see related annual bonus Performance Conditions for Share Based Awards.
Matching shares are based on one matching share for two purchased shares for median TSR performance, rising to two matching Performance related long term incentives consisted of shares for one purchased share for TSR performance at awards made under the Share Option Plan SOP and the upper quartile or above.
No matching shares are awarded for Performance Share Plan PSP.
Figures reect on-target TSR performance below the median.
A dividend award payment potential under the annual bonus plan and the supplement also operates on the Deferred STIP.
Dividends expected value of SOP and PSP awards at the time of grant.
that would have been paid on the purchased shares and the actual award of matching shares during the performance Base Salary period are reinvested in additional shares.
Base salaries are reviewed by reference to the median of a market peer group selected on the basis of comparable scale, Performance Share Plan geographic spread and business focus, and taking account of individual experience, responsibility, performance and Under the terms of the Performance Share Plan PSP, business contribution.
Salaries are generally reviewed on an Executive Directors may be awarded shares at nil cost, annual basis in July or following a significant change in subject to certain performance requirements.
The level of any award is determined by the Remuneration Executive Directors pensions are based only on their base Committee each year by reference to total remuneration salaries.
within a market peer group, subject to an overriding annual limit of one times salary for any participant.
Short Term Incentive Plan & Deferred Short Term Incentive Plan The vesting of awarded shares is subject to relative TSR performance conditions see Performance Conditions for Short Term Incentive Plan STIP Share Based Awards.
Full vesting occurs only if the TSR Individual awards under the STIP are based upon annual performance of the Company meets or exceeds the upper performance against objective targets.
quartile on the third anniversary of the date of award.
Where TSR performance meets the median, 40 per cent of the The specic measures and targets are reviewed and set initial award vests.
A sliding scale operates between median annually by the Remuneration Committee to reect the key and upper quartile, and nothing vests for TSR performance business priorities for the year in question.
A dividend award supplement operates on Directors are set an appropriate mix of Company and the PSP.
Dividends that would have been paid on the business unit targets to reect both their individual and performance shares which vest, will be regarded as having group responsibilities.
been re-invested in additional shares.
Page 66 corporate governance Share Option Plan Global Telecoms Sector Index, which provides a global benchmark of independently selected industry peers.
The Share Option Plan SOP is the principal vehicle for TSR is share price growth adjusted for dividends and capital long-term retention and incentivisation for the Executive actions.
TSR performance is averaged over a three month Directors, other executives and key staff.
period at the beginning and end of the measurement period.
This moderates the effect of short-term share price volatility.
The level of any award is determined by the Remuneration It is assumed that dividends are re-invested at the closing Committee each year by reference to total remuneration share price on the day the dividend is paid.
within a market peer group, subject to an overriding annual limit of six times salary for the Chief Executive and four Performance Graphs times salary for other Executive Directors.
The graph below is included to meet the new requirement to The vesting of share options awarded to the Executive show the change in value of a hypothetical 100 holding in Directors is subject to relative TSR performance conditions Cable & Wireless Ordinary Shares over five years relative to see Performance Conditions for Share Based Awards.
Full a broad equity market index.
The FTSE 100 index was vesting occurs only if the TSR performance of the Company considered by the Remuneration Committee to be the most meets or exceeds the upper quartile between the third and relevant index for this purpose as the Company is a fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Where TSR constituent of the index and a five year history is available.
performance meets the median, 50 per cent of the initial award vests.
A sliding scale operates between median and upper quartile, and nothing vests for TSR performance below the median.
If performance conditions have not been 180 met by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, the options 160 140 lapse.
120 100 Other Plans FTSE 100 80 C & W Details of plans applicable only in special circumstances are 60 as follows: 40 20 r the Restricted Share Plan provides for awards of 0 31-Mar-98 31-Mar-99 31-Mar-00 31-Mar-01 31-Mar-02 31-Mar-03 restricted shares in exceptional circumstances, primarily Date as a recruitment tool to compensate for the forfeiture of The following graph shows the change in value of a long-term incentive arrangements when transferring to hypothetical 100 holding in Cable & Wireless Ordinary Cable & Wireless.
The Remuneration Committee, Shares over two years against the constituents of the FTSE taking into account the previous arrangements of the Global Telecoms Sector Index FTSE GTSI.
The new recruit, will set the quantum, performance constituents of the FTSE GTSI form the comparator group measures and vesting schedule for any restricted share against which relative performance is assessed under the award: and Companys current Share Option Plan, Performance Share r the Stock Appreciation Rights Plan is used to exactly Plan and Deferred Short Term Incentive Plan.
This index replicate the plans described above but rewards are was only created in February 2001, therefore comparative delivered as a cash equivalent.
It is used in exceptional TSR performance can only be provided for the last two cases only for countries in which tax or legislation financial years.
issues preclude the use of real shares or share options.
No Executive Director has received awards under this plan.
120 Performance Conditions for Share Based Awards 100 Total Shareholder Return TSR is the performance measure 80 used in the Deferred Short Term Incentive Plan, the FTSE GTSI 60 Performance Share Plan and the Share Option Plan as it C&W provides a stretching measure of financial performance.
40 The Remuneration Committee believes that it is important to 20 measure and reward relative performance against an 0 appropriate set of companies.
The Companys relative TSR 31-Mar-01 31-Mar-02 31-Mar-03 Date performance is assessed against the constituents of the FTSE Page 67 Value of hypothetical 100 holding Value of hypothetical 100 holding corporate governance Dilution items measured over any period of three consecutive financial years, commencing not earlier than the The Remuneration Committee ensures that at all times the financial year in which the option was granted, number of new shares which may be issued under any share exceeded by not less than 6 per cent the percentage option or share-based plans, including all-employee plans, growth of the Retail Price Index over the same three does not exceed the dilution limit of 10 per cent of the year period.
All such options became exercisable in Companys issued share capital over any ten year rolling full: and period.
no further grants will be made under the SESOS or Awards under the various plans are funded by a mix of RESOS plans.
purchased and newly issued shares, as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Newly issued shares are subject to Pension and Other Benets the dilution limit outlined above.
Purchased shares, which Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the are held by the Cable & Wireless Employee Share appropriate pension schemes and employee benets Ownership Trust, are subject to a limit of 5 per cent of the applicable in their home countries, including private medical issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company.
cover and permanent health insurance.
The taxable value of Closed Plans these employee benets is included in the Directors Remuneration table on page 73.
Details of plans which are now closed but under some of which awards outstanding may still vest are as follows: Company cars and car allowances are not provided to Directors.
r prior to July 2001, Cable & Wireless operated a Performance Share Plan similar to the current PSP.
The Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in allperformance conditions for vesting were based on TSR, employee share schemes and savings plans applicable in measured against a comparator group of global their home countries.
These include the Cable & Wireless telecommunications companies selected by the Savings Related Share Options Scheme and the Cable & Company, underpinned by real growth in EBITDA and Wireless Share Purchase Plan further details can be found turnover.
Vesting occurred on the same basis as the in Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
current plan except that 50 per cent of the award would vest if TSR performance was at the median.
The last Executive Directors Service Contracts award under this plan, made in April 2000, did not Policy meet the performance conditions and therefore lapsed in full in May 2003.
No further grants will be made under Since July 1999 the Remuneration Committees policy has this plan: been that new Executive Directors service contracts should r prior to July 2001, Cable & Wireless granted share contain a maximum notice period of one year.
A longer options under the Cable & Wireless Senior Employees notice period may apply initially, where this is required to Share Option Scheme SESOS and the Cable & secure the services of high calibre executives in exceptional Wireless Revenue Approved Share Option Scheme circumstances, but in all cases the notice period will reduce RESOS.
Options awarded under these plans between to one year or less over time.
June 1999 and July 2001 are subject to performance In the event of early termination, the Remuneration conditions based on Cable & Wireless TSR Committee will, within legal constraints, determine the performance relative to the FTSE 100 Index, approach to be taken according to the circumstances of each underpinned by real growth in EBITDA and turnover.
individual case, taking full account of the departing For full vesting, Cable & Wireless TSR must achieve Executive Directors obligation to mitigate loss.
Except in at least upper quartile level against the FTSE 100 cases of early termination for cause, the Committee will take between the third and fifth anniversaries of the date of into account the relevant Executive Directors current salary, grant.
Half vesting applies for TSR at the median level, notice period and contractual benets when calculating any with a sliding scale between median and upper quartile.
The principal contractual benets If the performance conditions are not met by the fifth provided in addition to salary are pension and life insurance.
anniversary of the date of grant, the options lapse.
As at Annual bonuses and long-term incentives are non-contractual the date of this report, no such options have achieved and would be dealt with in accordance with the rules of the their performance conditions: relevant schemes.
A significant proportion of each Executive RESOS and SESOS options granted before June 1999 Directors total remuneration is subject to performance became exercisable if growth in the Companys conditions and therefore will not be payable to the extent published Earnings Per Share excluding exceptional that the relevant targets are not met.
Page 68 corporate governance Specic contracts receive no payment under any of the Companys short term or long term incentive plans.
Adrian Chamberlains contract is dated 14 May 2002 and continues until his normal retirement date of 1 June 2017.
Adrian Chamberlain and David N Prince have a clause in The notice period under contract is 1 year.
At 31 March their service contracts governing a change of control.
In the 2003, the unexpired term of his service contract was 14 years event of a change of a control of the Company, if the and 2 months.
Directors job is materially adversely changed, then a change of control provision will be triggered and they will receive a Robert E Lerwills contract is dated 6 January 1997.
The payment equivalent to 2 years base salary.
It is the notice period under contract is 2 years from the Company to Remuneration Committees intention that this clause will be the Executive and 1 year from the Executive to the removed without compensation.
At 31 March 2003 the unexpired term of his contract includes a provision for the payments of salary only service contract was 8 years and 9 months.
He resigned from in lieu of any unexpired term or notice at the Companys the Board on 3 June 2003 and will provide assistance for a discretion.
short period in introducing the new management team to key Regional contacts.
The Executive Directors service contracts contain no other provisions for compensation payable on early termination.
David N Princes contract is dated 14 May 2002 and continues until his normal retirement date of 1 July 2011.
Non-executive directors The notice period under contract is 1 year.
At 31 March The Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, do 2003, the unexpired term of his service contract was 8 years not have service contracts with the Company, but instead and 3 months.
Their fees are determined by the Board, within the limits set out in the Companys articles of Donald B Reeds contract was dated 21 June 1999 and association, with Non-executive Directors abstaining from continued until his departure on 31 January 2003.
The notice any discussion or decision on their fees.
Fee levels reect period under contract was 1 year.
the Directors responsibilities, the committees on which they serve and the general market conditions for their services.
Robert O Rowleys contract is dated 1 February 2003 and Full details of the fees paid in the year ended 31 March continues until his normal retirement date of 1 September 2003 are set out in the Directors Remuneration table and 2009.
The contract is for a xed term of 30 months from the the associated notes on pages 73 to 74.
The Non-executive commencement date and continuing after the end of the Directors do not receive any pension.
xed term until terminated by either party giving 6 months notice expiring on or at any time after the end of the xed Sir Winfried Bischoff and Dr Janet P Morgan by way of term.
At 31 March 2003, the unexpired term of the service letters dated 31 January 1991 and 1 December 1988 contract was 6 years and 5 months.
On 4 June 2003, Robert respectively were appointed for two three-year terms on the O Rowley will make an initial investment of 375,000 in basis that they would serve for six years and thereafter by Ordinary Shares of the Company, to be held for a maximum annual renewal with the approval of the Chairman.
The Company will provide a matching award of 375,000 in restricted shares vesting at the end of the Bernard P Gray and W Anthony Rice have been appointed three years.
for a three year term commencing on 21 January 2003, with the expectation that a further three-year term will follow.
Graham M Wallaces contract is dated 21 January 1997 and After two three-year terms, the period may be extended on contains a notice period of 2 years.
At 31 March 2003 the an annual basis at the invitation of the Chairman.
unexpired term of his service contract was 1 year and 10 Termination of the appointment may be earlier at the months.
He resigned from the Board on 4 April 2003, discretion of either party on one months written notice, but remaining available for a period to support the Chairman total service will not exceed nine years.
and the new Chief Executive officer.
His employment will terminate on 20 July 2003.
He has agreed to waive a Graham E Howe and Kasper B Rorsted have been appointed significant proportion of his contractual entitlements.
for a three year term commencing on 27 May 2003, with the Accordingly he will receive a cash payment of 387,500, expectation that a further three-year term will follow.
After equivalent to six months salary, in lieu of notice.
To allow two three-year terms, the period may be extended on an for the possibility of further mitigation, this amount will be annual basis at the invitation of the Chairman.
Termination spread over six monthly payments following his employment of the appointment may be earlier at the discretion of either termination date.
He will also receive additional pension party on one months written notice, but total service will credit, the capital value of which is 500,000.
He will not exceed nine years.
Page 69 corporate governance The Chairman, Richard D Lapthorne, has been appointed for Investment Shares so that the net proceeds of sale are used an initial xed term of three years from 10 January 2003 and to subscribe for the balance.
continuing until terminated by either party.
The appointment In the event of any other variation in the Ordinary Share will be terminable by either party serving not less than six capital of the Company, or any demerger by the Company, months prior written notice expiring on the anniversary of adjustments shall be made to the arrangements set out above the appointment, save that no notice can take effect prior to as the Companys auditors certify to be, in their opinion, fair the expiry of the initial three-year term.
The following arrangements for Richard D Lapthorne were made to secure his appointment given the general turmoil in If Richard D Lapthornes appointment is terminated by the telecommunications industry, the associated decline in reason of death or by the Company otherwise than by due the share price of the Company and the retirement of Sir notice or if there is a change of control, he or his personal Ralph Robins as Chairman.
The Directors considered the representatives shall be entitled to: arrangements to be in the best interests of the Companys r an immediate payment equivalent to his fee for the shareholders to secure Mr Lapthornes services.
None of the balance of the period ending on the earliest date on benets under the arrangement is pensionable.
which the appointment would have been terminated if On his appointment, the Company granted Richard D the Company had given the requisite prior written Lapthorne an option to acquire 1,000,000 Ordinary Shares in notice, unless in the case of a change of control he the Company the Investment Shares at a price of 57 pence remains a Chairman of the Company on similar terms: per Ordinary Share the closing mid-market price per share r an immediate vesting of the Matching Shares if not on 10 January 2003.
He exercised the option immediately to already vested : and satisfy his agreement to acquire 1,000,000 Ordinary Shares r subject to payment by Richard D Lapthorne or his in the Company.
personal representatives of the appropriate consideration the next Annual Acquisition of Ordinary Shares at the Subject to Richard D Lapthorne remaining a Director and price described above.
Chairman of the Company and retaining beneficial ownership of all of the Investment Shares until 10 January The following share incentive arrangements for Bernard P 2006, the Company will deliver 1,000,000 Ordinary Shares Gray, Graham E Howe, Dr Janet P Morgan, W Anthony to him the Matching Shares.
Rice and Kasper B Rorsted were made to secure or retain their appointments as Non-executive Directors of the So long as his appointment continues, Richard D Lapthorne Company given the general turmoil in the will acquire from the Company 200,000 Ordinary Shares in telecommunications industry, the associated decline in the the Company the Annual Acquisition of Shares on the share price of the Company and the re-structuring of the following dates at the lower of the mid-market price or: Companys Board of Directors.
a 10 January 2004 57 pence per Ordinary Share: Each of these Non-executive Directors will purchase a b 10 January 2005 63 pence per Ordinary Share: specified number of Ordinary Shares in the Company on c 10 January 2006 78 pence per Ordinary Share: 4 June 2004, and on the anniversary of this date until 4 June d Each subsequent anniversary with the price increasing 2006 inclusive: 15 pence per Ordinary Share Number of It is intended that Richard D Lapthorne will retain all of Ordinary these Ordinary Shares for the duration of his appointment.
Director Shares In the event of any capitalisation or rights issue by the Bernard P Gray 100,000 Company, the number of Ordinary Shares under the Graham E Howe 100,000 Matching Shares or Annual Acquisition of Shares will be Dr Janet P Morgan 30,000 adjusted on a basis agreed between Richard D Lapthorne W Anthony Rice 100,000 and the Company, failing which, on a basis certied by the Kasper B Rorsted 30,000 Companys auditors as, in their opinion, fair and reasonable.
In the event of a rights issue by the Company, Richard D The purchase price for the Ordinary Shares to be purchased Lapthorne must acquire as additional Investment Shares the on 4 June 2004, 4 June 2005 and 4 June 2006 shall be the number of Ordinary Shares that can be acquired from tail lower of the closing mid-market price on such dates or the swallowing selling sufficient of his rights in respect of the closing mid-market price on 4 June 2003.
Page 70 corporate governance The Non-executive Directors are expected to hold the years.
The Company will provide a matching award of purchased Ordinary Shares for the duration of their service 375,000 in restricted shares vesting at the end of three as a Director.
None of the benets under the arrangement is years.
Kevin Loosemore will make an initial investment of Sir Winfried Bischoff, Bernard P Gray, Graham E Howe, 375,000 in Ordinary Shares of the Company, to be held for Dr Janet P Morgan, W Anthony Rice and Kasper B Rorsted a minimum of three years.
The Company will provide a are not entitled to compensation if their appointment is matching award of 375,000 in restricted shares vesting at terminated.
Francesco Caio and Kevin Loosemore will receive dened New Executive Director Appointments contribution pensions, with the Company contribution rate Francesco Caio was elected to the Board as Chief Executive set at 25 per cent of base salary.
officer with effect from 4 April 2003.
His contract is dated 2 April 2003 and continues until his normal retirement date Francesco Caio will receive a relocation package.
The notice period is 2 years during the consist of a housing allowance, payable for the first three first 2 years of the contract and 1 year thereafter.
He will be years of employment, sufficient to pay the cost of renting a paid a base salary of 700,000 per annum.
two-bedroom apartment in Central London.
If he relocates his main family home to London, relocation costs will be Kevin Loosemore was elected to the Board as Chief paid.
While his principal family home remains in Italy, Operating officer with effect from 2 April 2003.
His service reasonable travel costs for himself and his family between contract is dated 2 April 2003 and continues until his normal Italy and London will be met.
The notice period is 2 years during the first 2 years of the contract and 1 year Kevin Loosemore will also receive a relocation package.
He will be paid a base salary of 490,000 per Subject to an overall limit of 150,000, relocation costs will annum.
be paid for him to buy and set up a home in Central London.
The maximum bonus payable to Francesco Caio is 150 per cent of base salary and in the first year he will be Each of the investments to be made in the Companys guaranteed a minimum bonus payment of 375,000.
He will Ordinary Shares referred to above will occur following the be able to re-invest a proportion of any bonus in the publication of the Companys results for the year ending 31 Companys shares, to be held for three years, with one for March 2003. one share matching from the Company at the end of this period.
Directors Shareholding Requirement The Company operates a policy of encouraging Executive The maximum bonus payable to Kevin Loosemore under the Directors to closely align their interests with shareholders STIP is 100 per cent of base salary.
by requiring them to build up and maintain a holding of In recognition of arrangements with his previous employer Ordinary Shares in the Company to the value of at least that he will forego, Francesco Caio will receive a one-off twice their base salary.
This is to be achieved through the payment of 375,000 that must be invested in Ordinary retention of any net awards received from the short and Shares of the Company, to be held for a minimum of three long-term incentive plans described above.
Page 71 corporate governance Directors Shareholdings The beneficial interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the Ordinary Shares of the Company were as follows: As at 1 April 2002 or on As at appointment if Shares 31 March Director later Acquired 2003 Sir Winfried Bischoff 11,188 51,920 63,108 Adrian Chamberlain appointed 15 May 2002 1,413 6,243 7,656 Bernard P Gray appointed 21 January 2003 Richard D Lapthorne appointed 10 January 2003 1,000,000 1,000,000 Robert E Lerwill 59,937 15,542 75,479 Dr Janet P Morgan 5,566 594 6,160 David N Prince appointed 1 July 2002 23,596 23,596 W Anthony Rice appointed 21 January 2003 Robert O Rowley appointed 2 September 2002 1,696 50,000 51,696 Graham M Wallace 104,540 32,122 136,662 The Company operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan that enables shareholders to reinvest dividends on their shareholdings into additional Ordinary Shares.
The following Directors participated in this plan during the year and the Ordinary Shares acquired under the plan are reected in the above table: Sir Winfried Bischoff 1,326 Ordinary Shares: Adrian Chamberlain 187 Ordinary Shares: and Graham M Wallace 5,633 Ordinary Shares.
In accordance with the rules of the Deferred Short Term Incentive Plan, Robert E Lerwill has deferred 30,000 of his Short Term Incentive Plan bonus in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2002 into the Deferred STIP.
As a consequence, 14,703 Ordinary Shares have been purchased in his name during the year ended 31 March 2003 and are held in the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Trust.
These Ordinary Shares are reected in the table above.
On their appointment as Directors of the Company on 2 April, 4 April and 27 May 2003 respectively, Kevin Loosemore, Francesco Caio, Graham E Howe and Kasper B Rorsted held no Ordinary Shares in the Company.
Between 31 March 2003 and 3 June 2003 there were the following changes to the Directors shareholdings: purchase of Ordinary Shares under the Share Purchase Plan Adrian Chamberlain 262 Ordinary Shares and Robert E Lerwill 329 Ordinary Shares.
Page 72 corporate governance The following sections of the Directors Remuneration Report have been subject to audit.
The aggregate emoluments of the Directors, which excludes compensation for loss of office, were 3,226,142 2002 2,634,369, which includes emoluments of 387,049 paid to Executive Directors who resigned during the year ended 31 March 2002.
Includes the reimbursement of costs associated with staff entertaining and relocation and the value of benefits in kind relating to Company provided life assurance, professional fees and travel.
Adrian Chamberlains annual base salary is 350,000.
David N Princes annual base salary is 400,000.
Donald B Reed is being paid US$715,000 in 12 monthly instalments from his date of leaving the Company on 31 January 2003 in accordance with the terms of his service contract.
On his appointment to the Board as a Non-executive Director on 2 September 2002, Robert O Rowley received a fee of 30,000 per annum.
He was subsequently awarded an additional fee of 60,000 to cover the period from 1 November 2002 to 31 January 2003 to reflect additional duties principally in respect of Chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
With effect from his appointment as part time Executive Deputy Chairman on 1 February 2003 he received an annual salary of 250,000.
Sir Winfried Bischoffs annual fee is 40,000, which includes a fee of 10,000 for his Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee.
In addition, he received an annual fee of 1,707.50 being equal to the market value of 1,000 Ordinary Shares in the Company.
The net amount of this fee after the deduction of taxes and dealing costs was used to purchase 594 Ordinary Shares in the Company.
These were purchased on 15 July 2002 at a market value of 170.75 pence per share.
Bernard P Grays annual fee is 50,000.
Richard D Lapthornes annual fee as Chairman of the Board is 386,000.
Dr Janet P Morgans annual fee up until 18 February 2003 was 30,000.
In addition, she received an annual fee of 1,707.50 being equal to the market value of 1,000 Ordinary Shares in the Company.
With effect from 18 February 2003, her fees were increased to 50,000 per annum.
David P Nashs fees were based on: a 40,000 per annum for the period up to 1 July 2002, which included a fee of 10,000 per annum for Chairmanship of the Group Audit Committee: and b 137,500 per annum as Deputy Chairman for the period from 1 July 2002 to 31 December 2002.
In July 2002, he was paid all fees in advance up to 31 March 2003 with the fee for the period from 1 January 2003 to 31 March 2003 being paid at the rate of 275,000 per annum.
Following his resignation as a Director of the Company with effect from 31 December 2002, he reimbursed the Company for the fees paid for the period from 1 January to 31 March 2003.
In addition, David P Nash received an annual fee of 1,707.50 equal to the market value of 1,000 Ordinary Shares in the Company.
He used all the fees paid in July 2002 to acquire 48,431 Ordinary Shares in the Company on 15 July 2002 at a price of 170.75 pence per share.
David P Nash was subsequently awarded an additional fee of 87,250 in recognition of the extra services he provided with respect to the Group strategic review announced on 13 November 2002, 18,500 of which he waived.
W Anthony Rices annual fee is 75,000, which includes a fee of 25,000 for his role as Chairman of the Group Audit Committee.
Sir Ralph Robins annual fee, which was set at the time of his appointment as Chairman of the Board in 1998, was 250,000.
The Hon Raymond Seitzs annual fee was 35,000 which included an annual fee of 5,000 for his Chairmanship of the Community Investment Committee.
SOP Approved and Unapproved Inland Revenue approved and unapproved grants respectively made under the Share Option Plan see page 67 for details.
C&W RESOS Cable & Wireless Revenue Approved Share Option Scheme see Closed Plans on page 68 for details.
C&W SESOS Cable & Wireless Senior Employees Share Option Scheme see Closed Plans on page 68 for details.
C&W SAYE Cable & Wireless Save As You Earn share option scheme.
These options are not subject to performance conditions because this is an all-employee scheme governed by specific tax legislation.
Nil price was paid for the award of the options listed in the table above.
Applicable performance conditions relate to the schemes under which each option was granted and apply to all of the Executive Directors.
The closing mid-market price of an Ordinary Share on 31 March 2003 was 69 pence.
The highest closing mid-market price of an Ordinary Share during the year was 220 pence and lowest closing mid-market price was 41 pence.
There were no changes to the Directors share options from 31 March 2003 to 3 June 2003.
In accordance with the rules of the Companys share option plans, the share options held by Donald B Reed may be exercised within specified periods from his date of leaving the Company, 31 January 2003, and will not be subject to performance conditions.
He may exercise his Cable & Wireless RESOS, Cable & Wireless SESOS, SOP Approved and Unapproved share options before 31 January 2004, and his SAYE share options before 31 July 2003, after which the respective awards lapse.
Details on the option granted and exercised by Richard D Lapthorne are set out under the section on Non-executive Directors on page 70.
Applicable performance conditions relate to the schemes under which each award was granted and apply to all of the Executive Directors.
Subject to Richard D Lapthorne remaining a Director and Chairman of the Company and retaining beneficial ownership until 10 January 2006 of the 1,000,000 Ordinary Shares he acquired on appointment on 10 January 2003, the Company will deliver 1,000,000 Ordinary Shares to him.
No performance conditions are attached to this award.
David N Prince was awarded 164,868 restricted shares on his appointment as a Director of the Company on 1 July 2002.
82,434 of these restricted shares vest on 30 June 2003 and 82,434 vest on 30 June 2004.
No performance conditions are attached to this award of restricted shares since they were compensation for benefits lost on leaving his previous employer.
In accordance with the rules of the Performance Share Plan, the unvested contingent awards made to Donald B Reed were pro-rated to reflect the number of completed months membership in each Plan at the point he left the Company on 31 January 2003.
Vesting of these pro-rated awards at the end of the performance periods will continue to be subject to the originally specified performance conditions.
There were no changes to the Directors PSP and Restricted Share Awards from 31 March 2003 to 3 June 2003 other than the lapsing of the PSP contingent award granted on 1 April 2000.
Page 77 corporate governance Directors Pension Entitlements Adrian Chamberlain, Robert E Lerwill and Graham M Wallace participate in dened benefit pension schemes.
David N Prince and Donald B Reed participate in dened contribution pension schemes.
Robert O Rowley does not participate in a Company pension scheme.
Dened benefit pensions Pension values for the year ended 31 March 2003 were as follows: Increase in Transfer value Transfer value Increase in Accrued accrued benets of accrued of accrued transfer value benets at during the year benets at benets at less Directors 31 March 2003 including ination 31 March 2003 1 April 2002 contributions Name of Director Adrian Chamberlain 65,896 22,327 782,063 436,521 327,901 Robert E Lerwill 81,635 16,741 1,193,081 801,442 391,639 Graham M Wallace 231,294 48,907 3,917,131 2,641,229 1,275,902 Adrian Chamberlain contributed 17,641 to his pension during the year ended 31 March 2003.
Robert E Lerwill and Graham M Wallace have non-contributory pensions.
The difference between transfer values of the accrued benets at the beginning and end of the year have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11, less directors contributions.
The table below provides supplementary disclosures on Directors pensions required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority: Increase in Transfer value of the increase accrued benets in accrued benets less during the year Directors contributions excluding ination excluding ination Name of Director Adrian Chamberlain 20,976 231,305 Robert E Lerwill 14,730 215,276 Graham M Wallace 43,253 732,521 Dened Contribution Pensions During the year the Company contributed 13,726 2002 43,242 into Donald B Reedsdened contribution schemes and 90,000 2002 nil into David N Princesdened contribution scheme.
Former Directors Pensions An amount of 4.7 million 2002 6.4 million is included in provisions to cover the cost of former Directors pension entitlements.
On behalf of the Board Sir Winfried Bischoff Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 3 June 2003 Page 78
