Investment Managers Report Performance of the portfolio Euro strengthened during the year European equity markets continued to decline over the year to 0.70 Sterling to Euro exchange rate 31 March 2003, with the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index falling 0.68 by 34.4% in Sterling terms.
Over the same period, the portfolios net asset value per share, diluted for potential 0.66 exercise of the remaining warrants, fell by 36.2%, underperforming its benchmark.
0.64 0.62 The year was dominated by the approaching military conflict in Iraq, which manifested itself through a sharp spike in the price 0.60 of oil.
There was also a pronounced weakness in both the US 0.58 Dollar and Sterling versus the Euro.
Business and consumer confidence indicators across Europe deteriorated, driven down 0.56 by geo-political uncertainties and bleak economic growth Mar-02 Jun-02 Sep-02 Dec-02 Mar-03 prospects.
Repeated interest rate cuts by both European and US Source: Datastream.
central banks did little to allay investor concerns, and European The Company also benefited from its emerging European and equity markets consequently remained extremely volatile.
Russian holdings, and profits were taken during the year, Compared to other major geographic investment regions, bringing our exposure to 2.4% of the portfolio at year-end.
The Europe remained particularly weak, impacted by structural fears regarding the German economy.
A short bear market rally in emerging European markets delivered more robust returns than October proved unsustainable as markets suffered further bouts their western counterparts due to converging valuations and of economic anxiety.
The insurance sector has suffered particularly in this The underperformance in the investment portfolio was largely environment, with companies remaining under pressure from attributable to three factors: investors to restore balance sheets against a backdrop of falling equity values.
As a result, the market has seen a flurry of First, during the first half of the year the portfolio was hurt by dividend cut announcements, rating downgrades and the negative impact of being geared in a declining market.
The continuing sales of equities in order to protect companies full impact of the long term structural gearing was, however, solvency ratios.
Those sectors highly exposed to economic offset by holding cash, thereby limiting the effective level to sensitivity, such as IT hardware, software and computer services, 10%, which has subsequently been further decreased to a level as well as leisure and hotels, fell sharply during the first half of of 6.3% at the year end.
the year under review, although a slight recovery occurred during the latter six months as investors were reassured by Secondly, we underestimated the magnitude of the collapse in faster than expected progress on debt reduction by several investor confidence in terms of geo-political and economic risk.
fallen angel companies, such as France Telecom and Alcatel.
At The portfolio was therefore tilted towards insurance and cyclical the same time, relatively defensive sectors, such as tobacco, services, particularly support services and software and beverages, food producers and health, held up well, driven by computer services and was not positioned defensively enough stable earnings streams.
However, a number of stock-specific for a period of such volatility.
However, several sector positions disasters also impacted equity markets, adding to investor woes.
were beneficial, namely underweight positions in IT hardware In particular, Dutch food retailer Ahold, which we did not hold, and food retailing, and an overweight position in the oil and gas plummeted on news of accounting irregularities at the groups sector.
Thirdly, performance has been marred by several stock-specific Sterling weakened against the Euro over the year to 31 March events affecting shares we held.
In the case of MLP, the German 2003, improving the Companys returns in Sterling terms.
financial services provider, Wolters Kluwer, the Dutch publisher, and Akzo Nobel, the Dutch chemical group, management failed to deliver on their expectations.
We also held Dutch insurer ING, 6 Investment Managers Report continued which announced an earnings downgrade as concerns grew improving returns under new management.
Following strong about the impact of an extended period of economic weakness share price performance, we sold the holding when the price on profits and its equity solvency.
However, INGs valuation does reached our target valuation.
not take into account the companys earnings potential, which The financial sector has suffered is well geared into any cyclical upswing and we retained our holding.
Conversely, Gucci, the luxury goods manufacturer, 110 Financial sector Generali, the insurance company, Orange, the mobile operator FTSE World Europe ex UK Index ex financials and Nestle, the food manufacturer, all contributed positively.
100 90 Portfolio distribution by market capitalisation as at 31 March 2003 80 70 59% 60 50 35% 40 Mar-02 Jun-02 Sep-02 Dec-02 Mar-03 Source: Datastream.
The portfolio has become increasingly defensive, with a bias 6% towards food, beverage and tobacco, household goods and pharmaceuticals.
Reflecting this, we added to our holdings of 10bn between 2bn to 10bn 2bn food retailer Carrefour, consumer goods producer Unilever and pharmaceutical companies Roche and Novartis: we also Source: Merrill Lynch Investment Managers.
increased our position in car manufacturer Peugeot.
We believe Investment activity these companies earnings growth is robust and that valuations After extensive consultation with the Board we introduced, at look attractive in these sectors.
Conversely, the Companys the beginning of December 2002, a more concentrated style of exposure to cyclical areas, including chemicals, capital goods management to the Companys assets, involving a reduction in and software, has been reduced due to uncertainties prevailing the number of stocks held and an increased focus on high in the macroeconomic environment.
conviction ideas held within our European team.
We sold the positions in UBS, Allianz and Siemens, where we only had Outlook modestly positive conviction.
This has led to some increase in The European economy faces significant structural challenges, the level of risk within the portfolio compared with its given constraints on fiscal budgets, divergence between the benchmark, although we are still maintaining an emphasis on performance of core and peripheral countries and high business large capitalisation stocks.
A stronger Euro, however, should help to control inflation and give the European Central Bank more leeway to reduce We have increased the portfolios exposure to the financial interest rates.
Improvement in economic momentum will sector by adding to French banks BNP Paribas and Societe depend on increased consumer and business confidence, which Generale, and Spanish bank BBVA, which were all trading at may take time to recover.
A further fall in the oil price would low levels.
We also saw opportunities to add to holdings in enhance the prospects of recovery.
companies where valuations had already discounted a sharp contraction in economic activity, particularly in the insurance and support services sectors.
We acquired a holding in Generali, which has strong positions in the leading European life insurance markets in Italy, Germany and France and is delivering Merrill Lynch European Investment Trust plc 7 Investment Managers Report continued European confidence remains low European equities currently look cheap 10 4.0 Equities cheap 5 3.5 0 3.0 -5 2.5 -10 -15 2.0 -20 1.5 -25 Industrial confidence Equities expensive FTSE Europe ex UK dividend yield 1.0 -30 Consumer confidence Average -35 0.5 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 Source: European Commission Survey.
While overall confidence is low, there are a number of countries, In conclusion, volatility in equity markets is likely to continue for such as Spain, Ireland, Portugal and Sweden, which are still the foreseeable future while confidence remains fragile.
Government reform However, we see opportunities in European stocks where the is proceeding at a slow pace, but the corporate response to the markets focus on short-term risks obscures the medium-term difficult economic climate has been more dynamic.
In the current environment, we are seeking proven seen restructuring and balance sheet repair in the telecoms management with strong business models that can deliver industry.
The financial sector has cut costs dramatically to offset consistent returns to their shareholders.
The manufacturing sector faces the challenge of a strengthening Euro, which will make European exports less attractive.
Cost base flexibility has been improving and unit Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Limited labour costs are now growing well below inflation.
Company 20 May 2003 results recorded so far in 2003 have shown the benefits of these actions.
Earnings growth in the European market is likely to be modest in 2003.
Corporate indebtedness, however, is falling and shareholders should benefit as overall financial risk reduces.
Valuations remain attractive, both relative to bonds and to historical levels, with a market dividend yield higher than any time in the last ten years.
