Investment Managers Report Portfolio performance Performance of global mining shares and world equities As set out in the Chairmans statement, 2003 proved to be 180 another good year for the portfolio especially in the second 170 half and the Companys net asset value per share NAV and 160 the share price with net income reinvested rose by 61.2% and MSCI World Price Index 67.1% respectively.
In capital only terms the NAV rose by 150 HSBC Global Mining Price Index 59.9% and the share price by 64.7%.
This compares favourably 140 with the HSBC Global Mining Index sterling terms, which rose 130 by 48.4% capital only and 52.1% with income reinvested.
120 110 The closing NAV for the year of 239.09p is the highest since the 100 inception of the Company.
90 80 Mining share overview Dec 2002 Mar 2003 June 2003 Sep 2003 Dec 2003 Although 2003 started weakly, with capital markets reacting Source: Datastream.
Indices shown in US$ terms, rebased to 100. negatively to the outbreak of SARS and the escalating tension surrounding Iraq, the year as a whole proved to be good for equity market investors with the MSCI World Index up by Chinas economic activity is focused on infrastructure 30.8% in dollar terms 17.6% in sterling.
This was the first expenditure and basic manufacturing, both of which tend to be positive year of the new millennium for equity markets.
As a result, China punches above its Mining shares once again showed strong outperformance weight in a number of commodities and has become a large overall, finishing the year at their highest levels.
The HSBC net importer of many raw materials: in some cases Chinas Global Mining Index closed 2003 up by 65.0% in dollar terms demand exceeds that of the USA.
There is considerable debate 48.4% in sterling, continuing the pattern of outperformance amongst economists as to the short term sustainability of compared with broad equity markets which began after the end Chinas rapid economic expansion.
In our view though, it of the Asian crisis in 1998.
It would seem that the mining matters little whether China grows at 5% or 9% in 2004, it is sectors cyclical value character was again prized by investors the long term which is important to the companies in our and the exposure to Chinas burgeoning growth was an added portfolio and we believe that China is likely to remain a potent attraction.
Against many commentators expectations, gold demand engine for a range of natural resources for many years continued to move higher as investors focused on dollar to come.
weakness and the need for more diversification.
Those other Metallgesellschaft Base Metal Index Performance factors that had helped to propel gold higher in 2002 also remained intact during 2003: Central Bank restraint, hedge buy- 170 backs, low production growth and low interest rates.
Metallgesellschaft Base Metal MGMI Cash Index World 160 Sentiment towards the global economy strengthened in the 150 second half of 2003, with confidence boosted by the Baghdad Bounce against the backdrop of continuing accommodating 140 monetary policy in the US and Europe.
Helped by a weaker dollar, metal prices rose sharply the Metallgesellschaft Base 130 Metal Index was up 40.8% in dollar terms and finished the year close to their highest levels: in many cases at multi-year highs.
120 While part of this strength appears to be due to demand from financial market speculators, there is little doubt now that 110 Dec 2002 Mar 2003 June 2003 Sep 2003 Dec 2003 underlying industrial activity is also rebounding, albeit off a relatively low base.
The main bright spot for commodity Source: Factset.
demand in 2003 has been China where economic growth remained strong despite the aftermath of the SARS epidemic.
Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 5 Price Index Investment Managers Report continued 2003 again saw mining companies grappling with currency stream of opportunistic capital raisings by gold companies volatility as the US dollar weakened against the currencies of the coupled with generally disappointing earnings from the major major mining nations.
This effect was particularly pronounced in companies sapped investor enthusiasm somewhat.
In dollar South Africa where the rand has now clawed back all of its terms the FT Gold Mines Index finished the year up by 42.8%, 2001 weakness.
Although we continue to believe that this against a background of a rising gold price, up from US$343 oz strength in the rand is unsustainable in the longer term, it is to US$416 oz over the year.
Decembers closing price of causing clear damage to the earnings performance of the South US$417.25 was the highest price since 1990.
This good African mining companies that are held in the portfolio.
More performance was helped by a combination of a weak dollar, low worryingly, the stronger rand is leading to production cuts and interest rates, stagnant gold mine output, rising investment deferral of capital spending, which does not bode well for the demand and gold mine hedge buy-backs, with these positives future of the South African mining sector.
again far outweighing the negative of sluggish jewellery demand.
Political changes in 2003 were once more an important factor in Movement in gold price formulating the Companys portfolio strategy.
In recent reports to shareholders we have highlighted our concerns about the 450 nature and implementation of South Africas new minerals Gold price US$ policies.
While the process of Black Economic Empowerment or BEE has been progressing better than we anticipated in 400 2002, with most transactions occurring close to fair value, the new royalty regime outlined early in 2003 was more aggressive 350 than expected.
We do not like revenue based royalty taxation and we made this view clear to the South African Treasury in both written and verbal submissions.
We await the 300 Governments final decision on royalty levels but in the meantime have been looking for opportunities to reduce the portfolio exposure to South Africa exposure at the end of 2003 250 Dec 2002 Mar 2003 June 2003 Sep 2003 Dec 2003 was 15% versus 34% in 2002.
In a more positive development, 2003 has seen increasing opportunities for us to make direct investments in China.
The We see the rise of investment demand as particularly important.
Government of China is seeking to open up its mining industry During the year the World Gold Council sponsored the creation to foreign capital and expertise and has embarked on a and listing of two exchange-traded funds, ETFs, which are programme of deregulation.
In gold, China has set up the now traded on the Australian and London stock exchanges, Shanghai Gold Exchange, thereby allowing private individuals to with further listings planned for 2004.
These ETFs hold one buy and trade gold for the first time in generations.
We believe tenth of an ounce of physical gold per share and their that this may result in growing demand for gold in the worlds advantage is that they allow investors of any size to buy and sell most populous country.
2003 saw three Chinese gold mining gold without having to worry about custody or liquidity.
companies floated on the stockmarket: Zhongjin Gold, Although it is too early to say exactly how much impact these Shandong Gold and Fujian Zijin, all three Initial Public Offerings new securities will have, the early signs are encouraging and being many times oversubscribed.
We have initiated small there is a possibility that they will facilitate greater use of gold as holdings in these stocks and plan to visit the operations of these an institutional asset class.
At the year end, the Company held mines during 2004.
At the end of 2003, exposure to Chinese no gold bullion, although at times the portfolio has included companies in the portfolio stood at 6% versus 1% at the end these new instruments.
At the end of 2002 the gold exposure in the portfolio stood at Gold and precious commodities 31% and finished 2003 at 19%.
This reflects both the weaker Gold equities performed well during 2003 but were no longer capital performance of gold shares in comparison with other parts the main driver of the Companys capital performance.
A steady of the mining sector, as well as further profit taking during the 6 price US$ Troy Ounce Investment Managers Report continued course of the year and the reduction in South African positions contributing factor in helping the share price of our largest complete disposal of holdings in AngloGold and Western Areas.
investment in this area, Impala, to shrug off the adverse effects of Nonetheless gold remains an important portfolio element for the the strong rand and rise by over one third in dollar terms.
Impala Company gold shares in the benchmark stand at 20%.
also continued to pay out sizeable dividends, albeit not as large as in recent years.
Other platinum companies fared less well: Anglo The most disappointing gold shares in 2003 were the stars of Platinum was particularly badly impacted by a poorly 2002, namely the unhedged South African producers Harmony implemented expansion plan, although the silver lining here is and Gold Fields, both of which underperformed significantly, that the production shortfall will help keep the metal price dropping by 5.1% and 0.1% respectively.
These are the only buoyant.
After significantly cutting the Anglo Platinum holding significant investments in the portfolio to generate negative during 2002, we disposed of the remaining position in 2003. dollar returns in 2003.
The strength of the rand coupled with We also disposed of the holding in Southern Era.
the proposed introduction of minerals royalties were the main reasons for the decline.
Impala and Lonmin announced a transaction that will ultimately South African gold and platinum mining companies were very busy create a new BEE platinum company based upon the Impala on the corporate side with several important BEE transactions stake in Lonplats.
Impala will receive a sizeable capital injection occurring.
Harmony has begun to implement a complex multiphase as a result of this deal and has indicated that part of this may be merger involving Armgold complete and Avgold pending.
These returned to shareholders as a special dividend.
transactions not only Africanised Harmony but also greatly enlarged the companys gold resources base and Harmony now has A small holding was initiated in Johnson Matthey, the worlds more unmined ounces of gold than any other company in the leading precious metals refiner and fabricator.
We like this aspect of Harmony as it means that the shares particularly interested to have exposure to the will be very sensitive to either a weaker trend to the rand or further platinum palladium catalyst market, an area that appears to rises in the gold price.
Gold Fields has also announced a complex have great long term promise as the auto industry cleans up BEE transaction with a local company, Mvelephanda.
This deal, exhaust gasses and works on fuel cell technology.
which is still subject to finalisation, will leave Mvelephanda with a 15% stake in Gold Fields South African operations.
Towards the end of the year we established a position in palladium metal, in a so far unsuccessful attempt to take Apart from BEE transactions, the largest M&A transaction in the advantage of the prevailing low price of this metal.
The gold gold sector was a three-way tussle between AngloGold and bullion holding has been liquidated.
Randgold Resources for Ashanti, with AngloGold emerging as the victor.
The Company took advantage of the bid to dispose In recent reports we have highlighted to shareholders the of its small portfolio holding in Ashanti.
sizeable holding in Aber Diamond 5.1% of portfolio.
This company has been jointly developing the Diavik diamond mine After disappointing somewhat in 2002, Buenaventura, the in the Canadian Arctic with Rio Tinto and 2003 was the first full Companys second largest investment 7.0% of portfolio, had year of production.
The mine has surpassed expectations in an excellent year with strong profitability at its 44% owned many respects and the share price has been a strong performer, principal asset, Yanacocha in Peru.
Production at Yanacocha up by over 86% in US$ terms during the year.
In December, began in 1993 and has risen annually ever since.
In 2003, Aber reported a maiden profit and also announced that it would output is likely to be about 2.7 million ounces produced at a move downstream into diamond retailing through the cash cost of US$117 oz, making this the worlds largest and acquisition of Harry Winston, a leading diamond jeweller.
We most profitable gold mine.
Buenaventura also made anticipate that 2004 will see a maiden dividend from Aber.
considerable progress during 2003 in boosting the returns from its other wholly owned gold silver mines.
Buenaventura is one of Base metals the longest standing investments in the portfolio our stock 2003 started with base metals still in recovery mode, with the was first acquired in May 1994. effects of recessionary conditions still evident and most analysts Platinum continued to confound analysts expectations, by still focused on the need for producers to remain disciplined shrugging off the weakness in the palladium market and reaching with regard to supply.
As the year unfolded however the a 23 year high of US$840 oz in December.
This was certainly a markets began to feel the impact of the strong Chinese demand Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 7 Investment Managers Report continued coupled with a gradual firming of industrial activity in other attempt to resurrect the three-way merger between Alcan, parts of the world.
As a result we have witnessed a gradual and Alusuisse and Pechiney, which failed in 1999 due to problems favourable improvement in supply-demand balances which have with the European Commission.
This time round the led to an overall reduction in London Metal Exchange competition issues proved soluble and, as a result of the merger, inventories.
With interest rates remaining low and the dollar Alcan has increased in size substantially and now rivals Alcoa in weakening the conditions were in place for higher prices.
such a palpably improving commodity cycle it should not be a surprise that financial market speculators have been attracted to Chalco was again the best performing aluminium stock in the base metals markets, exacerbating market volatility, especially world, rising by well over 430% in dollar terms.
This strength towards the end of the year.
has been due to a combination of positive investor sentiment towards China and a higher global price for alumina which is in Last year the strongest metal, nickel remained in the spotlight short supply.
As we stated in last years annual report, we like rising by a further 134% to a 14 year high in response to strong Chalcos market position as dominant producer in Chinas fast stainless steel demand, especially in China, and tight supply in growing aluminium alumina industry.
As a result of its improved the wake of Incos Sudbury Ontario strike.
With little new share price and despite some profit taking, the holding in capacity, all the indications are that supply will remain tight in Chalco has risen to 4.3% of the portfolio at year end.
China will continue to require large quantities of nickel as its own relatively small nickel industry cannot match Another of our favourite stocks in this area is Alumina, Alcoas its seemingly insatiable infrastructure needs.
Incos troubled partner in the Alcoa World Alumina and Chemicals AWAC development project Goro, in New Caledonia, remains business.
Alumina was spun out from the old Western Mining mothballed.
During 2003 we continued to lift nickel exposure in Corporation in late 2002 and 2003 was therefore the first full the fund from 4% to 10% of the portfolio, the increase coming year in which Alumina has traded as an independent equity.
We mainly through a hike in the size of the Inco and Falconbridge like AWACs high quality long life assets and we added to our holdings, which are now amongst the Companys largest portfolio position at various times through the year.
Both companies performed well during the year, of this plus the good share price appreciation, our holding has rising by 87.7% and 153.6% respectively.
We added several nickel juniors to the portfolio during the Overall, the portfolios exposure to aluminium alumina closed year: specifically MPI Mines in Australia which operates the the year at 13%, reflecting both good share price performance Black Swan mine and hopes to build the Honeymoon Well and net investment into this recovering area.
project and Minara Resources owner of the troubled Murrin Murrin mine.
We also reinvested in Russias giant nickel miner Copper had a much improved year in 2003, with the price Norilsk.
strengthening 51% through the year and surpassing 100c lb during December a six year high.
At this price, most copper Aluminium was again somewhat disappointing in a relative companies have returned to strong profitability and the copper sense, with the price rising by 18.5% in 2003.
Nonetheless, equities surged ahead, especially those that had been in the aluminium finished close to a three year high.
Aluminium is one biggest financial distress.
Our core copper holdings, Southern of the more economically sensitive metals, and was the most Peru Copper 1.3% and Antofagasta 1.5%, enjoyed good adversely affected by sluggish economic conditions especially market and operating conditions with share price rises of the collapse of demand from the aerospace industry post 9-11.
Palabora Mining 2.0%, which Green shoots of recovery abound though and 2003 has seen grappled with operational issues at its new block caving system, demand picking up and a good deal of corporate excitement in re-financed its balance sheet with a convertible bond rights issue the aluminium industry.
The most important news event of the which we took up.
It is now ramping up to full capacity.
year was the hostile bid for Pechiney by Alcan 2.5%, which was announced in July.
Pechiney had been a sizeable holding in Freeport McMoran 1.1% substantially restructured its balance the Companys portfolio and we used the higher price in the sheet during the year and as a result was able to resume aftermath of the bid to dispose of the holding which had been dividend payments.
This caused us to re-assess the shares and about 4% of the portfolio.
In many respects, this deal is an re-establish a portfolio holding.
The shares have subsequently 8 Investment Managers Report continued performed extremely well despite some acute operational was Rio Tinto, which suffered a loss of earnings momentum.
As difficulties in the Grasberg open pit.
Since the year end we usual, the earnings of the big three UK quoted companies were disposed of the holding.
notably robust, despite the generally adverse currency movements referred to elsewhere highlighting the continuing During the year we initiated holdings in several promising small strength of the diversification strategy and the benefits of past to medium sized copper producers: Amerigo 1.5% of consolidation and efficiency improvements.
portfolio, which operates a retreatment plant adjacent to El Teniente in Chile: Canadian listed First Quantum 1.4%, which The stability of the big diversified mining companies Rio Tinto is developing copper properties in Zambia and the Congo: and and BHP Billiton stems largely from their bulk commodity Cerro Verde 0.3%, which operates a large copper mine in Peru exposure, principally sea-borne iron ore and coal for the steel Phelps Dodge is the manager.
We also bought a small holding industry.
Prices for these commodities are set annually and the in Jiangxi Copper, Chinas leading copper mining and smelting cashflows from this source have low volatility.
We like this company 0.4% of portfolio.
All four of these companies are aspect of Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton and the two companies are profitable at current copper prices and have interesting amongst the largest holdings in the portfolio at 6.3% and 5.1% growth development opportunities ahead.
Iron ore had another excellent year, again thanks to powerful demand from China for steel making raw materials.
One of the spectacular exploration success stories of 2003 was Cash flow for all of the iron ore producers was extremely strong Ivanhoe Mines, which has been evaluating the Turquoise Hill and CVRD, the Companys main pure holding in this area, did copper gold deposit in Mongolia.
A succession of increasingly particularly well, with the stock price doubling in dollar terms bullish drilling results, coupled with the investor focus on China, and paying out sizeable dividends.
We added to the holding in has propelled Ivanhoe into the spotlight and excited investors, CVRD at various points during the year and the stock now with the market capitalisation reaching around US$2 billion.
comprises 7.1% of the portfolio, our largest investment.
During Despite considerable profit taking, the Ivanhoe holding is the year we initiated a holding in the other pure iron ore currently 0.7% of the portfolio.
company, Caemi 0.2% of portfolio and disposed of the positions in Kumba and Portman.
At 31 December 2003, total copper exposure stood at 11% of the portfolio, significantly above the 5% exposure at the end Strong demand in China also pushed up the prices of sea-borne of 2002. coking and thermal coal and some of the main diversified mining companies will be beneficiaries of this in 2004: The minor base metals have also enjoyed better market specifically Xstrata, Rio Tinto, BHP Billiton and Anglo American.
conditions and even zinc and lead, which seem to be perennial Our only direct coal play, Peabody Energy 1.0%, is also laggards, have begun to move higher, closing the year at nearly benefiting generally from higher US energy prices.
Just before three year highs.
If zinc catches up, it could prove to be one of year end we initiated a small position in the tar sand producer the stars of 2004, but regrettably, after years of depressed Suncor.
markets, there are relatively few pure zinc equities available to the market.
During 2003 we did support the flotation of a new Near the end of 2002 Xstrata 2.1% announced its intention to zinc company, Marakand Minerals 0.4%, our investment being bid for MIM and then made its move in early 2003.
This was made while it was still an unquoted company.
Marakand is a well-timed acquisition for Xstrata and seems to make good aiming to develop the Khandiza zinc-lead-silver deposit in industrial sense.
MIM represented about 4% of the portfolio at Uzbekistan.
A feasibility study into the viability of the project is the bid price.
The Company sub-underwrote a small portion of expected in mid 2004. the rights issue that Xstrata launched to pay for the bid.
Diversified mining companies and industrial commodities December saw a new diversified mining company, Vedanta, The UK listed diversified mining companies lagged behind the listed in London.
This company has been created to allow HSBC Global Mining Index and turned in solid, if somewhat Sterlite, the Indian mining and metals group, to gain access to a unspectacular, performances.
The best performer of the UK more liquid, deeper capital market.
Although Sterlite has an group was again BHP Billiton, which was helped once more by inefficient and rather cumbersome corporate structure, it owns its exposure to the buoyant oil market.
The laggard this year a number of interesting base metals and industrial minerals Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 9 Investment Managers Report continued assets and is well placed to exploit other opportunities in India.
sector has traditionally been viewed as a cyclical value We initiated a small position in Vedanta via the Initial Public segment of the stockmarket.
However, given the bright outlook Offering and then took advantage of the subsequent share price for commodity prices and the long term potential of China as a weakness to add to the position, which now stands at 0.8% of demand centre, we believe that investors may increasingly look portfolio.
at the mining sector as cyclical growth, a categorisation which could justify a higher rating.
Overall, the portfolio exposure to the diversified mining companies has changed little from last year.
We like these China is likely to be the theme of the year in commodity companies for their combination of earnings stability and markets.
Although economists differ widely in their economic commodity cycle exposure and we believe that some of these growth assumptions for China there is little doubt that its rank equities have the capacity to deliver positive surprises and be in the global economy will increase.
We expect that the demand re-rated in 2004. from China will help support higher commodity prices across a broad front.
Furthermore, as Chinas capital markets open up Derivatives activity we expect to see more opportunities for direct investment.
The Company periodically enters into derivatives contracts covering parts of the portfolio.
These typically take the form of We expect to see a continuation of the uptrend in the gold written sold put and call options, which earn option premiums market.
The key factors which have fuelled the rise in the gold for the Companys revenue account.
This generates income for price, such as low interest rates, a weakening dollar and rising the Company and at the same time commits it to buy shares in investment demand, are likely to remain largely intact in 2004. the case of written puts or sell shares in the case of written Attention will however focus on Central Bank activity, as the calls at levels that our stock analysis indicates are attractive.
Washington Agreement on gold sales signed in 1999 had an initial life of five years and will therefore have to be either At year-end there was only one outstanding position, a written renewed or terminated in September 2004.
Failure to renew the put option covering 100,000 shares of Rio Tinto.
This option has agreement could damage sentiment towards gold.
Our portfolio strategy at the start of 2004 is three pronged: Gearing In view of the strong market for mining equities that prevailed Fully invested portfolio in cash-generative major metals and in the second half of 2003, we have made significant tactical minerals equities and tactical use of gearing.
use of the Companys overdraft facility to enhance shareholder returns.
At year end the portfolio was 8.8% geared.
Selective investment in small developing mining equities with high performance and growth potential.
Outlook and strategy for 2004 At the interim stage we noted that mining shares should do well A bias towards producers of those commodities which China if global economic recovery becomes more established.
Stronger lacks, especially alumina, nickel, copper and iron ore and growth could help reinforce the gradual upward trend in selective direct investment in Chinese equities.
commodity prices and, provided currency markets stabilise, this should flow through into better sector earnings as we approach Overall we believe that the mining sector will continue its 2004.
Now, six months on, we see little reason to modify this outperformance against broader equity markets.
Global economic recovery is becoming more established and leading economic indicators point to more progress in 2004.
Graham Birch & Evy Hambro Furthermore, given that 2004 is a US presidential election year, Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Limited most commentators expect the US interest rate environment to 18 February 2004 remain supportive of higher growth.
Although the major mining equities are no longer on depressed ratings i. e. below average p e multiples, they have in our view the potential to continue attracting investor interest.
