x MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW United Kingdom Our UK portfolio again performed well difficulties and the outlook does not yet against a disappointing market suggest an imminent resumption of background, declining 17.8% against rapid profit growth.
the FTSE World UK index which fell 21.4%.
This was the fourth successive We have continued to focus our year of decline in this index, over which attention on companies with secure and period it has returned 31.2% and we visible growth which should be able to have outperformed by 17.5%, reflecting make healthy progress whatever the a generally cautious and risk averse economic background and which report approach to stock selection during a using reliable accounting standards.
period of uncertainty and volatility.
Our large exposure to the beverage While relative performance has been and tobacco industries again proved satisfactory, the absolute declines in the beneficial although we reduced holdings market have exceeded our expectations.
as prices came to reflect prospects more What began as a reaction to excessive fully, cutting back in Imperial Tobacco, valuations in 2000 has compounded as Allied Domecq and Diageo and selling economic growth and corporate profits Gallaher.
We have also continued with have come under pressure and the a significant exposure to the banking markets decline has itself caused and building sectors, notably through problems for insurance companies and Barclays and Wolseley, where pension funds, which have been forced valuations remain attractive and more to reduce equity exposure at depressed than discount the possibility of more valuations.
By contrast, the combination difficult trading conditions.
We invested of modest net purchases, the relative an additional 6.9m in Vodafone resilience of our UK portfolio and share whose competitive position and buybacks saw the proportion of the fund prospects continue to strengthen and invested in UK equities rise from 22.8% belatedly sold out of Royal & Sun to 24.1% during the year.
Alliance, Amvescap and Dixons where 1 Bangkok platform, one of BG Groups Asian assets.
previously anticipated growth seems The economy has continued to show increasingly unlikely to be realised.
2 The Oceana, a Carnival cruise ship.
modest growth over the period, Portfolio turnover has remained modest somewhat slower than we had but we have continued to seek anticipated, but a resilient performance opportunities to position the fund for an given continued weakness in Japan and eventual improvement in trading Continental Europe and the lack of conditions although that has so far recovery in the US.
The recent stability proved elusive.
of interest rates and the economy should have been helpful to the corporate At current levels the UK market offers sector but the combination of weakness attractive long term value and discounts and uncertainty overseas together with little by way of long term growth stockmarket falls and currency volatility potential.
The present rally may not be has produced sluggish demand, severe sustained as financial pressures and price competition across many industries solvency concerns continue to impact life and little forward visibility.
Profit growth insurers and pension funds in the short has been limited and dividends and term, but we are increasingly confident expansion plans have proved vulnerable of healthy future returns from a portfolio to cut-backs while companies focus on of carefully selected quality growth repairing their balance sheets.
since the Asian crisis of 1997 the UK corporate sector has faced significant THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Continental Europe European stockmarkets provided a Not only did the insurance sector perform poor absolute return in the year to poorly in share price terms, but it also April 2003, losing 22.0% in sterling contributed to the falls in the broader terms.
We are disappointed to report market.
Insurance companies, significant that Monks European portfolio owners of shares in countries such as underperformed its comparative index Germany where life insurance products as it fell by 24.8%.
The Companys are a major savings vehicle, were investment in European equities rose consistent sellers of equities through the slightly during the year, to around 14% year.
A vicious circle was formed of total assets.
whereby falling equity prices put pressure on insurers solvency, forcing them to The economic backdrop for investing in liquidate shareholdings in order to reduce Europe has remained difficult.
The risk thus forcing prices down further.
German stockmarket experienced extreme volatility, as a combination of The much-maligned telecoms sector, continuing economic problems and the having led markets down for the lack of clear policy decisions by the reprevious two years, went through some elected government shook investors important changes in the last twelve confidence.
We believe that the worst months and provided our portfolio with is past for German shares but we need very healthy returns.
In several European to see more evidence that the reforms telecoms companies, new management needed to restart growth will be ushered in a combination of refinancing carried through.
More recently the and cost cutting which was very well French economy has also started to received by investors.
The most extreme show signs of weakness, which is example was France Telecom, which worrying as France had until now was able to repair its finances from a remained a pillar of relative strength.
In particularly parlous state, and reduce both countries our portfolio remains staff numbers with the assistance of the biased towards companies with French government.
We have benefited relatively low exposure to domestic substantially from our position in France demand, and our performance has Telecom and its subsidiary Orange over consequently been helped by the likes the past several months.
of Sanofi-Synthelabo, Pernod-Ricard 1 Adidas-Salomon kit out some of the We remain quite cautious about worlds major sporting teams.
The recent 2 Pastis is one of Pernod-Ricards major Within the insurance sector we appreciation of the euro is likely to offset brands.
successfully avoided the German the positive impact of the ECBs interest insurers Allianz and Munich Re, which rate cuts.
There is a worry that the suffered calamitous falls during the stronger euro will also depress the year.
We also benefited from our earnings of European companies with holding in Italian life insurer RAS, substantial overseas profits if it persists which performed exceptionally well.
beyond the expiry of their hedging We were less pleased with the results programmes.
The outlook for profits is from our large position in Swiss Re, therefore a tug-of-war between where losses on equity holdings continuing low demand growth and a outweighed the undoubtedly positive strengthening currency on the one side, pricing cycle in reinsurance.
We and impressive corporate efforts at costsuffered very negative returns from our cutting on the other.
Given that the holding in MLP, which we subsequently severe downward pressure exerted on sold, as its German savings advice share prices by the forced selling of business was severely pressured by the insurance companies will not be falling confidence and activity of retail repeated this year, the outlook for share investors.
14 x MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW North America In the year under review the US index fell by over a fifth in sterling terms.
The Apart from the composition of our large companys North American stocks did investments, it is important to note two slightly worse than this, falling 22.8%.
other features that appear largely unaltered.
First, it is still not clear that Most of the Companys North American the unwinding of the excesses of the investments remain as they were a year 1990s boom is complete.
Despite ago, as their underlying businesses dramatic declines in equity prices, we continue to trade well.
Of the large still view the overall US stockmarket as holdings, strong organic growth continues amply valued, especially if one adjusts at the mortgage businesses, Golden West for well-publicized exaggerations in and Freddie Mac, and the bond rating aggregate corporate earnings.
Our substantial oil particular, parts of the technology sector and gas holdings are still benefiting from remains at valuations redolent of the high prices.
We remain impressed with New Era optimism of the late nineties.
the operating performance of Omnicom, Second, the characteristics of the the advertising agency, in a cyclically Companys US stocks are substantially depressed environment.
The main different from the index: they have disappointments were the performance cleaner accounts, higher profitability, of Altria, the tobacco and food group and trade on lower multiples of profits.
formerly called Philip Morris, and the oil In our view, their prospects merit a company, Amerada Hess.
Altrias share higher valuation than the market.
How price was hit by two concerns at its others value their prospects in any US subsidiary: potential litigation losses, single year is unpredictable, but over and a rare cigarette price war.
We are time we expect their secure earnings of the view that its free cash flow, and growth to produce superior returns.
managements willingness to return that cash to shareholders, is substantially undervalued.
In contrast, the holding in Amerada Hess was sold after poor news 1 Tiffanys Seattle store.
Picture provided by, and reprinted with the permission of, about recent acquisitions.
Tiffany & Co. We bought three new insurance 2 Wendys was a new investment in North America last year.
holdings: Berkshire Hathaway, Warren Buffetts diversified group: AJ Gallagher, the broker: and Progressive, the car insurer.
All three are wellfinanced, entrenched businesses that are well placed to benefit from favourable underwriting conditions.
The Company also bought Wyeth, the pharmaceutical maker, after a run of disappointing news.
In our view, the share price had over-reacted, and was not adequately reflecting the longer term prospects of the groups drug pipeline.
A substantial addition was also made to Suncor, a Canadian oil sands group which appears to have an especially attractive long term production profile.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Japan The FTSE World Japan Index, used in the Despite muted global economic growth, Performance Attribution table on page 8, operating profits have rebounded strongly fell by 29.0% in the year to April 2003 and on the back of restructuring, and share our portfolio did slightly worse than this, buy backs have become more prominent.
The TOPIX, the The Japanese economy enjoyed a mild index best known to investors in the Tokyo recovery over the last year.
Impetus came market, did slightly less badly, declining by initially from a rebound in exports, which 26.4% in local currency terms and 27.7% encouraged a response from industrial in sterling terms, and fell to levels last seen capital spending, while consumption in 1984.
The equity markets performance trends have remained steady despite a against its global counterparts was depressed labour market.
Fiscal year relatively resilient over the first few months 2002 GDP growth was around 1.5%, of the period under review, but it weakened above consensus expectations a year ago towards the end owing to selling pressure of zero growth.
Importantly, there is also from cross-shareholding unwinding and some evidence that deflationary pressures daiko henjo liquidation of corporate are easing, with recent consumer and pension funds.
With net investment of wholesale price data showing smaller 11.5 million the Japanese weighting in the year on year declines.
Japans growth portfolio rose from 6.0% to 6.5% of assets.
dynamics remain export-dependent, so the countrys economic outlook for 2003 is Our relative performance has been cloudy given question marks over global disappointing this year, owing principally economic activity.
However, we are to poor stock picking among financials.
encouraged by the increasing proportion We invested in the city bank UFJ on the of Japanese exports going to fast growing grounds that its valuation against core Asian countries, in particular China, and earnings looked very low by international believe that this will provide a significant standards, but the share price declined boost over the medium term.
sharply as the equity markets focus shifted to balance sheet risk.
Consumer loan The political reform process remains slow, operator Promise underperformed as with prime minister Koizumi facing news on non-performing loans continued 1 Konica has benefited from the global opposition to his more progressive policies boom in digital camera sales.
We have retained holdings from vested interests within the LDP.
in both, believing that current valuations Attention has again been focused on the 2 Toyotas Prius model is part of its new more than discount asset quality concerns.
problems of Japans financial sector.
The generation of hybrid cars.
Elsewhere, Nintendos share price was very appointment of the reform-minded Heizo weak as the new Gamecube struggled to Takenaka as head of the Financial Services compete with Sonys dominant Playstation 2 Agency sparked hope that genuine reform console platform and Microsofts new of major banks and their problem Xbox, so we sold the holding.
borrowers was becoming more likely, leading to severe share price weakness for More positively, we took a new holding in both as perceived bankruptcy risk rose.
imaging specialist Konica, which has Although Takenakas policies in practice performed very well.
The company have not proved as radical as initially announced a merger with domestic rival expected, there has been some progress.
Minolta which offers great synergy A new body called the Industrial potential in office automation equipment, Revitalisation Corporation has been cameras and lenses, and management created to remove problem loans from has announced very ambitious profit balance sheets, while the Bank of Japan targets for the combined group.
Within has started buying banks equity crossthe auto sector we bought shares in holdings.
However, a final solution to the Nissan in reflection of its operational banking systems woes is still distant.
The company subsequently reported an Japanese valuations now look reasonable operating margin for fiscal year 2002 of on international comparisons, and with 10.8%, confirming its position as the corporate behaviour improving the equity worlds most profitable mass-market car market has fundamental attractions despite manufacturer.
In general we continue to the current technical selling pressure.
be impressed by the actions of corporate Evidence of firmer commitment to political Japan to improve its margins, balance and banking reform would encourage us to sheet efficiency and shareholder returns.
16 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Asia Pacific and Other Emerging Markets In the year to 30 April 2003 the company.
In addition, we replaced FTSE Asia Pacific ex Japan Free index Commonwealth Bank of Australia with declined by 24.6% in sterling terms, Australia and New Zealand Banking, and the FTSE Emerging Markets index whose domestic retail focus is less also fell, by 25.4%.
Most of this vulnerable to weak asset markets than weakness seems to stem from persisting CBA.
These changes have helped our correlation with developed markets, as performance, but not by enough to economic and corporate fundamentals offset our lack of market exposure.
do not appear, on average, to have deteriorated materially.
We made a We made further purchases in emerging substantial net addition of 9.3 million markets outside Asia.
We increased our to our holdings over the year, energy exposure by adding a holding particularly favouring companies which in Yukos, the Russian oil giant, to our appear to be clearly cheaper than existing position in Petrobras.
This has comparable operations in developed proved an excellent investment.
We did, markets, with most new money going however, take a position in Anglo into tobacco and commodity stocks.
American Platinum, which has subsequently been severely affected by The Companys largest asset in this area another unexpected currency continues to be the Baillie Gifford appreciation, in this case the South Pacific Fund, which declined by 31.2% African Rand.
in sterling terms, marginally better than its own benchmark index, which fell by In spite of this years falls, we continue 32.1%.
All the major markets of the Far to believe that the prospects for East were extremely weak.
The fund has achieving absolute returns in equities in continued to hold overweight positions these markets remain positive.
It is in Hong Kong and China, as these impossible, when investing in Asia and appear to offer the best combination of emerging markets, to be unaware of the growth opportunities and quality increasingly significant influence of the management, and has been Chinese and Indian economies, which underweight in Taiwan and Korea.
It is are both lowering the costs of disappointing that stock-picking has not manufactured goods and increasing been able to reduce the extent of the demand for primary resources, such as decline in value by a greater amount.
These We made some new purchases of direct developments are changing demand 1 South Africas Anglo American Platinum is the worlds largest platinum producer.
holdings in Asia, adding Korea and supply equilibria at a global level.
Picture courtesy of Anglo American Tobacco & Ginseng to our successful We think that such trends benefit our Platinum.
holding in BAT Malaysia, and buying markets disproportionately, and our 2 Yukos has massive oil reserves in Siberia.
SK Telecom, one of the worlds most portfolio has been evolving to reflect Picture courtesy of Yukos.
advanced wireless telecoms operators, these factors.
One of the biggest drags on our performance overall this year has been the low weighting we have had in Australia, whose performance has been outstanding compared with the Asian markets.
The main cause of this outperformance has been the uncharacteristic strength of the Australian dollar, which caught us by surprise.
We also entirely reshaped the Australian portion of the portfolio, replacing Brambles and Coles Myer, which had disappointed operationally, with Fosters, the beer and wine THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17
