DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual Report together with the results of the Company for the year to 30 April 2003. Review of Activities During the year under review the Company has followed the normal activities of an investment trust company.
A review of the main features of the year is contained in the Chairmans Statement and in the Managers Portfolio Review on the preceding pages.
Dividends The Board recommends a final dividend of 0.65p per ordinary share which, together with the interim already paid, makes a total of 1.05p for the year.
If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary shares will be paid on 11 August 2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18 July 2003.
After payment of the dividend the accumulated revenue balance is increased by 77,000 to 17,188,000.
Status The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
It was approved by the Inland Revenue as an investment trust under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 30 April 2001.
For the year ended 30 April 2002 the Company has received approval under section 842 subject to matters that may arise from any subsequent enquiry by the Inland Revenue into the Companys tax return.
In the opinion of the Directors the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to continue to obtain such approval and it will continue to seek approval under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
Corporate Governance The Board has considered the principles set out in the Combined Code and believes that the Companys current practice, given the special circumstances of an investment trust company, is in all material respects consistent with those principles.
The Principles of Good Governance The Board The Boards regular meetings take place every two months.
It has a number of matters reserved for its approval, including investment policy, borrowings, treasury matters and dividend policy.
The Board also reviews the financial statements, investment transactions, revenue budgets and performance.
The Board currently comprises seven Directors, all of whom are non-executive and are considered independent of the Companys Managers.
Mr DCP McDougall was a senior partner of Baillie Gifford & Co until he retired on 30 April 1999.
The executive responsibilities for investment management have been delegated to the Companys Managers and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, and in the context of a Board comprised entirely of non-executive Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
Mr CKR Nunneley was appointed Chairman in 1996 and is also the senior independent member.
The Directors all have appropriate business and financial experience with which to conduct the business of the Board.
Information about them can be found on page 4.
Given the non-executive nature of the Board a separate nomination committee has not been established.
It is the view of the Board that the appointment of new Directors should be a matter for consideration by the Board as a whole.
Upon appointment each Director is provided with a summary of the responsibilities and duties of directors, together with relevant background information on the Company.
Consistent with the recommendation of the Code of Best Practice, the Board arranges appropriate training for new Directors where necessary.
24 x DIRECTORS REPORT Under the provisions of the Companys Articles, a Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Articles also require that one third of the Directors retire by rotation and that they submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
Remuneration Since all Directors are non-executive, the Company is not required to comply with principles B.
3 of the Combined Code in respect of executive Directors remuneration.
The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 29 and 30.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The practical measures to ensure compliance with regulation and company law, and to provide effective and efficient operations and investment management, have been delegated to the Managers and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of the Management Agreement.
The Board acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise and control the discharge by the Managers and Secretaries of their obligations.
Baillie Gifford & Co are responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of control policies and procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company and to manage its affairs properly.
This responsibility also extends to maintaining effective operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The Companys investments are segregated from those of Baillie Gifford & Co and their other clients through the appointment of The Bank of New York and Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd as independent custodians of the Companys investments.
Baillie Gifford & Co has an established compliance function in accordance with Financial Services Authority regulations.
The compliance function provides the Board with a report on monitoring procedures at least annually.
Baillie Gifford & Co conducts an annual review of its system of internal controls which is documented within an internal controls report.
This report is independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors.
A copy of the internal controls report is submitted to the Board.
The Baillie Gifford & Co partner in charge of internal audit and compliance provides the Board with regular reports on its monitoring programmes.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system and that they have procedures in place to review its effectiveness on a regular basis.
The Board has undertaken a full review of all aspects of the published guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance and has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company, in accordance with the Turnbull recommendations.
To ensure that risk management and internal controls are considered on a regular basis and that a full risk and control assessment is undertaken on an annual basis, the following processes have been established in compliance with the guidance: internal controls strategy has been formalised following the production of a detailed risk map whereby significant risks are identified and the key controls to manage these risks are confirmed as in place and operating effectively: reporting procedures for the internal audit department, in respect of its risk framework monitoring and audit programme, and the compliance department, in respect of its regulatory monitoring programme, are defined and formalised within a service level agreement: and regular reports on internal controls are prepared by the Managers and submitted for Board review.
These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly to the nature and extent of the risks facing the Company and that they are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have been identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to assess whether further action is required to manage the risks identified.
The Board confirms that these procedures have been in place throughout the Companys financial year, are operating effectively and continue to be in place up to the date of approval of this Report.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25 DIRECTORS REPORT Accountability and Audit The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the auditors in connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 28 and 31.
The accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis as it is the Directors opinion that the Company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
An audit committee has been established in compliance with the Combined Code consisting of all non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered independent.
Its authority and duties are clearly defined within its written terms of reference.
The Chairman of the Board has been appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The committee meets periodically to review the Companys interim and annual financial statements.
It meets at least annually with the external auditors and approves the level of fees for audit and non-audit services.
An Investment Management Agreement between the Company and Baillie Gifford & Co sets out the matters over which the Managers have authority in accordance with the policies and directions of, and subject to restrictions imposed by, the Board.
The Management Agreement is terminable on not less than 12 months notice and the Audit Committee regularly reviews the terms of the Management Agreement.
Relations with Shareholders The Companys Managers meet regularly with shareholders and their representatives and report to the Board.
The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for communication with shareholders and the Board announces the level of proxies lodged.
The notice period for the Annual General Meeting is at least 20 working days.
The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the investment managers, Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote against resolutions that they consider may damage shareholders rights or economic interests.
Baillie Gifford & Co give due weight to what they consider to be socially responsible investment when making investment decisions, but their overriding objective is to produce good investment returns for shareholders.
Compliance The Board considers that throughout the year the Company has been in compliance with the Combined Code Provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the UK Listing Authority of the Financial Services Authority.
There is no nomination committee, the absence of which has been explained above.
As previously stated, internal control procedures have been in place throughout the Companys financial year which accord with the guidance for directors on compliance with the Combined Code.
Directors The Directors at the end of the year under review, and their interests in the Company, were as follows: Nature Ordinary 5p shares held at Name of interest 30 April 2003 30 April 2002 CKR Nunneley Beneficial 10,000 10,000 JGD Ferguson Beneficial 10,000 Lord Howell Beneficial 6,150 6,150 DCP McDougall Beneficial 1,375,000 1,375,000 MB Sayers Beneficial 13,100 13,100 CFE Shakerley Mr MB Sayers and Mr CFE Shakerley will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
Mr DCP McDougall offers himself for re-election having served three consecutive years and, being eligible, is recommended by the Board.
Mr EM Harley was appointed to the Board on 3 June 2003 and his appointment falls to be confirmed at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr EM Harley purchased 10,000 shares, in which he has a beneficial interest, on 4 June 2003.
There have been no other changes intimated in the Directors interests up to 12 June 2003.
26 DIRECTORS REPORT Substantial Holdings The following information has been intimated to the Company as at 12 June 2003 in compliance with section 198 of the Companies Act 1985: Name Number of ordinary 5p shares held % of issue Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd 14,556,912 4.95 U. S. Steel and Carnegie Pension Plan 12,820,000 4.36 The Standard Life Assurance Company 10,942,365 3.72 Legal and General Investment Management Limited 9,071,665 3.08 Repurchase of Shares The Companys buy back authority was last renewed at the AGM on 29 July 2002 in respect of 44,123,858 shares of 5p each equivalent to 14.99% of its then issued share capital.
During the year to 30 April 2003 the Company bought back 10,775,000 ordinary shares nominal value 538,750, on the London Stock Exchange for cancellation.
The total consideration for those shares was 20,557,000.
The principal reasons for share buy-backs are: i to enhance net asset value for continuing shareholders by purchasing shares at a discount to the prevailing net asset value: ii to address any imbalance between the supply of and the demand for Monks shares that results in a discount of the quoted market price to the published net asset value per share.
Shares are purchased at a price after allowing for costs below the net asset value and subsequently cancelled, thereby reducing the issued share capital see note 16 on page 42.
As a result of such purchases, since April 1999 the net asset value per share of the Company is approximately 4% higher than it would otherwise have been.
The Directors are seeking shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting to renew the authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the date of passing of the resolution, such authority to expire at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in respect of the year ending 30 April 2004 or 5 February 2005, whichever is the earlier.
Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority of the Financial Services Authority, the maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of the authority must not exceed 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the shares over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
The minimum price that may be paid will be 5p per share.
Purchases of shares will be made within guidelines established, from time to time, by the Board.
Your attention is drawn to Special Business, Resolution No.
9, in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Creditor Payment Policy It is the Companys payment policy to obtain the best terms for all business.
In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is its policy to abide by these terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at either 30 April 2002 or 30 April 2003.
Auditors Following the conversion of our auditors  to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP on 1 January 2003,  resigned on 26 March 2003 and the Directors appointed its successor,  LLP, as auditors.
Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
By order of the Board BAILLIE GIFFORD & Co Managers and Secretaries 16 June 2003 THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27
