MANAGERS OVERVIEW Managers Overview The year to April 2003 was a poor one for absolute return, and we were also a little behind our main comparative index, the FTSE World in sterling terms.
However, our performance was reasonable compared with other investment trusts: over the year we were just in the top half of the Global Growth Sector of AITC members, and we were fourth of the ten largest generalist trusts those with assets over 400m.
As can be seen from the table below, our stock selection was less good last year than in previous years, and we only outperformed in the UK.
However, we were able to offset virtually the whole of the negative effect of our long term debt by having holdings in fixed interest and by our choice of investments in that asset class.
As well as the significant changes to our overall strategy noted in the Chairmans Statement, there are three sector changes worth noting.
The first is our increase in the healthcare and pharmaceuticals sector, which has increased from 9.2% to 11.8%, the second the increase in telecommunications, from 2.0% to 5.0% and the third the addition to our holdings in non-life insurance from 2.3% to 4.0%.
PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION FOR THE YEAR TO 30 APRIL 2003 Computed relative to the FTSE World Index in sterling terms with net income reinvested.
PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION in sterling terms Contribution Monks Contribution attributable to: Index allocation asset allocation Performance to relative Stock Asset 30.04.02 30.04.03 30.04.02 30.04.03 Monks Index return selection allocation Portfolio breakdown % % % % % % % % % UK 10.8 10.5 26.5 29.6 17.8 21.4 1.3 1.3 Europe ex.
The above returns are calculated on a total return basis with net income reinvested.
Monks figures represent returns on the Companys portfolio and the index figures for each geographical area represent the return on the appropriate FTSE World Index.
Asset allocation includes the contribution attributable to currency movements.
8 MANAGERS OVERVIEW The chart below compares Monks performance in each of the geographical regions in which it invests with the relevant local index.
Source: HSBC Thomson Financial Datastream The above figures are calculated on a total return basis with income reinvested.
Equities includes limited partnerships and OEICs.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 9
