DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Directors and Management Directors CKR Nunneley.
Charles Nunneley, who is 67, was appointed a Director in 1977 and became Chairman in 1996.
He is chairman of Edinburgh Fund Managers Group plc.
He is a former Chairman of the Nationwide Building Society and of The National Trust and is a former deputy chairman of Robert Fleming Holdings Ltd. JGD Ferguson.
James Ferguson, who is 55, was appointed a Director of Monks in 2002.
He is a former chairman of Stewart Ivory and is currently chairman of Value & Income Trust plc and a director of The Independent Investment Trust PLC.
He is also a former deputy chairman of the Association of Investment Trust Companies and a Charles Nunneley former member of the Executive Committee of the Chairman Fund Managers Association.
Edward Harley, who was appointed a CFE Shakerley.
Tim Shakerley, who is 68, is a former Director of Monks on 3 June 2003, is 43 and is a chairman of Provincial Group PLC and Provincial director at Cazenove Fund Management.
He is a director of Jupiter Enhanced Cazenove in 1983, becoming a partner in 1994, Income Trust PLC.
Formerly senior partner of the and has considerable experience of overseas markets stockbroking firm of Roger Mortimer & Co and a most recently with responsibility for the firms director of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group, he business in S. E. Asia and Australia.
He is a director became a Director of the Company in 1984. of a number of companies including The Historic Houses Association as well as being involved with several charities.
Managers and Secretaries Lord Howell.
David Howell, who is 67, is the Monks is managed by Baillie Gifford & Co, an official Opposition Spokesman on Foreign Affairs in investment management firm formed in 1927 out of the House of Lords.
He was formerly Secretary of the legal firm Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had State for Energy and for Transport and was an been involved in investment management since advisory director of UBS Warburg.
Director of the Company in 1993.
Baillie Gifford is one of the largest investment trust DCP McDougall.
Douglas McDougall, who is 59, is groups in the UK and currently manages six chairman of Law Debenture Corporation plc, The investment trusts.
Baillie Gifford also manages unit Independent Investment Trust PLC, Foreign & trusts and Open Ended Investment Companies, Colonial Eurotrust PLC, Pacific Horizon Investment together with investment portfolios on behalf of Trust PLC and 3i Bioscience Investment Trust PLC.
pension funds, charities and other institutional He is a former senior partner of Baillie Gifford & clients, both in the UK and overseas.
Funds under Co and a former chairman of IMRO, of the the management or advice of Baillie Gifford total Association of Investment Trust Companies and of around 22 billion.
Based in Edinburgh, it is one the Fund Managers Association.
He was appointed of the leading privately owned investment a Director of the Company in 1999. management firms in the UK, with 24 partners and MB Sayers.
Michael Sayers, who is 69, was a staff of around 400. appointed a Director in 1995.
He is a former The manager of Monks portfolio is Richard Burns, partner of Norton Rose, solicitors, where his main a senior partner of Baillie Gifford.
Stock selection is responsibilities lay in the areas of corporate finance primarily the responsibility of specialist teams and company law.
He has held non-executive covering all the regions of the world.
directorships in a number of public and private companies.
Currently he is the chairman of Emess The firm of Baillie Gifford & Co is authorised and plc and a trustee of several charities.
regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
