Your Board Chairman Blaise Hardman, aged 63, was appointed a Director in August 1988 and became Chairman in January 1999.
He is a merchant banker and former chairman of Morgan Grenfell & Co Limited.
His other directorships include The Fleming Japanese Investment Trust and Whiteaway Laidlaw Bank Limited.
He is director of treasury for Scottish Power, a director of a number of companies in the ScottishPower Group, a Trustee of the ScottishPower Pension Scheme and a member of PacifiCorps pension investment committee.
He was formerly a director of Grand Metropolitan Finance and chairman of the Scottish Branch of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He was previously a director of Robert Fleming Holdings and chairman of Fleming Investment Trust Management.
He is chairman of The Fleming Leveraged Emerging Market Portfolio, 3i European Technology Trust and Vtesse Networks.
He is also a director of BFS UK Dual Return Investment Trust, The Fleming Japanese Investment Trust, J P Morgan Fleming Emerging Markets Investment Trust, J P Morgan Fleming Russian Securities, Martin Currie Pacific Trust, Merrill Lynch Asset Allocator and NIB Holdings International.
She is head of Funds and Financial Services at Shepherd Wedderburn solicitors.
She is also a director of a number of companies in the Shepherd Wedderburn group.
He was elected to Parliament in 1979 and held a number of Ministerial posts.
He is chairman of WH Ireland & Co Stockbrokers, Sir David Trippier Associates and Murray VCT.
He is also a director of Granada Television, St Modwen Properties and Nord Anglia.
Re-election of Directors Directors who are retiring by rotation and offer themselves for re-election for a further period of three years.
Director who is standing for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following her appointment.
Manager Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited is the Manager of the Company and is part of the Aberdeen Asset Management group of companies, which had 20.8 billion of funds under management as at 29 August 2003.
