Investment Managers Review Last years Investment Managers Review talked of a difficult period for equity investors with high levels of volatility, a description that would also seem appropriate for the year to 30 June 2003.
Once again equity investors had to endure a period of negative returns, culminating in a sell-off in March 2003.
This sell-off preceded the start of the conflict in Iraq, and the prospect of hostilities is never welcome to equity investors.
This was, by far, the worst bear market experienced in the UK for thirty years and even after their recent recovery, which has continued after the Companys year-end, share prices remain well below previous highs.
In this rally, investors are looking through the current relatively sluggish economic background.
They have increased their appetite for risk and have favoured more cyclical stocks with the potential for a recovery in profits.
This has been at the expense of more defensive sectors.
Concerns about weaker economic growth and its impact upon corporate profits have never been far from the headlines during the year, contributing to the fall in equity prices.
Despite a difficult economic background in many of its trading partners, the UK economy has avoided recession.
The rapid increase in public sector expenditure has bolstered the performance of the economy, but, despite this, growth in GDP has recently been below its trend level.
The consumer sector, in particular, is experiencing slower growth and unemployment is now stabilising, albeit at a very low level.
Partly due to higher taxation, real income growth has slowed markedly.
Short-term interest rates have been very stable over the last year with only one change occurring, a reduction to 3.75%.
There has been a further small reduction to 3.5%.
Long term interest rates fell steadily with yields on government bonds falling below 4% shortly before the Companys year end.
Bond yields have subsequently risen, and are now above the levels of a year ago.
Performance In contrast to the previous year, the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index did not provide a haven in difficult times, and slightly underperformed the more broadly based FTSE All-Share Index.
The bulk of this underperformance came towards the end of the period when share prices began to recover from their lowest levels and investors were willing to tolerate a higher level of risk, at the expense of more defensive sectors such as utilities.
The performance of your Companys portfolio was below that of the benchmark FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index for the year to 30 June 2003.
In a falling market this was exaggerated due to the effects of gearing on the Net Asset Value.
The relative contribution from the important oil & gas sector was positive due to the underweight position in BP, the largest consituent of the benchmark index.
There was a negative contribution from certain holdings, during the year, within the basic industries and general industrials sectors, as trading conditions weakened and share prices reacted adversely.
Within the banks sector, the portfolio had an underweight position in HSBC, which contributed to the underperformance.
12 Murray Income Trust PLC Investment Managers Review Performance Analysis 1 year % Net Asset Value total return per Ordinary share 15.9 Benchmark return 11.2 4.7 Attribution a Stock Selection Resources 0.2 Basic Industries 0.5 General Industrials 0.5 Cyclical Consumer Goods 0.1 Non-Cyclical Consumer Goods 0.5 Cyclical Services 0.1 Non-Cyclical Services 0.3 Utilities 0.3 Financials 0.6 2.5 b Asset allocation 0.3 c Gearing cash effect 1.6 d Management fees and other expenses 0.9 Total 4.7 Source: FTSE AAM.
Notes to Performance Analysis Selection effect measures the effect of security selection within each asset category.
Allocation effect measures the impact of over or underweighting each asset category, relative to the benchmark weights.
Gearing cash effect measures the impact on relative returns of net borrowing.
Management fees and other expenses these reduce total assets and therefore reduce performance.
It is calculated by dividing expenses incurred during the year by average total assets less current liabilities.
Rounding attribution effects have been rounded to add up to the overall relative return.
Strategy The portfolio continues to be run with a view to maintaining a relatively low risk and diversified spread of investments.
It remains less concentrated than the Companys benchmark, the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index, although the underlying yield of the portfolio is close to that of the benchmark.
At the end of the financial year, over 20% of the portfolio was held in stocks outwith the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index.
In a period when capital values have again disappointed, it is pleasing to report that the Companys revenue account remains strong.
The focus upon companies with good cash flow and dividend paying capabilities has ensured that, as well as increasing the dividend at a rate greater than inflation, there is once again a transfer to revenue reserve, which for the year ended 30 June 2003 was 660,000.
The revenue forecast for the current year remains encouraging.
Murray Income Trust PLC 13 Investment Managers Review Activity There was a modest increase in gearing within the portfolio during the year, with an increase in bank borrowings from 31m to a closing level of 35m.
In a falling market, the gearing clearly had a negative impact upon Shareholders Funds.
It was only in the latter part of the financial year, as the stock market recovered, that the gearing began to have a beneficial effect.
Portfolio turnover again remained relatively low during the year, amounting to approximately 14% of the portfolio.
One feature of the portfolio was a continued reduction in the number of holdings which totalled 61 at the year end, compared with 76 a year earlier.
A similar reduction is not anticipated in the current year.
The revenue flow from the portfolio remains satisfactory and the ability of portfolio constituents to maintain dividends is monitored regularly.
The holdings in Britannic, Prudential and Scottish & Newcastle were sold due to concerns about the sustainability of their dividend payments.
All have subsequently announced reductions in dividend payments.
The holding in United Utilities was switched into Kelda, due to the latters stronger balance sheet and dividend paying capabilities.
A new holding was established in Cattles, a provider of consumer finance which is enjoying strong growth in earnings and dividends as it expands into new market segments.
Within the same sector, the existing holding in Provident Financial was increased.
This company has a different strategy with its growth taking place overseas as well as in the UK.
Part of the holding in BP, the largest in the portfolio, was switched into Shell as this offered better value.
The price of Hanson, a producer of building materials, fell on concerns about the earnings exposure to asbestos claims in the US.
This gave the opportunity to increase the holding.
The holding in Aviva, the insurance company, was increased with the proceeds of the Prudential sales.
Aviva had already reduced its dividend payment.
Within the Banks sector, part of the holding in HBOS was switched into Royal Bank of Scotland which offers better growth prospects.
Outlook Share prices have continued their steady recovery from the trough of the bear market reached in March of this year, but remain well below their peak levels.
Investors remain realistic about valuations and the prospective returns than can be expected.
The economic outlook in the UK remains unexciting, with GDP growth unlikely to meet the Governments optimistic estimate for 2003 or 2004.
The weakness in demand from many European countries will not help the UK economy but both monetary and fiscal policy remains stimulative.
The current level of short-term interest rates is unlikely to be reduced significantly from here: however, in the future the mantle of growth will have to move away from consumer expenditure where growth continues to slow.
The continued growth in consumer indebtedness in this country is attracting concern, particularly as real income growth slows.
The interest cost of new debt is currently low, but if both interest rates and unemployment were to rise sharply there would inevitably be problems.
While prospects for growth in both profits and dividends are not particularly strong, this is recognised by share ratings.
These continue to offer value and hence the prospect of further share price gains in due course.
Ross Watson 10 September 2003 Investment Manager 14 Murray Income Trust PLC
