Your Board The Board of Directors, all of whom are non-executive and the majority of whom are independent of the Manager, supervises the management of Murray International Trust and looks after the interests of Shareholders.
John Trott Chairman and Independent Non-Executive Director Relevant experience and other directorships: He is currently chairman of The Brunner Investment Trust plc and was formerly chairman of The Standard Life Assurance Company.
Length of Service: He was appointed a Director on 23 October 2000 and Chairman on 6 November 2002.
Age: 66 Committee member: Audit Committee, Management Engagement Committee Chairman and Nomination Committee Chairman.
Employment by the Manager: None Other connections with Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Board Meetings attended during the year ended 31 December 2003: Five Shareholding in Company : 15,000 Ordinary shares Lady Balfour of Burleigh Independent Non-Executive Director Relevant experience and other directorships: She taught politics and modern history at Oxford University, before moving to the Central Policy Review Staff in the Cabinet Office.
She has worked for governments in many countries and for a number of public companies.
Her other current directorships are at Cable & Wireless plc: The Scottish American Investment Trust plc: The Scottish Oriental Smaller Companies Trust plc: The Nuclear Generation Decommissioning Fund Limited: BPB plc: and Stagecoach plc.
Length of Service: She was appointed a Director on 30 September 2003.
Age: 58 Committee member: Audit Committee, Management Engagement Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Employment by the Manager: None Other connections with Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: On the board of The Nuclear Generation Decommissioning Fund Limited with Sir Raymond Johnstone.
Board Meetings attended during the year ended 31 December 2003: Two appointed 30 September 2003 Shareholding in Company : 1,300 Ordinary shares Murray International Trust PLC 3 Your Board continued David Benson Independent Non-Executive Director Relevant experience and other directorships: He is senior adviser to Fleming Family Partners and was until 24 March 2003 chairman of Charter European Trust plc.
He is chairman of the COIF Charity Funds and a non-executive director of BG plc and Daniel Thwaites plc.
He is also a director of the Rouse Company and Dover Corporation in the USA and was formerly vice-chairman of Kleinwort Benson Group Plc.
Length of Service: He was appointed a Director on 25 October 1999.
Age: 66 Committee member: Management Engagement Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Employment by the Manager: None Other connections with Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Board Meetings attended during the year ended 31 December 2003: Four Shareholding in Company : 4,000 Ordinary shares Sir Raymond Johnstone CBE Non-Executive Director Relevant experience and other directorships: Sir Raymond was from its incorporation in 1968 until he retired in 1988, Managing Director and from 1988 to 1992, Chairman of Murray Johnstone Limited, the Companys former Manager.
Murray Johnstone was acquired by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC in December 2000.
His other directorships include The Nuclear Generation Decommissioning Fund Limited.
Length of Service: He was appointed a Director in November 1989.
Age: 74 Committee member: Remuneration Committee.
Employment by the Manager: See other connections with the Trust or Manager.
Other connections with Trust or Manager: former Chairman and Managing Director of Murray Johnstone Limited Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: On the board of The Nuclear Generation Decommissioning Fund Limited with Lady Balfour of Burleigh.
Board Meetings attended during the year ended 31 December 2003: Five Shareholding in Company : Beneficial 19,280 Ordinary shares, 10,000 B Ordinary shares, non-beneficial 18,191 Ordinary shares 4 Murray International Trust PLC Fred Shedden Independent Non-Executive Director Relevant experience and other directorships: He is a former senior partner of McGrigor Donald now McGrigors.
He is chairman of Martin Currie Japan Investment Trust plc and Halladale Group plc and is a non-executive director of The Equitable Life Assurance Society and Iomart Group plc.
He is also a Governor of Glasgow School of Art and a member of The Scottish Further Education Funding Council.
Length of Service: He was appointed a Director on 23 October 2000.
Age: 59 Committee member: Audit Committee Chairman, Management Engagement Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Employment by the Manager: None Other connections with Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Board Meetings attended during the year ended 31 December 2003: Five Shareholding in Company : 2,461 Ordinary shares All shareholdings are beneficial unless otherwise stated Murray International Trust PLC 5
