Marketing Strategy Murray International Trust contributes to the Marketing Newsletter Programme run by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on AAM, on behalf of a number of investment trusts under markets and investment trusts managed by AAM is its management.
This agreement sees the Companys distributed free of charge.
contribution matched by AAM and is now 405,000 plus Public relations VAT a year, reviewed on an annual basis calendar year.
The Manager undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively through placed articles and ensure Company results and any with existing Shareholders and gain more new Shareholders, corporate activity are brought to public attention.
thus improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and rating of the Companys shares.
AAMs experience has Shareholder services also shown that well-targeted marketing of the Companys AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and investment merits through packaged products, whether investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant singly, or in conjunction with other trusts run by AAM, can literature on request and have queries answered be a cost-effective way of gaining new investors.
The Marketing Programme is under the direction of AAMs Investment Trust Marketing Director, These aims can be met in several ways: who has eighteen years experience in the marketing and communications of investment products.
He is supported by Investor relations programme a team of three marketing professionals.
AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
Each Internet month, institutional investors and prospects receive a Murray International Trust has its own dedicated website: Managers report on your Company that includes detailed http: www.
This allows web performance analysis.
users to access information on the Companys share price performance, capital structure, stock exchange Group Schemes announcements and monthly reports.
The site is AAM runs a group Share Plan, PEP and ISA.
These continuously being evaluated for improvement.
schemes allow investment free of dealing costs and with only nominal exit charges, have proved popular with private It is intended that ongoing Programme activities in these investors.
various fields, both proactive and supportive, will assist the Company to increase and maintain its Shareholder base, Direct response advertising improve liquidity and sustain ratings.
The Manager advertises the packaged product availability of The Company is committed to a close monitoring of the the Trust in selected national broadsheets as well as the Marketing Programme.
The Marketing Director provides a specialist financial press.
written summary quarterly to the Board.
If you have any questions about your Company, the Direct mail Manager or performance, please telephone our Customer Periodic mail shots of information packs inviting named Services Department direct private investors on 0500 00 addressees to respond is a low-cost method of building 00 40 or our Broker Desk on 0800 592 487 Institutions awareness and investor databases.
Target groups include and IFAs.
Alternatively, internet users may e-mail us on existing holders of other AAM investment trusts as well as inv.
com or write to us at 10 Queens known buyers of investment trusts.
56 Murray International Trust PLC Other ways to Invest in Murray International Trust PLC Aberdeen Investment Trust Share Plan Mini ISA AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares AAM offers a Mini ISA which will enable investors to invest in Murray International Trust can be purchased.
There are up to 3,000 in the tax year 2003 2004. no dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum can be a significant amount.
Investors only pay Government investments start at 250, while regular savers may invest Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on purchases.
Selling costs are from just 50 per month.
Investors simply pay Government 15 VAT.
The annual ISA management charge is 0.5% Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on entry.
Selling costs are 10 VAT, calculated monthly and deducted from income half VAT.
There is no restriction on how long an investor need yearly.
Under current legislation, investments in ISAs can invest in a Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend grow free of income or capital gains tax.
In the case of participation by instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In dividends from equity assets held within an ISA, a 10% tax common with other schemes of this type, all investments are credit will be reclaimed until April 2004, when the tax held in nominee accounts.
Investors have full voting and credit will be abolished.
other rights of share ownership.
AAM offers both a Mini and Maxi stocks and shares ISA, Trust Information through which shares in Murray International Trust can be If investors would like details of Murray International Trust purchased.
or information on the Share Plan or ISA please telephone 0500 00 00 40 or write to Aberdeen Asset Managers Maxi ISA Limited, 10 Queens Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG or e-mail An investment of up to 7,000 in Murray International at inv.
Details are also available Trust can be made in the tax year 2003 2004. by accessing the internet on the following page: http: www.
com The information above is issued and has been approved for the purposes of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, One Bow Churchyard, Cheapside, London EC4M 9HH which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
