Investment Managers Report Background selection contribution in the UK came from Atrium The very sharp rally in global stockmarkets that Underwriting, which enjoyed another very good year.
commenced with the onset of hostilities in Iraq broke a cycle of decline in markets which had persisted USA since March 2000 and rescued investors from an After an extended period of monetary easing the US almost unprecedented fourth consecutive year of economy began meaningfully to pick up pace in the decline in global markets.
As ever, many factors will third quarter.
The additional catalysts for recovery have played a role but the key catalysts were the will no doubt be seen to include the removal of growing awareness that Iraq could be a largely selfuncertainty over Iraq, significant fiscal stimulation contained, albeit difficult, problem and the very clear and the clearly expressed intention of the central intention by the US fiscal and monetary authorities to bank to use unconventional monetary policy, if engineer a recovery in economic growth.
In the event necessary, to stimulate recovery.
It might seem their efforts were crowned with a greater degree of churlish to question the sustainability of this recovery success than we had thought likely partly due to the when it seems only just to have started, but there is erroneous assumption that the consumer might be no doubt that the starting point of this recovery is reluctant to assume ever higher levels of debt and very unusual.
In the past the starting point for market returns exceeded the managers expectations.
recovery has seen a US current account that is more or less in balance and a private sector savings rate of Currency movements played a major part in c. 5% of GDP.
Currently we have a US current establishing overall market returns.
In local currency account deficit of 5% of GDP, a budget deficit of terms most major market areas were relatively tightly similar magnitude and private sector dissaving.
The bunched in a range of 18.7% for the UK to 28.4% recession that occurred in the aftermath of the stock for the USA.
When expressed in sterling, however, market and capital spending bubble was mild which reflects the weakness of the dollar and the precisely because the consumer was able to keep strength of the euro, a wider spread of returns was going due to growth in his disposable income apparent in a range of 15.4% for the USA to lower interest rates leading to sharply lower 29.8% for Europe - ex UK.
borrowing costs and to mortgage refinancing gains, equity extraction from a still buoyant housing market Performance and, latterly, to significant tax cuts.
However, he The Net Asset Value Total Return for the year to enters 2004 with record levels of debt and effectively 31 December 2003 with net dividends reinvested was with no pent-up demand but with the prospect of the 25.5% compared with a return on the benchmark unwinding of some of these impulses to his spending index of 19.9%.
A full attribution analysis is given power.
Fortunately there are signs of a pick-up in on page 22 which details the various influences on corporate capital spending and some recovery in the the performance of the portfolio and it is pleasing to employment numbers albeit unusually subdued note that each of the main drivers of performance which will be helpful but it is uncertain whether contributed positively to the overall results for the overall growth in incomes, which is key to sustaining year.
In summary, of the 690 basis points before growth at forecast levels, can come in at the level expenses of performance above the index, asset required to meet these forecasts.
allocation contributed 530, stock selection 160 and structural effects relating to the fixed interest In classical economics when the public sector goes portfolio, net of borrowing and hedging costs, 40 into substantial deficit the private sector rebuilds its basis points.
Within asset allocation, the largest savings and vice-versa.
The current situation is contribution came from our significant overweighting distinctly lop-sided in this regard and it is foreigners of the Pacific - ex Japan region but there were also who are financing the US savings shortfalls albeit at material contributions from an overweight position in ever declining levels of the dollar.
It remains the emerging markets and in Europe the latter in part managers view that the medium-term implication of due to currency strength.
Stock selection within this situation is a slower pace of US economic growth these regions, with the exception of Japan, was and a continuation of the dollars downtrend, but a generally good and particularly so in Europe and in weaker currency does not of itself address the Asia.
It should be noted that all of the stock fundamental imbalances of a savings short economy.
Murray International Trust PLC 19 Investment Managers Report continued The FTSE-World US index enjoyed a significant rally was ahead of benchmark but, for the second year in a of some 28.4% in dollar terms which was significantly row, this was due entirely to another strong eroded in sterling terms to 15.4% by dollar performance from our large holding in Atrium weakness.
Expectations for economic recovery drove Underwriting which gained 58.5% over the year.
On technology issues in particular as well as non-dividend the negative side, our overweighting of the energy paying and arguably lower grade companies seen to sector was particularly unhelpful.
Given widespread be in some trouble e. g. for balance sheet or pension expectations that the oil price would drop to $22 funding reasons which was not helpful to our barrel after the Iraqi war Brent is currently $31 a portfolio in the US.
However, the overall portfolio barrel and will have averaged $28 for the year and stance of being significantly underweight US dollar given strong balance sheet and attractive dividend assets was vindicated and, given the reservations yields it is a little difficult to understand exactly why expressed above on current imbalances and concerns this should have been the case.
Going forward the over relative valuations, the manager intends to retain manager sees some merit in maintaining this position this underweighting for the time being.
both on valuation yield considerations and as a hedge against any unpleasant occurrence in a still volatile UK region.
Recent economic numbers in the UK have tended to improve, as have forward looking surveys of Europe confidence and intentions.
In many respects, Recovery to date in Europe has been more subdued, however, the UK economy bears more than a passing lagging the US in particular, partly because recovery resemblance to some of the more concerning issues has been predominantly export led despite the manifest in the US economy.
For example, corporate strength of the Euro and partly because the ECB was balance sheet problems have been replaced by more cautious in the pace at which it reduced interest deterioration in both the household and public sector rates.
However cyclical indicators suggest the balance sheets and a growing current account deficit.
recovery has gathered momentum during the fourth The UK consumer has not been slow to avail himself quarter of 2003, improving the outlook for 2004. of easily granted credit at ever lower interest rates or Whether the pace of recovery in European growth to spend the equity he can extract from rising house can be sustained will largely depend on recovery in prices, now at very extended levels.
This has allowed household consumption, for which the signs are the UK to avoid a recession but means that many mixed.
Consumer confidence has slightly improved sectors are now even more indebted than when the but a convincing recovery in retail sales or other economy entered the recent slow-down.
The spending data is not yet evident.
At least the Chancellor will no doubt have enjoyed being able to European consumer still has a relatively high savings present economic numbers close to forecast in his rate and a relatively low debt ratio and consumer pre-budget statement to the House, but he may spending can be supported by modest changes to nonetheless be shifting a little uneasily in his seat.
Of course the strength of the Euro is seen as an For example, to the extent that the budget deficit impediment to growth but this perhaps needs to be some 10bn above forecast is structural rather than put in perspective.
For example, ahead of the Euros cyclical this should be addressed by fiscal tightening.
debut some five years ago, the large majority of This however raises a number of questions.
Does the academic and economic research, working from first electoral timetable permit?
Can he do so and retain principles, concluded that the currency was somewhat leadership aspirations?
Of course it then fell sharply for almost three years and is only now back to its original In short, the manager does not believe that the UK starting point in January 1999.
Moreover the issue is economy is quite the role model that some would much more complex at the individual company level.
That said, the valuation and, For global corporations what matters most is where especially, the level of yield in the global context are value is added and not the country of incorporation both relatively attractive and we have retained a as well as issues such as financing structure, weighting which is close to benchmark.
As is evident outsourcing, forward contracts and currency hedging from the analysis on page 22 overall performance policies.
20 Murray International Trust PLC In overall stock market terms, and very much against the rapid expansion of demand in China.
Whilst it is the consensus forecast, Europe was the best the case that the global economy is increasingly interperforming global region in sterling terms and our connected in some obvious ways globalisation, overweighting of the region was thus a positive for outsourcing, cyclical convergence the Asian region the portfolio.
Once again stock selection within has benefited from major strides being made by some Europe was positive, as shown on page 22, aided by very large emerging economies such as China and positions in cyclical stocks, sensitive to economic India, and is less dependent on the major Western recovery and with cheap valuations, such as Metro economies: also importantly has significantly reduced and Porsche in Germany, Vedior in the Netherlands its exposure to unpredictable short-term capital and Volvo in Sweden.
Our overweighting of the flows.
The Chinese economy continues to grow at energy sector, despite cheap valuations, was an close to 9% and unsurprisingly this pace of advance adverse factor as was our underweighting of banks brings with it concerns of overheating.
The Chinese although the holding in San Paulo IMI performed authorities have responded by implementing several spectacularly well.
A purchase of ING Dutch measures to curb excessive lending and speculation in insurer at the peak of the Iraq crisis proved to be the property market, whilst other limiting factors, well timed and helped to add value.
Going forward such as the availability of power, may serve to curb relative valuations in the global context are still the rate of growth.
Nonetheless growth is expected supportive of our overweighting of this region.
to remain strong and a positive for the region.
Pressures to revalue the renminbi, largely emanating Japan and Asia from the USA for political reasons, have increased in Economic developments in Japan have been distinctly recent months.
It is the managers view that there are enigmatic and have promised only to deceive on a number of structural reasons why the Chinese several occasions.
Japan has for some time been very would resist such pressures.
The optimum solution dependent on the external environment and still eventually might be to re-peg to a basket of appears to be following a typical export led path in a currencies, thereby locking in the advantage already cyclical upswing.
Importantly, however, it now seems secured against non-dollar currencies within a more that the outlook for the consumer may also be flexible framework for the future.
brightening with positive nominal wages growth, The Asian region performed strongly over the year falling unemployment and finally!
stabilisation in and the overweighting to the region contributed consumer prices after a long period of deflation.
In addition the portfolio benefited from this environment the growth in intra-Asian trade - very strong stock selection numbers as can be seen Japanese exports to Asia rose c. 14% and to China by from the attribution analysis.
Of particular note 40% - could lead to a better prospect for capital were the various energy exposures perhaps spending and consumption.
The Japanese stock suggesting the sector is less homogeneous than market return of 23.3% was usefully above our generally supposed!
with Bharat Petroleum in India, benchmark, justifying our overweighting this market.
PTT Exploration in Thailand and Petrochina all Unfortunately we suffered badly from stock selection registering significant gains, the last by a remarkable within the market as performance was heavily 187% in local currency.
Going forward the manager concentrated within sectors wholly or mainly exposed believes valuations in the region relative to growth to the domestic economy.
For example, Japanese expectations remain more attractive than for any banks, some of which may still be technically other major region.
Clearly China now assumes a insolvent, soared whilst successful global much greater importance than in the past and corporations including, of course, most exporters developments there will have to be closely monitored.
languished at least in a relative sense.
Growth in the rest of Asia continued to pick up strongly, Outlook notwithstanding a set back at the time of the SARS The rally that has occurred in global markets since outbreak, partly as a natural process of recovery from the low point in the spring has exceeded the the regional problems of 1997 98, partly due to managers expectations but may be fully justified if dollar currency links and, to an increasing extent, to the growth rates currently observed in the USA, and Murray International Trust PLC 21
