The Investment Process Philosophy and Style macroeconomic and monetary factors, value and Long term investment success demands a clear focus performance.
Country selection is driven overall by and a sound structure.
The Aberdeen Asset short and medium term estimates of macroeconomics, Management Group AAM has, as its primary politics and liquidity, and the market implications of objective in managing Murray International Trust, to those.
deliver consistent outperformance against the benchmark based on the concept of seeking growth at Stock Selection a reasonable price.
The investment manager, David Briggs, has responsibility for portfolio construction across all To achieve this, a disciplined investment process has regional segments.
Working closely with the relevant been developed.
However, to meet the different underlying desks in each case, portfolio construction performance objectives mandated for specific funds, is an interactive process.
The Manager utilises a there is built-in flexibility.
Global Equity Buy List which is constructed by Key decisions are implemented consistently across all each of the specialist country desks.
This list funds and portfolio risk limits are set and closely contains all buy and hold recommendations for monitored.
A continuous watch is kept over critical each desk, which are then used as the investment factors that influence investment decisions, so that universe.
If a stock no longer meets the criteria to be when views change, action is taken swiftly and included on the Buy List, it is sold within 30 days.
This process enables the investment manager to better reflect top down themes that emerge from the global Asset Allocation equity strategy and investment themes meetings that Based on the guidelines set by the AAM Investment take place monthly.
Strategy Committee, and after consultation with relevant AAM area specialists, the investment Risk Controls manager of Murray International Trust, David Briggs, Integral to the investment process is regular recommends asset allocation to the Board.
There is a provision, by a specialised team, of performance and strong top down influence to establish the risk analysis data to ensure that funds are operated economic overview and to identify potential within the terms of their mandate.
The approach is highly focussed As well as market price risk inherent in all portfolio and portfolios are tightly constructed to provide the investment, Murray International Trust is also greatest scope for outperformance within the agreed exposed to risk from movements in foreign exchange risk parameters.
rates and changes in interest rates.
Market price risk For Murray International Trust, regional allocation of is managed by strict adherence to parameters set for funds in line with guidelines set by the AAM portfolio construction.
The foreign exchange risk Investment Strategy Committee is the first stage of involved may be hedged by the use of forward the portfolio construction process.
At this stage, currency contracts.
Interest rate risk lies with the house views on specific global sectors are also taken portfolio holdings of fixed income securities and into account.
A detailed risk profile of the Company is given in Note 18 to the financial Established themes and trends are considered within statements on pages 50 to 53. the process of country allocation, which is also influenced by analysis of key data covering 18 Murray International Trust PLC
