Corporate Summary The Company Murray International Trust is an investment trust traded on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index.
Some 25,000 of its Shareholders are private investors.
Murray International Trust is differentiated from other investment trusts in that it offers the advantages of exposure to world markets while maintaining the higher income generally associated with the UK equity market.
Usually 100% of net assets will be invested in a diversified portfolio of international equities and around 25%, financed by borrowings, in a combination of lower risk fixed income securities and higher yielding equities.
Objective The primary aim of Murray International Trust is to achieve a total return greater than its benchmark by investing predominantly in equities worldwide.
Within this objective the Manager will seek to increase the Companys revenues in order to maintain an above average dividend yield.
History Murray International Trust started its life in 1907 as The Scottish Western Investment Company Limited.
The Scottish Western of the early days was very highly geared but it was mainly invested in bonds, though the international spread was just as great with countries such as Argentina, China, Japan, Canada and many others appearing in the portfolio.
Although the range of currencies was much smaller, multi currency or even goldbacked bonds were all the rage, as many of the eras bond certificates show.
The big move into equities came after the 1930s slump, when bond defaults forced the purchase of higher yielding equities to fund the costs of the trusts gearing.
The Managers were not slow to spot an opportunity, but it started as Hobsons choice, and was only later trumpeted as brilliant foresight.
In 1929 just under 20% of the assets were in equities, in 1940 38%, in 1948 51% of the assets, which were still only 2.65 million.
After deducting the preference shares which were repaid in 1999 and debentures, the Company was effectively over 100% geared into equities by the start of the great post war boom.
After a number of amalgamations, the Company emerged as a generalist investment trust.
However, there was an excess of trusts with a similar broad remit, so towards the end of the 1970s the Board defined the investment brief more narrowly as growth in income and capital through a well diversified portfolio.
Symbolised by the name change from Murray Western to Murray International Trust in 1984, the focus has since been on a relatively high yielding portfolio of equities in a well diversified mix of overseas markets supported by a substantial UK component.
Benchmark The Companys benchmark is a composite index made up as to 40% of the FTSE World-UK and 60% of the FTSE World ex-UK.
Capital Structure The Companys issued share capital as at 19 March 2004 consisted of 86,412,599 Ordinary shares of 25p each and 1,147,599 B Ordinary shares of 25p each.
The difference between the rights of the B Ordinary Shareholders and that of the Ordinary Shareholders is contained in the glossary on page 58.
Total Assets and Net Asset Value At 31 December 2003, the Company had Total Assets of 458.8m and a Net Asset Value per Ordinary and B Ordinary share of 424.2p.
See definition on page 58 Duration The Company does not have a fixed life.
Murray International Trust PLC 1 Corporate Summary continued Risk Many of the stocks in which the Company invests are exposed to the risk of political change, exchange controls, tax or other regulations which may affect their value and marketability.
Currency fluctuations may also affect the value of the Companys investments and the income derived therefrom.
Companies in emerging markets are not always subject to the equivalent accounting, auditing and financial standards of those in the United Kingdom.
There may therefore be less supervision and regulation in this respect.
Currently 70% of the investment trust managers charge is taken out of capital.
This increases distributable income at the expense of capital growth, which will either be eroded or constrained.
Maintaining a high level of dividend may also diminish capital value.
In common with most investment trusts, Murray International Trust is able to borrow for investment purposes.
The use of gearing is likely to lead to volatility in the Net Asset Value NAV, meaning that a relatively small movement either down or up in value of the Companys total assets will result in a magnified movement in the same direction of that NAV.
There is no guarantee that the market price of shares in investment trusts will fully reflect their underlying NAV.
The market prices of fixed interest stocks and, to a lesser extent, convertibles may be affected by changes in interest rates.
Share Dealing PEP ISA status Shares in Murray International Trust can be bought in the open market through a stockbroker.
They can also be purchased through Aberdeen savings schemes and fully qualify for inclusion within tax-efficient ISA wrappers see page 57.
Management Agreement Summary The Company has an agreement with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, for the provision of management services for a fee, as detailed in the Directors Report on page 28 and in Note 3 on page 44.
AITC Murray International Trust is a member of the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
com Company Secretary Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, 123 St. Vincent Street, Glasgow G2 5EA.
co. uk Customer Services Freephone: 0500 00 00 40 open Monday - Friday 9am - 5pm Email: inv.
com 2 Murray International Trust PLC
