16 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Board of Directors Bill Gammell Norman Murray Mike Watts Hamish Grossart Kevin Hart Ed Story Malcolm Thoms Todd Hunt Phil Tracy Mark Tyndall 17 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Bill Gammell Norman Murray Chief Executive 51 Non-Executive Chairman 56 Bill Gammell holds a BA in Economics and Accountancy Norman Murray was appointed an independent nonfrom Stirling University.
He founded Cairn and was executive director of Cairn in 1999 and Chairman in 2002. appointed Chief Executive on its initial listing in 1989.
Bill He qualified as a Scottish Chartered Accountant and has has over 20 years experience in the international oil and been involved in every aspect of the venture capital industry gas industry and is also a director of the Scottish Institute for some 24 years.
He was a co-founder and former of Sport and Artemis AiM VCT plc.
Chairman of Morgan Grenfell Private Equity Limited and was also a director of Morgan Grenfell Asset Management Mike Watts Limited and a non-executive director of Bristow Helicopter Exploration Director 48 Group Limited.
He is a past Chairman of the British Venture Mike Watts holds a BSc in Geology and a PhD in Capital Association and is currently a non-executive director Structural Geology from Cardiff University.
He began his of Greene King PLC, Robert Wiseman Dairies plc and Penta career in 1980 with Shell International and subsequently Capital Partners Holdings Ltd. worked for Burmah Oil Exploration and Premier Oil.
In 1991 he became Managing Director of Holland Sea Hamish Grossart Search Holding N. V. HSSH, which was acquired by Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 46 Cairn in 1995.
Mike transferred to Cairn after the Hamish Grossart was appointed an independent noncompletion of the acquisition of HSSH and was closely executive director of Cairn in 1994 and became Deputy associated with Cairn's acquisition of Command Chairman in 1996.
He is currently Chairman of Royal Petroleum Limited in 1996.
He was appointed an Doulton plc, Deputy Chairman of Scottish Radio Holdings executive director in 1997. plc and a non-executive director of Indigo Vision Group plc, Martin Currie Income & Growth Trust plc, Sigma Kevin Hart Technology Group plc and Artemis Investment Finance Director 35 Management Limited.
Kevin Hart holds a BSc Hons in Physics and Natural Philosophy from Edinburgh University.
Prior to joining Ed Story Cairn as Finance Director in 1998, Kevin spent nine years Non-Executive Director 60 in London working in investment banking where he was a Ed Story was appointed an independent non-executive senior associate director with Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, director of Cairn in 1997.
He is President, Chief Executive specialising in oil and gas sector mergers and and founder of SOCO International plc and has over 30 acquisitions.
Kevin is also a non-executive director of years experience in the international oil and gas industry.
He is a director of Hallwood Realty Corporation and serves as the Honorary Consul of Mongolia in Houston.
Malcolm Thoms Group General Manager 48 Todd Hunt Malcolm Thoms holds a BSc Hons in Physics from Non-Executive Director 51 Edinburgh University and an MBA from Heriot-Watt University.
Todd Hunt was appointed an independent non-executive He started his career as a field engineer with Schlumberger director of Cairn in May 2003.
He is President and joint and subsequently became manager of their businesses in owner of Atropos Exploration Company and Atropos Qatar and Brunei.
He joined Cairn in 1989 where he held a Production Company based in Dallas, Texas.
Todd has number of senior management positions prior to his over 30 years experience in the oil and gas industry, appointment as an executive director in 2000.
Malcolm is particularly in operating low cost multiple well drilling also a non-executive director of Revus Energy AS.
Phil Tracy Mark Tyndall Engineering & Operations Director 53 Non-Executive Director 46 Phil Tracy holds a MSc in Petroleum Engineering from Mark Tyndall was appointed an independent nonImperial College and a BSc in Chemical Engineering from executive director of Cairn in October 2003.
He is also Leeds University.
He is a Chartered Engineer with over 30 Chief Executive of Artemis Investment Management years experience in the international oil and gas industry.
Limited and a director of Artemis Fund Managers Phil originally joined Cairn in 1988 and served as an Limited, Standard Life European Private Equity Trust PLC executive director from 1989 until 1999.
He subsequently and Micadant Plc.
became managing director of Providence Resources P. l. c. before rejoining Cairn in 2002 as Chairman of Cairn Energy India Pty Limited.
He was appointed Engineering & Operations director in February 2004.
Phil is also a nonexecutive director of Vienco Oil & Gas Limited.
