THE BOARD Sir John Riddell, Bt.
CVO, MA, CA Sir David Chapman, Bt.
DL, B. Comm The Chairman, Sir John Riddell, Bt.
aged 70, after qualifying as a Sir David Chapman, Bt.
aged 62, has been a Director of Chartered Accountant served in the I.
B. R. D. in Washington DC and Northern Rock plc since November 1996 having been appointed to in the First Boston Corporation in New York, Tokyo and London.
the Board of Northern Rock Building Society as a Non-Executive He was appointed director, then deputy chairman, of Credit Suisse Director on 1 October 1994.
A former Vice President with Merrill First Boston and was for a period of 5 years private secretary and Lynch International Bank, Sir David is now a Consultant to Laing treasurer to the Prince and Princess of Wales.
Sir John is Chairman and Cruickshank Investment Management Limited.
He is a former of both the Chairman's Committee and the Nominations Board Member of the London Stock Exchange and was a member Committee and has been a Director of Northern Rock plc since of the Greenbury Committee on Directors' Remuneration.
Sir John was appointed as a Non-Executive is a Non-Executive Director of a number of companies including Director of Northern Rock Building Society in 1990.
He is also High Gosforth Park Limited, North East Regional Investment Fund a Trustee of the Northern Rock Pension Scheme.
Limited, Northern Business Forum Limited and Zytronic plc.
He is Deputy Chairman of the CBI - North East.
Sir David is a Member Dr M W Ridley, BA, D. Phil of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Risk The Deputy Chairman and Senior Non-Executive Director, Committee.
He is also a Trustee of The Northern Rock Foundation.
Matt Ridley aged 46, is an author and businessman.
His other Non-Executive Directorships include Northern Investors Company N A H Fenwick, MA PLC, Northern 2 VCT plc and P A Holdings Limited.
Dr Ridley was Adam Fenwick aged 43, was appointed to the Board as a appointed a Director of Northern Rock plc in November 1996 Non-Executive Director in November 2003.
He is an Executive having previously joined the Board of Northern Rock Building Director of Fenwick Limited and a Non-Executive Director of John Society on 1 June 1994.
He is Chairman of both the Audit Swire and Sons Limited.
He is also a Trustee of Newcastle Theatre Committee and the Risk Committee and is a Member of the Royal Trust Limited.
Mr Fenwick is a Member of the Audit Remuneration, Chairman's and Nominations Committees.
Committee, Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee.
A J Applegarth, BA Sir Ian Gibson, CBE Adam Applegarth aged 41 has worked for Northern Rock for 20 Sir Ian Gibson aged 57, was appointed to the Board as a years.
He became an Executive Director of Northern Rock Building Non-Executive Director in September 2002.
He is a member of Society in January 1996, was appointed as an Executive Director of the Court of the Bank of England and his other non-executive Northern Rock plc in October 1996 and subsequently became the directorships include BPB plc and GKN plc.
Sir Ian was previously Companys Chief Executive in March 2001.
Mr Applegarth is a governor President of Nissan Europe and Senior Vice President Nissan Motor of the Royal Grammar School, Newcastle upon Tyne.
Mr Applegarth is Company and was Deputy Chairman of Asda plc.
Sir Ian is a a Member of both the Chairman's and the Risk Committees.
Member of the Audit Committee, Nominations Committee, Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
D F Baker, BSc, FCIB David Baker aged 50 was appointed as the Company's Chief N Pease, BA Operating Officer in January 2001.
He became an Executive Nichola Pease aged 42, is Chief Executive of J O Hambro Capital Director of Northern Rock Building Society in January 1996 and Management Limited and a Director of Grainger Trust PLC.
She is a was appointed as an Executive Director of Northern Rock plc in former Managing Director of Smith New Court Europe and Director October 1996.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
She was also European Asset Portfolio In his present role he is responsible for the effective and efficient Manager for Rowe Price Fleming before joining J O Hambro in 1998. direction and management of the Company's operations and in She joined the Board of Northern Rock plc as a Non-Executive particular, Retail Savings, Credit, Customer Services, Personnel, Director in February 1999.
Ms Pease is a Member of the Audit Premises and Legal and Compliance.
Mr Baker is Chairman of Committee, Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The Newcastle Employment Bond Limited and a Trustee of the Sir George Russell, CBE, D. Eng.
BA University of Newcastle upon Tyne Development Trust.
Mr Baker is Sir George Russell aged 68, is Non-Executive Director of a Member of the Chairman's Committee and the Risk Committee.
Taylor Woodrow plc and Deputy Chairman of ITV plc and was until R F Bennett, FCA, ACMA, IPFA recently the Non-Executive Chairman of 3i Group plc and Camelot The Group Finance Director, Bob Bennett aged 56 is a Chartered Group plc.
Sir George was appointed a Director of Northern Rock plc Accountant.
He became an Executive Director of Northern Rock in November 1996 having previously joined the Board of Northern Building Society in November 1993 and was appointed as an Rock Building Society as a Non-Executive Director in 1985.
Executive Director of Northern Rock plc in November 1996.
In his Sir George is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and present role, he is responsible for Finance, Treasury, Securitisation, is a Member of both the Audit and Risk Committees.
Internal Audit, Risk Management and Institutional Relations.
D Wanless, MA, FCIB, MIS Mr Bennett is a Member of the Chairman's Committee and the Derek Wanless aged 56, joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director Risk Committee.
Mr Bennett is also a Trustee of the Northern Rock in March 2000.
He was previously Group Chief Executive of National Pension Scheme and a Non-Executive Director of Greggs plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Northumbrian Water Group plc.
Mr Wanless is a Director of Business in the Community, a Commissioner with the Statistics Commission and a Trustee of the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts.
Mr Wanless is a Member of the Audit Committee, Nominations Committee, Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee.
