THE NORTHERN ROCK FOUNDATION Since 1997 Northern Rock plc has donated 88 million to The Northern Rock Foundation with a further 10 million to be paid in May 2004 as the balance of the Companys contribution from 2003 profits.
These amounts make Northern Rock the UKs top corporate donor in terms of the percentage donation of profits.
The Company covenants 5% of its pre-tax profits each year to the Foundation which was established as part of Northern Rock Building Society's conversion to a public limited company.
The Foundation also holds a special category of shares which are non-dividend bearing and non-voting.
In the event of a change of control of the Company over which the Foundation has no influence, the covenant would cease.
The Foundations shares would then convert into 15% of the Companys Ordinary Shares.
From January 2003 the Foundations Trustees introduced an entirely In this way an endowment would be created to enable it to fulfil its new set of grant programmes, and concentrated their funding purpose in perpetuity.
exclusively in the North East and Cumbria.
The majority of grants The Foundation is an independent grant-making trust supporting continued to target social and economic disadvantage.
charitable causes in Cumbria, Northumberland, Tyne and Wear, The Prevention, Regeneration and Basics programmes dealt with a Durham and Teesside.
Its primary aim is to help improve the broad range of issues, including prejudice and discrimination, the conditions of those disadvantaged in society.
2003 was Northern decline of decent community facilities, youth disaffection, Rock Foundations sixth year of operation, and saw it award 346 employability, development of social enterprises, mental health, grants worth 17 million, and invest a further 2 million to support domestic violence and welfare advice.
The Foundation also training within the voluntary sector.
Since 1997 it has awarded maintained its role as a major funder of cultural activity in the region.
grants worth more than 67 million.
Through its Aspiration programme it made grants worth 2.6 million, and through its capital scheme a further 2.3 million to projects including the redevelopment of Newcastle Playhouse and an eye-catching new building at Woodhorn Colliery to house the Northumberland County Records, Archives and Local Study Services.
As a leading UK trust, the Foundation is at the forefront of new developments in the grant-making world.
In 2003 it introduced a fixed-rate loans scheme, designed to help organisations plug funding gaps, those wanting to make major purchases or those, like some social enterprises, that want to get out of the grants system altogether.
Loans also work well for the Foundation because once money is repaid it can be reused to help others.
In December 2003 the Foundation was delighted to learn that a consortium of which it is a partner was selected by H. M. Treasury to run the Governments 125 million Futurebuilders fund, designed to strengthen the capacity of voluntary organisations to deliver public services.
And through its own Exploration programme, the Foundation funded research, innovation and experimentation within the voluntary sector.
31 THE NORTHERN ROCK FOUNDATION continued In 2003, the Foundation made its second Writers Award, the largest literary prize in the UK, which it runs in partnership with New Writing North.
The 2003 award winner was Newcastle based poet and novelist, Julia Darling whose most recent book, The Taxi Drivers Daughter, was published in summer 2003 and longlisted for the Man Booker Prize.
Julia said of the award There are any number of small prizes that are nice to receive, but disappear like drops in the ocean of freelance financial anxiety.
The difference with this award is that it actually changes your life.
Grant programmes 2003 approved amounts: The Foundation also runs a scheme to match every donated to charities by Company employees.
Some of the money comes from the Give as You Earn GAYE scheme through which employees donate a regular monthly sum from their salary, also attracting a small government subsidy.
But by far the majority of the donations come from the fundraising efforts of staff members.
Through both fundraising and GAYE, since 1998 staff have raised around 960,000, which, when matched by the Foundation, represents a six-year total of over 1.9 million.
The Trustees expect to run the current grant programmes for several years.
In 2004 there will be a new rolling capital grants scheme for cultural projects.
The Foundation will also launch a major 4 million initiative on domestic violence.
More information about the Foundation is available from: The Northern Rock Foundation, Awards Pr Progr ogramme amme The Old Chapel, Woodbine Road, Gosforth, Newcastle upon Tyne NE3 1DD.
