independent auditors report corporate governance to the members of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair The Combined Code, which sets out Principles of Good Corporate Governance and Code view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report provisions, was issued by the London Stock Exchange in June 1998.
Throughout the year described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the the Group has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
A statement on how the Company has applied consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting the Principles of Good Corporate Governance and a statement explaining the extent to which records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, the provisions in the Code relevant to companies have been complied with appear below.
or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
Directors The Board of Directors comprises the Chairman, four executive and four non-executive We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with directors, all of whom bring to the Company a broad and valuable range of experience.
the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Jonathan Perry has been Chairman since February 1992 and Nigel Terrington Chief Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether Executive since June 1995. the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
In accordance with the Code, all directors will submit themselves for re-election at least once in every three years.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors There is a clear division of executive responsibilities at the head of the Company and strong remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any non-executive representation on the Board, including David Beever who has been nominated apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
as the senior independent non-executive director.
This provides effective balance and challenge.
Basis of audit opinion The Board meets regularly throughout the year and is responsible for overall Group strategy, We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the for approving major agreements, transactions and other financing matters and for monitoring Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant the progress of the Group against budget.
All directors receive sufficient relevant information to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors on financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings and there is a formal schedule remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of matters reserved for decision by the Board.
of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances All non-executive directors are independent of management and all are appointed for fixed terms.
of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
They fulfil a vital role in helping the executive to develop the Company, are kept fully informed of all relevant operational and strategic issues and bring a strongly independent and experienced We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations judgement to bear on these issues.
which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration All directors are able to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused duties whenever it is considered appropriate to do so.
by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 30 September 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Birmingham 15 December 2003 26 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 27 Accountability and audit corporate governance Detailed reviews of the performance of the Groups main business lines are included within the Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review.
The Board uses these, together with the Directors Report on pages 16 to 18 to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The Board also operates through a number of committees covering certain specific matters, these being: The directors responsibility for the financial statements is described on page 25.
An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing The Remuneration Committee, consisting of Gavin Lickley, who chairs the the significant risks faced by the Group, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, was in place for the year ended 30 September 2003 and to committee, David Beever and Christopher Newell.
the date of these financial statements.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control The Audit Committee, consisting of all the non-executive directors and chaired by for this period and that these procedures accord with the guidance Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The committee meets at least three times per year.
It oversees the monitoring of the adequacy of the Groups internal controls, accounting policies The directors are responsible for the system of internal control throughout the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is and financial reporting, monitors the adequacy of the Groups audit arrangements designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, and the relationship between the Company and the auditors and provides a forum assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss and that assets are safeguarded against unauthorised use or disposition.
through which the Groups external and internal audit functions report to the In assessing what constitutes reasonable assurance, the directors have regard to the relationship between the cost and benefits from non-executive directors.
particular aspects of the control system.
The system of internal control includes documented procedures covering accounting, compliance, The Asset and Liability Committee, chaired by Nigel Terrington, the Chief Executive risk management, personnel matters and operations, clear reporting lines, delegation of authority through a formal structure of mandates, and consisting of Nicholas Keen, the Finance Director, and appropriate heads a formalised budgeting, management reporting and review process, the use of key performance indicators throughout the Group and of functions.
It meets regularly and monitors Group interest rate risks, currency regular meetings of the Asset and Liability and Credit Committees and senior management.
risks and treasury counterparty exposures.
The Credit Committee, consisting of appropriate heads of functions and chaired The Board receives regular reports setting out key performance and risk indicators.
In addition the Board operates a formal risk management by Nicholas Keen, the Finance Director.
It meets regularly and is responsible for process, from which the key risks facing the business are identified.
The process results in reports to the Board on how these risks are being establishing credit policy and monitoring compliance therewith.
The Board meets regularly with the heads of functions to review the operation of internal controls in relation to the risks associated The Nomination Committee, consisting of Jonathan Perry, who chairs the committee, with their specific areas.
The committee is convened as required to nominate candidates for membership of the Board, although ultimate responsibility The system of internal control is monitored by management and by an internal audit function that concentrates on the areas of greater risk for appointment rests with the Board.
and reports its conclusions regularly to management and the Audit Committee.
The internal audit work plan is approved annually by the Audit Committee, which reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control annually and reports its conclusions to the Board.
All Board committees operate within defined terms of reference.
Going concern basis Directors remuneration After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of executive directors and members in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
of senior management prior to determining its recommendations on annual remuneration, performance bonuses and share options for the Boards determination.
Compliance statement The Listing Rules require the Board to report on compliance with the forty-five Code provisions throughout the accounting period.
The Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors Remuneration is on pages 21 to 24.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2003 the Company has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority.
Relations with shareholders The Board encourages communication with the Companys institutional and private investors.
All shareholders have at least twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which the directors and committee chairmen are available for questions.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for directors to report to investors on the Groups activities and to answer their questions.
Shareholders will have an opportunity to vote separately on each resolution and all proxy votes lodged are counted and the balance for and against each resolution is available for inspection.
The Board is of the view that the availability of the results of proxies lodged satisfies the requirement within the Combined Code for an indication of the level of proxies lodged and the balance for and against each resolution.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director have a full programme of meetings with institutional investors during the course of the year and the Companys web site at www.
co. uk provides access to information on the Company and its businesses.
28 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 29
