DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors Report of Prudential plc for the year ended DIRECTORS 31 December 2003 comprises these pages and the sections A list of the present directors appears on pages 30 and 31. of the Annual Report referred to in these pages.
Kathleen ODonovan, Bridget Macaskill and Mark Norbom were appointed as directors on 8 May 2003, 1 September PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND BUSINESS REVIEW 2003 and 1 January 2004 respectively.
In accordance Prudential plc is the Group holding company and the with the Articles of Association, Kathleen O'Donovan, principal activity of its subsidiary undertakings is the Bridget Macaskill and Mark Norbom will retire and offer provision of financial services in Europe, the US and Asia.
themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting Particulars of principal subsidiary undertakings are given in on 6 May 2004.
Sir David Barnes resigned as a director note 31 on page 90.
The Groups business and likely future on 8 May 2003, Mark Tucker resigned as a director on developments are reviewed in the Chairmans Statement 30 June 2003 and Ann Burdus resigned as a director on on pages 2 and 3, the Group Chief Executives Review on 31 December 2003.
Jonathan Bloomer, Philip Broadley pages 4 and 5, the Business Review on pages 6 to 10 and and Rob Rowley will retire by rotation at the Annual General the Financial Review on pages 11 to 26, which contain Meeting and offer themselves for re-election.
Sandy Stewart, details of the development of the business of the Group having completed two three-year terms as a director, will during the financial year and of the Groups position at the retire from the Board at the conclusion of this years Annual end of it.
No important events affecting the Group have General Meeting.
Details of directors interests in shares occurred since the end of the financial year.
and debentures of the Company and its listed subsidiary, Egg plc, are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 49.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION EMPLOYEES The consolidated balance sheet on pages 60 and 61 shows The following information is given principally in respect of the state of affairs of the Group at 31 December 2003. employees of the Group in the UK.
The policy towards The Companys balance sheet appears on page 62 and employees overseas is the same but the practical application the consolidated profit and loss account on pages 56 to 58. of the policy varies according to local requirements.
Information prepared on the achieved profits basis of financial reporting is provided on pages 103 to 114.
A EQUAL OPPORTUNITY summary of the statutory basis results is shown on page 55.
Prudential recognises, respects and values difference There is a five-year review of the Group on pages 98 and 99. and diversity.
Its equal opportunities policy is to be fair, responsible and caring in all aspects of the business.
DIVIDENDS The Group seeks to ensure all employees and applicants The directors have declared a final dividend for 2003 to its businesses are given equal opportunity in all aspects of 10.7 pence per share payable on 26 May 2004 to of employment to ensure that the Groups businesses shareholders on the register of members at the close of attract, retain and promote the best available talent.
The total dividend for the year, All the businesses work to embed these principles in all including the interim dividend of 5.3 pence per share paid aspects of their management practices and to ensure that in 2003, amounts to 16.0 pence per share compared with this is evident to employees in their day-to-day work.
The total cost of dividends It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration and for 2003 was 320 million.
encouragement to the employment of applicants with suitable aptitudes and abilities, and to continuing the employment PAYMENT POLICY of staff who become disabled, and to provide training and It is the policy of the Group to agree terms of payment career development opportunities to disabled employees.
when orders for goods and services are placed and to pay in accordance with those terms.
Trade creditor days, based on the ratio of amounts which were owed to trade creditors at the year-end to the aggregate of the amounts invoiced by trade creditors during the year, were 21 days.
PRUDENTIAL PLC PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT 2003 T 2003 53 53 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT AUDITORS The Group has effective communication channels A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as through which employees views can be sought on issues auditors of the Company will be put to the Annual General which concern them.
Throughout the Group there is close Meeting on 6 May 2004. consultation between management and other employees on appropriate matters of concern, with a view to keeping SHAREHOLDERS employees informed about the progress of the Groups The number of accounts on the share register at business and the economic factors affecting it.
Further with employees is achieved in a number of ways, including information about shareholdings in the Company is given on one-to-one staff briefings and through the Groups intranet page 116.
As at 12 March 2004 the Company had received site.
Prudentials European Employee Forum provides an notification in accordance with Sections 198 to 208 of the opportunity for elected employee representatives to consult Companies Act 1985 from Fidelity Investments and Legal & with senior management on strategic European business General Investment Management Limited of a holding of 4.01 issues.
M&Gs Staff Consultative Committee promotes and 3 per cent respectively of the Companys share capital.
communication and consultation throughout M&G and is the On behalf of the Board of directors forum for dialogue on a range of issues of interest to staff.
In 2003 employees were again invited to participate in the Prudential Savings-Related Share Option Scheme the Scheme.
The Scheme has now been operating for over 20 years and a majority of UK staff currently PETER MAYNARD participate.
The Prudential International Savings-Related COMPANY SECRETARY Share Option Scheme ISSOS for employees has been 19 March 2004 operating since 2000 in Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore, since 2001 in Taiwan and India, and since 2003 in Korea.
On average 37 per cent of employees in those countries covered by the ISSOS currently participate.
The trustees of each of the Groups UK pension schemes include elected individuals.
DONATIONS Prudential is committed to supporting the communities where it is an employer.
In 2003 the Group spent 4.1 million in support of the community.
Within this, direct donations to charitable organisations amounted to 2.8 million, of which approximately 2.3 million came from EU operations.
This is broken down as follows: Education 1,058,000: Social and Welfare 927,000: Environment and Regeneration 85,000: Cultural 95,000 and Staff Volunteering 96,000.
The aggregate figure for charitable donations from Prudential's non-EU subsidiaries Jackson National Life and Prudential Corporation Asia amounted to 0.5 million.
It is the Group's policy not to make donations to political parties or to incur political expenditure, within the meaning of those expressions as defined in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, and the Group did not make any such donations or incur any such expenditure in 2003.
