18 Capita Operating review Education Central government Education improvement and funding remain key Government expenditure is increasing in key issues in this market.
Following the difficulties areas but all Government services must faced by many schools in 2003, the Government continually demonstrate value for money and reviewed arrangements for funding schools, release funding for key frontline services.
announcing significant increases for the next two Central government is a key market for Capita, years and arrangements to ensure that funding where we have a 24.6% share of the BPO market intended for schools is fully passported by LEAs.
We work across many The impact of eGovernment is also shaping the Government departments and agencies acting way LEAs operate and it is increasingly probable as an enabler of change and modernisation.
that LEAs awarding BPO contracts in future will Our current partnerships include elements of the award multi-service contracts involving a administration of the Criminal Records Bureau, combination of front ofce services and the administration of the Winter Fuel Payments administrative processes source: Nelson Hall scheme for the Department for Work and BPO Opportunities in the Public Sector 2003.
Pensions, and the administration of the Teachers Central governments focus remains on Pensions scheme.
encouraging continued participation in learning Central government structure, service delivery and raising standards across education.
and customer relationships will radically change Capita plays a key role on the ground in schools, over the next few years.
The Government colleges and further education establishments efficiency Review has identied opportunities to as well as supporting LEAs and the Department work in new ways to improve service efficiency for Education and Skills DfES, setting up and and quality.
These include the development delivering the Connexions Card scheme and the of shared back ofce support services and assessment and payment service for the common contact centres bringing together Education Maintenance Allowance programme.
e-enabled and telephone access to Government services.
Evolving over the next twelve months, As the principal supplier of management these initiatives will increasingly involve information systems to the UKs schools and partnerships with private sector providers.
LEAs, Capita plays a big part in realising Government plans for the sector.
Our systems Capita is uniquely placed to assist the public help schools and LEAs to maximise their funding, sector in responding to this agenda with our optimise business processes and manage the combination of experience and expertise in daily administrative burden, enabling staff to the delivery of managed services, people concentrate on teaching.
We have a strong track record of transforming existing Meanwhile, the Building Schools for the Future services, improving their productivity and quality, Government initiative will see the vast majority of and our UK business centre infrastructure could secondary schools being rebuilt or extensively effectively support the delivery of new shared refurbished.
This huge programme will be services.
We also have expertise in designing the delivered through partnerships involving the delivery element of new services, enabling policy private sector.
to be effectively turned into delivered outcomes.
Capitas comprehensive service offering to The breadth of our service offering and our schools, the further education sector and LEAs effective experience and track record in spans managed support services, strategic partnering the public sector mean that we can education services, software solutions, ICT achieve savings and improved performance for strategy, absence management, interim stafng, our clients and their customers UK citizens recruitment, training, HR advisory services, and businesses.
payroll, pensions and property consultancy.
Haringey Education Services Independent Police Complaints Cabinet Ofce Commission Civil Service Pension scheme Capitas strategic partnership with Haringey Education Services was Capitas executive resourcing business, Since October 2002 Capita has formed in 2001, following a critical Veredus, was brought in by the Home provided pension and payroll services Ofsted inspection report in 1999.
Ofce at the end of 2002 to assist with to pensioners and deferred members Seven months into the contract, the the entire recruitment process of the from the Civil Service.
Currently: LEA was re-inspected and praised on Independent Police Complaints we pay 560,000 Civil Service the progress made in that last seven Commission IPCC a new body which pensioners each month months.
will replace the Police Complaints we manage the records of 260,000 Authority in April 2004.
The initial target An inspection in September 2003 deferred members who have left the date to ll the senior management posts reported that strengths far outweigh Civil Service but have benets in the was June 2003, with the 200 plus other any weaknesses in Haringey Education scheme which become payable on their positions to be recruited by the end of Services.
Good progress had been 60th birthday 2003. made and the service is now deemed we take 244,000 telephone calls This was achieved with a combination of satisfactory with good prospects for each year extensive upfront research, careful further improvement.
we deal with 43,000 items of crafting of job specs, dramatic press and Our partnership with Capita has radio adverts and rigorous interviewing correspondence each year.
worked well and we now have a strong and assessment procedures, individually Since Capita took over the contract in team with outstanding leadership tailored to each position.
2002 we have made over 9.5 million already taking us forward.
In the last year The challenges of the IPCCs Councillor Judy Bax Executive establishment led to a particularly close overall performance levels rose from Member for Lifelong Learning, 94% to 99.5% and there has been a relationship between Capita and the Haringey Council IPCC.
It extended signicantly beyond steady decline in the number of complaints, further testament to recruitment services to consultancy on the new organisational structure and the how the service has been turned around by Capita.
development of an initial business plan.
19 Capita Operating review CARING FOR PENSIONERS POLICIES AND PA YMENTS efficiently administering pensions payments on behalf of 3.2 million individuals and ensuring that 1.2 million UK pensioners receive their pensions accurately and on time.
20 Capita Operating review ASSESSING AND SETTLING CLAIMS EFFICIENTLY Processing over one million household and motor claims and responding to three million helpline calls effectively each year, alongside our wider insurance services offering.
