31 Capita EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD Group Board Executive Directors Rodney Aldridge OBE Paul Pindar Gordon Hurst Paddy Doyle Executive Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Operations Director Divisional structure Commercial Sevices Professional Sevices Integrated Services Business Services Corporate Sevices David Rigby Simon Pilling Bob Martin Peter Kelly Maggi Bell Insurance Services Consultancy and Local government Integrated HR Services Sales & Support Advisory Services Services Life & Pension Services Resourcing Legal & Commercial IT Services Central government Property Consultancy Payroll & Pensions Marketing Services Software Services Learning & Development Human Resources Database Services Print Services internal Registrar and BBC TV Licensing Congestion Charging Financial Services Corporate IT Criminal Records Bureau Divisional Board Executive Directors 01 David Rigby 43 02 Simon Pilling 41 03 Bob Martin 49 04 Peter Kelly 55 05 Maggi Bell 48 David joined Capita Simon joined Capita in Bob joined Capita in Peter joined Capita Maggi joined Capita in in 1994 as a Director 1999 from Sema now 1996 from Cap Gemini.
January 1999 from in the Property SchlumbergerSema He was promoted Prior to this he was Manpower where she Consultancy business.
where he held a number to the Executive a Divisional Director was UK Operations In January 1997 he of senior positions in Management Board of Cap Gemini UK Director.
She ran the became Managing the public sector in 2000, responsible for and Hoskyns.
He was Groups recruitment Director of the outsourcing and the Business Services Managing Director of businesses until she Education Software systems divisions.
He took over our local government was promoted to the business until 1998, In 2000 he took over as Executive Director software business and Executive Management when he moved to responsibility for of the Commercial subsequently head of Board as Executive head up the Groups Capitas IT Services Services Division when it our Software Services Director of the Business Management business.
In February was established in May Division.
In 2000 he Services Division in Consultancy activities.
Since July 2002 was promoted to the June 2001.
In February At the end of 1999, to the Executive he has headed up the Executive Management 2002 she took over as he was appointed Management Board newly formed Integrated Board with responsibility Executive Director of Managing Director as Executive Director Services Division.
for the Professional the Corporate Services of the Property of the Professional Services Division.
In Division, with overall Consultancy Division Services Division.
February 2002 he took responsibility for until being promoted over as Executive business development to the Executive Director of the Business activity across the Management Board Services Division.
in July 2002 as Executive Director of the Commercial Services Division.
