DIRECTORS REPORT 32 Capita The Directors present their report and the audited Group Post balance sheet events accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003.
In February 2004, the Group acquired Symonds Group Holdings Group activities Limited for a consideration of 29.9m together with deferred consideration capped at 1m.
In addition, the Group signed a The Capita Group Plc is a UK leading provider of integrated contract to administer miners personal injury liability claims on professional support solutions to organisations across behalf of the Department of Trade and Industry, with respect to local government, central government, education and the certain health conditions caused by working underground in private sector.
On behalf of our clients we aim to improve service quality, to Further details are given in note 27 in the notes to the accounts reduce their costs of delivery and to enable them to transform and in the Chairmans statement on page 9. the way they deliver services to their customers.
The services we provide are essential to the smooth running and success of Substantial shareholders our clients operations.
Our strength is our ability to draw on a On 25 February 2004 the Company had notications that, other wide base of professional expertise to generate, successfully than Directors listed above, the following were interested in 3% implement and deliver tailored services.
Capitas capabilities or more of the Companys ordinary share capital: encompass customer services, financial services, human Number of shares Percentage resource services, software services, systems and strategic support and property services.
FMR Corp. and Fidelity International Ltd 46,611,103 6.99% Our principal activities are managed through four divisions comprising business services, commercial services, Scottish Widows Investment professional services and integrated services.
A review of Partnership Ltd 34,604,764 5.19% the development of the Group and its business activities Putnam Investment during the year is contained in the Chairmans statement on Management LLC 20,707,990 3.10% pages 2 to 13.
Legal & General 20,105,094 3.01% profits and dividends The Group profit on ordinary activities before taxation amounted Statement of Directors responsibilities to 93.5m 2002: 78.1m.
The Directors recommend a final in respect of the accounts dividend of 2.7p per share 2002: 2.0p per share to be paid on Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for 5 May 2004 to ordinary shareholders on the register at 2 April each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of 2004.
This gives a total dividend for the year of 4.0p per share affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss 2002: 3.0p per share.
of the Group for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the Share repurchase Directors are required to: The Company renewed its authority to repurchase up to 10% of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them its own issued share capital at the Annual General Meeting consistently AGM 2003 and during the year acquired 5,175,000 ordinary make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and shares of 2p each see note 16 which it duly cancelled.
prudent Directors state whether applicable accounting standards have been The Directors of the Company currently in ofce are listed on followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and page 30. explained in the accounts Mr R M Aldridge and Mr P E B Cawdron retire by rotation and, prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
None of the it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue Directors of the Company had a material interest in any contract in business.
with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings and no Director The Directors confirm that the accounts comply with the has a service contract exceeding one year.
Directors interests The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting The interests all beneficial of the Directors in the ordinary records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the shares of the Company were as follows: financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are 31 December 2003 31 December 2002 Ordinary shares of 2p Ordinary shares of 2p also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and R H Alcock 28,810 28,810 detection of fraud and other irregularities.
R M Aldridge OBE 18,794,000 18,794,000 Going concern P E B Cawdron 24,000 24,000 After making enquiries, the Group Board have a reasonable P M Doyle 25,000 25,000 expectation that the Group and its Group holding company The Capita Group Plc have adequate resources to continue G M Hurst 28,221 28,221 in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this P R M Pindar 3,050,000 3,050,000 reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
E Walters 5,000 5,000 Disabled persons The Directors have no interests in the share capital of any other It is the Groups policy to give full consideration to Group undertaking.
suitable applications for employment of disabled persons.
The interests of the Directors under the share option schemes Disabled employees are eligible to participate in all career and the Long Term Incentive Plan of the Company are shown in development opportunities available to staff.
Opportunities also the Report on Directors remuneration.
exist for employees of the Group who become disabled to continue in their employment or to be retained for other There is no change to Directors interests during the period positions in the Group.
33 Capita Directors report Employee involvement International financial reporting standards The Group is committed to involving all employees in its The European Commission issued a regulation in 2002 requiring performance and development.
Our approach to staff all listed companies to adopt International Financial Reporting development offers continual challenges in the job, learning Standards in their consolidated accounts by 2005.
The Group opportunities and personal development.
Capita supports staff will be a first time adopter for its year ended 31 December through a comprehensive range of Key Business and 2005.
Further narrative disclosure is included in note 1 to the Management Skills courses and an Annual Management accounts on page 46.
Payment of suppliers The Group encourages all our employees to participate fully in The Company aims to pay suppliers in accordance with the the business through open dialogue.
Employees receive news of suppliers contract terms.
The Company had an average of the Group through recap, the Groups newsletter, frequent email 44 days purchases 2002: 41 days purchases outstanding notices, internal notice board statements, Capita Online, a in trade creditors.
regular communication from the perspective of the Directors, and a review of the Groups financial position half yearly.
Charitable and political donations The ongoing development of CAPITAconnect, a Group wide During the year charitable donations amounted to 0.2m corporate intranet service, to facilitate greater communication 2002: 0.2m.
No political contributions were made.
within the Group, continued during 2003.
The service enables staff to share information within and between business units Auditors and encourages staff to contribute news, views and feedback.
In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a The Group maintains a strong communications network and resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the external employees are encouraged, through our open door policy, to auditors will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
discuss with management matters of interest to the employee and subjects affecting day-to-day operations.
The Company is committed to ensuring appropriate independence in its relationship with external auditors and the The Group grants share options to senior employees, on key safeguards are: a discretionary basis, in order to reward their long-term commitment to the Group.
The granting of all share options the Audit Committee routinely benchmarks the level of the is subject to the approval of the Remuneration Committee.
external audit fee against other comparable companies both The share option schemes have been a key factor in attracting, within and without its sector, to ensure ongoing objectivity in retaining and motivating senior employees across the Group.
the audit process The Capita Sharesave Scheme, an employee Save as You Earn the Group Finance Director monitors the level and nature of Scheme, and the Capita Share Ownership Plan, a Share non-audit fees accruing to the external auditor, and specic Incentive Plan are both rmly established and are designed to assignments are discussed in advance with the external promote employee share ownership and to give employees the auditor and agged for approval by the Audit Committee as opportunity to participate in the future success of the Group.
The Audit Committee reviews, in aggregate, non-audit fees of this nature on an annual basis and considers The Group has in the year launched the Capita PC Purchase implications for the objectivity and independence of the Scheme, a tax-free benefit, which provides employees with the relationship with the external auditor.
opportunity to have a high quality personal computer at home at a discounted rate.
Ensuring conicts of interest are avoided is a fundamental criteria in the selection of any third party auditor for In keeping with the belief that our staff are our most valuable assignments with which the Group is involved.
Such conicts asset, the Group has launched the Capita Excellence Awards.
may arise across public or private sector customers and key The awards recognise and celebrate staff who truly reect supplier relationships, for example, and are a key determinant in the values of the Group, delivering excellence in services, the award process for external audit assignments.
demonstrating real responsiveness to customers and supporting their colleagues and the communities in which they work.
By order of the Board Gordon Hurst Company Secretary 25 February 2004
