TESTIMONIALS 26 Capita Operating review We chose Capita because of their clear experience, track record and commitment.
The partnership with Capita will be fundamental for delivering our Customer First vision to all our citizens and allows us to take full advantage of the expertise available within the Capita Group.
David Naylor Head of ICT, Borough of Maccleseld Capita has demonstrated an excellent knowledge of disability issues and has proved very helpful in providing guidance and advice on key issues throughout the project.
Catherine Swindlehurst Store Development, ASDA Capita has lots of strengths exibility, range of skills and willingness to invest in skills transfer to build our knowledge base and increase sustainability.
Tracy Fielding Assistant Director of Finance, Bolton Metropolitan Borough Council Capita Property Consultancy has demonstrated impressive design and delivery capability which is crucial to the achievement of our ambitions.
We look forward to celebrating further successes as our partnership grows.
Graham Burgess Executive Director for Regeneration, Housing and Neighbourhoods, Blackburn with Darwen Borough Council I have been delighted at the work that Martin and his team have done with Walsall.
I would go as far as to say that if reinventing Walsall was a lm, Veredus would appear high on the list of credits!
Paul Smith Head of Personnel & Employee Relations, Walsall Metropolitan Borough Council Entering the partnership ten years ago was a bold decision but it has certainly paid off.
Capitas exibility being able to adjust swiftly to any changes in legislation and local demographics is central to our shared success.
Today both Mendip District Council and the community are reaping the rewards of increased efficiency and better service.
Graham Jeffs Former Chief Executive, Mendip District Council I am very happy to say that the service we have from your organisation has always been and still is of the highest standard.
Robert Clarkmead Senior Housing officer, Brighton & Hove City Council Thus HP started working with Capita last August.
From initial set up through to completion, Capita provided a dedicated team of professionals that worked in partnership with ourselves.
They provided a seamless end to end solution that was tailored to meet our specic requirements.
The quality of service provided was excellent and the speed of execution meant that we met our targets which delighted our client, HP.
The event management was a great experience both for our candidates and for our client who personally thanked the Event Manager for providing an excellent service.
Both Capita's assessors and our own worked well together.
Overall the partnership was a great experience.
Joanne Healy Human Resources Account Manager, Thus HP UK & Teleweb Centre Over the last 12 months, Mission Testing has proved its capability through deploying senior, experienced test consultants to help us meet the challenges of reducing software time to market whilst meeting exacting quality standards.
Chris Watson Head of End-to-End Service Management Channels, Barclays Statutory statements 2003 Financial statements 2003 Statutory statements 2003 Annual report 2003 01 What we do 28 Corporate social responsibility 42 Group profit and loss account 02 Chairmans statement 30 Group Board 43 Balance sheets 02 Results 31 Executive Management Board 44 Group cash ow statement 02 Building value for shareholders 32 Directors report 45 Group statement of total 05 Delivering service excellence 34 Corporate governance recognised gains and losses and creating growth 36 Report on Directors 45 Reconciliation of movements 13 Valuing our people remuneration in shareholders funds 13 Future prospects 46 Notes to the accounts 69 Principal Group investments 14 Operating review 70 Independent auditors report 15 Business centres 71 Five year summary 17 Our markets 72 Useful information 17 Local government and transport for shareholders 18 Education and central government 21 Insurance and life & pensions 22 Health and private sector & other financial services 25 Our people 26 Testimonials
