05 Capita Chairmans statement Fifthly, we intend to create shareholder value 2.
Delivering service excellence through a progressive dividend policy.
The Board and creating growth is recommending a final dividend of 2.7p per Capita delivers BPO solutions and professional ordinary share, making a total of 4p 2002: 3p support services to eight key markets, all of for the year.
This represents a 33% increase on which are in the UK and Ireland.
They are a mix dividends paid in respect of the 2002 financial of established and emerging markets, being local year.
The total dividend for the year is covered government, central government, education, 3.3 times by the earnings per ordinary share transport, health, life & pensions, insurance and before amortisation of goodwill.
The final private sector & other financial services.
dividend will be paid on 5 May 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of The Group's service offering mirrors the back business on 2 April 2004.
Capita's cash ow is ofce of both public and private sector bodies robust and predictable and it is therefore our and spans many parts of an organisation's intention to reduce dividend cover to no more infrastructure.
Our services are predominantly than 3 times within the next three years.
provided in an integrated solution under long term contract and include finance, IT and Sixthly, there may be circumstances when market property, staff support and development, back conditions allow us to add further value for ofce administration services and front line shareholders through share buybacks, thus customer services.
ensuring that we have an efficient capital structure which will minimise our long term cost Capita has over 300 strategic customer of capital.
During 2003, the Group bought back partnerships and in excess of 20,000 customers, 5.2m shares representing 0.8% of the issued the majority of which buy our services on a share capital at an average price of 2.36. regular and consistent basis.
A substantial The Group has authority to repurchase up to proportion of Capita's revenue is now secured 10% of its issued share capital and we plan to through evergreen contracts or contracts ranging seek renewal of this authority at the AGM.
from 3 to 10 years, of which the weighted average is over 7 years.
Finally, our activities should drive a steadily increasing return on capital, which, in turn, should exceed the cost of capital.
In 2003, the post tax return on average capital employed including debt has improved again to 14.6% 2002: 13.2%.
This exceeds our cost of capital which is 8.5%.
Business Process Outsourcing Capita has certainly contributed to the BPO is a key growth opportunity in the UK market today and is set to shifting up a gear of TV Licensing's operations.
remain so for the foreseeable future.
Our analysis reveals a market with the In the past year, in collaboration with other prospect of double digit growth to 2007.
These are attractive rates of growth and show plenty of opportunity for interested players.
service partners and the BBC, Capita has Ovum Holway 2003 BPO: Trends and Opportunities in the UK Market demonstrated continued commitment to the drive in reducing TV Licence evasion and Business Process generating increased revenue for BBC's Outsourcing Rank 2003 Market share % programmes and services.
Total BPO Market 1 24.3 The Capita team has listened to the needs of Central government 2 24.6 its client, and been exible in adapting to meet Local government 1 29.4 the requirements of the overall strategy.
Finance incl insurance 2 26.0 Most importantly of all, the Capita team has Other services 1 22.8 been able to play a vital role in TV Licensing's IT and BPO collaborative processes and integrated ways Total IT and BPO Market 4 8.6 of working, which is the overarching key to the Insurance 1 23.7 success of the TV Licensing partnership.
Zarin Patel Head of Revenue Management at the BBC Source: HI Europe 2004 06 Capita Chairmans statement Group businesses such as the ODPM's programme to build local government capacity.
These framework Growth across the Group's businesses remains agreements provide strong channels for future strong.
Our focus on enhancing services and business, with limited competition.
re-engineering the cost of delivery continues to attract new and existing clients.
Capita's Central and Local Government Services continue to perform strongly, securing many key Capita's IT and software businesses have contract wins and extensions.
Our off-site benefited from the continued drive to implement operation in housing benets and revenues eGovernment across local government and the collection is continuing its rapid growth, winning social housing marketplace.
Contract wins and business from Southampton, Edinburgh, extensions have been secured with many Nottingham and Aberdeen City Councils.
organisations including Leeds City Council, Bolton Metropolitan Borough Council, Derby Our insurance business has generally performed City Council and Magna Housing Group.
During the year, 57 new contracts or extensions have been won across our various The HR businesses have performed well with insurance service offerings.
In particular, our Veredus, our executive recruitment business, London Markets Business and Outsourcing areas winning major assignments for senior have produced good results.
Our exercise to appointments with the Crown Prosecution re-engineer the cost base of our loss adjusting Service, the Independent Police Complaints business has been completed and we are in the Commission, the Qualications & Curriculum process of rolling out a technically enhanced, Authority and the Ofce of the Deputy Prime more cost efficient claims processing model.
The resourcing businesses have However, loss adjusting market conditions remain maintained market share in challenging market very challenging, with volumes depressed.
This has been achieved due to their niche specialisations and drive to deliver Capita Registrars and Capita Financial Services consistent quality of service, resulting in inclusion have performed well across their growing on some key public sector framework portfolio of services.
These services were agreements and an increasing number of broadened by our acquisition in February 2003 managed service contracts.
Our pensions and of the administration services division comprising payroll businesses have performed particularly Northern Registrars Ltd, Northern Administration strongly in the year, with contracts won with Ltd and the Connaught St. Michaels Group from Cambridgeshire County Council, First Assist, BWD Securities for 18.5m.
The companies GUS and Bayer.
provide share registration, unit trust administration and ancillary services to over Our strategic education services have continued 500 customers.
The companies have been to grow rapidly, delivering significant educational successfully integrated into Capita Registrars improvements in some exceptionally challenging and Capita Financial during the year.
This has been recognised by a recent businesses have a high percentage of recurring OFSTED inspection report on the London revenues and are now additionally benefiting Borough of Haringey and an independent report from the recent upturn in the markets.
has commended the very good progress made by Education Leeds.
Our consultancy practice has secured inclusion on a number of key public sector procurement framework agreements, Creating organic growth through new and existing customers department for We are delighted with the continued education and skills performance improvements Capita has been able to bring to the Council Tax and Business Rate collection gures, and look forward to working in partnership with Capita for the next five years.
Richard Ennis Executive Director of Finance, London Borough of Lambeth 07 Capita Chairmans statement HEALTHY ORGANIC GROWTH SECURING FUTURE REVENUES Gordon Hurst right, Group Finance Director, and Richard Ennis left, Executive Director of Finance, LB of Lambeth.
Capita has been working with Lambeth since 1997 and has recently secured a 5 year contract extension, encompassing council tax and business rates collection and administration and supporting services.
The contract extension was secured due to consistent high levels of services and results delivered across the contract by Capita, in partnership with Lambeth, over the past six years.
08 Capita Chairmans statement Paddy Doyle left, Group Operations Director and Simon Pilling right, Divisional Executive Director, Professional Services Division.
Capita successfully implemented the central London congestion charging scheme on 17 February 2003.
One year on, the scheme has reduced trafc congestion by 30%, with 18% less trafc entering the zone.
DELIVERING VALUE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS 09 Capita Chairmans statement Our property consultancy won major assignments years, builds upon the Government's commitment in the year including ASDA, Department for Work to help young people to full their educational and Pensions DWP and Perth and Kinross potential.
Capita will be responsible for managing Council.
The infrastructure and property the service, which involves accepting and operations in our business centres at Cumbria processing applications for the EMA allowance and Blackburn continue to develop strongly.
The initial service, In February, we extended our property offering including a helpline launched in November 2003, by acquiring Symonds Group Holdings Limited is progressing well, with application assessment for an initial cash consideration of 29.9m.
services due on stream by May 2004.
The full A further 1m may be payable upon the service provision, inclusive of payment services, achievement of certain targets.
Symonds is will go live in September 2004. a leading provider of consultancy, project In December, we took responsibility for running management and design services for the the life operations for Prudential International property and infrastructure markets.
Assurance and St. James's Place International Symonds will be integrated with Capita's existing in Dublin.
The contracts together are worth multi-disciplinary property business, Capita 110m over 10 years: revenues of at least Property Consultancy, to form a new company, 18m will be generated in 2004.
It is one of the Capita Symonds Ltd. Its breadth of expertise, largest open book outsourcing contracts to be geographic reach across the UK and extensive awarded in the industry.
The operations have resources will ensure the new company, with been transferred seamlessly and already we are proforma annual revenues of 160m, is a leading achieving higher service standards for our player in the industry.
We have been impressed customers.
This contract considerably by both the calibre of management and the strengthens Capita's capability to service both quality of work inherent within Symonds and we UK and Irish domestic business.
believe the acquisition will strengthen Capita's 2004 has started well with the announcement existing business.
on 16 February that Capita has been selected Major contract wins to administer all miners' personal injury liability claims, on behalf of the Department of Trade During 2003, we secured 615m of major and Industry, with respect to certain health contract wins and extensions.
These included problems caused by working underground in contracts with Aurora Corporate Services, the British Coal mines.
The contract, which concerns London Boroughs of Brent and Lambeth, the processing of claims relating to chronic Teachers' Pensions with the Department for obstructive pulmonary disease and vibration white Education and Skills DfES, DWP, the BBC, nger, is estimated to generate revenues of Alba Life Limited, National Air Trafc Services, 125m over the initial term of the contract to Transport for London and Lincoln Financial Group.
31 July 2006, with some 46m of revenue specifically, in September, Capita was selected generated in 2004.
Over 1,250 employees, to manage the payment and assessment largely based in Shefeld, will transfer to Capita.
administration of the new Education Maintenance This establishes Capita Insurance Services as the Allowance EMA by the DfES, extending the role largest employer of claims handlers in the UK.
we already play in supporting the Department.
The contract, valued at 48m over five years with an option to extend for a further one or two The project implemented by Capita captures Capita allocated a dedicated team and Client vehicle data whilst the trafc is moving within a Manager at the outset of the contract.
The team charge zone without the use of toll booths or has been consistent throughout and their any modication to vehicles.
knowledge of our business and our internal team has grown and developed very well.
Capita developed solutions to deal with The Client Manager is pro-active and always multiple payment methods that have been responsive to our needs and requests.
integrated into the charge collection process.
Patricia Staunton National Recruitment Manager, HBOS It was an impressive feat to complete this major project on schedule and within budget.
Our key objective in the selection process was Professor Graham Brooke Chairman judging panel, to develop a partnership with a supplier who The British Computer Society listened to what our requirements were and demonstrated a clear way forward in meeting Capita are forward thinking and pragmatic in our goals.
We felt that Capita Software Services their approach.
They are enthusiastic and highly showed a good understanding of our business motivated to provide a high standard of support ethos and future business requirements and to the Highways Agency.
would be responsive to our needs.
John Yellowley Highways Agency: Highways Services Design Deborah White Housing Services Director, Agent Performance Report Wandle Housing Association 10 Capita Chairmans statement Future growth The innovation of SMS texting, introduced by Capita as part of its solution, has also been a In the next 6 years, we have only three material major success.
170,000 people have now contracts dened as having annual revenue in signed up to use this method to pay the charge excess of 1% of 2003 turnover due for renewal.
and 3.2 million payments have been made since There are no material contract renewals in 2004. the service commenced.
This is now the most As a consequence of this and our sales activity, used SMS channel for financial transactions in the we have already secured substantial additional UK.
88% of those paying the charge are using revenue for 2004.
SMS, the Web, Interactive Voice Recognition IVR Our major contract sales pipeline continues to and PayPoint, with 12% using the call centre.
The be buoyant and we are currently working on live call centre service has improved and is currently major bids with a total value of 2.7bn across performing well with 91% of all calls being the public and private sectors.
The pace of answered in less than 30 seconds service development within our markets and our strong standard 80% and with less than 2% of calls competitive position enables us to have a high abandoned by customers service standard 5%.
degree of choice regarding which opportunities Our postal processing Key Performance to pursue.
Increasingly, customers are selecting Indicators KPIs continue to be exceeded.
partners on their ability to deliver sustainable, We are delighted that the quality of our work has high quality service rather than being driven recently been recognised by the British Computer mainly by cost considerations.
Society which has given us a major award as a Capita is recognised as the leading BPO result of our design and implementation of the company in the UK, with a market share of central London congestion charging scheme.
24.3% 2002: 23.7% of the total value of This made particular reference to the successful contracts let.
We lead or are positioned well in implementation of the 450 man-year IT system all our markets which continue to grow strongly.
which was introduced on time and to budget.
1 BPO supplier by market share The 10 year contract that we have with the in local government and No.
1 BPO & IT provider Home Ofce to provide services to the Criminal in insurance, 2nd largest in central government Records Bureau CRB has recently been and 2nd largest in its newest market, finance.
successfully renegotiated to reect the current Source: HI Europe 2004. methods of operating.
The CRB has issued over Operational performance 3.4 million Disclosures and has recently extended the Disclosure service to around 250,000 people Our track record of delivery is excellent.
working in the care sector.
The CRB has We predominantly deliver ahead of both exceeded its public service standards for issuing contracted service levels and, where they Disclosures for the past year: 93% of Standard existed, the service levels prevailing prior to Disclosures are issued within two weeks the transfer of an operation into Capita.
service standard 90% and 93% of Enhanced In some situations, we operate in the public Disclosures issued within four weeks service spotlight and where service excellence is standard 90%.
The CRB is now issuing 50,000 imperative.
A good example is Capita's highly checks per week, twice as many as last summer, successful implementation of Transport for and more than double the number carried out by London's TfL Congestion Charging Scheme.
the 43 police forces prior to the introduction of The scheme, which has just had its first the Disclosure service.
The backlog of anniversary on 17 February, has been a success applications has been eradicated.
in reducing trafc congestion by 30% with 18% less trafc entering the zone and 15% less activity in the zone.
Capita has played a key role in helping us Growth of private and public turnaround the performance of the Criminal sector business m Records Bureau.
I am extremely pleased with 1,081 Compound growth the high levels of service performance that are Private sector 46% 508 Public sector 28% now consistently being delivered and the really 898 strong sense of partnership that has developed.
422 I am particularly pleased with the complete 691 297 commitment that Capita demonstrates to the 573 work of the CRB and those we protect.
Working 453 476 together to achieve the full potential of this vital 163 327 394 service, we have formed a true partnership, with 111 290 mutual respect, that brings real benets to the 216 work of the CRB and those we serve.
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Vince Gaskell Chief Executive, Criminal Records Bureau Public sector Private sector 11 Capita Chairmans statement STRONG DRIVERS FOR CONTINUED GROWTH IN BOTH PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SECTORS Maggi Bell, Divisional Executive Director, Corporate Services Division, pictured with Vince Gaskell, Chief Executive, Criminal Records Bureau.
The CRB service operated by Capita is now recognised as a success, with 3.4 million Disclosures issued to date and 50,000 being issued weekly, more than double the number issued prior to the introduction of the Disclosure Service.
Government and the private sector continue to look to external partners to effect change and deliver modern services.
12 Capita Chairmans statement 12 Capita VALUING OUR PEOPLE, CREATING AN ENVIRONMENT OF OPPORTUNITY Divisional Executive Directors from left David Rigby, Commercial Services Division, Bob Martin, Integrated Services Division and Peter Kelly, Business Services Division.
Capitas project management division managed the recent refurbishment of Fulham Broadway Station.
Its one of the services that make Capitas multidisciplinary consultancy business a leading provider of consultancy, project management and design services for the property and infrastructure markets, and is just one of many disciplines in which Capitas 19,000 people can develop their careers.
