GROUP BOARD 30 Capita GROUP BOARD 01 Rodney Aldridge OBE 02 Paul Pindar Executive Chairman 56 Chief Executive 44 Responsible for the strategic direction of the Group Paul is responsible for managing and developing along with managing external communications and Capitas operations to achieve the Groups relationships, Rod spent ten years in local strategic objectives.
He has specic responsibility government before joining the Chartered Institute for managing the Groups acquisition activity.
He of Public Finance and Accountancy CIPFA in was adviser to Capita on its management buy-out 1974.
In 1984, he became Managing Director of and joined the Group in 1987 from 3i where he CIPFA Computer Services, which subsequently was an investment director.
He qualied as a became the Capita Group following a management chartered accountant with Coopers & Lybrand now buy-out in 1987.
He is a qualied member of  in 1984 and is an CIPFA, and is Chairman of the CBI Public Services associate member of the Institute of Taxation.
04 Paddy Doyle 03 Gordon Hurst Group Operations Director 53 Group Finance Director 42 Paddy joined Capita in 1992 and was appointed to Gordon joined the Group in January 1988 from Sun the Board in July 1994.
He is responsible for the Micro Systems Ltd.
He was appointed to the Board ongoing operational management of the Groups as Commercial Director in February 1995 and as business units.
His background is in IT and Group Finance Director in 1996.
He qualied as a outsourcing, previously with Hoskyns now Cap chartered accountant with Coopers & Lybrand now Gemini Ernst & Young, and AIG American  in 1986.
In addition to International Group, where he was responsible his Group Finance Director responsibilities, Gordon for all aspects of IT operations throughout Europe.
Gordon has Board Paddy has overall responsibility for HR across the responsibility for Capitas Corporate Social Group.
06 Eric Walters 05 Peter Cawdron Non-Executive Director 59 Senior Non-Executive Director 60 Eric Walters was appointed as non-executive Peter Cawdron joined the Group in September Director in October 2000, effective from 1 January 1997.
He joined the Group from Alchemy Partners, Metropolitan Plc now Diageo, serving as the a private equity rm, where he was a senior Group Strategic Development Director from 1986. partner involved in a number of high prole and Prior to 1983, he was Chief Financial officer of complex transactions.
Previously he held senior DArcy MacManus & Masius Worldwide Inc. and positions with Schroder Ventures, Grand held positions at S. G. Warburg and Peat Marwick Metropolitan Plc now Diageo and Lex Services Mitchell now KPMG.
A chartered accountant, he is plc.
Eric also holds non-executive director positions Chairman of Capital Radio.
Other non-executive with Vislink Plc and a number of unquoted directorships include: Christian Salvesen, Compass companies.
Eric is a member of the Audit and Group, Johnston Press, Express Dairies and ARM Remuneration Committees.
He is Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees and a member of the Audit Committee.
07 Robert Alcock Non-Executive Director 62 A chartered accountant, Robert Alcock joined the Group in November 1993.
He is non-executive Deputy Chairman of Incepta Group Plc, a nonexecutive director of Anglo & Overseas Trust, an independent director on the Board of Next Pension Trustees Ltd and senior independent director of Simon Group Plc.
Previous positions include Group Managing Director of Norcros Plc, European Finance Director of RJR Nabisco Inc, Chief Financial officer and Senior Vice President of Black & Decker Inc. and Director of Strategic Planning for Gulf Oils international operations.
Robert is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
