21 Capita Operating review Insurance Life & pensions The insurance industry continues to face Life & pensions is a strong emerging market for enormous challenges.
Equity markets have Capita with a growing interest from customers in underperformed for several years and general outsourcing-led business solutions.
The industry insurance players continue to report limited continues to be heavily challenged by regulatory growth prospects against a backdrop of minimal and charge cap pressure, both of which create the investment returns.
necessity to reduce costs and increase efficiency.
A common message emerging from the sector We won our first contract in August 2002, a ten as it tackles its problems is the necessity of year contract with Lincoln Financial Group.
This change to the claims process, loss adjusting contract has since been transformed into an methodologies, and the way risk is interpreted.
evergreen contract due to the high level of service and results we have delivered.
We also acquired To see change through, insurers also face the Lincolns life and pensions administrative assets challenge of attracting and retaining the right and infrastructure, which formed the basis of the people and partners to deliver it.
There is Capita Life & Pensions Services business.
demand for better customer service as consumer premiums increase, while traditional market In November 2003, we were appointed to provide leaders now face competition from major high a full range of end-to-end life and pensions street brands entering the sector.
administration services to Prudential International and St Jamess Place International.
This is the first Financial Services Authority regulations have significant outsourced life and pensions prompted a significant increase in the arrangement to administer open book schemes.
consolidation of brokers, which are forming It clearly indicates a growing acceptance and into networks to become compliant.
Additionally, recognition of the value that outsourcing can motor and household fraud continues to dog the deliver in this market place.
industry to the value of over 1bn per year.
These contracts are illustrative of an increasing Our unique outsourcing proposition means interest in outsourcing services from companies Capita remains the market leader, with a 23.7% that are actively trying to grow their businesses.
market share in 2003 source: HI Europe 2004.
We are working in partnership with an increasing With Capitas strong reputation for transforming number of major insurance partners to put in back ofce support services, based on our place long-term strategies bound by a common strengths in combining high levels of customer theme, enabling organisations to focus on their service with our ability to re-engineer business core business.
processes and get the best from IT infrastructures, we provide strong alternative In 2003 we expanded further into the commercial methods of delivery to this market place.
insurance sector, by being appointed to manage the run-off of the business of Independent Insurance Company Limited.
We also signicantly enhanced our existing activities in the London Markets.
New contract wins included appointment by Royal & SunAlliance home insurance claims to provide emergency maintenance services and by Beazley Furlonge Limited to administer its reinsurance programme.
Aurora Prudential Lincoln Financial Since February 2003, Capita has been In November 2003, Capita was 500,000 customers owning 800,000 administering the run-off of the business selected to provide life and pensions policies are now supported by Capita of Independent Insurance Company administration services to Prudential Life & Pensions with the level of service Limited one of the most significant Internationals cross-border life being managed by monthly service level run-off contracts in the UK.
Over the last 12 months we have met and exceeded 99.2% of Our performance is assessed on a It takes a very exible and integrated the service level agreements.
In six monthly basis and for the first half approach to the servicing of crossNovember 2003 the contract was of 2003 we achieved maximum border life products.
This allows us to performance.
The assessment of our transformed into an evergreen contract choose from a range of services performance for 2003 included a due to the consistent high levels of including policy administration, number of staff related areas such as service and results delivered.
specialist portfolio management and job creation and redeployment of financial, actuarial and compliance Lincoln has been delighted with the Aurora staff and we have achieved all of reporting adapted to meet market service provision we have received these.
In doing so we have now created requirements.
They have a very clear from Capita in the first year of the a key business unit for the future, which focus on delivering quality value driven contract, which has met or exceeded is both delivering a high quality service service to support our business our expectations.
As we seek to build on a profitable contract, whilst utilising growth.
our business over the next year we its resources, infrastructure and skills believe that this quality of service, on new business.
Brian O'Neill Product & Market coupled with our plans for new Richard Holland Operations Director, Development Director, Prudential products, will play a key part in Capita Insurance Services International differentiating Lincoln in the IFA distribution channel.
Michael Tallett-Williams Managing Director, Lincoln Financial Group UK
