17 Capita Operating review Local government Transport Local government is increasingly seeking Capitas experience in the transport market assistance from the private sector to support its covers the more traditional design and modernisation agenda, develop capacity and construction of highway schemes as well as achieve best value.
the innovative design, implementation and management of integrated transport solutions.
The major drivers for change are increasing customer expectations for choice and high Our service offering complements the standards, the opportunity to facilitate joined up Government's 2000 Ten Year Plan for Transport, public services and the development of services aimed at delivering a modern, safe, reliable to meet the needs of diverse communities.
The transport system for all forms of land transport Government efficiency Review will require local across the UK.
The Plan is supported by the authorities to consider shared support services Treasurys 2003 Pre-Budget Report, which and combined contact centres in partnership with outlines the Department for Transports DfT private sector providers.
focus on developing local targets for delivery against national transport objectives, particularly Already the top provider of BPO services to urban congestion.
local government with a 29.4% market share source: HI Europe 2004, Capita is well In February 2003, the successful launch of positioned to continue our long tradition of Transport for London's Congestion Charging delivering discrete services and strategic Scheme confirmed Capitas role as transport modernising partnerships to this market.
It is pioneering in terms of its size, complexity and purpose and 2003 saw strong new business wins from local is amongst the largest transport management councils, selecting Capita to provide a wide projects in the world.
Demand has ranged across property and management consultancy, Our practical experience in all aspects of the eGovernment solutions, housing benefit and scheme is invaluable in informing future solutions.
council tax administration and extensive service It is this understanding and knowledge that gives partnerships.
Capita has also been selected by us and our clients a significant competitive the ODPM as one of a small number of advantage and clear benets for customers.
companies to provide capacity building support The DfT continues to target road safety and rail to local authorities.
Capita has extensive Many of our existing partner councils have experience in the investigation, design and widened their original service requirements, construction supervision of highway and rail taking advantage of our complementary services projects and has delivered improvement schemes to continually improve services to their ranging from low-cost safety measures to multicommunities and achieve value for money.
We are also a premium supplier of consultancy services to the Highways Hertfordshire County Council and Blackburn with Agency and Network Rail.
Darwen Borough Council, two of our partner authorities, were among only 22 councils to be It is estimated that the total value of transport assessed in the top excellent category in the outsourcing will grow by 15% to reach 3.9bn by first Comprehensive Performance Assessment.
The Audit Commission included positive As our expertise continues to broaden references to the contribution made by Capita to spanning transport, environment, regeneration the councils achievements.
Hertfordshire also and infrastructure consultancy services, back became the first council to receive the Contact ofce processing, enforcement and customer Centre Association accreditation for its contact service capability Capita is very well placed to centre, implemented and operated by Capita.
participate in future transport management and infrastructure opportunities.
Capita continues to demonstrate that it can develop and sustain long-term partnership relations with local authorities in a manner that is win-win for the council and its communities, for the employees and for Capita.
Edinburgh City Council Denbighshire County Council Cross Country Route Modernisation In April 2003, Capita was brought in to In 2001 Denbighshire County Councils The Cross Country network is one of support Edinburgh City Council in Housing Rents Service sought support Britains strategic rail routes, running preparing for, and recovering from, the from Capita Software Services and the from Aberdeen to Penzance and migration of its Revenues and Benets Academy Housing products after it linking London, Birmingham, Glasgow computer system.
They required help was heavily criticised by the Audit and Manchester.
for a year and so we are supplying up Commission.
A re-inspection in 2003 In September 2003, Capita was part to 40 off-site staff, working from a saw the Councils service rating go of the team awarded a Team Work number of our regional business from zero to two stars and its award by Network Rail for its work centres.
improvement rating from will not on the Cross Country Route improve to excellent.
This is the The off-site system is working perfectly Modernisation CCRM project.
highest rating awarded for any Rents for us and is built on a foundation of The CCRM team, comprising service in England and Wales and the effective partnership working.
We personnel from Betchel, other highest rating ever given for any required trained people to take some of consultants and Network Rail itself, housing inspection within Wales.
Capita had was recognised for its cross regional the capacity to provide the staff and the The exibility of Academys Housing alignment, good communication and technology straight away and we very software proved to be invaluable.
quickly started to see results.
Since the strain and, in allowing us to Capita provided commercial and risk April 2003 over 41,400 cases have automate many procedures, we were management services throughout the been processed, helping to signicantly able to free up specialist staff to get on development and delivery of this reduce the number of outstanding with their jobs.
project, aimed at improving track benefit claims.
Glyn Roberts Senior Housing Rents quality and increasing line speeds Mike Peterson Head of Revenues officer, Denbighshire County Council along three core routes.
All three & Benets Services, Edinburgh City phases of the project were delivered Council on time and within budget.
Line speed increases were achieved on 259 miles of track, with some locations being increased to a 125-mile per hour service.
