12 Board of Directors The present Directors, all of whom are non-executive, with the exception of Lord Rothschild and Duncan Budge, are: ANDREW KNIGHT THE LORD ROTHSCHILD, GBE Aged 63, he was appointed a non-executive director Aged 67, is Chairman of RIT Capital Partners plc.
He is a director of News International plc.
He He was appointed a non-executive director in 1988 was previously a director of Home Counties Newspapers and became an executive director in 1996.
Holdings plc until its acquisition by Eastern Counties Newspapers.
He is a former Editor of The Economist and served as Chief Executive of the Telegraph group and CHARLES BAILEY Chairman of News International.
Aged 68, he was appointed a non-executive director in 1988.
He is also a director of General Oriental Investments Limited, Antofagasta Holdings plc, Atrium BARON LAMBERT Underwriting plc and St Jamess Place Capital plc.
Aged 73, he was appointed a non-executive director He is the senior independent director and Chairman in 1988.
He is President of the Board of Global Asset of the Audit, Remuneration and Conflicts, and Management Schweiz AG and was President of Banque Valuation Committees.
Bruxelles Lambert Suisse SA and a Member of the Board of Directors of Banque Bruxelles Lambert SA Belgium until 1997.
TIMOTHY BARAKETT Aged 37, he is the President of Atticus Capital, Inc and Atticus Management, Ltd, two private investment JEAN PIGOZZI management companies which he founded in 1995.
Aged 51, he was appointed a non-executive director Previously he was a Managing Director at Junction in 1988.
Advisers, Inc, a private investment company.
Nathaniel Rothschild acts as his alternate.
MICHAEL SOFAER Aged 45, he was appointed a non-executive director in MIKAEL BREUER-WEIL 1999.
He is Managing Director and Principal of Sofaer Aged 39, he was appointed a non-executive director in Capital Inc since 1986.
Since 1994 he has been the principal investment analyst with Schroders, during which time he established adviser to philanthropic foundations connected with Lord a research department for Schroders Asia in Hong Kong.
Prior to this he spent eight years at Mercury Asset Management Group plc as an investment manager, including a period of secondment to Odyssey Partners L. P. in New York.
DUNCAN BUDGE Aged 47, he was appointed an executive director and Chief Operating Officer of the Company in 1995.
He has Member of the Audit Committee been a director of J. Rothschild Capital Management Member of the Remuneration and Conflicts Committee Limited since 1988 and has represented the Company on Member of the Valuation Committee Independent director the Boards of a number of RITCPs investments.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
