Board of Directors N, R E A, N, R John Napier Andy Haste Bob Ayling Chairman Group Chief Executive E Executive Director Age 61.
Director of the Group Age 42.
Director of the Group A Member of Audit & Compliance Committee from January 2003 and Chief Executive from April from April 1993.
Director of N Member of Nomination Committee Chairman of the Group from 2003.
Former Chief Executive Dyson Limited.
Chairman R Member of Remuneration Committee March 2003.
Non-executive of AXA Sun Life plc and of Holidaybreak plc leisure.
Chairman of Kelda Group plc director of AXA UK plc life Former Chief Executive of British water utility.
Former Chairman of Chairman and Chief Executive President and Chief Executive The New Millennium Experience of Kelda Group plc.
Former officer of Global Consumer Company.
Former Under Chairman of Booker plc cash Finance Europe at GE Capital Secretary at the Department and carry.
Former Managing UK, Western Europe and of Trade.
Director of Hays plc business Eastern Europe financial services.
Former President of Director of AGB plc National Westminster Banks international market research US Consumer Credit Business and information services.
26 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next E A, R R A A, R Julian Hance Stephen Hill Susan Hooper Edward Lea John Maxwell Age 48.
Director of the Group Director from October 1998.
Group from July 2003. from July 2003.
Chairman of Former Group Chief Chief Executive of The Former Vice President of Chairman of the Audit & the Remuneration Committee Accountant and Finance Sporting Exchange Limited Avis Europe plc car rental Compliance Committee from from October 2003.
Director Director of Life and leisure.
Non-executive in Europe, Africa, Middle October 2003.
Director of Provident Financial plc Investment Operations.
director of Psion plc East and Asia.
Former Redbourn Group plc financial services.
Former Chief Regional Director Europe, property management and of The Big Food Group plc Executive officer of the Africa and Middle East of investment.
Director of IDC food retailer.
Director of Financial Times Group Pepsico International and Plugs Limited electrical Parity Group plc IT services.
Limited newspapers & non-executive director of services.
Director of Governor of the Royal Ballet publishing.
Chairman of the Executive officer of the Previously a director of Institute of Advanced Financial Times Newspaper The British United Provident Motorists.
Previously an and Westminster Press and Association BUPA.
executive director of Prudential Head of Strategy for Pearson Group plc.
Previously Director plc media company.
General Chief Executive officer of The Automobile Association Limited.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 27 previous contents next
