Operating Review continued largely from substantial rate increases, been hardening, especially in Scandinavia along with a case by case review of commercial lines, following several years our entire business portfolio.
In of unsatisfactory underwriting results.
Denmark, commercial lines performed Scandinavian interest rates remained at well with premium rate increases and a low level, which led to low investment the successful acquisition of new returns and underlined the need for business at terms reecting the true profitable underwriting results to repair nature of the risk.
We believe that we weakened balance sheets.
will achieve further rate increases There has been increasing pressure throughout 2004.
Danish personal from consumer organisations for lines also grew as a result of premium insurers to offer policies that run for Scandinavia rate increases.
Strengthening for prior less than one year, and we have built m 2003 2002 years on personal injury claims, this into a number of our products.
primarily in our Swedish motor The market for broker business, General business business, negatively impacted the although relatively small, is moving Net premiums written 1,167 952 Regions result.
towards quoting on a net pricing Underwriting result 4 86 We made progress in reorganising basis, a practice we plan to implement General business result 96 23 our business to exploit synergies and during 2004.
Return on capital employed 15% 4% become a leaner and better managed We still use multiple brands in our business.
We put in place a pan primary markets.
Our main brands, Life business Nordic marine organisation and Trygg-Hansa and Codan, have very Net premiums written 346 284 restructured our IS, HR, finance and high prompted awareness, with close Life business result 38 71 communications functions.
We also to 100% having heard of each Shareholders interest 316 324 nalised the IS integration of company in its home market.
TryggSee note 1 on page 16. acquisitions in 2001 and 2002.
Hansa was cited in the public relations We are implementing a Regional media as having the third strongest business improvement programme overall brand in Sweden.
Overview of major strategies plan, which will we believe further Scandinavia Region comprises market improve the profitability, efficiency Acquisitions, disposals and investments leading businesses in Denmark, and focus of our business.
During 2003 we altered our interest in Sweden, Latvia and Lithuania.
The We are developing our technical two subsidiaries of our 53% owned Region became a separate reporting core skills of underwriting and claims subsidiary, Lietuvos Draudimas.
The entity in the second half of the year handling and becoming more life operation, Lietuvos Draudimo as part of the Groups restructuring.
sophisticated in how we price our Gyvybes Draudimas, was sold and we Codan Group includes Trygg-Hansa business.
We recognise the need to reduced our shareholding in Lietuvos Sweden, Lietuvos Draudimas develop different propositions for our Draudimass subsidiary credit insurance Lithuania and Balta Latvia.
It customers and are working with company to 49%.
acquired Trekroner Forsikring loyalty programmes in both Denmark Denmark in 2002. and Sweden.
Outlook Underwriting strategy has focussed We extended our new claims In 2004, we have embarked upon the on strengthening our proposition to handling service concept in Denmark, second phase of the Nordic customers while seeking to deliver a from house contents to motor.
It is integration: that of business units.
profitable result to the Group.
built around a system that allows Management has undergone a Our multi distribution network insureds to replace stolen or damaged significant restructure and review, to gives us a strong position in the items at a discounted price and, by ensure the integrations smooth Nordic marketplace and we continue increasing the ow through this implementation.
Poul Mortensen was to respond to changes in the way that system, we will be better placed to appointed Chief Operating officer, insurance products are distributed.
We reporting to Jens Erik Christensen, Following Jens Erik Christensens launched a similar system in Sweden responsible for the commercial, change of role to Chief Executive for contents and plan to expand it to personal and claims handling business Scandinavia, we launched an aggressive additional types of claims.
units in Denmark and Sweden.
business improvement programme to In Sweden, direct sales are Management remain committed to review our pricing strategy, improve increasingly being transacted through continuing the remedial work of 2002 processes, seek greater administrative the Internet.
As a result, during the and 2003, particularly improving our efficiencies and so maximise our year we closed one of our call centres.
core capabilities in pricing, competitive advantage.
Codans new pensions product, underwriting and claims handling, At the same time, we put in place Time Pension, launched in September which we believe can give further a Nordic integration plan.
Central 2002 to broad critical acclaim, has had improvements in 2004.
We seek to this was the creation of a Nordic a very satisfactory first full year, with further efficiency improvements from management team, facilitating closer premium growth of over 400% and a the second phase of the Nordic cooperation between local good technical result, conrming our integration and the implementation of management through knowledge confidence in it.
With premiums of best practices across the Region.
DKK223m it is now outselling our core Our focus remains on markets and unit linked pension product.
businesses where we have sufficient Business progress against strategies market share and a promising prospect 2003 saw significant improvement in Market and economic conditions of profitable, sustainable growth.
performance from our disciplined Scandinavian insurance markets are approach to underwriting and pricing.
In Sweden, the Results also benefited from relatively top five players control 90% of the benign weather in 2003 compared to market and in Denmark 75%.
There is previous years, particularly in Denmark.
limited scope for entry of new players.
In Sweden, premium growth came During 2003 premium rates have 20 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next
