Business progress against strategies underwriting and claims skills and made International A new central leadership team and progress on initiatives that underpin business reporting lines have already our strategies relating to: control and resulted in tough decisions being governance: people development: taken and significant changes made to process improvement: and technology.
Our success has been reected in We took steps towards refocussing encouragingly strong financial results, our portfolio including a number of as well as good feedback from disposals, aiming always to maximise customer surveys and industry awards.
In Asia, we produced good results Canada reshaped its business with year on year improvement.
Our International ex Canada portfolio and took decisive action Indian associate signed distribution m 2003 2002 on pricing and claims handling, and deals with two major banks, giving is beginning to see the benefit.
access to over three and a half million General business Commercial strategy in Canada customers in total.
Net premiums written 765 1,079 continues to move from a generalist Our customer service was Underwriting result 36 108 to a specic segment approach, recognised in a number of markets.
General business result 108 1 targeting customised middle market For example, Colombia was rated third Return on capital employed 21% 0% and small business.
in general and first in life business by Personals focus has moved to the local association of brokers and Life business segments and provinces that we agencies and Italy was ranked number Net premiums written 147 434 believe have the best prospects for two in the market for the quality of Life business result 7 11 profitability, eg our subsidiary Agilon its online motor quotation system by Shareholders interest 25 167 has entered into a strategic alliance a leading independent consultancy.
with Expert Travel Financial Security Inc. that will make us one of Canadas Market and economic conditions Canada top travel insurance underwriters.
Each insurance market within Johnson Corporation, Canadas International Businesses is at a m 2003 2002 direct business, continues to deliver different stage of evolution and yet General business strong results, with 44% growth in they face a number of common Net premiums written 503 527 net written premiums over the year.
In Ireland and Italy the strong Underwriting result 18 82 A leading insurance and benets rating environment has either ended provider, Johnsons distinct competitive or shows clear signs of starting to General business result 35 25 advantage comes from disciplined soften, while in Canada increases Return on capital employed 10% 12 % underwriting and risk selection, a low continue.
Motor insurance reform has See note 1 on page 16. cost base, use of technology, and become a political issue in Canada, good customer service.
and we see it being accompanied by Canada has developed a new web underwriting and rating restrictions, Overview of major strategies service, WebBusiness, which lets posing challenges for the industry.
International Businesses comprises personal lines brokers process new During 2003, the weakness of the US mainly profitable operations in more business and policy changes online at dollar impacted Latin American exchange than 20 countries.
It was formed their own ofces.
However the Argentine, Brazilian during the second half of 2003 as part handle at least 70% of eligible and Chilean currencies strengthened of the Groups restructuring.
Towards transactions by the end of 2004. against the pound, with Argentina the end of the year, Canada started Ireland produced a sound financial rebounding from the crisis of 2002. to report through International, but result and made excellent progress in in 2003 its results continued to be its business wide transformation Acquisitions, disposals and investments published separately because of its programme.
We invested in self service We have disposed of a number of size and signicance.
capabilities, which allow intermediaries businesses in 2003, in particular our Following Simon Lees appointment to access and reconcile accounts online operations in Australia and New as Chief Executive International and view customer claims progress.
The Zealand via an Initial Public Offering Businesses, we undertook a high legal costs associated with claims in May.
fundamental strategic and operational were addressed by establishing inhouse We sold Eurolife, our Dublin based review.
We evaluated the environment legal services.
We expect significant European life and investment each business operates in, the market financial and service benets from this.
company, our operation in Puerto Rico growth and profit potential and its Italy again delivered strong growth and our Chilean life subsidiary, La risks, as well as the performance and profitability, through its agents Construccin.
We largely completed and market share of the businesses.
and corporate client business, and has the closure of our French domestic The findings were used to assess reviewed its broker business to reduce commercial lines operation, which is in each operations relative risk when exposure to potentially volatile risks.
We sold the renewal rights on compared to other Group businesses.
Middle East has a proven track our intermediated personal insurance Our strategic aim is to enhance record of profitability and achieved business in Quebec.
We ceased to shareholder value focussing on markets controlled growth through the write business in Korea.
In February with profitable growth prospects and consolidation of a portfolio acquired 2004 we announced the sale of our where we are well positioned.
Many of in the UAE, Oman and Bahrain in interests in Peru and agreed to sell our the businesses are small and we are 2002, and premium rate increases.
shares in Mutual & Federal, subject to focussing on ensuring that the risk In Latin America we continued to regulatory approval.
control environment is robust and well reduce the volatility of performance structured.
We aim to ensure that through disposals in the Caribbean that circumstances will not arise which could will further reduce exposure to natural expose the Group to unnecessary and catastrophes.
We have maintained disproportionate risks.
focus on the development of our Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 21 previous contents next Operating Review continued smaller organisation built around our & preferred personal lines and parts US profitable non standard auto business.
2002 net It will also be responsible for winding written premiums for these businesses down the business remaining from our were $1.5bn.
We will retain current transferring operations.
policies in force until renewal, as well Our ultimate goal is to achieve as all historical liabilities associated operational stabilisation through with these policies.
six critical drivers: Among the other businesses sold in claims management meeting 2003 was Royal Specialty Underwriting, our policyholder obligations and Inc. RSUI, our US excess and surplus providing stewardship over our lines business.
The transaction US corporate assets: signicantly reduced our catastrophe m 2003 2002 expense management ensuring that exposure in the US and released around our expense base is commensurate 200m of risk based capital.
As part of General business with our operational needs: the agreement we will provide a fronting Net premiums written 1,090 1,895 transition of resources and assets arrangement for admitted business, Underwriting result 651 428 managing the consolidation of which will continue until June 2004.
General business result 469 201 our US operations to a stabilised, Other businesses exited in 2003, and Return on capital employed 52 % 21 % cost effective, functionally aligned the early part of 2004, are detailed structure that can support under the Acquisitions, Disposals and See note 1 on page 16. continuing obligations: Investments section of this report.
legal providing proper We completed an expense Overview of major strategies management and resolution management programme to cut The US operation is undergoing of claims, corporate litigation controllable expenses by $122m a fundamental reorganisation and regulatory risk: between November 2002 and mid designed to protect the value of the investment management optimising year 2003.
This included a headcount Groups investment in the US, our asset type and maturity mix so reduction of 843 employees.
During safeguard assets appropriately and that expected liability outows are the final quarter of the year, the minimise the risk of volatility in the matched with equivalent investment workforce was reduced by a further overall Group operating results.
asset inows: and 1,249 employees, many through This transition includes a significant reinsurance recoverables transfer to the acquiring companies in reduction in the scale of our operations, maximising the cash available to our renewal rights sales.
In total we particularly in the commercial segment, our operations through aggressive reduced headcount by 2,500 during through the sale of the renewal rights reinsurance collections and the year.
Around $95m of the for the majority of our businesses to cash management.
targeted savings had been achieved by other companies.
We have also the end of 2003: we aim to realise the signicantly increased claims reserves, Business progress against strategies remainder in early 2004. implemented aggressive expense We have put in place a transitional Expense management is seen as a reduction measures and eliminated plan to manage the restructuring of key driver for the organisation for infrastructure.
Of the overall Group our US operation, including the 2004 and beyond, and the Company reserve additions during the second appointment of a new management is committed to managing its expense half of 2003, 495m was in the US, team headed by John Tighe, who will base effectively through the transition.
mainly relating to workers be responsible for overseeing its We have instituted a number of compensation and general liability.
control mechanisms to ensure that we At the same time we are seeking to An integral part of this plan has make orderly progress on our ensure that this restructuring does not been an exit from the majority of our restructuring.
These include the negatively impact the quality of service businesses, primarily through the sale creation of a new financial risk that we provide to customers, whether of renewal rights to The Travelers manager role within our senior team.
those for business that we are retaining Indemnity Company, a subsidiary of The Region has also strengthened its or, while it is still on our books, that Travelers Property Casualty Corp, governance structure consistent with being transferred elsewhere.
Included the restructure and redirection of the Our restructuring will result in a in the Travelers sale were our standard US operation.
Finally, management and employee incentive plans have been modied to include a control environment objective.
We have instituted a number of We have launched more than 20 projects to support our strategic control mechanisms to ensure that redirection and move our six critical we make orderly progress on our drivers forward.
Examples of projects include the: restructuring.
These include the Business Insurance Transition Plan, creation of a new financial risk which will move Business Insurance from a business segment to a manager role within our senior team.
functional unit model: Claims File and Ofce Transition, which will design a transition strategy to balance US indemnity obligations with expense considerations: and Performance Management, which will help enable all US employees to meet specic corporate objectives.
22 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next All projects are due to be completed in the market, and prospects for over the next 12 to 18 months.
Our largest ongoing business is non standard auto, a leading provider of Acquisitions, disposals and investments personal automobile insurance to low In 2003, our US operation sold: income, low wealth customers.
It renewal rights to its middle market offers exible term policies and segments, RM&G casualty, marine traditional six month policies through and standard & preferred personal a network of approximately 8,000 lines businesses to a subsidiary of independent agents in 27 states.
In Travelers Property Casualty Corp. : 2003, for the third year running, it RSUI business and assets to applied double digit premium rate Alleghany Insurance Holdings LLC.
: increases, achieving an average DPIC and RM&G global property increase of 14% for the full year.
renewal rights to XL America Inc. : Additionally, 99% of its new business Grocers Insurance Company renewal SM is now submitted via AutoLink, a rights to Argonaut Group Inc. : leading edge point of sale and service financial services business and assets technology, which has dramatically to American National Property and reduced overhead expenses.
Financial Casualty Company: and results for the year were strong, with flood protection programme the business reporting net written business and assets to Harleysville premium of $387m and a 94.1% Mutual Insurance Company.
The downward revisions of the US We also transferred our REMi, Asia operations credit rating by Standard & Branch and SJA Agency businesses to Poors and AM Best during the second other companies and began the wind half of the year have not adversely down of Artis, our alternative risk Expense management is seen as a key affected non standard auto, and new transfer insurance strategies operation.
driver for the organisation for 2004 business continues at expected levels.
Claims initiatives implemented by Outlook and beyond, and the Company is non standard auto at the beginning of The restructuring and consolidation of committed to managing its expense 2003 have positively affected claims the US operations will continue in results, with severity decreasing by 5% 2004, with a focus on maximising and base effectively through the transition.
All key claims indicators, such protecting the Groups assets in the as subrogation, salvage and claims Region.
Enhanced project management expenses, have also improved this year.
discipline has been developed to drive the transition.
Key risks have been Market and economic conditions identied and the overall control The hard market in the US continued, environment emphasised, in part but with a deceleration in the rate of through the new Financial Risk Ofce.
Finally, retention of critical staff is Solid industry results for the year being addressed through a new stemmed from growing premiums and incentive plan.
However, 2004 is expected to be a very financial uncertainties remain, as challenging year, particularly in regard evidenced by the fact that AM Best to financial results, given the costs downgrades outpaced upgrades for associated with exiting certain lines of the third consecutive year: 188 vs 57 business and the overall implementation for the 12 months ending July 2003. of the US restructuring.
We therefore On the legislative front, there have do not expect good financial returns as been substantive negotiations in the US a result of various xed and unavoidable Congress for federal legislation to limit expenses.
We anticipate that the exposure to asbestos claims.
The latest position will begin to improve in 2005 bill includes a 27 year payout period for as expenses begin to reduce to be insurers, a 46% industry payout share more in line with our new premium vs 50% in a prior bill and a ground up base level.
The bill is expected before the Senate during the first half of 2004, where prospects are uncertain, but the Majority Leader is supportive of the industry position.
Congressional consideration is also expected on class action tort reform to consolidate actions from the state courts to federal court.
With regard to terrorism insurance, industry lobbying efforts are commencing to seek extension of the federal Terrorism Risk Insurance Program, which is set to expire at year end 2005.
Congress and the Treasury Department are monitoring conditions Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 23 previous contents next
