Group profile RBS has built one of the strongest portfolios of brands in the financial services sector growing both organically and by acquisition.
06 The largest provider of banking RBS Greenwich Capital US Corporate Banking No.
1 agent globally for traditional services and structured financing to Tailors debt capital market solutions cross border US$ private and Financial Markets medium and large businesses in the to institutions worldwide and has a placement transactions UK and a growing provider of debt leading position in US treasuries and Chief Executive No.
1 Project Finance Global financing and risk management asset-backed securities.
Johnny Cameron mandated lead arranger solutions to large businesses in Europe Market data and North America.
It also provides Geographic spread No.
2 European leveraged loans an integrated range of products and lead corporate bank in the UK UK, Europe, US, Asia mandated arranger services to mid-sized and large serves over 90% of the FTSE 100 corporate and institutional customers Employees in the UK and overseas.
15,900 serves over 75% of the FTSE 250 Treasury and capital markets products serves 50% of Fortune 100 are provided through Financial companies in the US Markets, which is a leading provider of debt, foreign exchange and banking relationships with 70% of derivatives products.
the top 100 Continental European companies Two of the UKs best known banking For small business customers Market data Retail Banking brands, NatWest and The Royal Bank Retail Banking offers:- largest retail network in the UK of Scotland, offer a wide range of money transmission Chief Executive products and services to over 13.7 over 2,270 branches Benny Higgins cash management million individual and 1.1 million small over 5,900 ATMs business customers.
Retail Banking short, medium and long Geographic spread offers the choice of banking at over term finance UK over 13.7 million personal 2,270 local branches, via the UKs deposit taking customers largest network of over 5,900 ATMs, Employees or via the internet, to access a wide 30,700 largest provider of banking range of banking, financial, services to small to medium sized insurance, life assurance and enterprises SMEs in the UK pension products.
over 1.1 million business customers Retail Direct offers financial services It also provides a global infrastructure Retail Direct over 2 million customer accounts and banking products direct to of merchant acquiring and processing in Europe consumers through a range of facilities via Streamline for retailers in Chief Executive channels and includes well known the UK.
For retailers who are internet most successful supermarket Chris Sullivan brands such as Tesco Personal based it provides a similar bank in the UK Geographic spread Finance, The One account, Direct infrastructure via WorldPay.
over 4 million Tesco Personal UK, US and Europe Line Financial Services, Lombard Market data Finance customer accounts Direct and in Europe, Comfort Cards.
Employees over 16 million customer accounts over 1 million Tesco Personal 7,300 It offers a comprehensive range of Finance motor insurance credit and charge cards through The 2nd largest credit card issuer customers Royal Bank of Scotland, NatWest in the UK and a range of brands, such as MINT.
over 13 million credit and storecard accounts Manufacturing provides a diverse CBFM, Retail Banking, Retail Direct Market data Manufacturing range of services to support the and Wealth Management.
1 in UK for cheque payments customer facing operations of the Chief Executive Purchasing Groups multiple brands.
1 in UK for Banks Automated Mark Fisher Manufacturing is responsible for the customer support via telephony, Clearing System BACS vast majority of purchasing account management, lending, Geographic spread undertaken by the Group, leveraging No.
1 in UK for Clearing House mortgage processing and money UK, US and Europe its purchasing power to maximise Automated Payment System transmission.
CHAPS Employees Group Technology 21,800 Property runs the UKs largest ATM Group Technology continually The Groups property portfolio is network develops and maintains the managed, maintained and refurbished infrastructure and technology that by Manufacturing who also oversee supports the branches, ATMs and the property investment programme.
internet banking for customers of Group profile 07 Private Banking Offshore Banking Market data Wealth Management Coutts Group and Adam & Company The offshore banking business offers No.
1 for private banking in the UK offer private, corporate and expatriate retail banking services to local and Chief Executive client services including:- expatriate customers and corporate a leading player in offshore Gordon Pell banking and treasury services to banking in the UK banking corporate, intermediary and Geographic spread institutional clients.
over 90,000 UK and international wealth management UK, Europe, Asia, offshore clients locations investment management over 168,000 offshore clients financial planning Employees trust and fiduciary services 5,600 RBS Insurance sells and underwrites Market data RBS Insurance over 5 million UK home policies retail and wholesale general insurance 2nd largest general insurer largest direct insurer in Spain via the telephone, the internet and a in the UK Chief Executive network of brokers.
largest direct insurer in Italy Annette Court No.
1 for UK motor insurance It includes some of the best known Geographic spread over 1.5 million international No.
2 for UK household insurance insurance brands including Direct UK, Ireland, Spain, Germany, motor policies Line, Churchill Insurance, NIG, Devitt, Italy and Japan over 19 million UK insurance Green Flag, UKI Partnerships and policies in-force Employees Inter Group.
19,400 over 8 million UK motor policies On 5 January 2004 Ulster Bank was First Active offers mortgage and Market data Ulster Bank significantly enlarged with the savings products to customers in the 3rd largest clearing bank in the completion of the acquisition of First Republic of Ireland.
Republic of Ireland Chief Executive Active plc.
Ulster Bank provides Corporate and institutional customers Cormac McCarthy banking and financial products and largest bank in Northern Ireland benefit from the scale and experience services via its branch network, Geographic spread of the Corporate Banking and now has 1.4 million customers telephone and the internet to across Ireland Financial Markets division.
customers throughout Ireland:- over 120,000 mortgage customers Employees retail 5,100 No.
2 for mortgages in the wholesale Republic of Ireland mortgage savings investment Citizens is engaged in retail and It offers personal banking, Market data Citizens commercial banking through a residential mortgages and home 13th largest commercial banking growing network of city centre, local equity loans.
It also provides a wide organisation in the US ranked by Chairman, President and and supermarket branches in the US variety of commercial loans and deposits Chief Executive Officer states of : services including: real estate Larry Fish lending, equipment leasing, credit 4th largest supermarket Connecticut card merchant services, trust and bank in the US Geographic spread Delaware investment services, cash New England and 2.4 million personal customers management and international Massachusetts Mid Atlantic regions of US banking.
New Hampshire Employees New Jersey 14,200 Pennsylvania Rhode Island Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Group profile Group profile continued As one of the worlds largest banks we continue to seek new opportunities to build every aspect of the Groups business in the UK, Europe and America.
08 Global ranking At the end of 2003 The Royal Bank of Scotland The bulk of both our income and assets continue to The Forbes Global 2000 for 2003 is a Group was the worlds fifth largest banking group, be in the UK, although the US and Europe are comprehensive listing of the worlds with a market capitalisation of 49 billion.
biggest and most important companies, as measured by sales, profit, assets and Our three key areas of operation are the UK, US and The number of people we employ and the number market value.
Those that make the list Continental Europe.
In each of these the scale of our of customers buying banking products and financial have the best composite ranking based businesses has significantly grown over the past services from the Group is also growing in each of on all four of these measures.
five years through strong organic growth and these three main territories.
We now employ over acquisitions.
We are increasingly serving the needs 120,000 people worldwide.
Rank Company Country of our existing customers in Asia and Australia.
1 Citigroup US 2 General Electric US 3 American International Group US 4 ExxonMobil US 5 Bank of America US Geographic Distribution 6 Royal Dutch Shell group NL Income Customers Employees 7BP UK 4 4 8 Fannie Mae US 1 1 1 3 9 HSBC UK 3 3 10 Toyota Motor Japan 2 2 2 11 Verizon Communications US 12 Wal-Mart Stores US 13 ING Group NL 14 The Royal Bank of Scotland Group UK 15 Berkshire Hathaway US % % 15 BNP Paribas France 1UK 79 1UK 82 17 International Business Machines US % 2 Europe 5 2 Europe 5 18 Altria Group US 1UK 77 3US 15 3US 12 19 General Motors US 2 Europe 14 4 Rest of World 1 4 Rest of World 1 20 Total France 3US 9 Group profile 09 Worlds top 9 acquisitions A-listed performing totalling by Forbes bank for Worlds Best shareholder 3bn Banks return over the last 5 years Boston Consulting United Acquisition Kingdom of Churchill Insurance Group Banking America Queens relationships with Award 50% of for International Fortune100 Trade companies Europe Acquisitions Acquisitions Citizens extends in Germany, its reach with Switzerland, the acquisition Ireland and of another 3 Sweden US banks 2nd largest bank in Europe by market capitalisation Make it happen Figures quoted as at 31 December 2003.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Group profile
