Divisional review Group profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and integration costs up 11% to 7,151 million 2002 6,451 million.
10 Make it happen Divisional review 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Divisional review Corporate Banking and Financial Markets Profit contribution 3,620 million 2002 3,261 million Profit increase 11% Total income up 11% 12 Banking 2003 relationships Securitisation with over House of the Year 90% of Banker Magazine FTSE100 2003 Sterling Bond House of The Year International Financing Review No.
1 global agent for traditional cross border private placements Cadbury Schweppes.
Success was sweet when RBS was one of five underwriters for Cadbury Schweppes $4.2 billion US acquisition of Adams Confectionery, makers of world famous brands including Halls medicated confectionery, Trident and Dentyne chewing gum and Bubbas bubblegum.
This was awarded Loan of the Year in Corporate Finance Magazine.
Make it happen Corporate Banking and Financial Markets 13 We structured a multi jurisdictional financing In 2003 we maintained our position package to support Dorchester Hotels further as the UKs leading Corporate expansion of their international hotels, including new prime assets in Milan and Paris.
Bank and grew both our corporate We co-wrote and syndicated the 148 banking and financial markets million re-financing debt package for Anglian businesses in Europe, the US and Windows allowing Alchemy Partners to return a proportion of capital to investors.
Our total income increased by 645 million or 11% to 6,697 million.
We enabled Peel Holdings to acquire Clydeport by solely arranging and underwriting a 165 million bridging facility.
Average loans and advances to customers increased by 9% or 7.5 billion to 94.3 billion.
We have supported award winning Innocent Average customer deposits within the banking business Drinks since its launch in 1999, enabling the increased by 7% or 4.1 billion to 61.0 billion.
company to grow and expand despite significant international competition.
Growth in income reflected our commitment to supporting our customers through a broad range of Carillion previously Tarmac celebrated its transactions tailored to their individual requirements.
centenary and a 100 year relationship with RBS.
UK Corporate Banking Structured Finance We played a major role in a 600 million We were mandated lead arranger for the refinancing of EMIs credit facilities which included 2.5 billion Spirit Group and S&N retail pub group the launch of the companys first high yield capital transaction.
This was the largest sterling leveraged markets issue.
buyout in the UK and the 2nd largest in Europe in 2003.
We created a unique back-to-back solution We led the US$6.1 billion acquisition facility that met the coin requirements of Arrivas UK Bus for Cadbury Schweppes, to enable their purchase division and Sainsburys.
of the US confectioner Adams.
The deal was awarded Loan of the Year by Corporate Finance magazine.
We provided a tailored cash and treasury management solution to support Element 6 Asset Finance formerly fide Beers Industrial Diamonds.
Both Angel Trains, our rolling stock leasing company, and Lombard our small and mid-ticket When Vue Cinemas acquired 36 Warner asset finance brand in the UK and Ireland, Village premises, they sought a bank partner who maintained their leading market positions in 2003. could rapidly create a cash and card processing solution to meet their very demanding acquisition A new car division comprising the Dixon timeframe.
We structured a solution which met this.
Motors retail business, jamjar and the Lombard full service contract hire and leasing operation was Our 22 million financing for Petrofac helped formed.
It supplied more than 100,000 new and to support their acquisition plans.
used vehicles to its customers in 2003.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Banking and Financial Markets Corporate Banking and Financial Markets continued We are constantly exploring opportunities to develop new markets, leveraging our reputation and financial strength to broker bigger and better deals for our UK and international customers.
1 provider of Sterling FX and Interest Rate Derivatives 4.4bn leveraged loan for SEAT Acting for our Securitisation customers in Deal of the Year 2003 140 The Treasurer countries 70% of top 100 Continental European companies bank with us HeidelbergCement AG.
At 700m the largest non-SEC registered high yield Euro offering ever placed was part of an innovative financing package tailored for HeidelbergCement AG amid challenging market conditions.
Make it happen Corporate Banking and Financial Markets 15 Financial Markets In Italy we acted as a lead arranger for the We improved our ranking in the Sterling Olivetti Telecom Italia 15.5 billion syndicated term Bond league table moving from No.
11 in 2000 to loan and revolving credit facilities the largest No.
2 in 2003. bank financing in Europe for three years.
This won European Loan of the Year in International Financing We rose from 8th in 2002 to 3rd best FX Review Review of the Year.
bank in London in the 2003 Euromoney FX survey.
RBS co-led the largest ever European Financial Markets is the leading arranger for leveraged buy out for SEAT Pagine Gialle, the cross-border issues into the US private placement dominant Italian classified directories business, market, with a market share of 26%.
providing debt facilities of 4.4 billion.
Our money market funds, Global Treasury We were lead arranger and bookrunner in Funds, continue to grow strongly with client the 2.5 billion term loan and revolving credit investments up 38% in the year to 5 billion.
facility for Vivendi Universal and joint lead and bookrunner in the companys 1.2 billion bond We executed the three largest sterling issue.
Institutional investors voted this transaction securitisations in the market: Southern Water, High Yield Deal of the Year in Credit magazines Mitchells & Butlers and Punch Taverns.
annual deals of the year poll.
RBS Agency Treasury Services, the premier We were awarded SVT primary dealership UK based provider of treasury outsourcing services status by the Agence France Tresor, enabling won the mandate for Acambis plc, techMARK Financial Markets to provide French Government Mediscience Company of the Year and a world securities to our global customers.
This status leader in the development of vaccines to prevent complements the primary dealerships we already and treat infectious disease.
hold in the UK, US and Germany.
Europe In 2003, RBS became a participant on We have invested significantly in growing our TradeWeb, the leading electronic platform for presence in Europe.
We now have offices in France, institutional investors in government and corporate Italy, Spain, Germany and Sweden, offering lending, bonds.
By volume, we already rank 8th out of 25 capital markets and risk management products to participants.
We purchased Nordisk Renting AB, a We acted as bookrunner and joint mandated Swedish leasing company in June 2003. lead arranger in the 3.0 billion deal for Energie Baden-Wurttemberg AG which was one of the largest loan transactions in the German utility sector.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Banking and Financial Markets Corporate Banking and Financial Markets continued Our commitment to innovation, customer focus and expertise makes RBS the corporate bank of choice for businesses of all sizes in the UK.
16 The world has changed since Tarmac came to bank with us in 1903.
Now called Carillion it is an international force.
In 2003 we were proud to celebrate a 100 year banking relationship.
We acted as a Lead Arranger for the $2.5 billion fide Beers SA revolving credit facility, underwriting $500 million.
Since switching to NatWest six years ago Watson Glass have leveraged expertise from across RBS to achieve major expansion and are now operating from a 20,000 sq ft factory to supply such high profile projects as Canary Wharf and the V&A Museum.
Make it happen Corporate Banking and Financial Markets 17 US Awards We continue to expand our US business Best Loan Cadbury Schweppes and now have a presence in New York, Houston, Corporate Finance Chicago and Greenwich.
Best Buyout Seat RBS Greenwich Capital continued to grow Corporate Finance its institutional fixed income franchise.
Its US Treasury primary dealership and mortgage backed Ranked No.
2 by UK institutional investors as securities trading businesses are recognised as the best provider of secondary market liquidity for among the industries leading liquidity providers, Sterling deals brought to market with its US Government sales and trading Credit Magazine operations ranked No.
Sterling Bond House of the Year Corporate Banking and Financial Markets, in International Financing Review partnership with Citizens Bank, provided 24 million of financing to Aberdeen-based Sparrows Offshore Sterling Bond of the Year BBC to support their international expansion.
International Financing Review Asia We have expanded our presence in Asia.
European Leveraged Loan SEAT We now have offices in Hong Kong, Singapore, International Financing Review Tokyo, Beijing and Shanghai.
Loan of the Year Six Continents RBS performed strongly this year in the The Treasurer Euromoney Tokyo FX Survey, being ranked 3rd overall provider, No.
2 for Securitisation Deal of the Year BBC Euro Japanese Yen by Banks.
Broadcasting House The Treasurer In 2003 we established a securitisation business in Asia, signalling a step change in the Securitisation House of the Year BUPA development of our franchise there and complementing The Banker existing operations in the UK, US and Europe.
Best Bank FX in London by banks The RBS and National Australia Bank NAB joint venture offers customers of NAB in Australia FX Week Survey and New Zealand private placements in the US RBS Greenwich Capital Best Overall market.
We completed three financings for Lion Government Sales Team Nathan, Iluka Resources and Smorgon Steel making us the No.
Institutional Investor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Banking and Financial Markets Retail Banking Profit contribution 3,126 million 2002 3,019 million Profit increase 4% Total income up 5% 18 No.
1 bank for size of branch network in UK Largest bank for small businesses in the UK No.
1 bank for size of ATM network in UK Best Retail Bank, Europe Lafferty International Retail Banking Awards Systems Telecoms.
Andrea Jones, RBS business customer understands the importance of good communications.
She turned a brilliant idea into a reality with her successful telecoms firm now in its 6th year.
Our business banking team is working with her to lay the financial foundations to ensure that both Andrea and her business continue to flourish.
Make it happen Retail Banking 19 OnLine Banking has seen another excellent The Royal Bank of Scotland and year of growth.
Average daily volume of payments NatWest operate the largest retail was up 59% in 2003 and average daily value of payments up 85%.
We have also made a significant banking network in the UK serving investment to improve the enrolment process, and over 13.7 million personal have seen a 70% increase in applications.
customers and 1.1 million small To meet the needs of customers buying pensions and investments we introduced a telephone business customers.
In 2003 we advice centre enabling customers to speak to increased our income by 5%, to advisers during office hours and in the evening.
4,403 million and increased our In response to customer feedback, Saturday customer numbers by 3%.
banking has been extended in Royal Bank branches in our busiest locations and now includes a full banking service.
We have also increased 12-2pm Our average loans to customers, excluding weekday cover in branches to make banking at mortgages, grew by 9% to 23.7 billion, average lunchtime easier.
mortgage lending by 12% to 33.7 billion and average customer deposits by 6% to 60.9 billion.
The introduction of Royal Bank of Scotland Mortgages Direct Service, provides customers with Customer service further choice in how they obtain finance for their We continued to combine traditional banking home, either face to face through our extensive values and innovation to give our customers the branch network, over the telephone or via the internet.
freedom to choose how they wish to do business with us, in their branch, by phone or over the internet.
The Premium Banking Service continues to attract new customers who benefit from relationship We have the largest retail banking network banking.
in the UK with over 2,270 branches, over 5,900 ATMs and more relationship managers than any other bank.
Royal Bank of Scotland Customer Service Reviews offer customers the opportunity to review We are the only UK bank that has made their finances with the purpose of making or saving an unequivocal commitment to our branch network them money.
In 2003 we were able to make or save and this includes branch openings where money for the vast majority of our customers for appropriate.
In 2003 we re-opened the NatWest whom a review was undertaken.
branch, in Roman Road, Bethnal Green, London.
In NatWest branches we launched Quick We also increased the number of staff in Deposit units to save customers time and allow our branch network to improve the speed and quality them to make deposits without queuing.
continued our branch refurbishment programme.
In NatWest we made a significant investment, enabling customers to telephone their branches direct, for the first time for many years.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Retail Banking Retail Banking continued Our branches lie at the heart of the communities they serve.
We study customer feedback to ensure that our branch network meets local needs and expectations.
20 Best Current Account Provider Personal Finance March 2003 No.
1 lender in the UK for small businesses in deprived areas Over UK Customer 530m Service Leader ATM 2003 transactions National Customer UK Wide Service Awards Premium Service Review.
In a competitive market our staff go all out to deliver customer satisfaction.
NatWest Premium Manager Daryl Rosemeyer put his knowledge of our products and services to the test when he undertook a Premium Service review for one of his customers.
The retired GP was delighted when Daryls reorganisation of his finances made significant savings on his monthly outgoings.
Make it happen Retail Banking 21 We run a fleet of 12 mobile banks which Business customers cover thousands of miles every year taking banking We strengthened our position as the UK services to over 250 remote rural communities.
In market leader in banking for small and medium the Orkney islands some of Scotlands most sized businesses, increasing our number of northerly residents are served by a branch aboard business customers by over 3%.
Business customers have seen the introduction We began piloting a new generation of of our new Telephone Business Service Review intelligent pay-in machines in both Royal Bank of complementing our existing face to face Business Scotland and NatWest branches.
This provides customers with a review of their financial needs without having to Products leave their workplace.
NatWest launched three new savings products: the 90-day Bonus Reserve Account is for We continued to help more of our business savers who want to limit withdrawals to earn an customers fulfil their growth aspirations by providing interest bonus: the Private Banking Savings Account the finance they need.
Our business term lending helps customers to plan by balancing their assets grew by 16% in 2003. between accessible short-term savings and longer term investments: Advantage Reserve, for packaged Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest account holders, gives instant access to competitively launched new business deposit accounts, Bonus priced savings.
Reserve in Royal Bank and Bonus Saver in NatWest.
Both accounts are aimed at encouraging business NatWest launched a new mortgage product.
customers to set aside funds as a provision for Flexible Choice offers customers the flexibility to specific bills such as: tax, national insurance and vary monthly payments and save by paying off their VAT: to cope with seasonal cash flow fluctuations: or mortgage earlier.
prepare for unexpected opportunities or difficulties.
The NatWest Advantage Gold Account was Last year NatWest and Royal Bank of Scotland relaunched including a range of new benefits.
lent 500 million to small businesses based in the 5% most deprived postcodes in the UK.
Our share Royal Bank of Scotland launched the Instant of lending in these areas is nearly double the Savings Tracker Account, which offers competitive amount provided by our nearest competitor.
interest rates with instant access.
We enhanced our According to a recent Bank of England study into Royalties, and Royalties Gold packaged accounts access to finance for small firms in deprived areas, and launched Royalties Premier.
our lending represents almost half of the total 1.2 billion lending to this sector.
To meet customer demand we launched a new Permanent Life Assurance Plan for the over 50s.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Retail Banking Retail Banking continued Award winning products and record levels of customer satisfaction mean more consumers than ever are choosing to bank with us.
22 Residents and traders were delighted last summer when, 9 years after closure, their local NatWest branch in Bethnal Green, was extensively refurbished then re-opened by Londons Mayor, Ken Livingstone part of our commitment to serve local communities.
Our Back to Branches campaign lets customers choose who they talk to.
When Margaret Bruce relocated to Falkirk after 50 years with our Chesterfield branch she was able to phone her branch direct.
12-2pm is our busiest time so weve increased the number of staff we have serving in our branches at this time.
Saturday banking Our Community has been extended at our Development Banking Unit busiest Royal Bank of provides specialist finance Scotland branches in and support for award response to customer winning Recycle IT!
demand and now includes a full banking service.
Make it happen Retail Banking 23 NatWest and Royal Bank of Scotland offer Customer Service Leader of the Year Anita specialist advice to small business customers in a Hunt, Regional Managing Director, East and North number of sectors including agriculture, healthcare, Scotland for The Royal Bank of Scotland franchising and social enterprise.
After a difficult National Customer Service Awards two years in agriculture we were pleased to see strong growth in this sector with deposits increasing.
NatWest Best Bank for Mortgages in 10 out of the NatWest and Royal Bank of Scotland last 14 years sponsored the DTIs National Social Enterprise Your Mortgage Magazine Award Enterprising Solutions to help raise awareness about what social enterprises can Best Banking and Financial Services achieve.
This award winning social British Interactive Media Awards enterprise which provides computers to the long term unemployed and low income families, as well Best Direct Mortgage Provider, as voluntary organisations, schools, start-ups and 4th win in five years people with disabilities, benefited from specialist Your Money finance and support from our Community Development Banking Unit.
Highly Commended Current Account Mortgage Provider Almost all business areas within Retail have Mortgage Awards achieved the Investors in People standard, with the remaining areas working towards this recognition.
This is testimony to the investment we have made in Finalist Best Online Advertising NatWest our people and enables us to prioritise their Student Online Campaign development to better serve our customers.
Revolution Awards Awards Best Retail Bank in Europe Lafferty International Retail Banking Awards Royal Bank of Scotland Best Current Account Provider Personal Finance Readership Awards Best 100% Mortgage Provider Moneyacts Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Retail Banking Retail Direct Profit contribution 873 million 2002 701 million Profit increase 25% Total income up 15% 24 No.
1 in supermarket banking in the UK Acquisition 2nd from Santander largest credit Direkt adds card provider around 350m in the UK of balances 10th Best Best Anniversary Current Account Gold Platinum of Direct Line Mortgage Lender Card Provider Your Mortgage Financial Moneyacts Lender Awards 2003 Services MINT Card.
Launched in December 2003, MINT offers customers advantageous rates plus an exceptional choice of options and lifestyle focussed benefits.
Make it happen Retail Direct 25 In December we launched our new direct Retail Direct is responsible for the brand 'MINT'.
The brand stands out from its Groups cards and non-branch competitors by offering customers an exceptional combination of benefits.
We continued to expand by organic 2 The MC card, the new credit card with a curved edge, was launched in December.
During 2003 innovative new style marked the first change to the total number of customer credit card shape in Europe since credit cards were first introduced 37 years ago.
accounts grew by 12% or 1.7 million.
Our income showed strong growth, Our business customers also benefited from innovation with the launch of a new product which up 15% to 1,835 million.
combines the features of a corporate credit card and a purchasing card.
It enables businesses to track expenditure by card holders on key elements of Average lending rose by 15% to 20.3 billion purchasing such as travel.
of which average mortgage lending was up 20% at 7.6 billion.
Average customer deposits were up 2003 was another record year for Streamline, 5% to 4.4 billion.
our merchant acquiring business, which handled over 2 billion transactions during the year, retaining Cards its position as No.
Our cards business remains the second largest issuer in the UK and continued to grow WorldPay, our internet merchant acquirer, customer numbers and balances in 2003. occupies a significant position in the SME internet segment of the UK market.
The acquisition of the credit card and personal loans portfolios of Santander Direkt Bank Tesco Personal Finance in Germany added over 460,000 customer Tesco Personal Finance is the UKs most accounts and balances of around 350 million, successful supermarket bank.
It now has over 4 bringing our total number of customer accounts in million customer accounts, and over 1 million of Continental Europe to over 2 million.
these are motor insurance policies.
We are at the forefront of tackling fraud In Tesco Personal Finance average personal through the implementation of Chip and PIN loans rose by 25% and average customer deposits technology giving our customers the security they by 16%.
expect and deserve when using their credit card.
Despite the size of our operations, we have the More than 100 million transactions were lowest experience of fraud in the UK, and we carried out during 2003 from over 1,000 Tesco intend to improve on this by issuing new, more Personal Finance ATMs.
secure cards to all our customers.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Retail Direct Retail Direct continued As direct banking becomes a modern reality our culture of product innovation puts us in prime position to maximise exciting market potential.
26 2003 was a year of outstanding growth for online product sales for Tesco Personal Finance, Lombard Direct and Direct Line Financial Services.
The One account won a number of awards for its innovative current account mortgage product.
Primeline, our direct full service bank, continues to grow and maintained its high customer satisfaction scores, with 95% of customers being 'satisfied or very satisfied' with their Primeline service in 2003.
Make it happen Retail Direct 27 Tesco Personal Finance confirmed its The One account The One account continues to grow its share reputation for the development of innovative products of the mortgage market through intermediary and and services, launching the first 'off the shelf' vehicle direct channels.
recovery insurance, Instant Breakdown Cover.
This follows the success of Instant Travel Insurance, In 2003 we introduced an additional which scooped a prestigious award from the Institute innovative flexible mortgage product to complement of Financial Services for 'most innovative use of our market leading current account mortgage.
Awards Tesco Personal Finance has extended its Best Gold Platinum Card Provider reach in international markets supporting the Tesco RBS Advanta supermarket brand in Hungary through the supply Moneyacts Awards of financial services products there.
Best Direct Lender Direct Line Financial Consumer finance Services Direct Line Financial Services, which Mortgage Magazine celebrated its tenth anniversary in 2003, offers a range of financial services products including Best Direct Life Insurance Provider Tesco Personal Finance loans, mortgages and savings.
Your Money Savings & Investments Average lending in Direct Line Financial Best Current Account Mortgage Lender Services and Lombard Direct increased by 20%.
The One account Comfort, our European consumer finance Your Mortgage Awards business operating in Germany, the Netherlands, Best Current Account and Offset Belgium, Austria and Luxembourg, has grown Mortgage Provider The One account balances by 37%.
It has signed up several major new retail distribution partners in each of its Moneyacts Awards countries of operation, and has launched a direct Loans Website of the Year Lombard Direct loans business in Germany.
co. uk Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Retail Direct Manufacturing Costs increased by 6% to 1,875 million 2002 1,762 million Staff costs 625 million Other costs 1,250 million 28 Improved First system We were one of availability to the first banks in Britain to provide 99.9% an ATM offering customers euros No.
1 in the UK for cheque payments Systems No.
1 Integration in the UK for Project of banks automated clearing system the Year BACS Financial Services Technology magazine Access for all.
Our extensive investment in ramps, automatic doors, low level tills and audio loops is designed to better serve our disabled customers, and to give equal access to all our customers.
Our Chancery Lane branch is an excellent example of a refurbished branch with many of these features.
Make it happen Manufacturing 29 Within our call centres we answered over 70 Manufacturing provides the million telephone calls.
We now offer our customers Groups back office processing, more choice in how they contact us.
They can choose to speak to their local branch, a customer technology and services.
service adviser or use our automated service.
In 2003 we introduced a range of We counted over 96.5 billion of cash and improvements which enhanced coins in our centres.
customer service, increased We processed almost 17 million CHAPS efficiency and helped the Group Sterling payments valued at 28 trillion.
Our costs The value of new loans opened through our increased by 6% to 1,875 million network of lending centres in the UK during 2003 was up nearly 16%.
against a backdrop of double We run the largest ATM network in the UK.
digit volume and income growth We dispensed over 31.5 billion in cash in 2003 across the Group.
and December was a record breaking month with over 3 billion leaving ATMs in the run up to Our single technology platform is capable of Christmas.
processing around 16 billion instructions every second.
The flexible system has capacity to cater We installed the 1,000th Tesco Personal for further organic growth and future acquisitions.
We improved service and reliability to our We were one of the first banks in Britain to customers.
Availability from our key systems was provide an ATM offering customers euros, at better than ever, available 99.90% of the time, and Bishopsgate in London.
reaching an all time high of 99.99% in November.
Our aim is to provide our disabled customers We are continuing to invest in new with equal access to the Groups services.
technologies to simplify our processes and improve Improvement work is already underway at around the customer experience.
This includes an investment 600 locations across the NatWest and Royal Bank to convert customer letters to electronic images of Scotland branch networks, including installing and remove a massive 40 million pieces of paper automatic entry doors, audio induction loops and from our centres.
Through a programme of structured improvement initiatives, our staff will have saved and reinvested 600,000 working hours.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Manufacturing Manufacturing continued The engine room of RBS, Manufacturing enables the Group to function 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
30 The shopping list for Processing over 6.2 our 2004 Branch Investment million card transactions Programme includes 4,200 per day RBS is at the chairs, 11,300 light fittings, forefront of a programme to and 33,900 sq metres of implement the next carpet.
generation of payment card technology, spearheading a public trial of PIN protected cards designed to reduce card fraud.
We want customers to feel as good about NatWest as we do.
We replaced signage at over 1,600 branches, part of an ongoing programme of refurbishment to revitalise interiors.
To encourage use of In a typical day our ATMs, Golden Tickets 3.5 million cheques and were randomly loaded to credits processed, machines UK wide.
Six 87 million dispensed from lucky customers won ATMs, 191,800 telephone 10,000. calls answered and over 6.2 million card transactions processed.
Make it happen Manufacturing 31 Awards Our reverse auction programme for Systems Integration Project of the Year procurement is the largest of any financial organisation in the world.
It has allowed us to Financial Services Technology magazine deliver significant cost savings while purchasing 1.2 billion of goods and services for the Group Flagship Award for Business Achievement from paper clips to computers.
Excellence in IT Management British Computer Society BCS Professional Awards Construction of the Groups world headquarters in Edinburgh continued ahead of schedule.
IT Excellence in Investment Banking It has an exemplary health & safety record.
Best Systems Integration Project Financial News Award With some of our businesses open around the clock for our customers, around 5,000 people Two million man-hours without reportable have adopted flexible working patterns, including injury Gogarburn HQ Project working part time, having term-time or compressed hours contracts and job sharing.
Prestigious award from British Safety Council We are helping the fight against criminal Certificate of Excellence in the category of activity.
Last year, we were the first in the world to Call Centre People Manager of the Year introduce coded DNA smoke and dye packs, European Call Centre of the Year Awards designed to deter bank robberies.
Best Call Centre Recruitment Practice Southampton customer telephone centre European Call Centre of the Year Awards Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Manufacturing Wealth Management Profit contribution 438 million 2002 454 million Profit decrease 4% Total income down 3% 32 Coutts Asia managed investment assets increased by 36% Best Private Bank in UK Coutts Euromoney Awards 18% increase in regional private bankers, part of our UK investment Investment Best assets under Private Bank in management the UK for High up to Net Worth individuals Coutts 27bn Euromoney Awards Martine McCutcheon one of the many internationally recognised performers who have helped Coutts achieve the accolade Best Private Bank for artists from Euromoney Magazine.
Make it happen Wealth Management 33 Adam & Company completed ten years in Wealth Management comprises the Group as well as ten years of unbroken profit the Groups private and offshore growth.
Client numbers grew by 9% in 2003. banking businesses.
We expanded The Offshore Banking Group is one of the in the UK and completed the leading players in the UK Offshore market and has offices in Jersey, Guernsey, Isle of Man and Gibraltar.
acquisition of Bank von Ernst in We were selected by British Airways as their Switzerland.
Low interest rates preferred partner for the provision of banking and uncertain equity markets, services to their Executive Club members.
The members can now enjoy the benefit of NatWest contributed to a small decline in Advantage International, an innovative multiincome of 3% to 879 million, but currency transactional account, which fulfils their international banking requirements.
Awards Best Private Bank in the UK Coutts Total investment assets under management continued to increase.
In 2003 they rose by 33% to Euromoney Magazine 27.3 billion.
Best Private Bank in Western Europe With a global network of 50 offices, Coutts Coutts for: grew its client base by 29%.
High Net Worth individuals Super-affluent and wealthy artists Despite volatile markets, Coutts investment Euromoney Magazine programmes have grown by 25% to 5.2 billion and continue to perform well against industry benchmarks.
1st place over one year for our Euro Coutts is also one of Europes largest fund of Currency Bond Programme on behalf of our clients hedge fund managers, with more than 2.8 billion invested in its range of alternative investments.
Standard & Poors 2003 Coutts consolidated its position as the UKs 1st place over five years for our Dollar leading private bank with significant investment in Bond Programme on behalf of our clients the regional office network.
We increased the Standard & Poors 2003 number of regional private bankers by 18% and opened a new office in Liverpool, bringing the number of regional offices in the UK to 16.
Coutts Asia has achieved rapid growth in profits and a 36% increase in assets under management.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Wealth Management RBS Insurance Profit contribution 468 million 2002 355 million Profit increase 32% Total income up 52% 34 No.
2 general insurer in the UK No.
2 household insurer in the UK Italys largest direct motor insurer Over 1m No.
1 motor insurance motor policies sold insurer in through Tesco Personal Finance the UK When I wrote my car off my insurer came up trumps.
The whole Churchill team were great a world class service from a great British company.
Make it happen RBS Insurance 35 Pet insurance policies in the UK RBS Insurance was created on increased by 78,000.
1 September 2003 by bringing Direct Line sells and services eight separate together the Direct Line Group products under the Direct Line, Privilege and Green and the newly acquired Churchill Flag brands.
It has over 6 million in-force policies.
Their combined Churchill sells and services four separate strength makes RBS Insurance the products under the Churchill brand and has over 1.4 million in-force policies.
second largest general insurer, the UKI Partnerships is a leading wholesale number one motor insurer and the provider of insurance and motoring related services number two home insurer in the and provides insurance for, amongst others, Tesco Personal Finance and seven out of the top ten UK.
Our total income was up by motor manufacturers.
Sales of motor insurance through Tesco Personal Finance have topped one million policies.
Direct Line and Churchill are two of the best known general insurance brands in the UK and Our International Division sells insurance in provide general insurance and motor breakdown Spain, Germany, Italy and Japan.
We maintained services to the customer direct, by telephone and our position as the largest direct private motor the internet, or through independent brokers.
insurer in Spain and Italy.
Internationally we now have over 1.5 million policies in-force.
Motor insurance policies in-force in the UK increased by over 3.4 million.
Through NIG we sell personal and Home insurance policies in-force grew by commercial insurance products through a network almost 3.6 million.
Devitt is our specialist broker for motor cycles.
Inter provides Travel insurance policies in the UK travel insurance and claims administration for increased by 103,000. several well-known retail brands.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 RBS Insurance RBS Insurance continued RBS is the strength behind some of the UKs biggest and best-known insurance brands, offering customers more choice and better products.
36 Green Flag, NIG and Devitt are just three of the specialist brands within RBS Insurance.
UKI Partnerships Direct Line Rescue new Contact Centre in now has 1 million Doncaster meets the customers and came to needs of our wholesale the aid of 400,000 partners such as Tesco customers in 2003.
Make it happen RBS Insurance 37 Green Flag Motoring Assistance responds Best Household Insurer Direct Line to over 1.1 million breakdown incidents each year.
Mortgage Magazine 2003 More than 60,000 vehicles were repaired in First prize for Motor Insurance for second our Accident Repair Centres during 2003. year running Direct Line Personal Finance Magazine Our customers like to choose the way in which they contact us and our internet motor Best Companies To Work For Churchill quotes increased by 50% in 2003 making us the Sunday Times leading online provider of motor insurance.
Best Product in the Services Category NIG launched Insurancexpert.
co. uk a Dealercover website designed to offer customers general information and advice on personal and commercial Motorcycle News Dealer Awards Devitt insurance as well as help in finding a broker.
Best Claims and Assistance Handler Inter Awards International Travel Insurance Conference Best Direct Motor Insurance Provider and Best Internet Motor Insurance Provider Churchill Your Money Direct Best Internet Travel Insurance Provider Direct Line Your Money Direct Annual Report and Accounts 2003 RBS Insurance Ulster Bank Profit contribution 273 million 2002 244 million Profit increase 12% Total income up 12% 38 Customer numbers now 3rd largest clearing 1.4m bank in the with acquisition of Republic of First Active plc Ireland Best tracker mortgage Irish Independent Your Money Honours List No.
1 2nd largest mortgage bank in provider in Northern the Republic of Ireland Ireland Ronan ODriscoll is one of over 45,000 customers in Ireland who opened credit card accounts with us during 2003 following an innovative 40 loyalty incentive when Ulster Bank launched the award-winning Zinc card.
Make it happen Ulster Bank 39 A partnership entered into with EasyCash Ulster Bank is the largest bank in will see an expansion of our ATM network in the Northern Ireland.
The acquisition Republic of Ireland from 200 to over 600. of First Active plc by Ulster Bank Ulster Bank made successful introductions was announced in October 2003 to the RBS private placement team, for the Kerry Group $650m, Bord Gais Eireann $250m and and completed in January 2004 ESB International Spanish Power Project Amorebiata 685m.
and greatly strengthens our position in the Republic of Ireland, particularly With a significant proportion of US investment in Europe going to Ireland this is an important area in mortgages.
Our total income of financing for Ulster Bank.
During the year we increased by 12% to 581 million.
achieved notable success by winning the majority of all new Government sponsored inward investment.
Average loans to customers grew by 26% The inward investment team won a total of and customer deposits increased by 13%.
These included biotechnology companies like Genzyme We now have 1.4 million personal and business in partnership with Citizens, Affiliated Computer customers, 265 branches and employ 5,100 staff.
Services in partnership with RBS in Dallas and Lidl, the German supermarket group.
The enlarged Ulster Bank Group is the third largest clearing bank and second largest mortgage Awards provider in the Republic of Ireland.
Ulster Bank Best Credit Card We continued our success in the residential mortgage market.
Irish Independent Your Money Honours List Our Base Rate Tracker Mortgage gave Best Tracker Mortgage customers one of the most competitive and Irish Independent Your Money Honours List innovative products in the Republic of Ireland, where mortgage advances grew by 58%.
First Active Continued growth in Northern Ireland led to an Most Innovative Product Current increase in mortgage advances of 20%.
Account Mortgage Irish Independent Your Money Honours List More than 45,000 credit cards were issued in 2003, in part due to the introduction of our market-leading Zinc credit card and innovative 40 loyalty incentive within the Republic of Ireland.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Ulster Bank Citizens Profit contribution 857 million 2002 766 million Profit increase 22% to US$1,401 million Total income up 16% to US$2,984 million 40 Top10 13th largest commercial Family Friendly banking Companies organisation New Hampshire in the US ranked Magazine by deposits 4th largest supermarket bank in the US Highest 3 Community more bank Reinvestment acquisitions Act Rating in 2003 Ed Maas, Orleans Inn, Cape Cod.
Since Citizens extended its successful 7-day supermarket banking service to the Stop & Shop chain in the affluent Cape Cod area, local hotelier Ed Maas need only cross the road to access his local branch, Citizens most easterly in the US.
Make it happen Citizens 41 We continued to grow our supermarket Citizens now ranks as the 13th banking programme in the Mid Atlantic region, largest commercial banking adding 26 branches, an increase of 34%.
organisation in the US by deposits.
We expanded our successful in-store Last year was the 11th consecutive supermarket banking franchise into a large part of the affluent Cape Cod area.
year of record profits, fuelled by During 2003, the number of Citizens' organic growth and a further three on-line banking customers and on-line banking bank acquisitions.
Our total income transactions both grew by more than 70%.
We brought seven-day banking to our entire four-county Greater Philadelphia retail region.
Loans increased by $12.1 billion or 39% and deposits grew $11.7 billion or 23%.
Citizens received the highest rating, outstanding, this year in each of its state bank We are now the No.
2 commercial banking Community Reinvestment Act reviews in New organisation in New England and No.
The Delaware and Pennsylvania banks based on deposit share.
are being evaluated for the first time in 2004.
In 2003, we increased our personal customer We were named the No.
1 Small Business base by 376,000 18% and our business customers Administration SBA lender in both the Mid Atlantic by 36,000 18% due to growth through both and New England regions for the second consecutive traditional and supermarket branches and our three year, making 5,800 SBA-backed loans totalling more bank acquisitions.
Citizens Bank announced a further three bank The US Small Business Administration acquisitions in 2003, Port Financial Corporation and honoured four Citizens executives in 2003 for their Community Bancorp Inc. both in Massachusetts efforts on behalf of small business entrepreneurs and Roxborough Manayunk Bank in Pennsylvania.
We made a record 379,000 consumer loans and lines of credit totalling $20.4 billion during the year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Citizens Citizens continued Strategic acquisitions, organic growth and innovations in customer service have taken Citizens to top 20 rankings among US banks.
42 Sunday banking is now available to our customers at traditional branches in Greater Philadelphia.
Our network of over Our supermarket 1,630 ATMs adds to our banking franchise has high level of customer extended into Cape Cod service.
and expanded in the Mid Atlantic Region.
Make it happen Citizens 43 Awards Our new Neighbourhood Investment Export Lender Award Programmes in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh channelled more than $61 million for US Small Business Administration for Export Express loan programmes neighbourhood improvement initiatives through grants, loans and investments.
"Citizens Bank New In-branch Customer Experience has won two awards Citizens Community Champions programme Chain Store Age magazine's ""Retail Store of the Year"" flourished during its first full year in 2003."
Each Visual Merchandising and Store Design quarter, the Groups resources are offered to help a non-profit agency in each state fulfil its mission and Corporate Partner of the Year raise its public awareness.
It underscores our belief American Red Cross of Rhode Island that strong communities and strong companies go hand in hand.
Top Ten Family Friendly Companies During 2003, nine more Citizens colleagues New Hampshire Magazine went into the community on paid leave of absence to work with agencies and people in need.
Thirty five employees have used their skills on the Community Service Sabbatical Program over the past 10 years and the programme continues to expand as our company grows.
An award-winning Home Buyers Assistance Program has helped more than 700 employees achieve their dream of home ownership since September 2002.
It offers five-year loans of $5,000 or $8,000 towards the down payment on a mortgage.
Citizens asset quality is ranked among the top 20 commercial bank holding companies in the US.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Citizens
