Our strategy for growth Future Capital: Nathalie Schwarz Strategy and Development Director and Christopher Bennett Commercial Development Director look to the future of radio and the part Capital will play in it 28 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com POSITIONING OUR BUSINESS TO TAKE Regulatory environment ADVANTAGE OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES Perhaps the most significant growth opportunities for Capital Radio will come about as a result of the regulatory Capital Radio is a national radio group with strong changes that will take place when the Communications presence in the UKs most demanded markets.
Our Act takes effect at the end of 2003.
As a result of this strategic objectives are to expand our position in change, a new regulatory body, Ofcom, will be the the UK, increase our share of radio listening, to grow communications regulator overseeing the radio industry our advertising revenue and to provide maximum when it assumes its powers on 29 December 2003. returns for our shareholders.
The changes to regulation will include: We aim to grow our business by:  Removal of the 15% ownership limit on UK radio assets  Building national radio brands with strong local appeal  Abolition of the rules preventing ownership of more  Increasing the number of listeners to our stations than one national radio licence  Owning a balanced portfolio of complementary  Relaxation of the rules regarding ownership of radio radio brands interests in local areas  Being market leader in every key metropolitan area  Ability for non-European Union foreign ownership of  Exploiting digital platforms and other new UK media assets technologies to build direct and interactive dialogue with our listeners Specifically, the regulatory changes will allow a minimum  Taking advantage of the new regulatory environment of two commercial broadcasters and the BBC to operate to make acquisitions that are complementary to the in any one local radio market in the UK, subject to assets we already own competition law.
While we do not believe that these changes will result in an immediate rush of merger activity, it has the potential to allow us to expand our Environmental factors presence in the UK and grow considerably.
Capital Radio operates in a dynamic and evolving media marketplace.
In order to grow, we must understand and In light of these changes, Capital Radio was the first take full advantage of the following external forces that radio group to take advantage of the new legislation influence our business: by announcing its intention to acquire the remaining 81% of Tainside Ltd Choice FM on 19 November 2003, subsequent to its preliminary results announcement and signing of the Financial Statements on 13 November 2003.
Choice FM is an attractive acquisition target because it Regulatory environment fulfils our business development criteria: it has the potential to become a strong national brand, without losing its local focus, and it will complement our existing portfolio of stations in London.
It will also help us to grow Advertiser Consolidation demand our audiences and our share of radio revenue.
Capitals We will continue to enforce the same criteria when brands assessing the value of any future acquisition opportunities, ensuring that we secure the right assets that will add value for our shareholders.
Overall, we are confident that Listener Technology behaviour Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 29 Our strategy for growth our efficient infrastructure, experienced management Beyond our own digital services, we are also working team and strong financial position will enable us to take within the industry to promote digital radio and have full advantage of the opportunities this new regulatory partnered with the BBC and Digital Radio Development environment will create.
Bureau DRDB to market digital services.
Demand for digital radio sets is high, with an estimated 350,000 units sold to date.
Importantly, Sony announced that it would Harnessing new technology be entering the digital radio market, providing a The UK has led the world in the introduction of Digital significant uplift in the manufacture of sets.
Audio Broadcasting DAB digital radio, with the first UK commercial stations broadcasting in November 1999.
We are also taking advantage of new opportunities on The next decade will be an exciting one for radio as digital television and are now broadcasting our stations DAB becomes established in the UK.
on the Sky and ntl platforms, reaching 8.2 million potential listeners.
Xfm, Capital Gold, 95.8 Capital FM, As the UKs leading commercial radio group, Capital is Century Radio and Capital Disney now broadcast to seven committed to digital radios development.
We continue million subscribers on Sky and 1.2 million ntl subscribers.
to grow our business by using this new technology to distribute our stations onto digital platforms.
We believe digital technology will present new opportunities for Listener behaviour growth by increasing our audiences, delivering new In recent years, it has become clear that listener revenue streams through data services and by allowing behaviour is evolving.
Increased competition from a us to have direct and interactive dialogue with our growing number of radio stations and new technologies listeners.
It will also create new opportunities for means that listeners can easily retune and find a station our advertisers.
that matches their slightest mood change.
In this environment, it is increasingly difficult to offer a single Since DABs inception, Capital Radio has made significant station that meets the broad range of peoples needs investment in digital technology.
In 2003, we invested a 24 hours a day.
total of 4.2 million and will be increasing our investment to 5.0 million over the next financial year.
We now have Capital Radios solution is to develop a complementary a total of 50 digital licences, extending our existing portfolio of stations, each targeting a particular analogue brands onto digital platforms and broadcasting demographic group and catering for different music our two digital-only brands, Capital Disney and Life.
addition, we have a shareholding in 14 digital multiplexes throughout the UK.
This combined analogue and digital We have maintained the Groups number of analogue coverage allows us to broadcast to 85% of the UKs listeners by ensuring that the stations within our population, a potential audience of nearly 42 million portfolio: adults.
In keeping with our growth strategy, we will look  Have clearly defined offerings for our listeners to build our digital audiences in commercially attractive  Are well balanced to minimise cannibalisation within metropolitan areas, within the most demanded the Group and maximise total audience numbers advertising markets.
We believe that as multiplex owners,  Are appropriately promoted and marketed content providers and owners of data spectrum, we are through various mediums uniquely placed to harness the opportunities offered by the roll-out of digital radio.
com In addition to increased competition and wider choice of As a music-based entertainment business, our ambition stations, listeners are also changing the way they utilise is to become the UKs leading player in the provision of the media channels available to them.
They now have the audio content and licensed content to third parties.
opportunity to listen on-line, through mobile technology, This year, we have begun to license live music sessions digital television and digital radio.
We have therefore put recorded in our studios to record companies.
In future, in place a strategy to extend the reach of our brands.
As by licensing existing content, syndicating our programmes part of this plan, we aim to increase access to our brands nationally and internationally and creating new, bespoke and create more valuable interaction with our listeners content, we will be able to extend the life of our content and to broaden our revenue opportunities beyond beyond a single broadcast, creating additional and traditional advertising.
The initial target areas for brand potentially unlimited revenue.
extension are CD compilations, live music events, sale of audio content and our record label joint venture, An additional arm of our brand extension strategy is our Wildstar Records.
This strategy permits us to offer our record label, Wildstar Records.
A joint venture with Telstar, listeners more choice, while creating the potential for its artists include Craig David and new artist Clarkesville.
greater revenues from a greater number of sources.
Another aspect of our strategy is to form partnerships Advertiser demand with major record labels to co-release compilation As listener patterns are changing, so too are those of albums to support our on-air brands.
Over the last year, advertisers.
With radio growing in importance as an one million albums have been sold through brand effective advertising medium, our customers are looking licensing deals for Gold Legends and Classics, and we are for more creative ways of interacting with our brands currently seeing tremendous success for the Century FM and reaching our listeners.
Going forward, our Hairbrush Divas CD, which is expected to be one of the strategy involves building a direct relationship with top selling compilation albums over the Christmas period.
our customers, offering multiple platforms for their Our ambition is to increase sales each year and grow our advertising campaigns.
From on-air and event sponsorship share of the CD compilation market.
In the course of the to interactive online campaigns, we can offer crossnext 12 months, we aim to create compilations across our media solutions to advertisers who want to be associated core analogue brands and secure deals with our partners with Capital Radio brands.
One example of this activity to deliver a higher share of the overall revenue per is the campaign we designed for AOL.
In addition to increased revenue, our compilation signed up to sponsor the 2003 Capital Christmas Live CDs also serve charity event, with its cross-media campaign including as an effective marketing tool, showcasing the music on-air advertising, event activity and a streamed content of the radio stations we own.
For the past 30 years, we have led the UK radio industry Overall, we see our core skills as being providers of with our events across the UK including Party in the Park music-based entertainment and architects of creative with seven events across the country entertaining over advertising solutions.
With new technology, brand 400,000 fans, Capital Christmas Live, Capital Gold extensions and consolidation opportunities opening Legends Awards, summer roadshows and Xfm club nights.
up new avenues for growth, we are confident that Our events ensure our stations connect with their local we are in a strong position to take full advantage of communities and we continue to look at ways to build the future opportunities for our listeners, advertisers revenue and marketing potential of our future events.
