Commercial review Commercial Capital: Group Commercial Director Linda Smith and Linda Grant National Commercial Managing Director examine Capitals commercial performance and future potential 18 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com CONTINUING TO BUILD OUR NATIONAL for national advertisers.
Advertisers also want to be ADVERTISING PROPOSITION associated with strong media brands.
In 2002 we refocused our business around our four radio networks: Capital FM, The Commercial Division is comprised of the sales and Capital Gold, Century FM and Xfm, offering our advertisers commercial marketing teams of Capital Radio.
We are a complementary portfolio of radio stations.
We work responsible for creating and delivering advertising and closely with our programming colleagues to ensure that promotion solutions for our clients across all of our each brand offers a consistent experience for listeners radio brands.
and advertisers and as a result believe that we have the strongest radio brands in the UK.
Overview Against tough trading conditions in the third year of the Buying across our brands advertising recession, Group revenue was down 4% year While some advertisers, particularly in local markets, on year at 115.3 million.
Despite the tough environment, advertise on one radio brand, the majority of advertising we held our national audience levels and saw improved campaigns are built either across a network or on several revenue performance in the last quarter.
This trend has stations in one geographical area.
National advertising continued into the first quarter of the current financial represents 80% of advertising sales across the Group year and both the Group and our industry peers have and we are seeing an increasing number of national reported increased trading as more advertisers see the advertising customers placing campaigns across all benefits of radio.
This trend has most resonance in the London market, The advantages of radio advertising which has become increasingly competitive over the Radio is an attractive, cost-effective solution for last five years.
As more stations have entered the market, advertisers because of low entry price, low production we have recognised the need to build a complementary costs and effective delivery of the commercially portfolio of radio stations to attract advertisers.
In London, 95.8 Capital FM combines the best in contemporary music with compelling local output to More advertisers are realising the benefits of radio and a target audience of active 25-34 year olds, delivering it is increasingly featuring on both cross-media and stand- 2.3 million potential customers to our advertisers.
Radio has been steadily Capital Gold aims at a slightly older target audience growing its share of the display advertising market over of 35-54 year olds an age group with increasing buyer the last 10 years from 2.8% in 1993 to 6.6% today year to power, disposable income and leisure time.
Capitals Quarter 2, 2003. younger analogue station in London is Xfm, which targets 15-34 year olds.
In 2004, this audience will also be served by the soon to be acquired Choice FM.
On digital radio in Why advertisers choose Capital London, we also broadcast Century FM, Capital Disney Scale is important to our customers because advertising and our national adult contemporary digital station, Life.
schedules are planned to reach the highest number of target listeners possible.
Capital has 7.7 million listeners across the UK and so it is an appealing proposition Percentage of top 200 advertisers buying airtime accross all four of our brands 2000 37% 2001 39% 2002 41% 2003 45% Source: MMS estimates Source: MMS estimates October 2002 to September 2003 October 2002 to September 2003 Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 19 Commercial review Our London portfolio of four analogue stations has Advertisers choose helped us maintain our leadership position in this competitive market.
With 3.3 million listeners in London Capital for the we have the scale to offer advertisers more listeners strength of our than any of our commercial competitors in this highly sought after area.
A key benefit of our portfolio is that brands and for the it minimises the reliance on one station as advertisers build campaigns across a number of brands.
opportunity to reach Turning to our national position, over 50% of our total our 7.7 million revenues come from outside London, and we have seen some notable successes in the regions over the past year.
listeners across In particular, Century FM network revenues have grown significantly since acquisition in 2000, following recent the UK.
audience increases and growth in awareness of the brand amongst advertisers.
This is becoming an increasingly popular addition to advertisers national campaigns.
Woolworths Hit40UK, Rimmel Capital Christmas Live Category performance and Party in the Park, Sony Super Audio CD Capital Gold We have seen the following performance of revenues Legends Awards and O2 Traffic & Travel.
This remains from our top 15 advertising categories: a key area for revenue growth across the Group.
Year on % of year airtime Delivering the best customer experience Category growth revenue At the start of 2003, we recognised the need to strengthen Retail -2.1% 17.3% our commercial division and have created new national Entertainment & the Media 2.7% 13.2% and regional sales teams with a strong brand-led focus.
Motors -19.7% 12.4% These teams are now operating successfully and we have Business & Industrial -17.7% 9.8% filled the regional vacancies that existed at the beginning Gov Social Political 6.5% 9.3% of the year.
We have also refocused our commercial Travel & Transport -17.6% 7.0% teams to reflect our programming structure with Entertainment 0.9%6.5% dedicated brand managers working closely with their Household Equipment 36.9% 6.1% programming colleagues.
Food -27.8% 3.6% Computers 31.7% 3.3% Following the restructuring, our aim continues to be to Finance -22.9% 2.7% provide advertisers with the most innovative and creative Household Supplies 115.1% 2.2% solutions to suit their needs and to provide a level of Cosmetics & Toiletries 34.3% 1.6% customer service unmatched elsewhere in the Pharmaceutical -45.3% 1.5% industry.
We strongly believe that the Drink -36.0% 1.2% commercial division is now in the best Source: Capital Radio Advertising October 2002 September 2003 possible shape to take advantage of a future advertising upturn.
Our revenues from Sponsorship and Promotion S&P have continued to grow at the encouraging rate of 13% in 2003.
Our S&P team works closely with production teams to create the best in innovative networked sponsorship opportunities that appeal to both listeners and advertisers.
As a Group, we have continued to attract a number of high profile sponsors including Kelloggs Capital FM and Century FM networked breakfast shows, 20 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com Case Study: O2 This summer also saw O2 and Capital work together on Creating innovative ways for our advertisers a series of live events.
At the core was O2s sponsorship to interact with our listeners of the Capital FM networks regional Party in the Park events, around which we built a fully integrated and interactive campaign.
Together, we created a new brand position under the umbrella O2 in the City.
In addition to the on-air, online and event branding, listeners were We understand the needs of our advertisers and strive given the chance to use their mobile phone to text in to provide them with the highest standard of service.
to win tickets and also to send text messages to giant Our aim is to offer creative solutions and increased screens for their friends in the crowd.
listener interaction to help our clients fulfil their advertising needs.
Capital Radio has had a long-standing As part of this series of events, we also took to the streets and successful relationship with O2 formerly BT Cellnet.
of London every Friday throughout August to present live During 2003, Capital and O2 have taken their association shows where listeners had the chance to meet our DJs to a new level, developing greater integrated solutions, and other music celebrities.
The whole campaign was marketing benefits and listener interaction.
fully interactive and brought the Capital and O2 brands closer to our grass roots community under the brand Historically, the basis of this partnership has been 95.8 Capital FM presents O2 in the City.
the sponsorship of traffic and travel bulletins across all of the Group stations.
Xfm was The activity we have created together both recently included in the sponsorship deal for Big Brother and for O2 in the City events and we also extended this partnership to has won the RABs Planners Choice Award For the bulletins on Choice FM when we started Creativity And Innovation In Radio S&P which selling its airtime earlier this year.
The is awarded to one campaign across the addition of these stations has delivered industry each month.
a 1534 year old audience that is attractive to O2.
O2s sponsorship of the traffic and Paul Samuels, Head of Sponsorship and travel package is very flexible, allowing many Interactive Partnerships for O2 says We have departments within O2, both business and done some great work with Capital Radio and consumer, to promote varying product and tariff this year we have moved our relationship on, messages through the regularly updated taglines.
so it is now a true partnership.
Using sponsorship, we are able to integrate our key messages, content and In addition to this core activity, Capital and O2 work positioning into the editorial programming of the together to share content and business opportunities.
The breadth of audiences that Capital reaches For example, the O2 sponsorship of Big Brother was allows us to target specific consumers with specialised reflected on all Capital stations through exclusive messages.
The dedication of the Capital team and the bulletin updates.
creative solutions we have developed together has enabled us to take our activity to a totally new dimension Our partnership also extended to the rugby mania and contributed to a successful year for O2 after its that swept the nation when England played in the 2003 launch in 2002.
We ran a competition, giving listeners the chance to join the England Team sponsored by O2 in Australia.
Following the England teams significant win, the sponsor credits on our traffic and travel bulletins were immediately changed to reflect their success.
The strapline O2, proud sponsors of the victorious England Rugby team went to air within minutes of the games thrilling conclusion.
com | 21 Our people and communities Capital people: Director of Human Resources Tracy Reid and Director of Charities Annabel James review the Groups commitments to our talent and the communities we serve 22 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE AND We also embrace a culture where employees can voice THE COMMUNITIES WE SERVE their opinions and are heard.
We welcome their comments and operate a number of initiatives that encourage People are at the core of everything we do at Capital teamwork and collaboration across divisions.
Various Radio and this is reflected in our Corporate Social activities are conducted to gauge employees views, Responsibility CSR policy.
CSR is about aligning our ranging from informal monthly surveys to the more formal business goals with our social values, taking into account performance appraisal system, management roadshows the interests of all our stakeholders: employees, listeners, and a Group-wide review carried out every two years by advertisers, suppliers and shareholders.
In this section, an external research company.
These projects are the we focus on the internal, social and environmental responsibility of our dedicated internal communications success of our Company as we aim to impact society and human resources teams, who analyse the feedback in a positive way.
and work with the Groups managers to encourage best practice.
Our People Capital Radio will continue to provide a stimulating Capital Radio was set up to encourage a fresh and and rewarding work environment with our values original approach to radio broadcasting with a dedicated of creativity, leadership, integrity, teamwork and involvement in the community.
As the Company has grown, community responsibility firmly entrenched in our this has remained our goal.
We want our stations to be a corporate culture.
focus for local activity, so we look for employees who will be a positive voice for the communities they represent.
Understanding the needs of our listeners We promote a dynamic environment that stimulates Radio is an influential medium in every local community.
innovative thinking to enhance the Capital brands and We harness this influence to provide valuable services create new growth opportunities.
People want to join with tangible benefits for our listeners, putting them the Capital team and so we continue to attract and at the heart of everything we do.
Capital Radio is the retain the best talent throughout the Group.
partner of choice for many social campaigns and the Group has a dedicated Community Relations Director Over the past 12 months, we have made a number with a team of co-ordinators based at each station of senior appointments in programming, marketing, to build relationships within our local communities.
business development, commercial and corporate Our stations remain close to our listeners by reflecting communications.
On-air, we have brought some of the issues that mean most to their lives and we have the most exciting talent to our stations including introduced and supported a key series of campaigns to Andi Peters, Richard Bacon, Katie Hill, Chris Brooks, maintain localness across the Group over the last year: Debbie Mac, Phil Upton and Johnny Vaughan.
We have also introduced syndicated network programming Gun Amnesty Campaign The Home Office launched celebrity specials with Ronan Keating and Dannii Minogue.
its Get Guns off the Streets campaign in April 2003 and Capitals stations used their influence with listeners to create a huge success of this initiative.
Editorial Supporting and developing our workforce mentions, backed up with a listener Helpline, resulted The welfare and interests of our employees are a high in 20,000 guns being handed in across the UK over a priority for us and Group-wide health and safety principles four week time period.
are in place to ensure a safe working environment.
We recognise the importance of a balance between Child Rescue Alert In November 2002, the Sussex work and family life and have established comprehensive Police launched the very first Child Rescue Alert family policies, which include adoptive, maternity and scheme in the UK.
If a child is abducted, within hours paternity leave, as well as flexible working hours.
We are radio stations broadcast the alert, asking listeners for an equal opportunities employer and do not discriminate information on the potential crime.
Southern FM was the on the grounds of sex, colour, race, ethnic or national first station to contact Sussex Police, offering its support.
background, sexual orientation, marital status, age, Consequently Capital Radio became an early advisor disability, political or religious beliefs.
on the Child Rescue Alert initiative, which has now been rolled out nationally.
com | 23 Our people and communities Crimestoppers Having supported the charity for a Investing in our communities number of years, we deepened our involvement this Listeners rely on their local radio station not only to year by setting out a formal plan to communicate the entertain, but also to be the source of information for role of Crimestoppers to our listeners.
Capitals Social Action team continues to Crimestoppers Week was a big success, informing our weave into programming a wide range of subject matter audience on Safety for Women.
Daily bulletins provided and services reflecting our listeners interests.
This year, the information and advice on one of the key concerns in order to maximise its effectiveness, Social Action was amongst our listeners.
re-positioned within the News Department to become a resource for all Capital Radio brands on-air, online BT Schools Awards BT partnered with Capital Radio and over the phone, dealing with and supporting the to give away 500,000 worth of grants to schools range of social and welfare issues that transpire daily.
Schools were encouraged to undertake This provides a valuable service to our listeners as the citizenship projects that would benefit their communities.
Over 1,200 schools signed up to take part in these projects after extensive on-air promotion of the initiative With so many issues to address that reflect our by Capital DJs around the Group.
Around 250 schools will listeners concerns and lifestyles, we recently launched be awarded the cash incentives for demonstrating their a special feedback facility on all of our stations websites community spirit.
to complement the on-air references to issues that have an impact on listener well-being.
There are currently Media Placement Days Over 1,000 graduates this year around 20 topics covering such subjects as bullying, have experienced the success of our stations by attending child safety, and truancy through to eating disorders a series of Open Days at our studios around the UK.
Each topic has its own page of students, who expressed interest in a career in radio, content and contact numbers to help listeners become were given a range of presentations and projects from more informed when advice is required.
key personnel as a sampler of what happens at their favourite radio station.
Our Revision Line involves teachers taking calls off-air and online in the immediate weeks prior to the GCSE CommunityMark Stations across and A Level examinations.
In August our Results service the Capital Radio Group have sprang into action to guide those receiving their signed up for CommunityMark, the results through the minefield of options that benchmarking initiative launched they faced.
In London, support was lent to by Business in the Community BITC.
the three annual Floodlight publications Our stations were the first to support the encouraging listeners to take up part scheme that audits and evaluates the community time, evening or further education for the activity of any business.
the Groups commitment to its communities, CommunityMark creates credibility with February saw the introduction of congestion all of its stakeholders in the areas it operates.
charging in central London and again, an Southern FM is the first of our stations to reach off-air phone line backed up with information this standard and we expect all of our other on our websites, was put into action.
stations to be accredited by the end of 2004.
Other activities include an online holiday information service called Travel Guide, Capital Flatshare service, and Bonfire Line information service, all of which have served tens of thousands of listeners around the country.
com Supporting Capital Charities We measure our effectiveness by the amount of money Charity work is a very important part of our relationship raised each year, the number of groups we are able to with our local communities.
Capital Charities provides support, both financially or through promotion, and the fundraising and grants to a broad range of organisations, number of Capital Radio employees that get involved as well as promotes other issues and charities.
Its primary in the charitable activities.
Over the last six focus is promoting the welfare of years, Capital staff have visited over 250 children and young people.
As set groups and seen firsthand some of the work out in the aims of our 2002 Annual of Capital Charities funds.
We hope to increase Report, we have established a this number in the coming years.
The Financial central charity to organise Group Statements of Capital Charities Limited are fundraising activities.
available from Companies House Capital Charities Limited is the registered independent charity for Providing the best service the Group, under which a number of local to our advertisers charities are operated including Help a We understand the needs of our London Child, the Money Pot, Help a advertisers and strive to provide them South Wales Child, Help a Local Child, with a gold standard of service.
The Century FM maintain close relationships with our networks charity, Help a Century Child, clients as our goals are the same: to will be launched in 2004. as many listeners in our target audience as possible.
Transparency, integrity, accountability and creativity In 1998, we created Party in the Park, which raises money are the key values that our commercial team delivers.
Since its inception, we have hosted this popular event annually in London, with all proceeds going to the Princes Trust.
This year the Forging strong links with our suppliers event generated 1.4 million, with profits going to help We recognise the importance of strong, long-term disadvantaged young people to fulfil their potential, relationships with our suppliers to the stability of our giving them the financial assistance they need to achieve business and are committed to fostering and maintaining their goals.
In 2002 we hired a Group Procurement and Facilities Manager to strengthen our relationships with This year, Capital Charities held its first ever interour suppliers, manage costs and where possible, source network fundraising event: Feetbeat.
This event, some of our supplies from eco-friendly sources, such as cosponsored by BUPA, is a 10k charity run that took Fair-trade coffee, which is used in our London office.
place in eight different locations around the UK, with We are continually reviewing and benchmarking existing over 9,000 runners participating.
Capital staff, DJs suppliers of goods and services, ensuring the best and and celebrities took part and generated over 500,000. most efficient packages for the Group.
In 2003, Capital Radio and Capital Charities together contributed 3.6 million to good causes and awarded local Engaging in active dialogue with our shareholders grants to over 600 groups in Greater London, South Wales, We are committed to clearly communicating Group the West Midlands and Tyneside.
The projects undertaken strategy and activities to our shareholders and have range from funding music, arts, drama, sports and youth in place an ongoing investor relations IR programme.
groups in some of the countrys most deprived areas, to providing specialist equipment and support services for We endeavour to maintain a high standard of groups working with children or young people with a transparency of financial reporting and encourage the disability, special need or serious, life-threatening illness.
free flow of information to the investment community.
Capital Charities also supports supplementary schools and We have regular contact with analysts and fund managers cultural activities for children from diverse communities, to ensure that they are updated on any Company and as well as refuges for families fleeing domestic violence industry developments.
An example of our proactivity and homelessness organisations.
in this area is the digital radio technology seminar in July 2003 that we held for our buy and sell-side analysts.
The seminar consisted of presentations by the Chief Executive of the Digital Radio Development Bureau DRDB and Capital Radio management.
com | 25 Our people and communities Our private investors are also a valuable part of our This year we started an initiative to donate redundant shareholder base and we communicate with them mobile phone and other technology kits to charity and our through the mediums of our Company website, Annual company car policy has been amended to ensure that only Report and AGM.
We provide full shareholder information low-emission vehicles are available for new corporate cars.
and Company contact details on our website and our 2002 Annual Report was commended by Proshare as one of the best non-FTSE 100 Our plans for the future annual reports for private investors.
We Over the last year we have published also provide IR information packs to both environmental and CSR policies brokerage firms specialising in private that have extended our local level client investment to ensure retail investors initiatives and created specific needs are met.
Group-wide targets to reduce our environmental impact further and We recognise the importance ensure that social responsibility remains of high standards of corporate at the core of our business activities.
We have governance and follow the set out our objectives to ensure continuous principles as set out in the improvement, and measures will be introduced Combined Code.
The Board is to monitor our progress.
As environmental accountable for the Groups standards are constantly being improved, operations and has ongoing we will keep in touch with the latest procedures for identifying, evaluating developments in management and reporting and managing risks faced by the Group of CSR issues.
These shifts will be reflected according to Turnbull Guidance.
Further in our future policies.
details can be found in the Directors Report of this Annual Report.
Communicating our CSR aims clearly We endeavour to be a socially responsible company Controlling our effect on the of the highest standard and our achievements have been environment recognised by our continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good Although the radio industry has little direct impact on the index.
The extent of the Boards commitment to these environment, we recognise that as a Group we do have important issues is demonstrated by the nomination of some limited effects.
We are focusing on those activities Peter Harris, Group Finance Director, as the Board CSR with the most significant impacts.
Our main concerns are representative, who will be supported by the central waste disposal computer equipment, toners and paper managers of Procurement, Health and Safety and and management of our energy consumption, notably Community Relations.
Capital adheres to current guidelines and supports the relevant government and industry regulatory We remain committed to communicating our progress bodies complying fully with their requirements.
All of our openly and will report our findings publicly in both the waste is disposed of in accordance with the Environmental Annual Report and on our website.
We will also continue Protection Act 1990. to encourage greater awareness and involvement from our employees with wider internal communication of We aim to reduce this impact and in order to control CSR issues and strategy.
Currently, we actively consult key waste, energy-saving initiatives are encouraged and shareholders and Socially Responsible Investment SRI recycling is actively promoted across the Group.
Examples teams to ensure their concerns and ideas are taken into of energy savings include use of low energy bulbs and account in our decision-making process.
Your feedback the turning off of computers, stereos and photocopiers is encouraged and comments on our environmental at the end of each day.
Throughout the Group, where practices and suggestions for the future are welcomed possible, air conditioning and refrigeration systems run on at csr@capitalradiogroup.
Our Annual Report and Accounts is printed on Storafine paper Nordic Environmental Product Label Licence No.
344043 and Group-wide recycling schemes target paper and toner cartridges.
In addition, there are a number of local initiatives currently operating within the Group, including recycling computers to schools and charities and waste paper going to local dog shelters.
com People are at the core of everything we do at Capital.
Our employees, our listeners, our advertisers, our suppliers and our shareholders all have a direct impact on our business success.
