24 Schroders Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Governance Nominations Committee report This report sets out the membership of the Nominations ensuring that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent Committee, its role and remit and its activities during the year.
procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board ensuring succession plans are in place for key Board members.
Committee Members The Committee members at 31st December 2003 were: A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee is available on request from the Board Secretary at the registered office.
Michael Miles Chairman Sir Peter Job Report on the Committees activities in 2003 George Mallinckrodt Meetings and Attendance The Committee, which meets Bruno Schroder periodically as required, met on four occasions during 2003.
Charles Sinclair There was full attendance by Committee members at each of those meetings.
William Turner, Jr. and Alva Way were members until their retirement from the Board on 13th March 2003.
Charles Sinclair Principal issues addressed during 2003 were: will retire as a member of the Committee at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
the process used for Board appointments the composition of the Board and proposed new David Swensen joined the Committee on 26th February 2004. non-executive appointments It is the Boards intention to appoint another independent non-executive Director to this Committee during 2004. the succession plan for Board Members.
Terms of reference As discussed in the Corporate Governance Report, the Board has, since the announcement in November 2003 of the The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for retirements from the Board of Charles Sinclair and Nicholas reviewing and proposing appointments to the Board and for Ferguson at the 2004 Annual General Meeting, been seeking to recommending any other changes to the Boards composition or appoint new independent non-executive Directors in order to that of Board Committees.
achieve a more balanced composition of the Board.
The principal responsibilities of the Committee include: Support The Committee received information and support from management during the year to enable it to carry out its duties reviewing the size and composition of the Board and responsibilities effectively.
The Committee also sought and selecting candidates for appointment to the Board to meet received external information and advice from Gow & Partners in the desired composition relation to the proposed recruitment of non-executive Directors.
Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited financial 2003 2002 Ordinary shares and non-voting ordinary shares mn mn statements of the Company and the Group for the year ended Interim dividend 5.5p per share 2002: 5.5p 16.1 16.0 31st December 2003.
Recommended final dividend 13.0p per share 2002: 13.0p 37.6 37.3 Total dividend 18.5p per share 2002: 18.5p 53.7 53.3 Principal activities and business review Schroders plc is the parent company of an international asset The final dividend will be paid on 26th April 2004 to shareholders management group.
on the register on 26th March 2004.
A review of the Groups business during 2003 and likely future Investments and disposals developments is contained in the Management Statement on pages 3 to 5 and in the Operating and Financial Review on pages Details of disposals are shown on page 62.
Directors Results and dividends The names and biographical details of the Directors of the The profit for the year attributable to shareholders was Company are given on pages 12 to 13 with the exception of 49.2 million, compared with 26.1 million for 2002.
Andrew Sykes who served as an executive Director throughout the year and who will retire as a Director with effect from 31st March 2004.
On 1st January 2003 Michael Miles was Annual Report & Accounts 2003 25 Governance Directors report appointed as a non-executive Director and Chairman, Richard subsequent employee share and share option plans as well as the Horlick was appointed as an executive Director and Kevin Parry acquisition of Beaumont Capital Management Limited in 2001. was appointed as a non-executive Director.
In addition, Merlyn The non-voting ordinary shares carry the same rights as ordinary Lowther will join the Board as a non-executive Director from 1st shares save that they do not confer the right to attend and vote at April 2004 following her appointment on 10th March 2004.
In any general meeting of the Company, and that on a capitalisation accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, she will issue they carry the right to receive non-voting ordinary shares seek election as a Director at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
Nicholas Ferguson and Charles Sinclair will be retiring at the The Company does not intend that the issued share capital 2004 Annual General Meeting and will not be seeking re-election.
should increase over the medium term as a result of the awards under the share and share option plans described in the In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Remuneration report.
The Company therefore plans to repurchase George Mallinckrodt and Bruno Schroder, who are both over the an equivalent number of non-voting ordinary shares to neutralise age of seventy, will retire from office at the forthcoming Annual any dilutive effect of awards made under those plans, as General Meeting and will offer themselves for re-election.
described in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Articles of Association require each Director to retire from Employees office at the third Annual General Meeting following their last Details of the Companys employment practices can be found in election or re-election to the Board.
Since no Directors have the Corporate and Social Responsibility section on page 26. currently served for three years since their last election or re-election, no other Director is required to retire from office.
Donations The amount paid by Group companies to charitable organisations Details of existing Directors service contracts or terms of during 2003 was 510,000 2002: 646,000, of which 433,000 appointment, together with their interests in the Companys 2002: 350,000 was donated to UK charities.
No political shares are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 16, 17, donations were made or expenditure incurred by the Company 20 and 21. or its subsidiaries during the year 2002: nil.
None of the Directors had an interest in any contract with the Creditor payment policy Company or any of its subsidiaries either during or at the end of the year.
The Groups policy and practice in the UK is to agree the terms of payment with suppliers at the time of contract and to make Substantial shareholdings payment in accordance with those terms subject to satisfactory performance.
The Group does not follow any code or standard on As at 19th February 2004, being the date one month prior to the payment practice.
At 31st December 2003 the amount owed to date of the Notice of the Annual General Meeting, the Company the Groups trade creditors in the UK represented approximately had received notification pursuant to section 198 of the 15 days average purchases from suppliers 2002: 17 days.
Companies Act 1985 of the following interests of three per cent.
or more of the Companys ordinary share capital: 2004 Annual General Meeting Vincitas Limited 62,341,233 shares 27.58% The Annual General Meeting will be held at 31 Gresham Street, Veritas Limited 37,308,464 shares 16.51% London EC2V 7QA on 22nd April 2004 at 12 noon.
The Notice Legal & General Group plc and or its subsidiaries 7,125,346 shares 3.15% of Meeting includes the following four items of special business: an increase in the aggregate Directors fees limit: general authority Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited act as trustees of certain for the Company to purchase its own shares: amendments to settlements made by members of the Schroder family.
the Articles of Association: and authority for political donations and expenditure.
The Company is not subject to the close company provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Details of all items of business to be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting can be found in the Notice of Meeting.
Capital structure Auditors The Companys share capital is comprised principally of ordinary shares and non-voting ordinary shares of 1 each.
As at 31st Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General December 2003, 226,022,400 ordinary and 70,263,358 nonMeeting to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors voting ordinary shares were in issue, representing 76.3 per cent.
and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
respectively of the total issued share capital.
By Order of the Board 31 Gresham Street The non-voting ordinary share class was introduced in 1986 to London EC2V 7QA permit the operation of an employee share option plan without Howard Trust diluting the voting rights of ordinary shareholders.
Since then, Secretary non-voting ordinary shares have been used in connection with 11th March 2004 26 Schroders Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Governance Corporate and social responsibility Employees Corporate Responsibility The Company recognises the importance of making Schroders an The Group promotes energy efficiency and avoidance of waste employer of choice, ensuring that its employees understand the throughout its operations, including appropriate conservation strategic aims and objectives of the Group, being clear about what measures in the design and use of buildings and equipment, is expected of them and having policies and practices that make recycling of materials and reduction in use of paper through Schroders a good place to work.
The Group has developed a process for communicating with Targets for the reduction of waste and the adoption of sustainable employees worldwide, on a day-to-day basis, via email and the environmental measures have been set.
The Group again Groups intranet site.
The Group also ensures that what is participated in the annual Business in the Environment explained to the market is disseminated internally.
survey, the results of which have been used to help assess the Groups own performance with a view to making improvements There has been an increased use of employee meetings designed wherever practicable.
to facilitate the exchange of views with senior management and discussion of the progress made by the Group.
Furthermore, Additionally, the Group, through the investment management the Group has decided to benchmark the views and attitudes process, advises companies in which it invests of its socially of employees by conducting an employee opinion survey in responsible investment policy, a copy of which can be obtained Spring 2004. from the Companys website at www.
The performance management process, which comprises an Community Involvement annual performance appraisal and 360 assessment, has been The Group continues to widen its links with the broader automated globally and now incorporates an assessment of each community.
In particular, some 20 volunteers from our London employee against the Groups core values: integrity: passion: office mentor children and assist children with numeracy, IT and innovation: teamwork and excellence.
The Group has taken steps literacy skills in local schools.
to ensure that the output from the performance management process is used to inform any decisions on promotion and reward.
UK employees are encouraged to make any of their charitable donations through the payroll system and at the end of the year The Group has begun to run new learning and development 22 per cent.
of staff were participating in this scheme.
Employees programmes on sales and management development.
also arranged fund raising events in support of charitable causes.
In celebration of Schroders 200th anniversary in 2004, an The Group is committed to equal opportunities for both existing additional 200,000 has been budgeted for matching charitable employees and applicants seeking employment.
It is the Group's giving and, following consultation with employees worldwide, the policy to give appropriate consideration to applications for charitable themes of cancer and children have been selected for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their our anniversary year.
For the purposes of training, career development and promotion, disabled employees, including any A number of employees are serving on public bodies such as who become disabled in the course of their employment, are regulators and local government whilst others participate in treated on equal terms with other employees.
The Group promotes high standards of health and safety at work A more detailed report on the Groups community involvement is for all employees.
contained in our Social and Environment Report which is available on the Companys website at www.
Annual Report & Accounts 2003 27 Governance Risk management and internal control Risk Management The liquidity of individual bank entities is monitored by the Principal Risk Committee and that of the Group by the Capital Committee.
The Board is accountable for risk and is responsible for oversight The Capital Committee monitors and controls the use of the of the risk management process.
The principal risks facing the Groups non-operating capital resources.
Group are operational, including legal, and reputational risk although credit, market and liquidity risk exposures exist within the Dedicated personnel are responsible for producing and Group businesses and need to be managed appropriately.
maintaining market and liquidity risk reports based upon the Financial Services Authoritys methodologies under the Capital The Group Management Committee has approved a risk Adequacy Directive.
The underlying methodologies and limits are management framework and structure established by the Group reviewed and set centrally by the Principal Risk Committee.
The framework sets out a definition of risk and risk committees and the Principal Risk Committee review describes the methodology for the identification, assessment, exposures against limits on a regular basis.
mitigation and reporting of risks.
A risk management structure has been implemented which aligns risk with corporate governance Group Compliance undertakes detailed monitoring activities to and embeds risk management within the business.
The Group review compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
Group Management Committee reviews the key corporate risks facing Internal Audit carries out a programme of audits, provides advice the Group and receives regular reports as to the current status on and reviews the risk management process.
Internal Control The Group Risk Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, oversees the risk management process.
Local management is The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control responsible for operational risk controls where appropriate and, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can provide depending on the size and complexity of the business unit, risk only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material and control maps have been prepared and these have been financial misstatement or loss and is designed to manage, not integrated into a world-wide risk management system.
Risk Committee liaises with the relevant line management regarding any matters giving cause for concern.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has carried out its annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal control during In respect of credit risk, limits are reviewed and set centrally by 2003 using the following to support its conclusions: the Group Agency and Principal Risk Committees supported by a dedicated team of credit professionals.
Local management is the opinion of the Group Management Committee of key responsible for monitoring exposure against these limits and corporate risks and responsibilities for those risks reporting to Group management by exception.
In respect of reports from Group Risk summarising the results of the principal risk, authority to set credit limits within an overall Group twice-yearly business standards and controls survey, describing limit has been delegated to the Groups banking businesses in the risk management process, summarising the work Guernsey and Switzerland.
undertaken by the Group Risk Committee and highlighting any significant control issues arising The Group does not run a trading book.
The Private Banking an internal audit review of the effectiveness and application of subsidiaries hold certain financial instruments debt securities, the risk management process, including results of internal audits forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps for during the year, showing outstanding matters customer facilitation purposes.
It is Group policy to hedge interest rate risk but this is largely mitigated by the short-term re-pricing a report detailing outstanding litigation and other major claims nature of the interest bearing assets liabilities.
a report from the Group Compliance & Risk Director on fraud within the Group The Group has a number of overseas subsidiaries whose a report from Group Compliance summarising activity during the shareholders funds, revenues and expenses are denominated year and highlighting any major instances of non-compliance.
Financial instruments are used within the Group where it is considered that the sterling values The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for of such amounts are at risk.
In such cases, forward foreign identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks exchange contracts with third parties are used as hedging and that: devices to mitigate exposure to currency movements.
The use of such instruments is limited and is subject to approval by the Capital Committee.
it has been in place for the year ended 31st December 2003 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and In addition, the Groups seed capital investments may also be accounts hedged in respect of market risk where it is possible to construct it is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the an effective hedge and there is a perceived risk of volatility in the internal control guidance for directors in the Combined Code.
value of the investment due to market movements.
The decisions to hedge market risk on seed capital investments, typically using The Board fully recognises the benefit of promoting a programme futures, are taken by the Capital Committee in consultation with of continuous improvement in the area of risk management.
