Annual Report & Accounts 2003 03 Management statement 2003 was a year of good progress with Funds under management We generated good investment higher profits, better investment performance performance across a range of key From an opening position of 86.2 billion at and reduced net business outflows.
products during the year, including UK the end of December 2002, adjusted to equities, specialist European equities, exclude 2.1 billion on the completion of the Despite the rise in equity markets from the Pacific Basin equities and international fixed sales of Schroder Hermes and Schroder second quarter of 2003, average market income.
Our UK multi-asset pooled fund Pensions in January and February 2003 levels were lower than in 2002.
Driven by has also outperformed its benchmark over respectively, funds under management rose lower costs, underlying asset management three and five years.
to 98.3 billion during the profit, before project expenditure and improvement is required in some other period.
Net business outflows were redundancy costs, rose 5.2 per cent.
0.5 billion, an improvement from the net 81.0 million 2002: 77.0 million.
Asset outflows of 2.2 billion in 2002. management net revenues were 417.8 We added to our product offerings during million, down 5.1 per cent.
from 440.4 the year with a US tax-exempt fixed income In September a simpler management million in the previous year.
capability which has started well, two structure was introduced to extend the further single strategy hedge funds, new improvement in investment performance Profit from private equity was 16.8 million property and private equity funds and a and combine the Groups business 2002: 12.9 million as we benefited from range of structured products.
development and client service skills across carried interests and realisations from Institutional and Retail.
Asset management Schroder Ventures funds, the rise in the Distribution now operates through four divisions: share price of Schroder Ventures Investment, Distribution, Private Banking Overall net outflows of institutional funds International Investment Trust plc SVIIT and Infrastructure.
were 4.3 billion, down from 5.4 billion in and the realised gain from the sale of 2002.
Institutional funds under management 5.9 per cent.
Investment ended the year at 71.2 billion.
During 2003, we continued to invest in Group costs at 406.2 million were 63.9 The net outflow was due in part to strengthening our portfolio management million lower than the previous year and underperformance in some asset classes and research capabilities.
None of the cost 113.8 million lower than in 2001. but, as importantly, to restructuring by reduction achieved over the past two years clients in the UK and elsewhere from has been at the expense of our investment Profit before goodwill was 75.9 million balanced and multi-asset mandates to platform.
This year we expect to spend 2002: 29.5 million and profit before tax specialist mandates.
The latter was the more on portfolio management and was 65.6 million 2002: 18.9 million.
major factor underlying a net outflow in the research than we did in either 2002 UK of 3.7 billion.
04 Schroders Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Management statement There was a net outflow of 1.5 billion from strong year with net sales of 900 million, Private Banking is now positioned to deliver our Americas business, due to weak and a further 700 million of net inflows superior risk-adjusted returns and a broader international equity performance.
We saw elsewhere in Asia Pacific.
range of specialist banking products good net inflows in continental Europe of supported by an efficient systems platform.
1.1 billion and a small net outflow in Asia Investor demand for more actively managed The benefits of this are starting to come Pacific with the daiko henjo effect in funds is growing and we have followed the through in terms of business flows and Japan, as corporate pension plans returned success of our UK Alpha fund with the revenues.
assets to Government schemes, offsetting launch of other Alpha products in European strong new business flows elsewhere.
We have also Board changes seen a high level of interest in our Andrew Sykes leaves the Board in Net retail sales were 4.2 billion, against multi-manager offering.
March 2004 and he goes with the Boards 3.5 billion in 2002.
Retail funds under thanks and good wishes after 25 years with management ended the year at Private Banking the Group.
Net outflows during the year, including the transfer of a small book of business to In November 2003, in the context of the Retail fund performance continued to be another private bank, amounted to revised Combined Code on Corporate strong with two-thirds of UK and 0.4 billion.
Private Banking funds under Governance, we announced that Charles Luxembourg domiciled retail assets above management ended the year at Sinclair and Nicholas Ferguson, who have the peer group median.
This is reflected in 5.0 billion.
served as non-executive Directors since the high proportion of our funds rated by 1990 and 2001 respectively, will retire from Standard & Poors, the 37 awards won by Private Banking provides solutions-led, the Board at the 2004 Annual General our funds around the world and our being bespoke asset management and banking Meeting in April.
The Board would like to named as Investment Management House services predominantly for high net thank them for their major contribution to of 2003 by Financial Times Fund Ratings.
In 2003 we strengthened the Group.
our client relationship, marketing and New retail business flows were well banking teams and introduced new We also announced in November that diversified geographically.
In the UK and administration systems in London and Sir Peter Job, who joined the Board in continental Europe net sales were Zurich which will shortly be extended to 2.6 billion.
In Japan we had another the Channel Islands.
Annual Report & Accounts 2003 05 1999 as a non-executive Director, had been Meanwhile the cost base has been Note During the year 3.5 billion of sub-advisory appointed as the Senior Independent reduced significantly which has resulted in assets were transferred from Institutional to Retail Director.
to reflect more closely the underlying source of this business.
In Asia, 0.3 billion was transferred from Private Banking to Institutional.
Of the On 11th March we announced that Merlyn The reorganisation of the firm is now 2.1 billion adjustment to reflect the sales of Lowther will join the Board on 1st April, and complete and the emphasis is on Schroder Hermes and Schroder Pensions, we look forward to the contribution that she extending the improvement in investment 1.5 billion was classified as institutional assets and 0.6 billion as retail assets.
performance, developing new products have been reflected as appropriate throughout the and distribution channels, and growing Annual Report and Accounts.
In an increasingly competitive environment and with higher levels of client A profile of Merlyn Lowther is on page 13.
The Board has recommended a final turnover than the industry has seen dividend of 13 pence per share, payable on historically, inflows and outflows of 26th April 2004 to shareholders on the business can be sizeable and their timing register at 26th March 2004, which brings unpredictable.
Nonetheless, as Schroders the total dividend to 18.5 pence per share, celebrates its 200th anniversary year, unchanged on 2002. we expect the improving trend in net business flows and financial performance Outlook to continue.
We are now half way through a four year turnaround programme under a new Michael Miles management team, designed to deliver Chairman strong investment performance, positive net new business flows and higher profitability.
Michael Dobson Investment performance has improved Chief Executive markedly but there is further work to do.
Net business outflows in 2003 were down 11th March 2004 on the previous year, although this was in part due to certain expected client withdrawals being deferred to 2004.
