MANAGERS OVERVIEW Managers Overview It has been a challenging year for equity investors.
All major markets have fallen sharply with little apparent differentiation according to economic prospects or stockmarket valuations.
We have tried to maintain a balance between exposure to the more defensive areas of the market that have been less badly affected by the harsh conditions of the last three years and an increasing desire to add to our holdings in the segments of world markets that seem to us to have become unduly depressed and that offer more potential gains in the event of improved market conditions.
Selected telecommunication and financial stocks fall into the latter category.
This task was complicated by the Iraqi crisis with the yearend of the Company falling at a moment of particular global anxiety.
Although we offset a substantial part of our gearing through our successful bond investments the chart below makes it clear that the costs and impact of our long-term borrowings were damaging in the savage equity market conditions of the last year.
We retain a belief in the eventual benefits of our gearing but we will continue to examine all our options in a full awareness of the short-term penalties that such a position can exert.
Performance in UK equities continued to be relatively good but we were disappointed that the London market fared no better than its international counterparts.
Concern over the deterioration in British economic fundamentals has led us to trim the UK position but we are encouraged by both the prospects of the companies in our portfolio and their depressed valuations.
Our major stock selection problem was in Europe.
As noted last year our holdings in this area have a tendency to be more volatile and less defensive than elsewhere in the portfolio.
We regard this as a reflection of both the best long-term corporate opportunities available to us in Europe which tend to be in economically sensitive sectors such as automobiles and of the excessive volatility of many continental markets.
We will be very disappointed if our relative performance in Europe does not improve in any period of better equity returns.
In America our stock selection was good for the year as a whole.
This was concentrated in the first half of the year when the solid results and low valuations of our holdings particularly stood out in an anxious market.
We are still to be convinced that the recent relative rally of technology shares is justified by either corporate fundamentals or valuation levels.
As noted elsewhere we are committed to increasing our exposure to emerging markets.
This already made a modest net contribution to our performance last year but we would regard this as an area where the opportunities for the Company are substantial in the years ahead.
PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION FOR THE YEAR TO 31 MARCH 2003 Computed relative to the benchmark 50% FTSE All-Share Index and 50% FTSE World Ex UK Index in sterling terms with net income reinvested.
PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION in sterling terms Contribution Benchmark Scottish Mortgage Contribution attributable to: asset allocation asset allocation Performance to relative Stock Asset 01.04.02 31.03.03 01.04.02 31.03.03 SM Benchmark return selection allocation Portfolio breakdown %% %% %% % % % UK 50.0 50.0 52.6 54.9 26.2 29.8 2.7 2.8 0.1 Europe ex.
Dividends and interest are reinvested on a cash basis, unlike the NAV calculation where income is recognised on an accruals basis, relative performance may differ as a result.
Scottish Mortgages figures represent the returns on the Companys portfolio and the benchmark figures for each geographical area represent the return on the appropriate FTSE index.
Contributions cannot be added together as they are geometric: for example to calculate how a return of 31.4%, against a benchmark return of 30.6% translates into a relative return of 1.1%, divide the portfolio return of 68.6 by the benchmark return of 69.4 and subtract one.
8 MANAGERS OVERVIEW The chart below compares Scottish Mortgages performance in each of the geographical regions in which it invests with the relevant local index.
Source: HSBC Thomson Financial Datastream The above figures are calculated on a total return basis with income reinvested.
Equities includes convertibles, warrants, limited partnerships and OEICs.
THE SCOTTISH MORTGAGE AND TRUST PLC 9
