x DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual Report together with the results of the Company for the year to 31 March 2003. Review of Activities During the year under review the Company has followed the normal activities of an investment trust company.
A review of the main features of the year is containedin the Chairmans Statement andin the Managers Portfolio Review on the preceding pages.
Dividends The Board recommends a final dividend of 4.50p per ordinary share which, together with the interim already paid, makes a total of 6.60p for the year comparedwith 6.25p for the previous year.
If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary shares will be paid on 9 July 2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 June 2003.
After payment of the dividend the accumulated revenue balance is increased by 2,867,000 to 50,889,000.
Status The Company is an investment company within the meaning of section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
It was approvedby the InlandRevenue as an investment trust under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31 March 2002, subject to any matters that may arise from any subsequent enquiry by the InlandRevenue into the Companys tax return.
In the opinion of the Directors the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to continue to obtain such approval andwill continue to seek approval under section 842 of the Income andCorporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
Corporate Governance The Board has considered the principles set out in the Combined Code and believes that the Companys current practice, given the special circumstances of an investment trust company is, in all material respects, consistent with the principles of the CombinedCode.
The Principles of Good Governance The Board The Boards regular meetings take place every two months.
It has a number of matters reserved for its approval including investment policy, borrowings, treasury matters and dividend policy.
The Board also reviews the financial statements, investment transactions, revenue budgets and performance.
The Boardcurrently comprises six Directors all of whom are non-executive andindependent of the Companys Managers.
The executive responsibilities for investment management have been delegated to the Companys Managers andSecretaries, Baillie Gifford& Co, andin the context of a Boardcomprised entirely of non-executive Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
Lord Sanderson was appointed Chairman in 1993 and is also the senior independent member.
The Directors all have appropriate business andfinancial experience with which to conduct the business of the Board.
Information about them can be found on page 4.
Given the non-executive nature of the Boarda separate nomination committee has not been established.
It is the view of the Boardthat the appointment of new Directors should be a matter for consideration by the Boardas a whole.
Upon appointment each Director is provided with a summary of the responsibilities and duties of directors, together with relevant  on the Company.
Consistent with the recommendation of the Code of Best Practice, the Boardwill arrange appropriate training for new Directors where necessary.
THE SCOTTISH MORTGAGE AND TRUST PLC 25 DIRECTORS REPORT Under the provisions of the Companys Articles, a Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Articles also require that one third of the Directors retire by rotation andsubmit themselves for re-election.
In order to ensure compliance with the spirit of this provision, the Boardhas resolvedfurther that no Director shall serve for a periodof greater than three consecutive years without submitting himself for re-election.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
Remuneration Since all Directors are non-executive, the Company is not requiredto comply with principles B.
3 of the CombinedCode in respect of executive Directors remuneration.
The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 29 and30.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The practical measures to ensure compliance with regulation andcompany law, andto provide effective andefficient operations andinvestment management, have been delegated to the Managers andSecretaries, Baillie Gifford& Co, under the terms of the Management Agreement.
The Board acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise and control the discharge by the Managers and Secretaries of their obligations.
Baillie Gifford & Co is responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of control policies and procedures to safeguardthe assets of the Company andto manage its affairs properly.
This responsibility also extends to maintaining effective operational andcompliance controls andrisk management.
The Companys investments are segregatedfrom those of Baillie Gifford & Co and its other clients through the appointment of The Bank of New York and Mizuho Corporate Bank, Limited as independent custodians of the Companys investments.
Baillie Gifford& Co has an established compliance function in accordance with Financial Services Authority regulations.
The compliance function provides the Board with a report on monitoring procedures at least annually.
Baillie Gifford & Co conducts an annual review of its system of internal controls which is documented within an internal controls report.
This report is independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors.
A copy of the internal controls report is submitted to the Board.
The Baillie Gifford & Co partner in charge of internal audit and compliance provides the Board with regular reports on its monitoring programmes.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewedthe effectiveness of the system and they have procedures in place to review its effectiveness on a regular basis.
The Board has undertaken a full review of all aspects of the published guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance and has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating andmanaging the significant risks facedby the Company, in accordance with the Turnbull recommendations.
To ensure that risk management andinternal controls are consideredon a regular basis andthat a full risk andcontrol assessment is undertaken on an annual basis, the following processes have been establishedin compliance with the guidance: internal controls strategy has been formalised following the production of a detailed risk map whereby significant risks are identifiedandthe key controls to manage these risks are confirmed as in place andoperating effectively: reporting procedures for the internal audit department, in respect of its risk framework monitoring and audit programme, and the compliance department, in respect of its regulatory monitoring programme, are defined and formalisedwithin a service level agreement: and regular reports on internal controls are preparedby the Managers andsubmittedfor Boardreview.
These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly to the nature and extent of the risks facing the Company and that they are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have been identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to assess whether further action is required to manage the risks identified.
The Board confirms that these procedures have been in place throughout the Companys financial year, are operating effectively and continue to be in place up to the date of approval of this Report.
26 x DIRECTORS REPORT Accountability and Audit The respective responsibilities of the Directors andthe auditors in connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 30 and31.
The accounts have been preparedon the going concern basis as it is the Directors opinion that the Company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
An audit committee has been established in compliance with the Combined Code consisting of all independent nonexecutive Directors the entire Board.
Its authority and duties are clearly defined within its written terms of reference.
The Chairman of the Board has been appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The committee meets periodically to review the Companys interim andannual financial statements.
It meets at least annually with the external auditors and approves the level of fees for audit and non-audit services.
An Investment Management Agreement between the Company andBaillie Gifford& Co sets out the matters over which the Managers have authority in accordance with the policies and directions of, and subject to restrictions imposed by, the Board.
The Management Agreement is terminable on not less than 12 months notice and the Audit Committee regularly reviews the terms of the Management Agreement.
Relations with Shareholders The Companys Managers meet regularly with shareholders andtheir representatives andreport to the Board.
The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for communication with shareholders and the Board announces the level of proxies lodged.
The notice period for the Annual General Meeting is at least twenty working days.
The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the investment managers, Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote against resolutions they consider may damage shareholders rights or economic interests.
Baillie Gifford & Co give due weight to what they consider to be socially responsible investment when making investment decisions, but their overriding objective is to produce good investment returns for shareholders.
Compliance The Board considers that throughout the year the Company has been in compliance with the Combined Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the CombinedCode on Corporate Governance issued by the UK Listing Authority of the Financial Services Authority.
There is no nomination committee, the absence of which has been explainedabove.
As previously stated, internal control procedures have been in place throughout the Companys financial year which accord with the guidance for directors on compliance with the Combined Code.
Directors The Directors at the year end, and their interests in the Company, were as follows: Name Nature Ordinary 25p shares held at of interest 31March 2003 31March 2002 Lord Sanderson of Bowden Beneficial 66,177 65,606 Non-beneficial 2,000 29,500 GA Ball Beneficial 10,000 10,000 Sir DonaldMacKay Beneficial 2,469 2,469 WG McQueen Beneficial 1,500 1,500 Non-beneficial 3,000 3,000 The Earl of Portarlington Beneficial 936,000 936,000 JPHS Scott Beneficial 2,129 2,088 Mr GA Ball retires by rotation and, being eligible, is recommended by the Board for re-election.
Lord Sanderson of Bowden will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
Mr FPM Johnston retiredfrom the Boardon 4 July 2002.
There have been no changes intimatedin the Directors interests up to 6 May 2003.
THE SCOTTISH MORTGAGE AND TRUST PLC 27 DIRECTORS REPORT Substantial Holdings The following information has been intimatedto the Company as at 6 May 2003 in compliance with section 198 of the Companies Act 1985: Name Number of ordinary 25p shares held % of issue DC Thomson andCo Ltd 15,000,000 5.0 Prudential plc 10,938,100 3.7 Legal & General Investment Management 9,092,051 3.1 Repurchase of Shares At the Annual General Meeting heldon 4 July 2002 the Company renewedits authority to purchase shares in the market, in respect of up to 46,065,722 ordinary shares equivalent to 14.99% of its then issued share capital, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be heldin 2003 or 3 January 2004, whichever is earlier, unless previously varied, revoked or renewed.
During the year to 31 March 2003 the Company bought back 11,179,573 ordinary shares nominal value 2,795,000, on the London Stock Exchange for cancellation.
The total consideration for these shares was 30,599,000.
Between 1 April 2003 andthe date of this report the Company has bought back a further 700,000 shares for cancellation at a cost of 1,778,000.
The principal reasons for such share buy-backs are: i to enhance net asset value for continuing shareholders by purchasing shares at a discount to the prevailing net asset value: ii to address any imbalance between the supply of and the demand for Scottish Mortgages shares that results in a discount of the quoted market price to the published net asset value per share.
The shares in question were purchasedat a price after allowing for costs below the net asset value and subsequently cancelled, thereby reducing the issued share capital see note 15 on page 42.
As a result of such purchases the net asset value of the Company has increasedby approximately 0.8%.
The Directors are seeking shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting to renew the authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the date of the passing of the resolution, such authority to expire at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be heldin 2004 or 2 January 2005.
Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority of the Financial Services Authority, the maximum price that may be paidon the exercise of the authority must not exceed 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the shares over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
The minimum price that may be paid will be 25p per share.
Purchases of shares will be made within guidelines established, from time to time, by the Board.
Your attention is drawn to Special Business, Resolution No.
7, in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Change of Name An amendment to the Companys name from The Scottish Mortgage and Trust PLC to Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC is being proposedin Resolution No.
8, in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The proposedamendment seeks to clarify the nature of the Company for the retail investor market andwill become effective from such date as the Directors shall determine, not being later than 31 August 2003, thereby providing sufficient time to amend all shareholder communications and retail literature.
Creditor Payment Policy It is the Companys payment policy for the forthcoming financial year to obtain the best terms for all business.
In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place andit is its policy to abide by these terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at 31 March 2003.
Auditors The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are willing to continue in office and in accordance with section 385 and section 390A of the Companies Act 1985 resolutions concerning their reappointment andremuneration will be submittedto the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board BAILLIE GIFFORD & Co Managers and Secretaries 7 May 2003 28
