DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Directors and Management Directors Lord Sanderson of Bowden.
Russell Sanderson is a former Minister of State at the Scottish Office.
He is chairman of the Clydesdale Bank PLC and a director of National Australia GroupEurope and of other companies.
Lord Sanderson was appointed a Director of The Scottish Mortgage and Trust PLC in 1991 and became Chairman in 1993.
Geoffrey Ball is executive chairman of CALA GroupLtd, having led the Management Buy Out in 1999.
He is president of the House Builders Lord Sanderson of Bowden Federation of England and Wales.
He was for Chairman thirteen years a director of The Standard Life Assurance Company.
He is 59 and was appointed Managers and Secretaries a Director of The Scottish Mortgage and Trust PLC Scottish Mortgage is managed by Baillie Gifford & in 1983.
Co, an investment management firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm Baillie & Gifford, WS, Sir Donald MacKay.
Donald MacKay is 66 and was which had been Managers and Secretaries to the appointed a Director of The Scottish Mortgage and Company since its formation in 1909.
He is an economist who was Professor of Political Economy at Aberdeen Baillie Gifford is one of the largest investment trust University and Professor of Economics at Heriotgroups in the UK and currently manages six Watt University.
He is currently chairman of The investment trusts.
Baillie Gifford also manages unit Malcolm GroupPLC, a director of Edinburgh trusts and Open Ended Investment Companies, Income and Value Trust plc and a former chairman together with investment portfolios on behalf of of Scottish Enterprise.
pension funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the UK and overseas.
Gordon McQueen is 56 and was the management or advice of Baillie Gifford total appointed a Director of The Scottish Mortgage and over 20 billion.
Based in Edinburgh, it is one of Trust PLC in 2001.
He is an executive director of the leading privately owned investment HBOS plc, Bank of Scotland and Halifax plc, management firms in the UK, with 24 partners and where his chief role is Chief Executive, Treasury.
The manager of Scottish Mortgages portfolio is The Earl of Portarlington.
George Portarlington is James Anderson, a partner of Baillie Gifford.
Stock 64 and was appointed a Director of The Scottish selection is primarily the responsibility of specialist Mortgage and Trust PLC in 1997.
He is a former teams covering all the regions of the world.
director of Queensland Trading and Holding Company Limited of Brisbane and of Cold Storage The firm of Baillie Gifford & Co is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
John Scott is 50 and was appointed a Director of The Scottish Mortgage and Trust PLC in 2001.
He is a former executive director of Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
During his twenty years with Lazard, he was deeply involved with the merchant banks Asian activities.
He is currently a director of various companies, including Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC, Martin Currie Pacific Trust plc, Xaar plc, Miller Insurance and Albany Venture Managers.
