directors report how the company works accountability and audit The Compliance Surveillance and Internal Audit Manager, financial reporting the external consultants and the statutory auditor have the The reviews on pages 2 to 11 give the directors opportunity to talk to the committee alone, outwith the assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The presence of all members of the executive.
They also have auditors statement is found on page 43. the opportunity to approach the chairman or other members of the audit committee directly at any time, or directors responsibility for call for a meeting of the committee to be convened.
the accounts The directors are required by law to prepare financial internal control and risk statements which give a true and fair view of the state of management affairs of the Company at the end of the financial year and It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is in of the revenue and cash flows for the year.
In addition, the place a sound system of internal control and to review the directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate effectiveness of this system.
accounting records are maintained, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable The Board carries out an annual review of significant steps for the prevention and detection of fraud or other business risks and considers the scope and effectiveness of irregularities.
the Companys system of internal control.
The Companys risk control procedures seek to identify both financial and The Company has, in the opinion of the directors, adequate non-financial risks which the businesses face in their resources to continue operation as a going concern for the markets and operations.
The review takes into account the foreseeable future, and the financial statements of the nature and extent of risks inherent in the Companys Company for the year ended 31 July 2003 have been activities, including any changes identified during the prepared on that basis.
The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by course of the year, the extent and frequency of reporting reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, have to, and matters discussed by, the Board and its committees been used in their preparation and that applicable during the year, including those issues identified in reports accounting standards have been followed.
received from the audit committee.
In addition to this annual review, the Board keeps risk issues under scrutiny audit committee and auditors during the year and seeks to satisfy itself that awareness of risk is embedded into the Companys operations and that William Berry, William Jack, Lesley Knox and, since his risks identified are actively monitored.
appointment in November 2002, Christopher Masters are the members of the audit committee.
William Jack is the The Board confirms that procedures, which accord with Chairman.
The committee operates under specific terms of published guidance for directors on compliance with the reference and meets at least three times a year, including Combined Code, have been in place for the year under prior to the publication of the Companys interim and review and continue to be in place.
ensure that, at both Board and management levels, consideration is regularly given to the nature and extent of One meeting is dedicated to examining issues of internal risks faced, or likely to be faced.
At this meeting the committee considers reports mechanisms to assess whether further action is required to by the Compliance Surveillance and Internal Audit Manager, manage the risks identified.
the annual internal audit and compliance plans and a report by external consultants on the internal audit and The Company seeks to manage the balance between risk compliance function.
The committee keeps under review and return in a prudent manner.
The balance achieved need both the scope, authority and resources of the internal not compromise rigorous compliance with statutory and audit function and the provision, cost effectiveness and regulatory provisions, or adherence to principles of good objectivity of external audit services.
Although no system of internal 26
