directors report investment background Our investment approach remains dominated by individual A pick-up in both investment stock selection, but each decision is taken against a spending and employment is background of ever changing economic, business and financial market conditions.
This section highlights the necessary for a sustainable major events which took place during our last financial year recovery in economies and and outlines our portfolio position as at 31 July 2003.
Our portfolio is reviewed in detail on pages 13 to 20. equity markets economies For much of the last 12 months, the long awaited recovery in the global economy was delayed yet again, as geopolitical concerns heightened during the run up to war in Iraq.
Both business and consumer confidence were hit hard, the rise in the oil price put further pressure on profit margins which were already depressed, and many investment plans were postponed.
In addition, the trend of disinflation in the world economy continued as a result of major currencies the excess of manufacturing capacity which pushed prices trade weighted indices down while demand remained weak.
In response, interest rates have been cut to their lowest levels in almost 50 years, and some governments provided additional stimulus through increased spending and tax cuts.
In the US, the further aggressive easing of interest rates continued to encourage significant re-mortgaging.
High levels of equity withdrawal from housing underpinned consumer spending through this difficult time, even as unemployment rose.
Both business and consumer confidence have now picked up from their pre-Iraq war source: Thomson Financial Datastream lows and signs are emerging of a revival in economic growth.
Manufacturing continues to face strong competition from overseas, particularly Asia, but it is hoped that the weakened Dollar, illustrated in the chart on the left, will help US exporters gain market share as global activity increases.
In addition to the negative effects of the Iraq war, Asia in particular also had to cope with the outbreak of Sars.
The economies of Hong Kong and Singapore were hit especially hard, as measures taken to prevent the spread of the virus dampened personal consumption, tourism and trade.
Despite Sars, China managed to maintain its strong export growth, helped by low labour costs, rising productivity and a currency fixed to the weakening Dollar.
Chinas high level of competitiveness is easing its transition into a market economy, but it has clearly added to pressure on prices in the global economy.
This is most apparent in Japan, where consumer prices have fallen for 5 years and domestic demand remains burdened by rising unemployment and falling household incomes.
Interest rates there have been 9 directors report investment background close to zero for some time, but domestic activity may companies struggle until structural problems, such as the large The weak level of global demand experienced through overhang of bad debts, are fully addressed.
Meanwhile, the much of the past year has done little to correct the problem Japanese economy remains reliant on exports to drive of excess capacity which has plagued many companies for growth, forcing the authorities to intervene in currency some time.
Strong competition from the Far East has markets to prevent the Yen rising in value.
maintained downward pressure on prices, exacerbated by The strong appreciation of the Euro has already hit export volume growth remaining weak.
As a result, companies growth across Europe, giving rise to fears that Germany have been forced to rely primarily on cost cutting to maintain might follow Japan into deflation.
However, Germanys profits growth, frequently through shedding labour.
The government has recently raised confidence with proposals chart on the left illustrates the extent to which productivity to correct some of its structural problems and to bring in terms of output per hour in US companies has remained forward tax cuts, despite the fiscal constraints imposed by unusually high throughout the recent economic downturn Europes Stability and Growth Pact.
Demand within Europe and confirms that this is due largely to a continued reduction as a whole may also be boosted by the accession of 10 in employment levels.
The decline in employment has been new member countries, from as early as 2004, and some strongest in manufacturing, where companies continue to may eventually adopt the Euro.
Although the UK relocate production to lower cost countries.
Recently, the government recently rejected early Euro membership, profits of many US companies have begun to benefit from some significant steps were announced which would the depreciation of the Dollar which has boosted revenue simplify entry at a later date These included changing the from overseas.
target for UK inflation to a measure compatible with that Lower levels of business confidence kept investment used in Europe, and a review of UK housing finance.
The spending muted as cash flow was directed towards UK economy has benefited, like the US, from a strong rebuilding balance sheets.
In addition, the accounting and housing market which underpinned consumer spending, corporate governance scandals which emerged last year in despite weakness elsewhere in the economy.
Now, the US and Europe left management more wary about however, there are growing hopes that Sterlings recent taking risk.
However, in contrast to a year ago, corporate weakness, particularly against the Euro, will boost export activity is now increasing as both business and investor growth, generate recovery in the manufacturing sector, and confidence improve.
Companies have also been able to take help correct some of the imbalances in the UK economy.
advantage of interest rate moves to refinance their debt at lower rates.
This will be favourable for profits growth once aggregate demand improves, but a pick-up in both investment spending and employment is necessary for a sustainable US output and employment recovery in economies and equity markets.
Nevertheless, some individual companies must deal with the consequences of overly optimistic pension assumptions which could weigh heavily on profits for several years to come.
equity markets The chart on the right illustrates the volatile year experienced by the major equity markets.
The three year bear market extended through to March as doubts remained over prospects for a profitable economic recovery, with geopolitical concerns coming to the fore, further increasing risk aversion and driving the US 10 year bond source: US Bureau of Labor Statistics yields down to a 40 year low.
Since then, equity markets have appreciated sharply, helped by low interest rates and hopes of a strong and sustained economic recovery.
Cuts in US taxes, not only on capital gains but particularly on 10 dividends was key to re-establishing equities as an equity markets - sterling adjusted attractive asset class.
This was re-inforced by a positive change in companies dividend policies.
Moreover, the US bond yield has risen sharply from its June low, despite assurances from the monetary authorities that short term interest rates could stay low for some time and, encouragingly, equity values remained largely unaffected.
The UK equity market was volatile but almost unchanged over the year to 31 July, ahead of Japan which fell 2.7% and Europe which fell 4.8%.
The US rose 8.6% over the year, but Sterlings appreciation of 3% against the Dollar lowered that to 5.6% on a Sterling-adjusted basis.
Sterlings Source: Thomson Financial Datastream appreciation of nearly 4% against the Yen widened the currency-adjusted fall in the Japanese market to 6.0%, while the Euros gain of more than 10% against sterling was enough to turn the decline in the European market into a currency-adjusted increase of 6.2%.
The technology sector performed best over our financial year, with the FT World Technology Index recording a rise of 17.4% after 3 years of heavy falls.
Service-related sectors also performed well, rising more than 7.5%, and financials rose 5.9%.
Consumer-related stocks turned in the worst performance, particularly the consumer cyclical sector which fell 4.3%.
Small and medium-sized companies generally did very well.
asset distribution The pie chart illustrates the distribution of our portfolio, how the assets are managed with 54% of the assets now managed on a global sector basis.
We remain ungeared, but had reduced our holdings of cash and fixed income to 5% at the year end.
Although we maintained our cautious approach to investment, we were able to use the turbulence in equity markets to invest a net total of 6.4m.
This investment was partly financed by sales of 5.0m in Europe, 4.6m in the US and 4.3m in Japan.
We invested 14.1m in the UK, attracted by good income opportunities, and 6.0m in Asia, encouraged by a favourable outlook for long term growth.
On a sector basis we added 6.9m to resources and basic industries, where stocks are expected to benefit from a source: internal pick up in economic activity.
We also invested 2.7m in the media sector, where valuations had become attractive, and 2.4m into financials which had hit depressed levels.
