policy statements voting payment of creditors The Company owns investments in many listed companies All dealings in investments are settled in accordance with and its policy is to vote its shares wherever practical, the terms of the relevant investment exchange.
Investment usually by arranging for a proxy to be lodged.
Votes are cast apart, the Company either accepts suppliers payment with a view to the development or defence of shareholders terms or settles terms of payment with each supplier interests consistent with the long-term aims for this individually when agreeing a transaction.
Any proposal to vote against the recommendations supplier is always aware of the terms of payment and of the board of the company in which shares are held payment is made in accordance with these terms.
requires the approval of an executive director, and any At 31 July 2003 the Company had no trade creditors.
decision so to vote is reported to the Board.
environment data protection The Company seeks to conduct its own affairs responsibly The Company is a data controller as defined under the Data and environmental factors are, where appropriate, taken Protection Act 1998.
Information received from or about into consideration.
stockholders or investors for example from a stockbroker, Using reporting guidelines issued by the Department of the whether by telephone or in writing, by fax or by any other Environment, Transport and the Regions, UK greenhouse electronic or digital means of communication may be gas emissions during the year by reason of the Companys processed.
For security and compliance monitoring activities office heat and power requirements and purposes telephone calls may be recorded.
employee travel are calculated to be approximately 39.8 Information held on the Companys Register of Members 38.4 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
This is the equivalent of is, by law, public information and the Company cannot operating 3.5 3.4 3 bar electric fires for a year.
prevent any person inspecting it or having copies of it, on payment of the statutory fee.
donations ATS customer records are confidential and are only No political or charitable donations have been made.
disclosed on the customers authority or where ATS is obliged to do so by law or regulation.
ATS does not sell or otherwise make its list of investors available to third parties.
