board of directors non-executive directors from left Bruce Johnston William Berry William Jack Lesley Knox Christopher Masters Bruce W M Johnston Chairman CA 64 Lesley M S Knox 49 Joined the board 1991: appointed Chairman 1996 Joined the board 2001: member of the audit and remuneration committees Bruce Johnston was a partner in the chartered accountancy firm, Arthur Young Lesley Knox qualified as a lawyer and worked in the UK and USA advising now Ernst & Young, between 1970 and 1986, where he concentrated on audit companies on a range of commercial matters.
She then worked as a corporate and advisory work for companies and private clients.
He then moved to the finance adviser first with Kleinwort Benson where she became a group director commercial sector and was Executive Chairman of City Centre Restaurants plc, in 1996 and was then a founder director of British Linen Advisers.
She was also where he combined general management with responsibility for finance and Head of Institutional Asset Management at Kleinwort Benson Investment investor relations.
Management which provided investment services to clients world wide.
Other directorships include The Alliance Trust PLC and Mid Wynd International Other directorships include The Alliance Trust PLC, Glenmorangie PLC, Hays PLC, Investment Trust PLC.
HMV Group PLC, and MFI Furniture Group PLC.
William Berry MA LLB WS 63 Christopher Masters CBE FRSE 56 Joined the board 1994: Senior Independent Director, member of the Joined the board 2002: member of the audit committee, Chairman of the remuneration committee, member of the audit committee remuneration committee William Berry is a solicitor and chairman of Murray Beith Murray, an Edinburgh Christopher Masters was educated at Kings College, London, and Leeds Law firm which has an important investment presence, managing and University, where he took his doctorate in Chemistry.
He has had a distinguished administering funds for many private clients.
He is Senior Governor of St Andrews career in industry, working for Shell Research BV in the Netherlands and then University and was formerly chairman of Scottish Life Assurance Company.
He joined Christian Salvesen as business development Other directorships include The Alliance Trust PLC, Fleming Continental European manager in 1979 and in 1982 became director of planning for their US operation.
Investment Trust PLC and The Scottish American Investment Company PLC.
He was Chief Executive from 1989 to 1997.
In September 1997, he was appointed Executive Chairman of Aggreko PLC, a post he held until January 2002.
Dr Masters chairs the Scottish Higher Education Funding Council and the William H Jack 58 Festival City Theatres Trust.
Joined the board 2000: Chairman of the audit committee, member of the Other directorships include The Alliance Trust PLC, British Assets Trust PLC and remuneration committee John Wood Group PLC.
William Jack joined the General Accident Fire & Life Assurance Company in 1973, and was the managing director of GA Life subsequently CGU Life, with the responsibility for the UK Life and unit trust business, from 1991 to 2000.
Other directorships include The Alliance Trust PLC and Skipton Group Holdings.
executive directors from left Gavin Suggett Alan Young Sheila Ruckley David Deards Gavin R Suggett MA MSc FCA 59 Sheila M Ruckley MA LLB DLP 54 Joined the Company 1973: appointed to the board 1987: appointed Chief Joined the Company 1988: appointed to the board 2000 Executive 1995 Sheila Ruckley studied history and philosophy in the UK and USA before Gavin Suggett trained as a chartered accountant before reading economics at qualifying as a solicitor.
After joining the Alliance Trusts she became secretary of Cambridge and studying business administration at the London Business School.
the Company and compliance officer of the savings business before becoming He worked in industry and commerce before joining the Alliance Trusts, where responsible for the introduction and development of the Select Pension.
She he was secretary before becoming a director.
He started the IT capability in the now has responsibility for investor relations within the organisation.
organisation and the deposit taking and savings business and has experience in the investment, treasury, oil and mineral rights, financial, administrative and David A Deards BA ACA 43 investor relations aspects of the business.
Joined the board 2003 David Deards read zoology at Oxford and qualified as a chartered accountant Alan M W Young MA LLB 57 with Arthur Young now Ernst & Young before joining Ansbacher & Co where he Joined the Company 1986: appointed to the board 1992 gained considerable experience in the Corporate Finance and Banking Divisions, Alan Young read law at Edinburgh and worked in London at Buckmaster & becoming a director in 1995.
More recently he was responsible for product Moore, stockbrokers, before joining the investment department at Gartmore as development.
an analyst and fund manager.
He became a director of Gartmores pension and investment trust management arm in 1983.
On joining the Alliance Trusts he managed the UK and European portfolios before becoming the director responsible for investment policy.
The executive directors are also directors of the Companys subsidiary and The Alliance Trust PLC and its subsidiaries.
The non-executive directors are also directors of Alliance Trust Savings Limited.
Directors ages are shown as at 15 September 2003.
22 directors General Meeting, the appointments of Christopher Masters directors and officers and David Deards are subject to approval by stockholders at The Board consists of five independent non-executive this years general meeting.
Gavin Suggett and William directors and four executive directors.
The non-executives are Berry retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves Bruce Johnston who is the Chairman of the Board, William for re-election.
Of the Directors subject to approval or Berry who is the senior independent director, William Jack, election by stockholders, only David Deards and Gavin Lesley Knox and Christopher Masters.
The executive directors Suggett have service contracts terminable on 1 years are Gavin Suggett, chief executive, David Deards, finance notice by the Company, neither of which has a fixed term.
director, Sheila Ruckley, investor relations director, and Alan All executive directors are required to retire at age 60 and Young, investment director.
Gavin Suggett will so retire during the current financial year.
The Chairman plays an important role, along with the other non-executives, in bringing an independent and objective directors remuneration view to the activities of the Company.
These directors are The Directors Remuneration Report, which includes details chosen for the relevance of their particular expertise and experience to the business and direction of the Company.
of all directors fees, is set out on pages 28 to 30. how directors are appointed directors interests Nominations of directors are considered by the Board which Each director is required, in terms of the Companys Articles also makes the initial appointment.
Such appointments are of Association, to hold at least 200 of the Companys ordinary submitted for approval by the stockholders at the next stock units.
No director has any interest in the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Articles of Association require preference stocks or debenture stock.
No director, nor any that directors retire by rotation but may stand for re-election.
member of any directors immediate family, has been granted In addition, the Board has resolved that all directors should options to subscribe for stock or debentures in the Company, submit themselves in turn for re-election by stockholders at or in any body corporate in the same group as the Company.
The table below gives the interests of each director in the Save for Christopher Masters, who was appointed as a ordinary stock of the Company.
Acquisition of stock between Director on 15 November 2002, and David Deards, who 31 July and 12 September 2003 has been pursuant to was appointed as a Director on 1 January 2003, all the standing instructions through plans provided by ATS.
Directors served throughout the year.
Details of the service During the year, no director had any material interest in any contracts of the executive directors are set out in the contract, being a contract of significance, with the Directors Remuneration Report on page 28.
Company or any subsidiary company or was connected to Having been appointed directors since the last Annual any adviser or supplier who had such an interest.
1 august 2002 31 july 2003 acquired between or date of appointment 31 july & 12 september 2003 directors interests stock units of 25p beneficial non-beneficial beneficial non-beneficial beneficial non-beneficial William Berry 506 - 516 - - - David A Deards 1,197 - 1,294 - 25 - William H Jack 1,000 - 1,000 - - - Bruce W M Johnston 941 15,072 965 15,072 - - Lesley M S Knox 279 - 330 - - - Christopher Masters 527 - 531 - - - Sheila M Ruckley 1,704 - 2,117 - 57 - Gavin R Suggett 6,081 3,984 7,839 4,323 114 86 Alan M W Young 1,502 - 1,542 - - - 23
