directors report outlook Our objective is to provide stockholders with a core As a core investment we investment to deliver good returns over the long term.
In aim to continue generating this section we explore some of the issues which will influence future performance.
a growing flow of income strategy We believe that investment returns have been founded on the dividends which have been paid since our incorporation 120 years ago.
The capital value of the Company has grown more or less in harmony with the growth of income and, more recently, the value for many stockholders has been enhanced through their use of Alliance Trust Savings ATS wrapper products PEPs, ISAs, pension and investment plans.
As a core investment we aim to continue generating a growing flow of income.
We also aim to reduce, through diversification, the risk of serious loss and to maintain a decision making and governance system that puts stockholders interests first.
5 year discount record Much of this Annual Report is devoted to demonstrating and evidencing this approach.
investment The best long-term returns, we believe, will come from investment in real assets through active businesses and we therefore remain primarily an equity investor.
Equities can be high risk investments, especially in the short term, as individually they are subject to many differing risks.
Our approach is one of investing on a long-term basis in diverse individual companies world-wide, to spread the individual, source: Thomson Financial Datastream sectoral and geographic risks.
However, a healthy global economic climate is an essential requirement for the portfolio as a whole.
The world remains reliant on the US to drive the economic recovery forward, and there are enough encouraging signs to suggest that the reflationary policies which have been put in place will succeed in generating growth and minimise any lingering threats of deflation.
Although US economic growth remains unbalanced and below trend, and unemployment is high, it is hoped that confidence will increase sufficiently to generate investment spending and employment growth, both of which will be necessary for higher levels of activity to be sustained.
The recent pick-up in activity in the US is already boosting business and investor confidence in Asia and Europe, although in both regions there are significant structural problems still to be addressed.
In the US itself, the policy 4 stimuli which have been necessary to generate this ATS lie at the heart of this position and together they recovery have worsened the imbalances there.
Debt levels provide a strong basis for expecting continued healthy returns through future dividends.
throughout the US economy are high and the trade and government budget deficits have widened.
This leaves the Valuation and gearing.
Many trusts are geared using loans Dollar exposed to further downward pressure at some point.
which were taken out when interest rates were high.
The interest payments on these loans can limit the scope of Despite the significant progress of recent months, the these trusts to grow their dividends and this is reflected in recovery is not yet secure and economies remain their share prices.
vulnerable to external shocks, particularly if these lead to a rise in the oil price.
Equity valuations have already risen in The asset figures used by most publications to calculate anticipation of higher profits growth, but further strength investment trust discounts are not adjusted for the extra may prove elusive until the economic recovery broadens costs in these loans.
As a result, the discounts which are sufficiently to enable companies to achieve profits growth published for geared investment trusts are often greater not just through cost cutting, but from increased sales than would be shown if a more realistic basis were used for calculating net assets.
This Company has no such debt.
The market system, which ensures our approach a competitive price for our stock, generally works smoothly.
Occasionally, however, the market is influenced by heavy At the company level we have been encouraged by changes, institutional dealing.
In December 2001 the Company was particularly in the US, which recognise the importance of removed as a constituent of the FTSE All-Share Index, dividends, the problems of stock options as management following a number of quiet trading months on the incentives and the need for better corporate accounting.
These changes should help to secure future income flows.
On the capital side, the falls in market values did bring more It was then reinstated in December 2002 after trading had reasonable valuations and sustainable yields which, in many picked up.
The effect was to force index-tracking funds first to sell and then, a year later, to buy the Companys stock.
cases, exceed prevailing interest rates.
If these conditions Over 1.5 million extra stock units changed hands during persist, we expect to be fully invested.
each of these two periods.
The discount increased significantly on exit and then narrowed again once restock price and discount admittance was assured.
We estimate that index-tracking The graph opposite illustrates that the discount to which funds incurred trading and stamp duty costs in the region of the Companys stock price stands to its net asset value has 1m and additionally may have suffered adverse price narrowed, both in absolute terms and compared to that of movements by reason of the volume of coincidental trading our investment trust peer group.
The price of the stock, and in this pointless round trip.
Under the FTSE Ground Rules hence the discount, at any one time is determined by the Company will remain in the index next year, but we sentiment and supply and demand in the market.
However, believe the rules are in need of change to avoid these there are a number of factors which have affected the stockholders being put to significant and unnecessary market for our stock over the last year in addition to those expense again.
Our arguments for change are on our web referred to by the Chairman in his statement.
These include site at www.
com trusts downloads select the following: FTSE Indices together with the address to which Income and costs.
The level and sustainability of the representations can be made.
dividends we pay are important.
At 3% gross, the yield on the Companys stock is about 0.4% above the Global Growth peer group average.
The 5 year dividend growth record is also better.
This position has been achieved through careful stock selection, lower costs and accounting policies which do not enhance current revenue at the expense of future growth by charging interest and expenses to capital.
The efficiencies of self-management and our ability to deliver extra value to stockholders through 5
