how the company works structure of the company constitution alliance trust savings The Second Alliance Trust is an investment company One of these companies is Alliance Trust Savings ATS, incorporated under the Companies Acts.
Its constitution is which is an authorised deposit-taker regulated by the set out in its Memorandum and Articles of Association.
It is Financial Services Authority.
It is owned 25% by the an Inland Revenue approved investment trust, which Company and 75% by the Alliance Trust.
ATS provides enables it to realise its investments free from taxation on stockholders of both companies with a means of capital gains.
Acceptance of investment trust status by the purchasing and holding their stock in a convenient, flexible, Inland Revenue is retrospective, and has been confirmed in cost and tax efficient way appropriate to their own respect of the financial year to 31 July 2002.
This is achieved by providing wrapper has subsequently conducted its affairs to enable it to products ISAs, PEPs, Investment Plans and Pensions continue to seek approval.
which enable stockholders to choose their own portfolios from a wide range of securities having first made an initial investment in the Company and or the Alliance Trust.
These management wrappers are all administered in-house using ATS own Most investment trusts today employ an investment systems and staff to ensure a consistent and coherent management company to manage the portfolio of the design, a single point of contact and integrated reporting for investment trust and carry out secretarial and administrative investors who use more than one product.
No staff are employed and there is no executive function within the investment trust itself.
stockholders The Second Alliance Trust, together with the Alliance Trust, At 31 July 2003, the Company had 6,970 stockholders on employs its own staff to manage its portfolio and carry out its register of members, including many individuals, trusts, all secretarial and administrative functions.
Consequently it charities, pension funds and insurance companies.
The is not exposed to the potential conflicts of interest involved register also includes an increasing number of nominee in employing an external investment manager.
holdings which are used by professional advisers and Since the 1920s, the Company has conducted its custodians to simplify administration of clients assets.
One operations alongside those of the Alliance Trust, another, of these is the nominee holding operated by ATS which, at larger, self-managed investment trust.
Staffing costs and the same date, held 24% of the Second Alliance Trust the expenses of operating from Meadow House, Dundee, ordinary stock for 15,275 investors.
where both companies have their office, are shared.
The interests of both companies are aligned since they have the same investment objectives, substantially the same investments in their respective portfolios and the same individuals hold office as directors.
Should any potential conflict of interest arise, each company takes independent advice.
This arrangement works well for stockholders, as the management function is under their control, effectively ensuring the mutuality of interest essential for any longterm relationship.
The benefits are evidenced in the exceptionally low expense ratio, the good long-term performance and the successful development of valueenhancing activities through companies jointly owned by the two investment trusts.
