portfolio review The classification table on the opposite page gives both a top thirty holdings geographical and sector view of the portfolio.
It allows company value % of m assets comparison against the same period last year.
The table Shell Transport & Trading 16.0 3.4 below it helps to identify changes as a result of stock price Royal Bank of Scotland 15.9 3.4 movements and active repositioning by our investment GlaxoSmithKline 14.4 3.0 BP 14.2 3.0 managers.
Vodafone 9.8 2.1 HBOS 9.3 2.0 Last year our top holdings list highlighted 20 companies.
In Barclays 6.3 1.3 order to illustrate the diversity of the portfolio, which Wal-Mart 5.9 1.2 Aviva 5.3 1.1 includes many companies with global operations, we have Johnson & Johnson 5.2 1.1 expanded this to 30.
The companies in this list appear Lloyds TSB 5.0 1.1 Diageo 5.0 1.1 again on the following pages, together with those stocks Abbott Laboratories 4.8 1.0 with a value greater than 0.67m, representing 87% of the Persimmon 4.7 1.0 HSBC 4.6 1.0 portfolio by value and 51% by number.
Within the text we EMAP 4.6 1.0 also highlight new holdings not yet above that threshold.
Marsh & McLennan 4.4 0.9 Rio Tinto 4.2 0.9 We anticipate that they have the capability to grow in Microsoft 4.2 0.9 future years.
Unilever 4.0 0.8 Canon 4.0 0.8 In the early part of the period we had built up cash Slough Estates 4.0 0.8 BHP Billiton 3.9 0.8 reserves, giving us scope when openings arose to reinvest Standard Chartered 3.8 0.8 in growing companies on attractive valuations and without Exxon Mobil 3.7 0.8 BT Group 3.4 0.7 loss of income.
By choosing companies which are still GUS 3.2 0.7 growing their dividends, but with reasonable yields, we Tesco 3.1 0.7 Home Depot 3.1 0.7 were able to achieve a good blend with other new holdings Reckitt Benckiser 3.1 0.6 where boards are distributing cash earnings for the first Calculated as % of total assets less current liabilities.
time and where a positive step-up in low payouts is likely.
This list does not show Alliance Trust Finance and Alliance Trust Savings, which represent 9.4m of the The wider recognition of the importance of dividends is Companys portfolio.
helpful to our maintaining a growing base of earnings from which to distribute future dividends to our own stockholders.
investment companies Our investment trust and fund holdings are held mainly to gain exposure to markets or investment sectors which we feel are attractive and offer additional diversification, but which we consider would be less efficient for us to access directly.
In the period, we established a new holding in Eastern European Trust, a London-listed company which invests in Russia and its former satellites.
We also source: Rio Tinto continued to increase our exposure to the private equity area through draw downs on existing commitments to Albany Ventures and Dunedin Buyout funds, and a new investment companies value holding in Schroder Ventures convertible preference stock m was financed by the sale of our holding in 3i.
Schroder Ventures 2.4 Candover Investments 1.7 Standard Life European Private Equity 1.6 Aberforth Smaller Companies 1.2 F & C Latin America 0.7 Throgmorton Trust 0.5 Korea Europe Fund 0.5 13 portfolio review oil, chemicals and resources resources Oil, gas and refined products play a key role in world economic activity, particularly in the US which imports over & basic half of its oil requirements: it now also imports natural gas industries to meet its wider energy needs.
One consequence of this has been a requirement to establish more terminals to receive liquefied natural gas LNG.
This is provided by companies like Shell, the market leader in LNG, and BG, formerly British Gas, which is delivering an LNG strategy for the Atlantic basin.
We increased our position in Shell and BG and in North American gas producers Burlington Resources and Encana.
Our BP investment was reduced.
The oil price outlook will be influenced strongly by supply side factors which have been highly important throughout the period.
Oil supply disruptions, relating to a general source: Oxiana strike in Venezuela and the war in Iraq, mean that petroleum inventories are below average levels and, consequently, oil prices high.
US crude averaged $30 per oil, chemicals & resources m barrel and by July US motorists were paying around $1.55 Shell Transport & Trading UK 16.0 BP UK 14.2 per US gallon of regular gasoline, 10% more than last year.
Rio Tinto UK 4.2 The scale of exports from Iraq and the OPEC cartel, with its BHP Billiton UK Australia 3.9 Exxon Mobil USA 3.7 ability to control production, will be key.
OPECs target John Wood Group UK 3.0 range for oil prices is $22 to $28 per barrel for a basket of The Total Company France 2.3 Air Liquide France 1.6 crude oil products.
Discipline is thus required to ensure British Vita UK 0.9 prices do not stay outside the cartels range.
PetroChina China 0.9 RPM International USA 0.8 Another theme is the continued pace of industrialisation in Schlumberger USA 0.8 Croda UK 0.7 China.
To participate, we established a new holding in Woodside Petroleum Australia 0.7 CNOOC, the Chinese offshore oil producer, and raised our BG Group UK 0.7 holding in PetroChina.
Also, with China now producing and consuming more than one-fifth of the worlds steel, we increased Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton.
Both supply iron ore. Two new holdings were the Australian gold mining companies, Newcrest and Oxiana.
14 utilities The case for utilities is enhanced in regions which have growing demand from businesses and where population growth is stimulating strong new housing formation.
China is a good example, with demand currently outstripping capacity expansion.
To gain additional exposure we initiated a holding in Hong Kong & China Gas and increased both of utilities m Scottish Power UK 2.2 our Chinese electric utilities, Huaneng Power and Beijing Scottish & Southern UK 2.1 Datang Power.
Huaneng Power China 2.0 Kelda Group UK 1.9 Consolidated Edison USA 1.5 By contrast, our European utility investment exposure is National Grid Transco UK 1.5 minimal.
It was reduced further by selling Suez which is United Utilities UK 1.2 Constellation Energy USA 1.2 not being managed as we expected.
Autostrade, the Italian Beijing Datang Power China 0.9 road toll operator, was taken over.
The proceeds have been Australian Gas Light Company Australia 0.9 reinvested in Scottish Power which is making good WPS Resources USA 0.7 progress in its core, regulated businesses.
Hong Kong Electric Hong Kong 0.7 Our UK and US utility portfolios both delivered positive total construction & building returns and recent comments from UK regulators bode materials m relatively well for the next price reviews.
Expectations for Persimmon UK 4.7 Wolseley UK 2.1 solid dividends and for further opportunities for efficiency Aggregate Industries UK 1.5 gains remain.
Marshalls UK 1.0 Lafarge France 1.0 Crest Nicholson UK 0.9 construction and building materials The UK housing market has attracted considerable media attention.
House price increases appear to be easing to more sustainable rates of growth.
Affordable mortgages and reasonably stable employment conditions are necessary to avoid a sharper correction in prices.
The UK housebuilders in our portfolio continue to experience good levels of demand.
Persimmon, with its solid track record and nationwide presence, is our core holding.
We also increased Crest Nicholson which is focused on housebuilding in the South and Midlands.
Its outlook for profits is good, with growth somewhat slower but more sustainable.
Conditions in European building and construction are challenging, with the German market particularly weak.
Lafarge, the French cement company, appeared well placed with an attractive mix of exposure to both emerging and developed markets, but in our view its recent rights issue lacked justification and we reduced our position.
In UK construction we added to Aggregate Industries, Marshalls and Wolseley, all well-managed companies with sensible growth strategies.
In Thailand we bought the source: Beijing Datang Power housebuilder, Land and Houses, and construction companies Siam Cement and Italian Thai.
15 portfolio review general industrial capital Demand in each of the underlying sub-sectors is driven by goods the overall health of the global economy.
US auto suppliers had mixed fortunes.
We sold Delphi because of pension concerns, but initiated a holding in Lear Corporation whose car interiors speciality has better prospects.
Japanese car companies increased market share and produced record profits.
Auto component companies FCC and Showa of Japan benefited from this growth and were increased on attractive valuations.
Malaysian company IOI Corporation, whose broad interests include construction and resources, and Denway Motors of China, an affiliate of Honda, were new additions.
Operational concerns about BAE Systems led us to reduce our convertible holding during the year.
electronics and engineering source: Bodycote This area has a high share of cyclical businesses, but many are well-run companies with good industrial positions and general industrial m Pentair USA 1.8 attractive yields.
This led us to increase our holdings in Honda Motor Japan 1.0 Bodycote, Kidde and Sandvik.
On the other hand, specific Hutchison Whampoa Hong Kong 1.0 company issues led us to sell Heidelberger Druckmaschinen, the German printing machine manufacturer.
electronics and engineering m In Japan, we sold some companies heavily exposed to Canon Japan 4.0 weaker capital investment trends, including Furukawa General Electric USA 2.8 Keyence Japan 1.8 Electric, Sumitomo Electric and Daifuku.
We also sold Sony, Illinois Tool Works USA 1.6 on concern that the long-term value of the brand is eroding Renishaw UK 1.6 Sandvik Sweden 1.5 as a result of fierce competition in consumer electronics.
Grainger USA 1.4 Hoya Japan 1.3 Spirax-Sarco Engineering UK 1.3 technology Kidde UK 1.2 Worthington Industries USA 1.1 In response to slow economic growth, weak product cycles Bodycote UK 1.1 and excess capacity, consolidation has begun in the US Matsushita Electric Japan 0.7 Emerson Electric USA 0.7 software industry.
Microsofts move to initiate a dividend while removing stock options from remuneration may also improve the allocation of surplus capital in the interest of technology m Microsoft USA 4.2 shareholder value over the longer term.
A more stable Intel USA 2.5 environment for technology products and anticipation of an First Data USA 2.5 improvement in business investment caused share prices Cisco Systems USA 2.1 Sage UK 1.7 to bounce.
Valuations and greater price-based competition Nokia Finland 1.4 in the hardware sector caused us to reduce exposure.
In Dell USA 1.1 SAP AG Germany 0.8 software, we increased Microsoft and Sage, reflecting Texas Instruments USA 0.7 strong financial and market positions with favourable long Motorola USA 0.7 term growth potential.
16 beverages, foods & consumer household products goods and A focus on better internal management of costs has helped consumer companies combat a backdrop of poor revenue products growth characterised by an erosion of consumer confidence.
Some pick-up in confidence has occurred in the beverages, foods US, from the low point in March, but levels vary by region.
& household products m Competition generally remains fierce, affecting sales Diageo UK 5.0 Unilever UK 4.0 revenues, but companies responses to this differ.
In the Reckitt Benckiser UK 3.1 tobacco industry, for example, Philip Morris, the market PepsiCo USA 2.3 British American Tobacco UK 2.0 leader owned by Altria, suffered price competition and it Nestl Switzerland 1.5 increased its promotional and marketing spending to Allied Domecq UK 1.3 Geest UK 1.0 stabilise market share.
We have also seen increased Fosters Australia 1.0 merger and acquisition activity.
Within our portfolio, both Altria USA 0.9 Scottish & Newcastle UK 0.8 BRL Hardy and Royal Canin were taken over.
As we look ahead, pressures on revenues and profits are pharmaceuticals unlikely to ease significantly.
However, companies like & healthcare m GlaxoSmithKline UK 14.4 PepsiCo of the US are strongly positioned to meet Johnson & Johnson USA 5.2 consumers longer term aspirations.
We reduced exposure Abbott Laboratories USA 4.8 Bristol-Myers Squibb USA 2.7 to Reckitt Benckiser to fund purchases of Diageo and Allied Merck USA 2.6 Domecq, both global spirits groups which stood on Aventis Germany 2.5 Novartis Switzerland 2.4 reasonable valuations.
Takeda Chemical Japan 1.7 Amersham UK 1.7 UCB Belgium 1.5 health and pharmaceutical Altana AG Germany 1.4 Celltech UK 1.3 During the year, developments affecting the industry were Gyrus UK 1.3 mixed.
The new commissioner of the US Food and Drug Cardinal Health USA 0.9 Fresenius Germany 0.8 Administration oversaw an increase in drug approvals, UnitedHealth USA 0.8 holding out a promise of speedier reviews.
Recent court Alcon USA 0.8 IGEN International USA 0.7 cases may herald some restraint on legal costs, the medical Steris USA 0.7 companies fastest growing expense.
Unfortunately, prescription drug sales remain under pressure following declines in new drug introductions and cost-containment measures from private and government buyers.
Meanwhile, generic drug companies have been increasingly aggressive in their challenge to branded medicines.
The pressure is not all one way.
America is reforming its federal health insurance scheme, Medicare, which includes prescription drug coverage for the elderly.
A boost to sales is likely, albeit at a price discount.
At the bottom line, drug company profits are starting to advance again as the peak impact of patent expirations dissipates.
We reduced positions in Johnson & Johnson and Merck, but took advantage of price falls to add to Abbott, Celltech, source: Abbott Laboratories GlaxoSmithKline and Gyrus.
We started new investments in Hospital Corp of America and Baxter International via its convertible.
17 portfolio review retail services Retailing remains very competitive and the industry is consolidating.
Trends in the UK have been positive, assisted by a strong housing market, although that is slowing.
High personal debt levels in the UK and US are unhelpful at this stage, and may limit growth.
Spending across Europe remains weak, but tentative signs of stabilisation could be boosted by tax cuts.
Wal-Mart continues to dominate the US industry by expanding into new lines, and trading down by the consumer has played to its core strength.
We added to Marks & Spencer and Kingfisher in the UK.
Next, New Look and Pier 1, a US furnishing retailer, represent new holdings.
leisure, entertainment & hotels source: Accor At the turn of the year, the Sars outbreak and general concerns over personal safety created incredibly difficult conditions for hotel groups.
As a result, share prices were retail m Wal-Mart USA 5.9 hit hard.
International travel has fallen, but consumer GUS UK 3.2 confidence is holding up surprisingly well in a number of Tesco UK 3.1 Home Depot USA 3.1 areas.
In some segments pockets of strength exist Sainsbury UK 1.6 geographically, for example in gaming.
We have exposure Sysco USA 1.5 Kingfisher UK 1.5 through Hilton Groups betting operation, Ladbrokes, and Next UK 1.3 Genting of Malaysia.
We have a new holding in the French Marks & Spencer UK 1.2 Debenhams UK 1.0 hotelier Accor: with its broad geographic spread and heavy Bob Evans Farms USA 0.9 exposure to economy brands it is well placed to benefit New Look UK 0.9 Walgreen USA 0.8 from any economic improvement.
CVS USA 0.8 media leisure, entertainment & hotels m Share prices rose following the conclusion of the Iraq Hilton UK 2.1 conflict.
Recent buoyant US television advertising demand Wolverhampton & Dudley UK 1.3 Greene King UK 1.2 provides a further boost to growing hopes that a media Intercontinental Hotels UK 1.1 recovery is underway, helped also by better prospects in Whitbread UK 0.8 2004, with the Olympics and US elections.
In the UK, the Communications Bill passed through parliament, and some media m EMAP UK 4.6 industry consolidation appears likely.
Conditions across Gannett USA 1.8 Europe are patchy, but valuations are more compelling and Pearson UK 1.7 Reed Elsevier UK 1.6 we stepped up exposure by increasing our holdings in VNU Netherlands 1.5 Granada, Mondadori and UBM.
New holdings were started Arnoldo Mondadori Editore Italy 1.4 Mediaset Italy 1.3 in TF1, the French TV broadcaster, and Yell, the former Carlton UK 1.2 British Telecom directories business, which has strong Granada UK 1.2 United Business Media UK 1.0 business positions and good prospects.
Improving Singapore Press Singapore 0.8 consumer conditions in Thailand saw us add to the broadcaster BEC World.
18 Copyright: Fabrice Rambert support services This sector encompasses many diverse businesses.
Employment and other cyclical subsectors suffered most.
However, one area showing sustained demand is outsourced catering, where companies seeking to shed overheads typically look to specialist providers which offer transport m services at a lower cost.
We added to Compass, a key BAA UK 2.0 service provider, which is taking market share.
Our holding Associated British Ports UK 0.8 in the US computer distributor CDW was increased.
It has First Group UK 0.8 Forth Ports UK 0.7 strong cash flow and recently began to pay a dividend.
Elsewhere, positions were established in Australian logistics company Patrick and US waste haulier, Republic Services.
support services m We reduced exposure to Securitas which has found the US Compass UK 2.9 Electrocomponents UK 2.0 market more difficult to penetrate than expected.
Premier Farnell UK 1.7 Hays UK 1.6 Brambles Industries Australia 1.4 transport CDW USA 1.2 Serco UK 0.8 Security concerns continued to bedevil the sector generally.
Pactiv USA 0.7 In airlines, structural change driven by the growth of lowChina Merchants China 0.7 Michael Page UK 0.7 cost carriers in Europe has compounded the pressure.
We SECOM Japan 0.7 are not exposed to any airline, but we added to our position in BAA, the UK airport operator, currently benefiting from higher passenger numbers and with further potential when telecommunications services m Vodafone UK 9.8 Terminal 5 at Heathrow is complete.
We have exposure to BT UK 3.4 bus and rail companies, where urban congestion charging Verizon Communications USA 1.8 Telefonica Spain 1.4 may improve prospects for public transport operators.
SBC Communications USA 1.0 Associated British Ports is a new holding.
It is the UKs Telefonos fide Mexico Mexico 0.7 leading provider of port facilities with a strong operating track record and interesting development opportunities.
telecoms After a tortuous time, the operating environments improved, but remain mixed.
The large European national operators demonstrated greater capital discipline and shareholders were rewarded with significantly improved cash dividends.
Both BT and Telefonica were at the forefront of this.
Strong demand for mobile services continued.
However, the UK regulator imposed stricter than expected tariff reductions, and a new UK mobile operator began trading as 3 owned by Hutchison, the Hong Kong conglomerate.
We reduced our position in MM02.
Our holdings in the US Regional Bells were lightened: their markets remain difficult, against a background of regulatory uncertainty and competition from new entrants.
source: Republic Services 19 directors report portfolio review banks financials The key issues have been the outlook for revenue growth and credit quality.
Low levels of interest rates fuelled strong demand for both new mortgages and remortgaging, but weak economic growth curtailed the demand for commercial loans and threatened credit quality.
Looking forward, these areas for lending appear challenging.
Moreover, as interest rates have fallen, banks have adjusted their loan pricing without being able to pass cuts on fully to depositors, leading to tight net interest margins.
During the period, we were able to take advantage of some attractive yield opportunities, with purchases including Barclays, Bradford & Bingley, HSBC and Lloyds TSB, as well as BNP Paribas and UniCredito Italiano in Europe and Northern Trust in the US.
Following a strong rebound in source: Bradford & Bingley share prices, we sold some HBOS and reduced our US retail and commercial bank exposure.
We sold BNL, the Italian bank, on concerns about a deteriorating outlook for banks m Royal Bank of Scotland UK 15.9 bad debts.
In Asia, we switched out of Bangkok Bank HBOS UK 9.3 into Siam Commercial Bank and sold our holding in Barclays UK 6.3 Lloyds TSB UK 5.0 Malayan Banking.
HSBC UK Hong Kong 4.6 Standard Chartered UK 3.8 Our fixed income exposure is concentrated in UK financial BNP Paribas France 1.8 preference stocks.
Returns were good, but we decided not Commonwealth Bank of Australia Australia 1.7 to add to our holdings.
Wells Fargo USA 1.6 TCF Financial USA 1.5 ABN Amro Netherlands 1.5 insurers UniCredito Italiano Italy 1.4 Bank of America USA 1.4 The main themes have been equity markets, regulation, Northern Trust USA 1.2 pricing trends, reserves and demographics.
Solvency Bradford & Bingley UK 1.2 UBS Switzerland 1.1 positions improved in line with equity markets, but we Socit Gnrale France 1.0 expect new business levels to be hit.
In the UK, regulation Grupo Santander Spain 0.8 Siam Commercial Bank Thailand 0.8 is becoming ever more onerous and, along with increasing Bank One USA 0.8 competition, is pressurising margins.
Depolarisation, which Comerica USA 0.7 will remove the distinction between tied agents and IFAs, insurance m will favour the larger, more efficient banks and insurers.
Aviva UK 5.3 Marsh & McLennan USA 4.4 Long term demand for life and savings products remains American International Group USA 2.4 favourable, with the responsibility for provision increasingly Legal & General UK 2.1 CNP Assurances France 2.0 shifting from the state to individuals.
Prudential UK 1.9 Protective Life USA 0.8 Share valuations have adjusted in line with a tougher other financials m operating environment.
Our portfolio is weighted towards Slough Estates UK 4.0 those companies that are best positioned to capitalise on UK Balanced Property Trust UK 1.2 these developments.
We added to Aviva and Legal & Cousins Properties USA 1.0 General and reduced Aegon, the Dutch insurer.
preference stocks m HBOS 9.25% UK 2.4 On the property and casualty side, premium rate increases National Westminster 9% UK 2.4 Abbey National 10.375% UK 1.9 are still sizeable, but prior year reserving, particularly in US Aviva 8.375% UK 1.3 liability lines, is worrying.
