directors report results and performance In this section of the report we explain the financial results Our net asset performance and performance for the year to 31 July 2003. has exceeded the FTSE earnings All-Share Index over each Our 0.8% increase in earnings this year masks a number of period from one to ten years special factors, particularly fewer one-off special dividend receipts compared to last year.
Excluding these, the underlying net increase in recurring dividends on our equity holdings averaged 6%, with strong growth from some overseas companies which now appreciate the importance of dividends in providing a stable basis for their market capitalisation.
There are, however, some expected dividend cuts in the pipeline and in the current economic climate we do not anticipate this rate of increase being maintained next year.
Expenses, of which two thirds relate to staff, increased by 7% over the year due to inflation, the recruitment of a new finance director and the strengthening of our management training programme.
In addition we made an extra contribution of 109,000 to our staff pension fund in the light of rising annuity rates partly caused by increased life expectancy.
Including this, the expense ratio, after tax relief, was 0.2% of net assets and at the year end the current yield on our net assets, after all expenses and tax, was 2.5%.
dividend dividends The directors are recommending a final dividend of 38p, making a total dividend for the year of 62p per ordinary stock unit, an increase of 1.6%.
This will allow a small amount to be retained, approximately equal to the extra income received this year from special one-off dividends, and will help to ensure that a progressive dividend policy can be maintained with additional reserves available to cover any temporary dips in future income.
Over the last few years, we have been reducing the disparity between the interim and final dividends and have now decided to take this one step further.
We intend to source: internal raise next years interim dividend, payable on 30 March 2004, to 31p 24p, a level equivalent to one half of this years total dividend.
This should allow charities, and those holding their stock through ISAs and PEPs, to receive more in the form of tax credits before the ability to reclaim these is abolished after 5 April 2004.
6 back by the cyclical and technology stocks we do not own investment and a number of the pharmaceutical and health care stocks Positive numbers for annual capital performance have now which we do own.
We did, however, get above average returned, but for the last decade the damage caused since contributions from our UK stocks, especially the banks.
the millennium is still in evidence.
The table below shows Over the ten year period a strong pattern has developed of capital values struggling to stay ahead of inflation in all major our stock selection appearing relatively good in depressed stock markets and highlights the fundamental importance of markets and less so in strong markets.
This is to be annual income in generating investment returns.
expected from the nature of an investment process which Last year our total return was 4.4%, of which only 1.9% concentrates on holding well managed companies with real accrued as an addition to net assets.
This capital increase profitability in attractive sectors, usually evidenced by a can be attributed mainly to our investments in the US and growing dividend.
We hold our investments on average for Far East, excluding Japan, together with the effect of falling over 10 years and, with stock market cycles of a shorter interest rates on our fixed interest investments and the duration, there will be times when the companies in which appreciation of our Euro deposits.
Overall, however, our net asset performance has exceeded the FTSE All-Share Index over each period from one to ten years and against our peer capital performance - attribution analysis 1 year 10 year group of Global Growth investment trusts, most of whom are geared, our performance is also good.
Share price movement in UK FTSE All-Share Index -0.2% 41.2% volatility is about 25% lower on average, annual investment returns were above average and the cumulative returns attributable to asset allocation 2.9% 8.2% exceed the average over 1,3, 5 and 10 years.
attributable to stock selection -0.8% 0.6% movement in net asset value 1.9% 50.0% These are important characteristics for a core long term investment and, along with the Alliance Trust, we were pleased to receive the award of Best Investment Trust During the first half of the year under review, our stocks Provider this year from What Investment magazine.
outperformed their markets, but this was more than offset in the second half when most markets surged, led by those stocks previously under most stress.
Performance relative to indices is as much about the stocks which the Company does not own as those that it does.
This year we were held comparative returns to 31 july 2003 capital performance - compound annual % return 1 year 10 year Second Alliance Trust net assets 1.9% 4.1% Second Alliance Trust stock price 8.7% 4.3% FTSE All-Share Index -0.2% 3.5% US Standard and Poors 500 Index 5.6% 7.4% FTSE WI Europe ex UK 6.2% 6.2% Tokyo Topix Index -6.0% -7.6% Source: Thomson Financial Datastream 7 directors report results and performance and the additional pension contribution increased by 13% to savings 1.3m, a 10% return on capital.
An important characteristic of our business is that our The 2002 year was marked by contrasts: net retail unit trust customers are also our stockholders.
Nowhere is this and OEIC sales declined by 11%, and the AITC reported a clearer than in the work done by Alliance Trust Savings 31% fall in its member investment trust ISA and Savings ATS where 24% of the ordinary stock is held in ATS Plan sales, but, for ATS, net inflows of cash, securities and PEPs, ISAs, pension and Investment Plans.
reinvested income increased by 7% to 136m.
All ATS products attracted net new investment with pensions showing the greatest growth.
Transfers from other ATS ten year growth managers of pensions, ISAs and PEPs proved very popular as the advantages to investors of consolidating previously fragmented portfolios in one place became more apparent and attractive.
In the first six months of 2003, net inflows, at 69m, were 22.5% down on the equivalent period last year, as many investors deferred equity investment and savings decisions.
However, based on industry statistics, the performance of ATS seems to be considerably better than average.
ATS share of the investment trust ISA market in the six months to 30 June 2003 was 30% and it was voted the Best Stocks and Shares ISA Investment Provider by readers of source: internal The Guardian, The Observer and Money Observer in June this year.
This vote was conclusive and compared ATS service, charges and performance against those of the ATS is 25% owned by this Company and 75% by The major brand providers.
ATS objective is to provide its customers 2004 will see the withdrawal by the Government of the tax with a service which enhances their investment returns credit repayments in ISAs and PEPs.
The value of these and, in so doing, it also brings the benefits of a core holding repayments totalled less than 3m in the last fiscal year, or in the Alliance Trusts to the attention of a growing number 0.3% of the current value of PEPs and ISAs held through of investors.
Financially, it is managed on the basis that ATS.
Although this loss will reduce ATS income from customers pay an economic price for the service they charges we do not expect the change seriously to affect its receive and that they are not subsidised by stockholders business.
ATS customers should find that their PEPs and who hold their stock outwith ATS.
ISAs will be cheaper to run and that there remain ATS has achieved these objectives since its inception in considerable advantages to keeping equities, as well as 1987 and, as the figures in the table below illustrate, it bonds, in these flexible, tax advantaged wrappers.
In 2004, continues to expand despite the extremely difficult we also expect the Government to clarify its proposals on conditions pervading in the savings and investment markets pension legislation and allow the industry to move forward.
The financial results for ATS year to We are hopeful that the eventual outcome will favour the 31 January are summarised in Note 8 to the accounts.
ATS type of pension product with its low cost, transparent Income increased by 3.5% to 4.3m and profits before tax and flexible characteristics.
customers customers assets ATS growth by product over the year to 31 july 2003 numbers change m change Investment Plan 9,378 4% 139 30% PEP 18,954 -3% 649 3% ISA 16,738 5% 206 36% Pension 4,036 14% 104 44% Total 35,7911%1,09814% These included 106m and 214m of stock in the Second Alliance Trust and the Alliance Trust respectively valued at 31 July 2003 Some customers have more than one Plan.
