control can give an absolute assurance against instruments and derivatives.
Longer term returns and risks misstatement or loss, the system should prevent or detect may be increased by long-term borrowing, but the Board areas of shortcoming and minimise the risk of loss through presently considers that the risk of income and capital loss incompetence, neglect of duty, mistake or fraud.
outweighs the potential for increased returns.
Past borrowings are now small and there are no other contractual The most important aspect of the Companys system of commitments which are likely to lead to any conflict between internal control is the creation of a culture which promotes short-term liquidity requirements and long-term policy.
honesty and integrity and favours compliance as a positive aid to business.
The main control mechanism at Board level The Board reviews the disposition of the portfolio and the is the division of powers, with separation of the roles of economic and valuation risks each month with the executive, chairman and chief executive.
There is commitment to a and any change to the above approach to risk and return would require Board approval.
Details of the activity during non-executive majority on the Board and a strong the year, the investment strategy and the spread of the audit committee.
portfolio are given in the business and portfolio reviews Departmental structures with clear lines of managerial commencing on page 6.
Further required information is responsibility, backed up by interdepartmental support given in the notes to the accounts commencing on page 35. functions, such as IT, financial control, legal and personnel, ensure that no one person controls all aspects of any function.
Procedures define responsibilities, and a rolling internal audit programme provides independent reassurance that systems are robust.
compliance with the All aspects of the Companys businesses are managed and code of best practice administered from our registered office and this is a significant factor in ensuring both an open culture and The section How the Company Works, together with the effective surveillance and control procedures.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 30, constitutes the statement on the application by the Company investment risk and financial of the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate instruments Governance, as required by the UK Listing Authority.
An element of risk is inherent in investing in equities.
This The Board confirms that, except where stated above, risk is managed through a judicious choice of investments throughout the period of this report the Company has in enterprises diversified across different business sectors complied with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Notwithstanding diversification, in the two areas of non-compliance are first that the Board has short-term the aggregate valuation of these investments is not appointed a standing nominations committee explained subject to considerable fluctuation in response to changes on page 24, and secondly, separate performance-related elements do not form a substantial part of the total in interest rates, currencies and market sentiment.
remuneration package of executive directors explained on However, over the longer term, the cyclical nature of page 29. economic factors and the ability of the enterprises in which the Company chooses to invest to adapt to the changing environment should ensure that, for most of the investments, the compounding effects of long-term growth By order of the Board exceed the most extreme short-term fluctuations in value.
Ian Goddard, Secretary Dundee, 12 September 2003 The Company does not aim to enhance returns by any trading activity itself and there is therefore little requirement for short-term borrowing or hedging through financial 27 directors remuneration report Legislation requiring the Company to submit a Directors Advice.
Watson Wyatt LLP, independent actuaries and Remuneration Report to stockholders for consideration at consultants, have been appointed by the Board and the each Annual General Meeting is now in effect and this, our Remuneration Committee to advise, annually, on issues of first such Report, will be submitted to the Annual General comparability relating to non-executive and executive Meeting in October as an ordinary resolution.
The vote on directors respectively.
Watson Wyatt are also engaged on the Report is advisory in nature and, accordingly, will not an ad hoc basis to advise the Company on pension and affect the remuneration of the directors for the year under remuneration issues which affect all staff, including review.
Details of the meeting and how it will be conducted the directors.
are given in the Notice of Meeting.
Executive directors appointments are subject to stockholders approval without any framework maximum term, and in each case, are subject to a service Non-executives.
The total annual fees paid to directors contract, terminable on one years notice by the Company.
must not exceed the maximum amount approved by The contracts include no express provision for compensation stockholders in accordance with the provisions of the on earlier termination.
No such compensation has been paid Companys Articles of Association.
Within this figure, the during the year.
Should such a situation arise the remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined Remuneration Committee is required to take into account annually by the Board on the recommendation of the the individuals duty to mitigate any loss of earnings, before Chairman after taking advice from independent external itself making any recommendation to the Board regarding consultants.
Non-executive directors do not have service the compensation, if any, which should be paid.
All contracts but have letters of appointment.
They are executive directors must retire at age 60. appointed by the Board subject to retirement by rotation Alignment of Interest.
All directors are required to own at and re-appointment by stockholders for an initial period of least 200 ordinary stock units in the Company and details of three years with a maximum normally of three further current holdings are given on page 23.
The Board intends to periods of three years.
The Chairman is expected to serve continue its policy of selecting only directors who align for a minimum of five years excluding any previous period themselves unambiguously with the interests of stockholders.
The remuneration of executive directors is determined annually by the Remuneration Committee of the Board which consists of William Berry, William Jack, Lesley Knox and, since his appointment to the board, Christopher Masters.
William Berry was chairman during the year.
From 1 August 2003 Christopher Masters chairs this committee.
fees paid to 2003 2002 non-executive directors William Berry 7,500 7,375 William H Jack 7,500 7,375 Bruce W M Johnston Chairman 15,000 14,750 Lesley M S Knox 7,500 7,375 Christopher Masters appointed November 2002 5,333 - W Nelson Robertson retired April 2002 - 5,417 Total 42,833 42,292 Until December 2002 fees in respect of Mrs Knoxs services were paid to British Linen Advisers.
From January 2003 the fees are paid to her personally.
British Linen Advisers did not provide services to the Company.
Non-executive directors also receive fees from The Alliance Trust PLC for services as directors of that company.
28 remuneration total stockholder return General Policy.
The Company recognises the principles laid down in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
To fulfil its long-term objectives, the Company needs to attract individuals of the highest integrity and ability and to create an enduring and constructive relationship.
The remuneration packages offered therefore recognise the importance of the job to the Company and the individuals potential to add value as well as the rate for the individual in the wider market.
The Directors Remuneration source: internal Datastream Report legislation requires each company to compare its performance with a broad equity market index in the form of a graph.
The graph opposite compares the total The Combined Code on Corporate Governance return on the Companys ordinary stock with the FTSE Allrecommends that performance related elements should Share Index.
It must be emphasised that this is not a form a significant proportion of the total remuneration benchmark against which the Board measures the package of executive directors.
The Board does not currently Companys performance nor the basis by which a directors comply with this recommendation except to the extent that performance is measured.
It has been chosen simply the salary paid to each executive director itself already because it is well known to the Companys stockholders, reflects the individuals long-term performance which is most of whom are in the UK.
The Companys assets, which taken into account at each salary review.
The Boards aim is at any one time are not always fully invested in equities, are to ensure that there is close alignment of the interests of also substantially invested overseas, and will not executive directors and of stockholders and it is currently necessarily perform in line with this index.
In addition, the reviewing whether specific performance related elements return on the ordinary stock is partly determined by supply should comprise a part of executive directors remuneration.
and demand in the stock market and may not equate to the return achieved by the Company on its assets.
remuneration received 2003 2002 by executive directors David A Deards appointed 1 January 2003 18,959 - Sheila M Ruckley 28,252 27,668 Gavin R Suggett highest paid director 50,252 49,084 Alan M W Young 40,918 40,252 Total 138,381 117,004 The dates of executive directors service contracts are: David Deards 22 November 2002, Sheila Ruckley 31 January 2001, Gavin Suggett 6 November 1987 and Alan Young 6 November 1987.
No taxable benefits are provided by the Company.
Executive directors also receive remuneration from The Alliance Trust PLC as directors and employees of that company.
29 directors remuneration report accrued pension per transfer values inflation adjusted annum increase in year change to 31 July 31 July changes 31 July accrued transfer 31 July 2003 2002 2003 pension value executive directors 2003 pensions David A Deards - 241 - - 1,678 - - Sheila M Ruckley 654 7,148 68,187 23,261 91,448 543 6,944 Gavin R Suggett 2,043 33,248 437,864 152,362 590,226 1,514 26,872 Alan M W Young 1,228 17,242 197,390 73,573 270,963 955 15,015 The transfer values of the accrued pensions and the transfer values of the inflation adjusted increases in the accrued pensions in the period have been calculated by the actuary of the scheme in accordance with actuarial guidance note GN11.
The changes in the transfer values between 31 July 2002 and 31 July 2003 are significantly influenced by the assumptions underlying their calculation and market conditions.
The disclosure of the increases in the inflation adjusted accrued pensions and the transfer values of those increases is a requirement of the UK Listing Authority.
The other disclosures are required by the Companies Act 1985.
Gavin Suggett was credited with 4 years pensionable service in November 1973.
5 years were added in February 1983 when the pensionable service of scheme members was adjusted to equalise male and female retirement ages at 60.
Both enhancements accrue evenly over the period to his 60th birthday.
In August 1988, Alan Young was credited with 5 years pensionable service, funded as to 2 years 1 month by a transfer in from a scheme connected with previous employment and 2 years 11 months by a discretionary increase.
His service is also being enhanced by six months in respect of each actual year of service over a period of 10 years ending on his 60th birthday.
David Deards, appointed on 1 January 2003, became eligible to join the pension scheme on 1 July 2003.
Executive directors are also entitled to pension benefits from their employment with The Alliance Trust PLC.
Fees paid are shown in the table no options given and there are no long-term incentive plans on page 28.
At the 2003 AGM, stockholders are being except to the extent that salaries are determined on a basis asked to increase the maximum aggregate fees payable of merit, responsibility and achievement.
However, this policy from 45,000 per annum approved by stockholders in regarding long-term incentive plans is currently under review.
1999 to 60,000 per annum and, if this increase is agreed, Details of the remuneration paid in the last two years and the proposal is to pay the Chairman 18,000 and each nonof pension entitlements are given in tables on page 29 and executive 9,000 for their services to the Company a total on this page.
The Remuneration Committee and the Board of 54,000 for the year ending 31 July 2004. take advice from Watson Wyatt LLP on executive and nonExecutive Directors.
Executive directors are employed on executive directors salary and fee levels for similar a full time basis and, in view of the Companys location and positions in the financial sector.
the long-term nature of its objective, the remuneration Audit.
The tables on pages 28, 29 and 30, together with packages have been designed to strengthen the alignment the footnotes relating to them, have been audited by the of interests between the individual and the Company and to Companys auditor whose report is on page 43. avoid unnecessary short-term conflict.
The package essentially consists of a salary, and, once eligible, a noncontributory defined benefit pension entitlement and a number of death in service and disability health benefits.
By order of the Board Executive directors, once eligible, may join an all-employee Ian Goddard, Secretary Share Incentive Plan.
As staff are employed jointly with the Dundee, 12 September 2003 Alliance Trust and Inland Revenue rules prohibit them joining more than one scheme, this scheme is in the name of and relates to the stock of the larger employer.
Under the scheme, shares to the value of 3,000 per annum may be earned.
In 2003, the Company contributed 456 for each director other than David Deards, who was, during the period, ineligible to join the scheme.
