Group Activities At the heart of our business philosophy is our ability to deliver a competitive range of services whilst maintaining strong personal relationships with our clients.
We aim to provide our clients with an individual approach, and understanding of their business or personal financial requirements.
Our clients also appreciate our short lines of communication, which enable us to make decisions quickly and efficiently.
More details of the services that the Group can offer can be found on our Group website www.
com Banking We provide a full range of banking services to small and medium sized companies, and also to private individuals and entrepreneurs.
We have expertise in a wide range of areas covering corporate banking, trade finance, property finance, private banking and treasury services.
Our facilities include on-line services, and bespoke facilities for companies and individuals.
The client base is located largely within the United Kingdom, and is serviced by offices in London, Manchester and an offshore banking centre in the Isle of Man.
A full range of our banking services can be found on our website www.
Asset Finance We provide a wide range of asset financing and leasing services for individuals and companies.
We operate through a network of regional offices located throughout the country.
We can provide financing for new and used cars, taxis, coaches and buses.
We can also provide insurance premium financing, along with asset financing for individuals, or companies.
Our leasing area specialises in providing operating leasing facilities to the public sector, with a particular focus on the healthcare industry.
A full range of the asset finance services are available and details of websites can be found on page 79.
Investment Management Private investors have remained the traditional focus of our investment management activities, and Singer & Friedlander Investment Management Limited SFIM now ranks as one of the largest discretionary managers of private client and family trust money in the UK.
Our high levels of flexibility and personal involvement has proved to be a successful formula in attracting and retaining private client funds.
SFIM also manages specialist equity briefs for institutional investors both in the UK and on the continent, and manages segregated balanced mandates for smaller and medium sized pension funds.
A full range of investment management services can be found on our website www.
Offshore Services The offshore divisions of the Group are based in the Isle of Man.
We offer a whole range of deposit, banking, treasury, corporate trust and investment management services, tailored principally for overseas residents and expatriates.
A full range of offshore services can be found on our website www.
Report and Accounts 2003 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC 7
