Report of the Directors The Directors of Carillion plc present their annual report, together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Principal activities and business review Carillion is one of the UKs leading Business and Construction Services groups, operating throughout the UK and in a number of overseas regional markets.
A review of the Groups businesses, financial performance and future developments is contained in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and Operating and Financial Review.
Analyses of turnover, results and net assets by business segment and geographical location are given in Note 2 on pages 46 and 47.
Profits and dividends The consolidated profit and loss account is shown on page 38.
The profit on ordinary activities before taxation amounted to 23.8 million 2002: 42.2 million.
An interim dividend of 1.575 pence per ordinary share 2002: 1.5 pence was paid in November 2003.
It is proposed to pay a final dividend of 3.475 pence per ordinary share 2002: 3.3 pence, together with the additional dividend of 1.7p announced in November and due to Carillions sale of its equity interest in the Darent Valley Hospital PPP concession, on 25 June 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 30 April 2004.
The payment of these dividends amounts to 14.1 million 2002: 9.9 million.
A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered.
Directors The Directors of the Company who served during 2003 are shown on page 27 of the Remuneration Report.
Biographical details for each Director at 31 December 2003 are given on page 19.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Sir Neville Simms, Roger Dickens, John McDonough and Jean-Paul Parayre retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
John McDonough has a contract of service which is subject to a years notice of termination by the Company.
The interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 33.
Employees Information relating to employee numbers and remuneration is given in Note 6 on page 49.
Employees are key to achieving Carillions business strategy and the Group is committed to improving their skills through training and development and nurturing a culture in which employees feel valued for their contribution and are motivated to achieve their full potential.
In addition, Carillions core values of openness, collaboration and mutual dependency have been developed to emphasise the changing working practices required to succeed in an environment where partnership and integrated solutions are becoming the norm.
It is the aim of Carillion to foster a working environment in which all employees are treated with courtesy, dignity and respect.
Carillion continually strives to eliminate all bias and unlawful discrimination in relation to job applicants, employees, business partners and members of the public.
Employees who become disabled are, wherever possible, retrained or provided with equipment so that they can continue their employment.
Carillion places great importance on open and regular communication with employees through both formal and informal processes.
As part of this commitment, a Group newspaper, Spectrum, is produced on a regular basis for all employees.
The views of employees on matters affecting their interests are also sought, and during the year a new initiative known as The Great Debate was launched, under which a number of forums were held throughout the Group to encourage employees to express their views on a range of activities relating to their jobs and the Group.
These views will be taken into account in the development of future work related initiatives as part of Carillions strategy to become an employer of choice.
Employees can also exchange best practice information on a Knowledge Management Forum on the Group intranet.
Involvement in the Group is also encouraged through means such as the periodic grant of share options under the Sharesave Scheme which gives all UK employees the opportunity to have a financial stake in the Company.
Carillion seeks to involve all employees in its leading edge programmes to integrate safety into everything it does and to improve its environmental performance, including the understanding and application of the principles of sustainability.
Further information on Health and Safety, the Environment and Community is given in the Sustainability Review on pages 14 to 17.
34 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Substantial share interests At 10 March 2004, the Company had received formal notification of the following substantial interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of shares held Percentage Schroder Investment Management Limited 35,745,906 16.70 Fidelity Investment Services Limited 21,422,263 10.01 Morley Fund Management Limited 11,547,947 5.40 Policy for payment of suppliers It is the policy of the Group that each business agrees terms and conditions for transactions with its suppliers and for payment to be made on these terms providing the suppliers meet their obligations to the businesses satisfaction.
The Group as a whole therefore does not apply a general recognised code with regard to the payment of all suppliers.
The Company does not have any trade creditors.
The number of days credit outstanding for the Group averaged 67 days at 31 December 2003 64 days at 31 December 2002.
Charitable and political contributions Payments for charitable purposes made by the Group during the year ended 31 December 2003 amounted to 67,000 2002: 96,000.
The Company and its subsidiaries made no political donations during the period under review.
Annual General Meeting The notice of and related information on the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on 12 May 2004 is included in separate documents posted to shareholders with this annual report and accounts.
Amongst the business to be transacted is a proposal to renew the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares.
As at 31 December 2003, the Company had authority from shareholders for the purchase of 21,299,201 of its own shares.
Auditor Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved by order of the Board R F Tapp Secretary 10 March 2004 35 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
