DIRECTORS REPORT 18 The Directors present their Report & Accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Results and Dividends activities of the Group is given in the Chairmans The Company made a profit after taxation on a Modified Statement on pages 2 to 6.
Statutory Solvency Basis of 6.6 million during the year ended 31 December 2003 2002: loss of 44.4 million.
Substantial Shareholders The Directors are aware of the interests of the following An interim dividend of 1.25 pence per share 2002: 1.25 companies in 3% or more of the ordinary issued share pence per share was paid on 9 September 2003.
The capital of the Company as at 23 February 2004: Board recommends payment of a final dividend of 1.5 pence per share 2002: 1.5 pence per share on 17 May HBOS plc: 258,982,000 60% 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 19 March 2004.
Subject to approval by Directors shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, The present Directors of the Company are listed on pages shareholders will be offered the option of receiving 14 to 17. additional ordinary shares rather than cash in respect of this and future dividends.
Ian Gascoigne was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2003 and he was elected by shareholders at the Annual The consolidated profit and loss account on pages 45 and General Meeting in May 2003.
John Newman and Martin 46 shows the profit for the year and the consolidated balMoule resigned from the Board on 1 January 2003 and ance sheet on pages 48 and 49 shows the state of affairs of 4 August 2003 respectively.
On 5 January 2004 Mark Lund was appointed to the A full review of the results for the year is given in the Board.
Pursuant to the Articles of Association, he will Financial Commentary on pages 7 to 13. retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and offer himself for re-election.
Mario DUrso resigned from Status of Company the Board on 20 February 2004.
The Company is registered as a public limited company under the Companies Act 1985.
Pursuant to the Articles of Association, all those Directors who were elected or last re-elected at or before the Activities Annual General Meeting held in 2001 shall retire from The Company is a financial services holding company with office by rotation.
The Directors retiring by rotation are principal interests in wealth management including life David Bellamy, James Crosby, and Mike Wilson and they assurance and unit trust management.
A full review of the will be seeking re-election.
DIRECTORS REPORT continued 19 Sir Mark Weinberg attained the age of 70 in August 2001 Details of all Directors service contracts are set out in the and, as in previous years, is seeking re-election at the Remuneration Report on pages 37 and 38. forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
As stated on page 4 it is expected that Sir Mark will step down from the Board Directors Interests no later than December 2004.
The Board is delighted that The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Sir Mark has agreed to continue to work for the Group as Company and in the share capital of HBOS plc, being the an active President following his retirement from the holding company, at 31 December 2003, and any changes Board.
Lord Weir attained the age of 70 in 2003.
He will between that date and the date of this Report, are given in seek re-election on an annual basis going forward and is the Remuneration Report on pages 40 and 41. therefore seeking re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Further details on the background of Except as stated in the Remuneration Report, no Director those Directors seeking re-election are set out in the has, or has had during the year under review, any Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
beneficial interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries as defined by the The articles of association of the Company disapply the Companies Act 1985 or pursuant to the Listing Rules provisions of s. 293 7 of the Companies Act 1985 relating published by the FSA.
to special notice requirements for the re-election of Directors over the age of 70.
Creditors Payment Policy The payment of supplier invoices is made on the The Chairman is pleased to confirm that those nonCompanys behalf by St. Jamess Place Management executive Directors seeking re-election continue to be Services Limited SJPMS, a subsidiary company.
It is effective in their role on the Board and its Committees SJPMSs policy to pay creditors in accordance with the and have demonstrated their continued commitment.
CBI Better Practice Payment Code on supplier payments.
The Companys average number of days purchases Shareholders will be aware that some Board changes were outstanding in respect of trade creditors at 31 December announced in July 2003.
It is intended that Mike Wilson is 2003 was 31 days 2002: 27 days.
appointed as full-time executive Chairman of the Group no later than December 2004, when Mark Lund becomes Chief Executive and Sir Mark Weinberg becomes President.
Full details of these changes are given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 6.
DIRECTORS REPORT continued 20 During the year ended 31 December 2003, the Group contributed 500,000 to the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
Charitable Donations and Political A Corporate Environmental Policy has been created Contributions which can be found on our website www.
co. uk As agreed by shareholders in 2000, the Group pays an The Policy objectives will form the platform for improving amount to the St. Jamess Place Foundation a charitable processes and procedures including reducing and controlling trust each year which matches donations received during CO emissions.
During the year we worked with the 2 the year by the Foundation on a pound for pound basis, up Action Energy Programme run by the Carbon Trust.
The to a limit determined by the Directors from time to time, programme aims to provide businesses with support and which has been set at 700,000 for 2004.
During the year advice to reduce energy use and increase competitiveness.
ended 31 December 2003, the Group contributed The Company will add the suggestions put forward to its 500,000 to the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
A list of operating plan for energy reductions which is reviewed charitable donations made by the Foundation will be and updated as necessary to achieve the objectives set out available at the Annual General Meeting, together with a in our Policy for reducing CO levels.
2 report which outlines the basis on which priorities for donations have been established.
The Group made no In 2002 a comprehensive paper recycling process was political donations during the year.
introduced into the Head Office in Cirencester and following its success, the process was implemented into Social, Environmental and Ethical Matters all twenty office locations.
The result of this produced an The Group continues to recognise that it has a corporate increase of 24 tonnes of paper sent for recycling.
Other responsibility towards the environment and the community items, which continue to be recycled, include PCs, mobile within which it operates.
The Company is proud to be a phones and toner cartridges, with any funds received founder member of the Percent Club and actively being redistributed to various charities through the supports the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
See pages 96 St. Jamess Place Foundation.
The Company is continuing and 97 for more details on the Foundation and the to look at ways of reducing paper usage by utilising the Groups charitable activities.
electronic facilities available to transmit data.
This decision has already resulted in less printed matter being produced The Groups Head Office has supported a number of local and sent out.
initiatives covering a diverse range of activities, which include the local rugby and junior football clubs, The The Groups energy consultants produce annual usage Gloucestershire Playing Fields Association, the Rotary figures, which will be used for comparison purposes and Club and MacMillan Cancer Research, plus other projects added to other data being collated to measure our overall supporting the youth and elderly in the surrounding area.
The Environmental Officer reports through the Managing Director to the Board of Directors where any significant risks will be considered and assessed.
DIRECTORS REPORT continued 21 For those investors particularly interested in investing in Financial involvement in the Group is also a continuing environmentally friendly companies and to comply with focus.
The Group operates an Inland Revenue approved the policy on socially responsible investment by Trustees Share Incentive Plan SIP formerly All Employee Share of Occupational Pension Schemes, the Group offers Option Plan and an Inland Revenue approved Save As You ethical funds.
These funds invest in companies Earn Scheme which are open to all UK based employees.
demonstrating sound environmental and social policies.
The Investment Committee of the Board meets regularly Underpinning all of the Groups personnel policies is to monitor and review the performance of all the funds a well-established awareness of statutory and social under management against a series of defined criteria.
responsibilities with regard to the employment of disabled staff, whether it be their recruitment or subsequent The Group is a member of the FTSE4Good Index, management.
The Groups approach ensures that every designed by the FTSE as an index for organisations effort is made to achieve continuity of employment in the showing good records of corporate social responsibility.
event of employees becoming disabled.
Similarly, best The Group has also been selected for inclusion in practice principles ensure that the Groups responsibilities The Kempen SNS smaller Europe SRI Index, the first are met as an equal opportunity employer.
sustainable Index for smaller European Companies.
Auditors Employees The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their Full details of the number of employees within the Group willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they as at 31 December 2003 and the costs related to those be re-appointed will be proposed at the forthcoming employees are shown in note 10 on page 63.
Employee development continues to be a key focus By Order of the Board within the business plan in order to ensure that employees within the Group remain equipped to perform at the highest levels.
During 2003 a new performance appraisal system was implemented for all staff.
This has led to a series of additional development events focused on helping managers deliver effective appraisals and deal with H. J. Gladman the development priorities identified in the process.
For the first time in 2003 an external development Company Secretary organisation was utilised to provide a broader range of 23 February 2004 opportunities for staff training.
This initiative has proved very successful and will be continued during 2004.
