PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS 14 President The Present Directors of the Company are: Lord Stevenson of Sir Mark Weinberg The Viscount Weir Charles Bailey Coddenham CBE Aged 72, is Chairman of Aged 70, was appointed Aged 69, was appointed Aged 58, is President of St. Jamess Place Capital to the Board of RIT to the Board of St. Jamess St. Jamess Place Capital plc, and a founder Director and Northern plc, a Place Capital plc as an plc.
He is also Chairman of St. Jamess Place UK predecessor company of independent non-executive of HBOS plc, Pearson plc plc.
He is a member of the St. Jamess Place Capital Director in September and the House of Compliance Committee of plc in 1982.
He is the 1999, and is a member of Lords Appointments the SJPC Board and chairs senior independent the Remuneration, Audit Commission.
He is also the Investment and non-executive Director and Compliance a non-executive Director Nomination Committees and is Chairman of the Committees.
of Manpower Inc. and The of the SJPC Board.
Remuneration Committee Economist Newspapers and a member of the Formerly a partner of Limited and Chancellor He originally practised as Nomination and Audit Price Waterhouse, he is of the London Institute.
a barrister and was, on its Committees.
also a director of RIT establishment, Deputy Capital Partners plc, of Chairman of the Securities He is also honorary Antofagasta plc, a company and Investments Board, the President of Balfour Beatty with mining, banking and forerunner to the Financial plc, Chairman of C P Ships manufacturing interests in Services Authority.
Limited and a director of Chile and of Atrium Canadian Pacific Railway Underwriting plc, a listed Limited.
He was formerly Integrated Lloyds Vehicle.
Chairman of the Weir Group plc and a director of The Bank of England, British Steel Corporation and other companies.
He is Chairman of the Trustees of the St. Jamess Place Pension Scheme.
PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS continued 15 David Bellamy James Crosby Ian Gascoigne Phil Hodkinson Aged 50, was appointed to Aged 48, is a nonAged 47, was appointed Aged 46, was appointed the position of Managing independent non-executive to the Board of St. Jamess to the Board of St. Jamess Director on 1 January Director representing Place Capital plc as Place Capital plc as a non- 2002, having previously HBOS plc, appointed in Group Sales Director independent non-executive fulfilled the role of Group June 2000.
His Director on 21 February Operations Director.
appointed Chief Executive specific responsibilities 2002 representing HBOS He has worked in the of Halifax in 1999 and include the recruitment, plc and is a member of the insurance industry since Chief Executive of HBOS growth and development Audit Committee of the 1973 and joined the Group plc in 2001.
He is also a of the St. Jamess Place SJPC Board.
He was non-executive director Partnership.
He has appointed Chief Executive appointed to the board of of ITV plc and of the worked in the insurance of the Insurance and St. Jamess Place UK plc in Financial Services industry since 1986 and Investment Division of 1993 and to the Board of Authority.
joined the Group in HBOS plc in September St. Jamess Place Capital December 1991.
He was 2001 and is a director of plc in September 1997. appointed to the Board Sainsburys Bank plc and of St. Jamess Place UK plc Esure Insurance Limited.
He is also a Fellow of the Compliance Committee Institute of Actuaries and a of the SJPC Board.
Director of Business in the Community.
PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS continued 16 Anthony Loehnis CMG Mark Lund Derek Netherton Michael Sorkin Aged 68, is considered Aged 46, was appointed as Aged 59, is an independent Aged 61, was appointed to by the Board to be a nonDeputy Chief Executive non-executive Director of the Board of St. Jamess independent non-executive and Chief Executive St. Jamess Place Capital Place Capital plc as an Director of St. Jamess Designate on 5 January plc, appointed in May independent non-executive Place Capital plc, by virtue 2004.
He is Chairman of Director in January 2002 of his position as a former Chief Executive of J P the Audit Committee and and is a member of the executive Director of the Morgan FundsHub and a member of the Remuneration and Company.
He joined the Chief Executive of Virgin Remuneration Committee Nomination Committees reconstructed Board in Direct, prior to which of the SJPC Board.
He May 1996 and is Chairman he was a Director of Chairman of Greggs plc joined Hambros Bank in of the Compliance Henderson Global plc, and his non-executive 1968 and was a Director Committee and a where he worked for ten directorships outside the of Hambros PLC between member of the Investment years.
He is a member Group include Next PLC, 1986 and 1999 and a Committee of the SJPC of the Compliance Plantation & General Managing Director of Board.
Committee of the SJPC Investments plc and Hiscox S G Hambros from 1999 Board.
Directorships external to Institute of Actuaries and the Group include Alpha He has extensive was formerly a director of He is Vice Chairman of Bank London Limited, experience of investment J. Henry Schroder & Co Investment Banking at Tokyo-Mitsubishi management and Limited.
N M Rothschild Corporate International plc, AGCO distribution and has served Finance Limited and a nonCorporation USA and he as a Director of investment executive Director of is a Director and Treasurer business in the UK, US, J Z Equity Partners plc.
of the UK-Japan 21st Canada, Netherlands, Century Group.
Luxembourg, Singapore Mr Loehnis was formerly and Japan.
He is a member a director of SG Warburg of the Securities Institute, Group plc and was an the UK Society of executive director of the Investment Professionals Bank of England.
and the Association for Investment Management and Research.
PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS continued 17 Grenville Turner Mike Wilson Aged 46, was appointed Aged 60, is Chief on 20 December 2002 as Executive of St. Jamess a non-independent nonPlace Capital plc, executive Director Chairman of St. Jamess representing HBOS plc.
Place Unit Trust Group He is Chief Executive of Limited, founder Director Intelligent Finance, a and Chief Executive of division of HBOS plc, St. Jamess Place UK plc having formerly fulfilled and a member of the the role of Head of Compliance Committee Intermediary Sales at of the SJPC Board.
Other directorships He has worked in the life include Halifax Estate assurance industry since Agencies Limited and 1963 and with Sir Mark Centrica Personal Finance Weinberg since 1968 and Limited.
was formerly Chairman of the Mental Health Foundation.
