Christopher Avedis Keljik Chairman Group Chief Executive Appointed to the Board on 7 May 1999.
Appointed to the Board on 9 December Appointed to the Board on 16 December He is responsible for governance and 2002 and as Chairman on 8 May 2003.
1997 and as Group Chief Executive on performance in Africa, the Middle East He spent most of his career with British 28 November 2001.
He joined Standard and South Asia and has governance Petroleum, rising to become a main Chartered in 1993 with responsibility for responsibility for the United Kingdom and board director and Chief Executive of BP global account management and prior to the Americas.
He joined Standard Chemicals before he retired in 2000.
He is joining the Board he was based in Singapore Chartered in 1976 and has held a number Chairman of BUPA and of Sunderland in charge of the Groups Corporate and of senior positions working in London, PLC.
He is also Chairman of the Learning Investment banking business.
Before his Hong Kong, New York and Singapore in and Skills Council.
Age 63. appointment as Group Chief Executive he corporate finance, treasury and general was executive director with responsibility management.
The Rt Hon Lord Stewartby for Hong Kong, China and North East Asia Deputy Chairman and for Group-wide Technology and 6.
Richard Henry Meddings Appointed to the Board on 1 January 1990 Operations.
He is a non-executive director Appointed to the Board on 16 November and became Deputy Chairman in 1993.
He is responsible for Risk, Group is Chairman of the Throgmorton Trust PLC, Special Asset Management, Legal and Deputy Chairman of Amlin plc and a 4.
Prior to his appointment, he non-executive director of Diploma plc and Appointed to the Board on 12 May 2000. was Chief Operating Officer, Barclays Framlington Income and Capital Trust plc.
He is responsible for the Groups Consumer Private Clients at Barclays PLC.
He was He spent 20 years in merchant banking Banking business world-wide.
He joined Group Finance Director of The Woolwich and was formerly a member of the Standard Chartered in July 1999 with plc, before it was acquired by Barclays, Financial Services Authority.
Age 68. responsibility for Consumer Banking in where his responsibilities also included risk, Asia.
916 40 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2003 7.
Hugh Edward Norton Appointed to the Board on 7 May 1999.
Appointed to the Board on 22 October Appointed to the Board on 7 August He is Chairman of the Groups Wholesale 1996.
He is Chairman of Banyan Tree 1995.
He is a non-executive director of Banking business with responsibility for Holdings Pte Ltd.
He is also Chairman of Inchcape plc.
Age 67. business strategy, performance and the Wah-Chang Group.
In addition, he is development of relationships with the Chairman of Singapore Management 15.
Sir Ralph Harry Robins Groups key corporate and institutional University and a board director of Singapore Appointed to the Board on 1 October clients globally.
He is also responsible for Airlines Limited.
He was formerly Chairman of corporate governance across the Asia Age 51.
Rolls-Royce plc and the Defence Industries Pacific region and India and is on the Visa Council, and is a former President of the International Asia Pacific Regional Board.
Rudolph Harold Peter Markham Society of British Aerospace Companies.
He joined Standard Chartered in 1998 as Appointed to the Board on 19 February Age 71.
Group Head of Sales, with responsibility for 2001.
He is Finance Director of Unilever relationships with corporate and institutional PLC and Unilever N. V. Age 57.
Paul David Skinner customers in the Asia Pacific region, the Appointed to the Board on 3 November USA and Europe.
He is chairman of Rio Tinto Plc, the Age 53.
Appointed to the Board on 3 November global mining company, and was formerly a 2003.
She was formerly Managing Partner Group Managing Director of the Royal 8.
Peter Alexander Sands Asia for the international law firm Freshfields Dutch Shell Group of companies and CEO Appointed to the Board on 14 May 2002.
She was a partner of of its global Oil Products business.
He is He is responsible for Finance, Strategy, Freshfields for 20 years.
Age 51. also a member of the board of INSEAD, Technology and Operations.
Prior to his the Euro-Asian business school.
Age 59. appointment he was a director with 13.
David George Moir CBE world-wide consultancy McKinsey & Co.
Appointed to the Board on 1 January 1993 Audit and Risk Committee He had been with McKinsey since 1988, as an executive director.
He retired as an Lord Stewartby Chairman where he worked extensively in the banking executive director on 18 March 2000 after Rudolph Markham and technology sectors in a wide range of 42 years with the Group but remained as a Ruth Markland Hugh Norton international markets.
He also sits on the Sir Ralph Robins Board of Pengurusan Danaharta Nasional 9.
Sir CK Chow Berhad Danaharta.
Board Remuneration Committee Appointed to the Board on 24 February Hugh Norton Chairman 1997.
He is Chief Executive Officer of Ho KwonPing Sir Ralph Robins MTR Corporation Limited of Hong Kong.
Lord Stewartby Previously he was Chief Executive Officer of GKN plc and Brambles Industries plc.
Director of Standard Chartered Bank.
He is a fellow of the Royal Academy of Independent non-executive director.
Engineering, the City and Guilds of London Non-executive director.
Institute and the Institute of Chemical Engineering.
He was formerly a president of the Society of British Aerospace Companies.
73 15 2 14 12 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Standard Chartered 41
