Senior Management Standard Chartered Bank The directors of Standard Chartered Bank comprise the executive directors of Standard Chartered PLC and the following two senior executives: Gareth Richard Bullock Peter Tung Shun Wong Joined in 1996.
He is a director of Standard Chartered Bank and Joined in 1997.
He is a director of Standard Chartered Bank and Group Head, Strategy.
Most recently he was the Groups Chief Chief Executive Officer of Greater China.
He was previously with Information Officer and prior to that, CEO Africa.
He has held Citibank in Hong Kong for over 15 years, latterly as Group Head other senior positions in the United Kingdom, Europe, Hong of Sales, Service and Delivery Channels for North Asia.
Kong, China and North East Asia.
Executive Committee The Groups Executive Committee as at 18 February 2004 comprises the directors of Standard Chartered Bank, other than Bryan Sanderson, and the following senior managers: David Edwards Alun Michael Guest Rees Joined in 1999.
He is Regional General Manager, Middle East Joined in 1990.
He is Chief Executive Officer Wholesale Bank.
He was previously Group Head Risk Management.
has held the positions of Chief Financial Officer of Group Treasury, Age 50.
Regional Treasurer in Singapore and Group Head of Global Markets.
Timothy John Miller Joined in 2000.
He is Group Head of Human Resources and Peter David Sullivan Organisational Learning.
He was previously employed as Human Joined in 1994.
He is Chief Executive Officer, Africa.
He has held Resources Director of GlaxoSmithKlines world-wide manufacturing the positions of Group Head of Global Cash Management Services, operations.
Group Head of Product Management, Corporate & Institutional Banking, and Chief Executive Officer of Standard Chartered Jaspal Bindra Grindlays Bank.
He is Group Head, Client Relationships, Wholesale Banking.
He was previously Regional General John Filmeridis Manager India, Standard Chartered Bank.
He is Global Product Head, Credit Cards and Personal Loans & Business Financial Services, Consumer Jared Alvah Chase Banking.
He was previously Regional General Manager, Middle Joined in 2003.
He is Group Head of Global Sales and Trading.
He was previously employed as Director of State Streets Fiduciary Services, based in Boston.
Peter Gordon Flavel Joined in 2003.
He is Group Head, Sales, Marketing and Wilson Chia Yew Hock Distribution.
He was previously General Manager, Personal Joined in 1986.
He is Head of Consumer Banking, Singapore.
Financial Services, and a Director of the wealth management He was previously Global Product Head, Shared Distribution.
Euleen Yiu Kiang Goh Tracy Jayne Clarke Joined in 1984.
She is Chief Executive Officer, Singapore.
She is Group Head, Corporate Affairs.
She was has held various Group Head roles in Treasury and Custody previously Head of the Group Chief Executives Office.
Audit, Market Risk and Sales of Corporate & Institutional Banking.
Raymond John Ferguson Joined in 1985.
He is Chief Executive Officer, United Arab Emirates.
Richard Frank Goulding He was previously Chief Executive Officer, Indonesia.
He is Chief Operating Officer of Wholesale Banking.
He worked previously with the Old Mutual Group in the USA and with UBS Warburg in the UK, where he was a member of the Executive Board.
42 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Michael Charles Hart Pamela Ann McGann Joined in 1991.
He is General Manager East Africa & Chief Joined in 1986 until 1988 and then rejoined in 1991.
She is Executive Officer Kenya.
He was previously Group Head of Audit Group Head of Audit.
She was previously Group Head of Corporate and Investigations, Head of International Consumer Finance in Affairs and Group Investor Relations Manager.
Asia Pacific and Group Head of Operations.
Shayne Nelson Benjamin Hung Joined in 1997.
He is Chief Executive Officer and Managing Joined in 1992.
He is Group Head of Investor Relations.
He was Director of Standard Chartered Malaysia Berhad.
He was formerly previously Head of Large Corporates, Wholesale Banking in Chief Risk Officer Wholesale Bank.
Hong Kong and Regional Head of Transaction Sales, Asia Pacific.
Vincent Leo Plant Joined in 1991.
He is Group Product Head, Consumer Finance.
William Martyn Peter Jenkins He was previously Head, Consumer Banking, Hong Kong.
He is Global Product Head, Wealth Management.
He was previously Group Head of Strategy.
John Brian Small John Howard Lorimer Joined in 2001.
He is Chief Credit Officer, Consumer Banking.
He is Chief Financial Officer, Consumer Banking.
was previously Risk Head Consumer Bank in Latin America for He was previously Global Product Head, Credit Card & Personal Citibank.
David Frederic Miles Stileman Allan Christopher Michael Low Joined in 1984.
He is Group Head, Corporate Development.
He is Chief Executive Officer, India Region.
He was previously Chairman of Standard Chartered Asia and Chief was previously General Manager East Africa & Chief Executive Executive, Corporate Finance.
Alexander Vincent Thursby Sherazam Mazari Joined in 1986.
He is Head Corporates & Institutions Wholesale Joined in 1999.
He is Group Regional Head Consumer Banking.
He was previously Chief Executive Officer, He was previously the Regional Head for the Consumer Bank in United Arab Emirates.
Age 44. the Middle East and South Asia.
Edward Martin Jake Williams Joined in 1999.
He is Group Head Group Special Assets Management.
He was previously General Manager Sales and Marketing for Westpac Banking Corporation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Standard Chartered 43
