Carpetright plc Annual report and 18 accounts 2003 Board of Directors and Executive Management 1 Lord Harris of Peckham 60 Chairman and Chief Executive Lord Harris has over 40 years experience in carpet retailing and is one of the best known names in the business.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive of Harris Queensway plc from 1964 until the company was taken over in 1988.
Lord Harris is also a Non-Executive Director of Great Universal Stores plc.
1 2 John Kitching 52 Managing Director John Kitching joined Carpetright on its formation in 1988, having occupied a number of senior management roles within Harris Queensway.
He was appointed Sales Director in 1992 and Managing Director in 1996.
John has recently taken overall responsibility for European operations.
3 Darren Shapland 36 2 3 Finance Director Darren Shapland joined Carpetright as Finance Director on 1 November 2002.
He had held senior financial and operational positions with the Burton Group, Arcadia and Kingfisher, with his previous appointment being as Finance Director of Superdrug Stores plc.
Darren has responsibility for finance, internal audit, information systems and central services.
He is a Non-Executive Director 4 5 of Retail Variations plc.
4 Christian Sollesse 44 Sales Director Christian Sollesse joined Carpetright in 1995 having worked for many years in senior retail management roles in Harris Queensway and Harris Interiors.
Christian was appointed Sales Director in 1997 and is responsible for sales and retail management.
5 Martin Harris 34 6 7 Buying Director Martin Harris joined Carpetright in 1991, having been a Director of Harveys Furnishing Group Limited.
Martin became Marketing Director in 1997, resigning to become a Non-Executive Director in 1998.
In November 2002 Martin resumed executive director responsibilities as Buying Director.
8 9 Carpetright plc Annual report and 19 accounts 2003 6 Sir Harry Djanogly, CBE 64 Management structure Non-Executive Director With the growth and expansion Sir Harry Djanogly was appointed of operations in both the UK a Non-Executive Director in 1993 and Europe the business has and Senior Independent Director formed an Operating Committee in 1998.
He is currently Chairman which comprises all Heads of of Coats plc.
This Committee meets weekly with the Executive 7 Martin Toogood 56 Directors to review current trading Non-Executive Director and business issues.
This has Martin Toogood is a professional improved the speed of decision retailer with over 30 years making and communication experience gained in several as well as providing a greater retail sectors.
Whilst he was understanding of issues which Chief Executive of B&Q plc affect many departments.
Verdict Research described B&Q, in 2000, as Britains most Top: from left to right: unassailable retailer.
Martin joined Wayne Bond the Board in 2002.
He now has Head of Central Operations a significant interest in a Patricia Dregent Scandinavian retail company.
Company Secretary Guy Moloney 8 Baroness Noakes 54 Head of Internal Audit Non-Executive Director Graham Ford Baroness Noakes, a chartered Head of New Business accountant, was with KPMG Development for 30 years.
She was a Kevin Nicholson Non-Executive Director of the Director of Financial Control Bank of England for seven years Carol Sawyer and was also the Senior Head of Personnel and Payroll Non-Executive Director.
She is now a Non-Executive Director of Bottom: from left to right: Hanson plc, John Laing plc and Richard Muir the English National Opera, and Head of Facilities a trustee of the Reuters Founders Caron Grant Share Company.
Sheila chairs Head of Marketing the Audit Committee.
Ian Woosey Director of Information Technology 9 Baroness Wilcox 62 Sarah Jones Non-Executive Director Director of Commercial Planning Lady Wilcox was appointed a Richard Renouf Non-Executive Director in 1997.
Head of Consumer Affairs Having spent over 20 years in Tim Lovegrove the food industry and six years Director of Property as Chairman of the National Consumer Council she is on the Science and Technology Select Committee of the House of Lords, President of the Institute of Trading Standards and a Non-Executive Director of Cadbury Schweppes plc.
Judith is Chairman of Carpetrights Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
