Managers report We warned in last years managers report that The typical exposure to high yielding equities of the no-one should be surprised if equities hit further Temple Bar portfolio has historically given it some lows in 2003 but that, on a longer term view, the UK protection in declining markets.
However, the equity market appeared good value.
Whilst these viciousness of the fall in the first quarter of 2003 was points proved to be fairly accurate, the speed of so great that the dividends of many companies decline in the equity market in the first quarter of previously regarded as safe came under significant 2003 and the strong and sustained bounceback that pressure: RMC, Reuters, EMI, Lloyds TSB and followed it caught virtually everyone by surprise.
Dixons all moved to yields which suggested a dividend cut was imminent or the shares were very A consensus had certainly formed that three years of cheap.
Sentiment was certainly not helped by other negative equity market returns to the end of 2002, companies such as Prudential and Abbey National followed by a sharp downwards movement at the deciding to reduce their dividends.
On the whole, we beginning of 2003, would create a different type of resisted the urge to participate in this rout and did, investor to the one who had participated in the in fact, add to our holdings of some of these stocks madness of the late 1990s.
The new breed would at fairly distressed price levels.
expect lower returns than in the past and would accept less risk to achieve those returns.
In general, the portfolio highlights came from stocks which had performed particularly badly in 2002.
As is often the case, however, the consensus was Reuters, the providers of financial information to the wrong.
Investors everywhere appeared eager to trading and investment community, has seen brush themselves down and prove their increasing competition in the last decade making determination to recoup some of their losses as access to information ever cheaper.
Their loss of quickly as possible by buying those stocks which market share in a declining market, allied to the had caused them most anguish on the way down.
perceived inflexibility of their product range and high Has the economic outlook and the consequent cost base, caused many investors to believe this prospect for markets changed sufficiently over the was a company in terminal decline.
But, a last 12 months to validate this behaviour?
The last significantly larger cost cutting programme than year has seen a continuation and, some would envisaged as well as improved product quality argue, acceleration of a massive reflationary push.
prompted a sharp recovery in the share price.
The Federal Reserve has reduced interest rates to Similarly, RMC was thought to be under persistent very low levels and the US Government has pressure from its loss-making German operations introduced large tax cuts.
While these policies had and high debt and had lost favour through its been in place for some time, they appeared to be disappointing acquisition history.
However, all these having little effect on an economy emerging slowly worries dissipated during the year and the company from its post bubble torpor.
However, the very appears to be in a stronger position than for some positive second half response to this stimulus was time.
These are two examples of how we focus on confirmed by a series of better than expected companies with good strategic positions in their economic statistics and survey evidence relating to markets but which are encountering short term production and employment.
Markets are reflecting difficulties, making the shares an attractive purchase investors belief that this stimulus will continue until for the longer term.
By acting when we believe clear the risk of deflation is negligible.
value exists these purchases are a store of value that will be realised when sentiment turns.
These shoots of recovery in the US, as well as the more peaceful geo-political scene, shaped investor As would be expected from a year which saw such sentiment around the world and drove a strong strong returns, our more disappointing holdings equity performance from the most depressed levels: were those which were considered too dull or too for example, the FTSE All-Share Index ended the defensive to warrant much attention by the markets.
year over 38% higher than its low point.
The tobacco company Gallaher continues to be one of our largest holdings.
The company maintains its TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 10 Managers report continued excellent record of delivering good earnings and Europe and Asia.
2003 saw the first signs of the dividend growth from operating in an attractive mix erection of trade barriers and protectionism: this will of mature and developing markets.
We are confident be an area of concern in 2004. these merits will be rewarded in the future.
Similarly, Although we would not wish to use any of these BT is regarded as a company constantly under factors as a central view, we feel ignoring them threat from a raft of more flexible competitors and would be risky.
They must be given due therefore in slow decline.
However, we feel this is consideration when making current investment over-exaggerating the near term risks.
customer losses are fairly modest, the prospects for As we move into 2004, our reluctance to endorse further cost reduction are good and it maintains the more bullish economic scenarios dictates that some strong market positions.
we should be reasonably defensive when During the year, turnover on the portfolio was 39%, constructing the portfolio.
The major themes we are a level we consider to be in line with the investment focusing on are: the attractions of the high yields and trust sector average.
discount to regulatory asset values in the utilities sectors, particularly water: the increasing merits of PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION ANALYSIS the durable earnings streams of the multinational The following illustrates the factors that have companies selling strongly marketed branded goods contributed to the Companys performance in the such as Diageo and Unilever: and the potential year to 31 December 2003: upside for those companies such as BT and Woolworths in a position to benefit from self-help Attribution Analysis % virtually irrespective of the strength of the economy.
Total return of FTSE All-Share Index 20.86 Relative return from the portfolio 1.38 In the past five years many fund management Performance on total assets 22.24 decisions have been driven by a number of binary Income distributed to shareholders 4.45 questions concerning investing in companies which Expenses 0.55 were value or growth, defensive or aggressive, highly Finance costs 1.34 or lowly indebted and large or small.
Most recently, 15.90 the over-riding desire of many investors has been to Impact of gearing on portfoliio 3.60 hold stocks which are performing well and exhibiting Change in net asset value per ordinary share 19.50 improving earnings trends, while being ready to jump ship at the first sign of either of these factors as percentage of opening NAV.
Although this rent-a-stock approach may seem attractive, this appears to rely As we mentioned earlier, the consensus view was on there always being sufficient buyers for the incorrect in 2003.
In 2004 it is again focused on a system to work.
However, we believe acquiring very tight course of events.
These include increasing stocks on this basis is inherently dangerous, as it economic strength within a controlled level of risks a lack of buyers at just the moment when they inflation but with the likelihood of higher interest are most required.
We will maintain our policy of rates in the second half of the year as the fall in searching for friendless stocks in the expectation excess capacity increases inflationary pressures, all that their popularity will increase over time.
against the backdrop of a slowly declining US Dollar.
Experience and human nature suggests that, While reasonably alluring, this view appears to providing we are patient, numerous such discount the continued presence of many structural opportunities will be provided through investors imbalances in the US following the bubble years.
driven by shorter term considerations.
These include the large current account and budget deficits and the high levels of consumer debt.
Alastair Mundy Continued weakening of the US Dollar may help the Investec Investment US authorities to alleviate some of these problems Management Limited but is unlikely to please its major trading partners in 17 February 2004 TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 11
