Report of the directors The directors present their report and accounts for DIRECTORS the year ended 31 December 2003.
The directors of the Company during the year were as stated below and their interests in the ordinary GROUP ACTIVITIES share capital of the Company are as follows.
Each of The principal activity of the Company, which the directors held office throughout the year except remained unchanged throughout the year, is that of for Mr R Scott Brown who retired on 31 March 2003. an investment trust.
The Inland Revenue has approved the Company as an investment trust for the 31 December 1 January purposes of section 842 of the Income and 2003 2003 Corporation Taxes Act 1988 in respect of the year G J Allen 1,239 1,174 ended 31 December 2002 and its affairs are directed J L Hudson 20,042 13,848 so as to enable it to continue to attain such approval.
R W Jewson 1,562 921 This approval is subject to there being no subsequent J Reeve 22,950 19,562 enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The R Scott Brown N A 16,465 Company intends to conduct its business so as to F L J Walton 6,724 6,724 continue as an approved investment trust following the objective set out on page 1 of this report.
All the above interests are beneficial.
None of the The Company has one active wholly owned directors had at any date any interest in either of the subsidiary company, whose principal activity is Companys debenture stocks.
investment dealing, and one dormant subsidiary.
On 16 January 2004 and 16 February 2004 The close company provisions of the Income and Mr J Reeve acquired a further 174 ordinary shares Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the and 176 ordinary shares respectively in the Company Company.
through his regular monthly saving in the Temple Bar Investment Trust ISA.
On 22 January 2004 Mr R W A review of the business is given in the Chairmans Jewson acquired a further 43 ordinary shares in the statement and the Managers report.
Company through his regular monthly saving in the ORDINARY DIVIDENDS Temple Bar Investment Trust Savings Scheme.
No The results of the Group are shown on page 23.
An other changes in the interests shown above occurred interim dividend of 8.43p per ordinary share was paid between 31 December 2003 and 17 February 2004. on 30 September 2003 2002: 8.22p and the No other person was a director during any part of the directors are recommending a final dividend of year.
Subject to The directors retiring by rotation and or in compliance shareholders approval, the final dividend will be paid with the provisions of the Combined Code are on 31 March 2004 to shareholders on the register on Mr J Reeve, Mr J L Hudson and Mr F L J Walton.
After deducting the ordinary Each of these directors being eligible, the Board dividend there is a revenue surplus of 1,293,000 to recommends their re-election.
In making these be transferred to consolidated revenue reserves.
recommendations the Board has carefully reviewed the composition of the Board as a whole and borne PERSONAL EQUITY PLANS ISAs in mind the need for a proper balance of skills and The Company has conducted its investment policy experience.
The Board does not believe that length of so as to remain a qualifying investment trust under service per se detracts from the independence of a the ISA and Personal Equity Plan regulations.
It is the director, particularly in relation to an investment trust, intention of the Board to continue to satisfy these and on that basis does not consider that any of the regulations.
directors standing for re-election are not SHARE CAPITAL independent.
It is confirmed that, following formal On 22 May 2003 9,768 new ordinary shares of 25p evaluation, the performance of each director each were allotted to monthly investors in the continues to be effective and each continues to Savings Scheme at a price of 503p per share.
demonstrate commitment to the role.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 15 Report of the directors continued There were no contracts subsisting during or at the and objectives of the investment manager was end of the year in which a director of the Company is carried out during the year in conjunction with an or was interested and which are or were significant in independent consultant.
This covered, inter alia, the relation to the Companys business.
No director has performance of the manager, their management a service contract with the Company.
processes, investment style, resources and risk controls.
PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS The Companys policy is to obtain the best possible DONATIONS terms of payment from suppliers for all forms of No political or charitable donations were made during business.
All terms agreed with suppliers have been the year 2002: charitable donation 1,000, no complied with during the year.
There were no trade political donations.
creditors at the year end.
AUDITORS SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS During the year  LLP As at 17 February 2004 the following company had resigned as auditors and Ernst & Young LLP were indicated an interest in 3% or more of the issued appointed in their place.
ordinary shares of the Company: A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as % auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Legal & General Group plc 3.10 Annual General Meeting on 29 March 2004.
So far as the directors are aware, no other person DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE THE has disclosable interests in 3% or more of the issued COMPANYS OWN SHARES ordinary shares of the Company.
The directors consider it desirable to give the MANAGEMENT CONTRACT Company the opportunity to buy back shares in The Company has a management agreement with circumstances where the shares may be acquired for Investec Investment Management Limited IIM for a price which is below the net asset value per share the provision of investment management, secretarial, of the Company.
The purchase of ordinary shares is accounting and administrative services to the intended to reduce the discount at which ordinary Company and its subsidiaries.
The agreement is shares trade in the market through the Company subject to one years notice of termination by either becoming a new source of demand for such shares.
The rules of the UK Listing Authority provide that the maximum price which can be paid by the Company IIM receives an investment management fee of is 5% above the average of the market value of the 0.35% per annum, payable quarterly, based on the ordinary shares for the five business days before the value of the investments including cash of the purchase is made.
Investments in funds managed by the Investec Group are wholly excluded from this charge.
The Company is not intending to make such 60% 2002: 50% of the investment management fee purchases at present and will only exercise the power payable to IIM is charged by the Company to capital after careful consideration and in circumstances reserves and the remaining 40% 2002: 50% to the where, in the light of prevailing market conditions, it is revenue account on the basis of the expected long satisfied that it is in the interests of the Company to term division of returns.
The appropriate resolution is set out in the notice of meeting on page 39.
The investment management fee charged for the year ended 31 December 2003 amounted to 1,242,110 2002: 1,312,260 net of value added tax.
By order of the Board of Directors In the opinion of the directors the continued M K Slade appointment of the investment manager on the terms For Investec Investment Management Limited set out above is in the best interests of shareholders.
Secretary A comprehensive assessment of the performance 17 February 2004 TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 16
