Directors H M Henderson C G Clarke FCA R W C Colvill A W Jones MA, FREng, Age 51 Appointed Age 59 Mr Clarke joined Age 63 Mr Colvill was FRAeS, FIEE, CIM a director in 1988, the Board in 1992 and was appointed a director in Age 64 Mr Jones was Mr Henderson became Managing Director 1994 and became appointed a director in Chairman on 24 March from 1 January 1993 Chairman of the Audit and 1996 and became 2003.
He has Management Engagement Chairman of the partner of Cazenove & Co. over 30 years experience of Committees in 2002.
He Remuneration Committee and subsequently a senior investment management was formerly Finance on its formation in executive at Cazenove and was a senior executive Director of Marks and December 2003.
He was Group plc, retiring in 2002. of Henderson Global Spencer p. l. c..
He is formerly Chief Executive of He is also a director of Investors, retiring fully in Chairman of the Money BICC plc.
He is Chairman Cadogan Settled Estates March 2003.
He is Advice Trust, a charitable of Britax International Limited.
Chairman of BWD company, and a nonLimited, British Securities PLC and a Trustee executive director of International Limited, Alert of the Commonwealth War Eldridge Pope & Co. p. l. c.. Communications Limited Graves Endowment Fund.
and The Manchester He is also an independent Airport Group plc.
He is a adviser to the trustees of a former member of The large pension scheme and Financial Reporting an honorary adviser to Council.
R H McGrath C S McVeigh III R A Bruce J Horsburgh Age 57 Mr McGrath was Age 61 Mr McVeigh was Age 54 Mr Bruce was Age 48 Mr Horsburgh was appointed a director in appointed a director in appointed a director appointed a director and 1996.
He is Group Credit Chief Executive officer with Chief Executive of of Citigroup European Risk Director at Barclays effect from 2 February H. Young Holdings plc, Investment Bank and a PLC where he has 2004.
He is responsible for a marketing company.
responsibility for asset the overall management of quality and credit risk Witan.
He will lead on across the Barclays Group.
strategic asset allocation and on the selection of investment managers but will report to the Board in respect of all aspects of the Companys affairs, including shareholder relations, marketing and administration.
He has over 25 years experience of investment management.
He was formerly with Schroder Investment Management Limited where he became UK Managing Director.
Independent non-executive directors and, except Mr Henderson, members of the Audit and Management Engagement Committees which are chaired by Mr Colvill.
Members of the Remuneration Committee which is chaired by Mr Jones.
Currently all the non-executive directors are members of the Nominations Committee under the chairmanship of Mr Henderson.
