Managers Review James Robinson Market Review After three down years, 2003 has turned out to be a positive year worst performing region in sterling terms was North America, for world equity markets with good gains being recorded across largely due to the weak performance of the US dollar.
Early on in the year things looked very different with share prices falling precipitously until 12th March when markets Activity and Performance eventually hit bottom.
The catalyst for the turnaround was the The major change in our asset allocation during the year was the commencement of hostilities in Iraq.
This, coupled with the increase in our Far East weighting from 1.8% to 4.4% which we subsequent decision by the US Federal Reserve to cut interest undertook in April May.
Our exposure to most other areas was rates to 1% in June and to maintain an extremely accomlittle changed.
The rationale for the move into the Far East was modative interest rate policy thereafter, was enough to bring the fact that these markets looked fundamentally cheap about a major change in sentiment.
compared to their larger, more developed counterparts.
By way of example, in April the Asia Pacic region was selling on a historic Over the last year, the biggest gains have come from smaller Price Earnings Ratio of 13.5 compared to around 19 for the USA, companies and smaller markets together with those sectors most notwithstanding the considerably better growth prospects for exposed to an economic upswing.
Smaller and medium size Asia in the years ahead.
The SARS crisis exacerbated the situation companies have signicantly outperformed their larger counterparts.
by making the Asian markets even cheaper.
As a result, This development is not that surprising as smaller companies tend to international investors were presented with something of a be more geared towards economic recovery and therefore are able to golden opportunity to purchase stocks in Asia on a very produce bigger earnings upgrades.
Similar considerations apply to reasonable valuation.
We were also attracted by the fact that Asia emerging markets where depressed markets that nobody wanted to Pacic contains a number of emerging markets which usually own in the downturn were eagerly sought once sentiment turned for tend to perform quite well early in the cycle.
Accordingly, markets like Thailand, Argentina and Turkey, which were among the worst performing during 2002, saw meteoric Since Septembers G7 communique from Dubai which appeared to rises in 2003.
There has also been a distinct investor preference for give the green light to further dollar weakness, we became poorer quality shares, with defensive household names underincreasingly concerned about the possibility that the dollars decline performing.
Information technology and telecom stocks have been could accelerate.
At the beginning of December we therefore decided in the forefront of the markets recovery.
to institute a sterling hedge against around 20% of our US dollar exposure.
By the end of December these contracts were usefully in The decline in the US dollar was also a major story for 2003.
The profit and the dollars decline has continued into the New Year.
dollar is falling because the US is running a huge current account deficit likely to be close to $550 billion 5% of GDP in 2003 I should comment here on our relative performance over the year.
and is nding it difficult to attract significant capital inows to Although Witans net asset value per share increased by 16.4%, this finance it.
Private investors are put off by relatively low interest was slightly less than our benchmark which recorded an increase of rates and bond yields, and by forecasts that the dollar will fall 17.2% over the year.
The level of our gearing borrowing averaged further.
Instead the deficit is being nanced by central banks in around 7% in the period and therefore had a positive impact on Asia in particular in Japan and China.
They are selling their own performance.
Our asset allocation had a small positive impact so it currencies and buying US assets in order to prevent their currencies was stock selection where we came unstuck.
The major negative here rising against the dollar and so support their export industries.
continued to be North America where we again underperformed see management changes below.
The UK mainstream portfolio, which In sterling terms the best performing region was Europe on average accounted for around 55% of our assets, also excluding the UK, followed closely by the Far East and Japan.
The underperformed: however this follows a three year period of very 8 good relative performance from this area.
On an encouraging note I Since taking over the portfolio Peter has made some changes to was very pleased to see the improvement in the UK smaller it and I would encourage you to read his portfolio review on companies performance where our new manager, Neil Hermon, page 18 which describes his approach to investment and some of outperformed his benchmark in his first year.
Although we did not the changes he has made.
deliver on our stock selection overall, I think it is important to bear in mind that Witan invests primarily in large companies with a Outlook large fund of this nature it is difficult to do otherwise.
Talking Companies are currently experiencing a very pronounced theoretically, if our UK benchmark had been the FTSE 100 Index earnings recovery due largely to the cyclical upturn in the global rather than the FTSE All-Share Index then we would have economy.
Our exposure to both UK equities and to international outperformed over the period.
equities is overweight as compared with our ungeared benchmark.
The UK offers sound value at current levels but the During the early part of the year when the UK options market same cannot be said for the US equity market which continues was pricing in very high levels of volatility, we decided to take to look relatively expensive.
Our biggest overweight is the Far advantage of this by selling options against some of the East where valuations still seem very reasonable compared to positions in our portfolio.
In our view this was a way of most other areas, particularly the US.
We are also overweight in increasing overall returns and making our asset base work a bit Europe and Japan.
Continental European markets suffered very harder.
The experiment was successful and we made some useful badly in the last year of the bear market and, due to their greater profits.
In May we disposed of the bulk of our investment in the cyclicality, have greater upside, while Japanese equities Thames River Absolute Return Fund, switching the proceeds into historically outperform during global economic recoveries as long only investments in the US equity market.
As it Japanese profits are extremely geared to the economic cycle.
happened, this turned out to be a propitious moment to undertake such a switch as US share prices were fairly depressed So what are the risks for 2004?
The biggest risk may be the and have subsequently risen substantially.
In August we also sold markets complacency over US interest rates.
Money markets are our investment in the Henderson American Smaller Companies currently anticipating rises in US and European interest rates of OEIC.
At that time, US smaller companies had outperformed 0.5% to 1.0% in 2004 but, if the US economy continues to their larger counterparts by about 11% over the previous six surprise by its strength, the Federal Reserve may have to raise months and we thought we would capitalise on this: in the interest rates further.
If the current descent of the dollar turns event our timing was probably around three months too early.
into a rout then there is the added danger that US interest rates will have to rise to protect the currency.
Although a move back Finally a quick word on share buy-backs.
During the last month to 4% US interest rates would barely return policy to neutral, it or so of the year we increased the level of share buy-backs to take would be a considerable shock to financial markets.
This is not advantage of recent increases in the level of our discount and to our central expectation but it is our biggest concern.
enhance Witans net asset value.
There is little doubt that, at a discount of around 15% to net asset value, this must be one of Conclusion the best investments we can make on behalf of our shareholders.
Nine months ago equity markets were cheap, with the yield on UK equities briey exceeding that available on UK government Management bonds.
Following the rally of the last nine months equities are With effect from 1st November Ann Hall stepped down as the now probably at or around fair value.
However, with economic manager of Witans US portfolio to be succeeded by Peter Kaye, recovery now increasingly evident and risk preferences rising, the head of Hendersons US equity team.
Prior to joining equities should continue to prove more rewarding than either Henderson in 2002, Peter was a US fund manager with both xed interest securities or cash.
Friends Ivory and Sime and Merrill Lynch Investment Managers.
He has been involved with the US equity market since 1996 and has achieved a good performance record over that period.
We are J P Robinson confident that he will achieve an improvement in our US performance in 2004 and beyond.
