# # Dr P J Fellner Dr G A Ando Dr M G Lee FMedSci 60 Chairman 55 Group Chief Executive 45 Research and Appointed as Chairman of the Board of Joined the Board of Celltech in April Development Director Celltech in April 2003, after serving as 2003 from Pharmacia Corporation where Joined Celltech in September 1998 as Chief Executive since 1990.
He joined he was Executive Vice President and Director of Research from Glaxo Celltech from Roche UK where he was President of R&D until its acquisition by Wellcome now GSK where she had Chief Executive.
He was previously Pfizer Inc. At Pharmacia he also had worked for 10 years, latterly at their Director of the Roche UK Research Centre.
executive responsibility for business Stevenage Medicines Research Centre.
Dr Dr Fellner is also Chairman of Vernalis plc, development, including mergers and Lee became the R&D Director for and two privately held companies, Astex acquisitions, and for manufacturing.
She also Technology Limited and Ionix Andos previous appointments included a Chairs Cancer Research Technology Ltd, Pharmaceuticals Ltd, and is a Director of period as R&D Director for Glaxo Group the technology transfer subsidiary of Isis Innovation Ltd.
He is a member of the Research.
In 2003 she was UK Medical Research Council.
elected a Fellow of the Academy of Mr P V Allen ACA Medical Sciences.
48 Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Mrs I Saunders Joined Celltech in 1992 as Finance 54 Global Commercial Director Director from Associated British Ports Joined Celltech in 2001 and was Holdings plc where he was Group appointed to the Board on 22 October Financial Controller.
In 1992 Mrs Saunders became Group Controller at LOreal UK.
He was Vice President, International Operations appointed Deputy Chief Executive in at the head office of Novo Nordisk.
She April 2003. moved throughout Novo Nordisk, working in Business Development, Health Care Strategy and became President of the Pharmaceuticals Division.
Her last position was as Managing Director, Ireland UK and Vice President Novo Nordisk Europe.
Dr P J Fellner Chairman Dr G A Ando Chief Executive Dr M G Lee Research and Development Director P V Allen Chief Financial Officer and Mrs I Saunders Global Commercial Director Deputy Chief Executive 24 Celltech Annual Report 2003 Board of Directors o # # Sir Tom Blundell FRS, KB, FMedSci M G Newmarch Mr P H G Cadbury 61 65 60 Joined the Board of Celltech in 1997.
He Joined the Board of Celltech in 1996.
He Joined the Board of Celltech in April is a William Dunn Professor and Head of was formerly Chief Executive of 2003.
He has his own corporate advisory the Department of Biochemistry and Prudential Corporation plc and is a firm and is Non-Executive Chairman of Chair of School of Biological Sciences at former Director of the Association of DTZ Corporate Finance Ltd.
Previously he the University of Cambridge, co-founder British Insurers.
He is Chairman of was Deputy Chairman of Morgan and member of the Board of Astex Celltechs Audit Committee.
Grenfell and Chairman of Close Brothers Technology Ltd and Chairman of the Corporate Finance.
Royal Commission on Environmental Dr M E Jaffe BA, MD o Pollution.
He is Chairman of the Science 67 Mr P G Rogerson and Technology Committee.
Joined the Board of Celltech in August 59 1999, from Chiroscience Group plc.
He is Joined the Board in March 2003.
He is Prof C R W Edwards MD, FRCP, FRCPEd, based in the US and has held senior Celltechs Senior Independent Director.
o # FRSE, F MedSci, Hon Dsc positions within Merck & Co Inc and was He is also Chairman of Aggreko plc and 62 formerly President of the R W Johnson Viridian Group plc and Chairman or NonJoined the Board of Celltech in 1997.
He is Pharmaceutical Research Institute.
He is a Executive Director of a number of other Vice-Chancellor of the University of former Director of Vernalis plc.
Newcastle-upon-Tyne and was formerly o Principal of Imperial College School of Dr P R Read CBE, FRCP, FFPM Medicine, London.
He is a Governor of the 65 Wellcome Trust, a member of the Board of Joined the Board of Celltech in March One North East, the Regional Development 2000 from Medeva plc.
He is a former Agency, and a co-founder and Board Chairman of the Hoechst Group of member of Argenta Discovery Ltd. Companies in the UK and a past President of the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry.
Current appointments include Non-Executive Director of Vernalis plc, SSL International Non-Executive Group plc and a Board member of the Member of the Remuneration Committee South East of England Development o Member of the Audit Committee Agency SEEDA.
He is Chairman of # Member of the Nomination Committee Celltechs Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Science and Technology Committee Sir Tom Blundell M G Newmarch Mr P H G Cadbury Prof C R W Edwards Dr M E Jaffe Mr P G Rogerson Dr P R Read Celltech Annual Report 2003 25
