Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2003 The Directors submit their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group, together with the financial statements and Auditors Report for the year ended 31 December 2003.
The Remuneration Report can be found on pages 28 to 37 and the Corporate Governance Report, including the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR statement, can be found on pages 38 to 44. Review of business operations and future developments The principal activity of the Group undertaken during the year was the ongoing research and development of novel therapeutic products for human use and the manufacture and sale of prescription pharmaceutical products.
Key events during the past year are referred to in the Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statements and the Group and Operational Reviews.
These events include the following: On 26 February 2003 Celltech announced an offer of 182p per share in cash for the entire issued share capital of Oxford GlycoSciences plc OGS.
On 16 April 2003 Celltech announced the appointment of Dr Gran Ando as Chief Executive, the retirement of Mr John Jackson as Chairman and the appointment of Dr Peter Fellner as Chairman.
On 16 April 2003 Celltech declared the Offer for OGS unconditional in all respects.
On 25 April 2003 Celltech announced that Merck was suspending the Phase II development of its lead Phosphodiesterase4 PDE4 inhibitor.
On 19 May 2003 Celltech announced the launch of its new specialist UK pharmaceutical sales and marketing organisation.
On 16 June 2003 Celltech announced that the Israeli Ministry of Health had granted Marketing Authorisation for Zavesca miglustat capsules.
On 17 July 2003 Celltech announced that it had entered into a long-term supply agreement with Lonza Biotec, a division of Lonza Group, under which Lonza Biotec would manufacture PEGylated antibody fragment based drugs for Celltech.
Celltech and Lonza also announced settlement of their CDP571 manufacturing agreement.
On 18 July 2003 Celltech announced that it had completed the compulsory acquisition of the remaining shares in OGS.
On 1 August 2003 Celltech announced that the US Food and Drug Administration FDA had approved Zavesca miglustat capsules.
On 28 October 2003 Celltech announced the achievement of its first milestone in its agreement with Amgen Inc for the research, development and global commercialisation of novel treatments for osteoporosis.
On 30 October 2003 Celltech announced that it had licensed European sales and marketing rights to Xyrem sodium oxybate oral solution from Orphan Medical Inc. On 13 November 2003 Celltech announced an update on the clinical development programme for CDP870, its PEGylated anti-TNF antibody fragment, in particular Pfizers notification to Celltech that it planned to postpone the initiation of the remaining Phase III clinical trials pending the results of the two ongoing studies and its desire to renegotiate the financial terms of its collaboration with Celltech, originally established with Pharmacia in March 2001.
On 19 November 2003 Celltech announced the closure of its Seattle research facility, designed to rebalance resources between its research and development activities.
On 1 December 2003 Celltech announced that it would regain full rights to CDP870, its PEGylated anti-TNF antibody fragment, from Pfizer during early 2004.
Results and dividends Turnover for the year amounted to 353.3 million 2002: 329.6 million.
The Directors do not recommend payment of a dividend 2002: nil.
Directors Membership of the Board together with Directors biographies is shown on pages 24 and 25.
Details of Directors remuneration and their interests in the share capital of the Company are given in the Remuneration Report, which can be found on pages 28 to 37.
There have been no changes to Directors interests from 31 December 2003 to the date of this document, other than those set out on page 34.
Mr Jackson, Mr Baker and Mr Collum retired during the year and Dr Ando, Mr Rogerson, Mr Cadbury and Mrs Saunders were appointed to the Board during the year.
Dr Ando, Mr Cadbury and Mrs Saunders will be seeking election at this years AGM.
None of the Directors has any interest in any contract of significance, other than disclosed in note 25 of the accounts.
Employees remuneration Celltech aims to provide remuneration packages that are competitive and designed to attract, retain and motivate employees.
In addition to the payment of competitive salaries, Celltech also operates two discretionary bonus schemes.
The first scheme is offered to all staff and Executive Directors.
Performance related payments may be made annually based on predetermined individual or team performance objectives.
Bonus award entitlements range between 7.5 percent and 40 percent 50 percent in the case of the Chief Executive of salary depending on grade.
The second 26 Celltech Annual Report 2003 scheme is a Deferred Bonus Plan under which awards can be made to selected Directors and Senior Executives over shares up to 100 percent of a participants annual bonus.
The shares subject to awards are held in the Celltech Group plc Employee Share Trust and are available for release from the first and second anniversary from the date of grant.
All bonuses are provided for at the end of the financial year to which they relate.
Further details of Directors remuneration for the year are given in the Remuneration Report.
In addition, eligible employees are given the opportunity to participate in the Groups Share Option Schemes.
The allocation of Executive share options takes into account a review of the future potential contribution of individual employees.
During the year the Company expanded the sharesave scheme on an international basis for all its eligible employees worldwide.
Employee involvement During the year, Celltech continued its policy of providing employees with information about the Group through regular presentations by Executive Directors and senior management, the Groups intranet and the publication of an in-house magazine.
In addition, regular meetings are held between management and employees to allow a free flow of information and ideas.
Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
With regard to existing employees and those who may become disabled, Celltechs policy is to examine ways and means to provide continuing employment under its existing terms and conditions and to provide training and career development, including promotion, wherever appropriate.
Payment of creditors It is Celltechs policy with respect to the payment of its suppliers either to use standard terms or to arrange terms of payment when agreeing the terms of each transaction.
Where standard terms are not used, suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and Celltech abides by those terms of payment.
The average number of days purchases for the Group for which payment was outstanding during the year ended 2003 was 33 days.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Political and charitable donations During the year Celltech made contributions amounting to 4,900 2002: 22,000 to charitable organisations in the UK.
There were no political donations 2002: nil.
Significant shareholdings As at 15 March 2004 Celltech had received notification from the following institutions of interests in 3 percent or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
AMVESCAP PLC 15.15% The Capital Group Companies 12.59% Fidelity International Limited 11.13% Goldman Sachs 3.96% Franklin Resources Inc 3.43% Share price The mid-market share price as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List was 378p on 31 December 2003.
The mid-market share price ranged from 250p to 459p during the year 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2003 2002 financial year: 290p to 902p.
The average share price for the year was 338p.
Auditor KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Auditor and a resolution proposing its reappointment and authorising the Directors to determine its remuneration will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at 11.30 am on Thursday 27 May 2004 at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London.
Details of the business to be transacted at the AGM can be found in the separate Circular to shareholders accompanying this report.
By order of the Board J A D Slater Secretary 15 March 2004 Celltech Annual Report 2003 27
