Board of directors Sir Michael Perry GBE Helen Alexander Phil Bentley Roger Carr Chairman 70 A. N. R. Non-executive director 47 A. C. R. Group finance director 45 E. Non-executive director 57 A. R. Sir Michael Perry became chairman of Helen Alexander joined the board on Phil Bentley joined Centrica plc in 2000 Roger Carr was appointed to the board Centrica plc in 1997.
She is chief executive from Diageo plc, where he was finance in 2001.
He is chairman of Mitchells & executive director of British Gas plc from of The Economist Group, a trustee of the director of GuinnessUDV.
Prior to that, Butlers plc, deputy chairman of Cadbury June 1994 until Centrica was demerged Tate Gallery and an honorary fellow of he was group treasurer and director of Schweppes plc and a senior adviser to in February 1997.
He is a member of the Hertford College, Oxford.
Formerly, she risk management of Diageo plc from Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. Ltd.
He was Supervisory Board of Royal Ahold NV, was a non-executive director of BT Group 1997, and group treasurer of Grand previously chief executive of Williams plc president of the Marketing Council, plc and Northern Foods plc.
Previously, and chairman of Thames Water plc and chairman of the Shakespeare Globe Trust he spent 15 years with BP.
He is a member of the and chairman of the Oxford University non-executive director of Kingfisher plc.
Industrial Development Advisory Board Faculty Board for Management.
He will become Sir Michael will retire from the board at chairman with effect from the end of the end of the AGM on 10 May 2004. the AGM on 10 May 2004.
Mark Clare Sir Roy Gardner Patricia Mann OBE Robert Tobin Deputy chief executive and Managing Chief executive 58 E. N. Senior non-executive director 66 Non-executive director 65 A. R. director, British Gas 46 C. E. Sir Roy Gardner was appointed finance A. C. N. R. Robert Tobin, a US citizen, was appointed Mark Clare joined British Gas plc in 1994 director of British Gas plc in 1994.
From Patricia Mann was a non-executive to the board on 1 January 2003.
He is as group financial controller, and was 1995, he had responsibility for the business director of British Gas plc from December a member of the Supervisory Board appointed finance director of Centrica plc, units which subsequently formed Centrica 1995 until Centrica was demerged in of Royal Ahold NV.
In 2000, he was appointed deputy plc.
Prior to joining British Gas plc, he was February 1997.
She was a vice president and May 2003 he was chairman chief executive, and from 1 January 2002, managing director of GEC-Marconi Ltd international of J Walter Thompson Co Ltd of the board of directors of the managing director of British Gas.
He is and a director of GEC plc.
He is nonand remains a director of JWT Trustees Worldwide Retail Exchange.
a non-executive director of BAA plc, executive chairman of Manchester United Ltd. She is on the board of the UK Centre The Energy Saving Trust Ltd and The plc, president of Carers UK, chairman of for Economic and Environmental Energy Retail Association Ltd. the Employers Forum on Disability and Development and National Trust chairman of the National Modern Enterprises, and was formerly a director of Apprenticeship Task Force.
the Woolwich Building Society and Yale and Valor plc.
Paul Walsh Roger Wood Non-executive director 48 A. R. Managing director, the AA 61 C. E. Note Paul Walsh was appointed to the board Roger Wood joined British Gas plc in Mike Alexander and Sir Brian Shaw on 1 March 2003.
He is chief executive of 1996 as managing director of British were directors until 28 February 2003 Diageo plc and a non-executive director Gas Services, and was appointed a and 12 May 2003 respectively.
of Federal Express Corporation and director of Centrica plc in 1997.
In 1999, General Mills Inc. following the acquisition of the AA business, he became managing director, home & road services.
He has been managing Key to membership of committees director of the AA since 1 January 2002.
A Audit committee Before joining British Gas plc, he was C Customer service committee director general of Matra Marconi Space E Centrica executive committee NV, group vice president of Northern N Nominations committee Telecom Ltd and a UK director at ICL.
R Remuneration committee 24 Centrica plc report 2003
