AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Report Form 20-F Information 2003 43 Directors Report AstraZeneca PLC is the holding company those Directors presenting themselves for foreign issuers.
The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act for a group of subsidiaries whose principal election or re-election at the AGM.
came into force at the end of July 2002.
As activities are described in the Operational a result of its NYSE listing, the Company is and Financial Reviews on pages 9 to 42, Mandatory shareholding for subject to those provisions of the Act which are incorporated in this report by applicable to foreign issuers.
Principal subsidiaries and their The Companys Articles of Association locations are given on page 112. require each Director to be the beneficial The Company either already complies with owner of Ordinary Shares in the Company or will comply with those provisions of the The Companys dividend for 2003 of $0.795 with an aggregate nominal value of $125 Act applicable to foreign issuers as and 45.3 pence, SEK 5.98 per Ordinary Share 500 shares.
Such holding must be when they become effective.
The Board amounts to a total dividend payment to obtained within two months of the date of believes that, prior to the Act coming into shareholders of $1,350 million.
All of the force, the Company already had a sound Directors comply with this requirement and corporate governance framework, good The Directors believe that the Company full details of each Directors interests in processes for the accurate and timely and its subsidiaries have adequate shares of the Company are set out in the reporting of its financial position and results resources to continue in operational Directors Remuneration Report on pages of operations and an effective and robust existence for the foreseeable future and 50 to 59. system of internal controls.
Consequently, therefore continue to adopt the going the Companys approach to compliance concern basis in preparing the Financial Annual General Meeting with the Act has principally involved the Statements.
The Companys AGM will be held on 29 development and adjustment of its existing April 2004.
The principal meeting place will corporate governance framework and Changes in the Companys Ordinary Share be in London.
There will be a simultaneous associated processes concerning capital during 2003, including details of the satellite meeting in Stockholm.
reporting, internal controls and other allotment of new shares under the relevant matters.
Companys share plans, are given in Corporate governance Note 35 to the Financial Statements.
UK Combined Code on Corporate Particular work relevant to the Act Governance undertaken in the last 12 months included Board of Directors In July 2003, the Financial Reporting revisions to the AstraZeneca Code of Details of members of the Board at 31 Council in the UK issued the revised Conduct, certain changes to the December 2003 are set out on pages 6 Combined Code on Corporate Governance Companys disclosure controls and and 7. which superseded and replaced the procedures, Disclosure Policy and the Combined Code published by the Hampel operation of the Disclosure Committee and The Board met six times during 2003.
Each Committee on Corporate Governance in various developments concerning the Audit meeting was attended by all of its members 1998.
It applies for reporting years Committee and its work.
All of these except that Michele Hooper, Joe Jimenez beginning on or after 1 November 2003. matters are described in more detail below.
and Erna Mller were unable to attend the The Company also started the work September meeting and Jane Henney was Although the Company is not strictly necessary to enable it to comply in due unable to attend the October meeting due required to report against the revised course with the SEC rules which implement to other commitments.
The Board is Combined Code until its Directors Report section 404 of the Act.
Following the currently scheduled to meet six times in for 2004, the Board did review the revised implementation of this section of the Act, 2004.
Combined Code at its meeting in October the management of companies will be 2003 and has prepared this Directors required to state its responsibility for Board changes Report with reference to the revised establishing and maintaining an adequate ke Stavling, Executive Director, left the Combined Code.
internal control structure and procedures for Company at the end of January 2003. financial reporting and annually assess the The Company is applying all of the main and effectiveness of that structure and those In July 2003, the Board appointed Michele supporting principles of good governance in procedures.
The external auditor will be Hooper and Joe Jimenez as Non-Executive the revised Combined Code.
The way in required to attest to and report on Directors.
which these principles are being applied is managements assessment.
provisions become effective for the At the end of August 2003, Hkan Mogren Company in 2005 and preparatory work will ceased to be Executive Deputy Chairman The Company is complying with all of the continue during 2004. and became Non-Executive Deputy provisions of the revised Combined Code.
The New York Stock Exchange The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 In November 2003, the SEC approved the Election and re-election of AstraZeneca PLC American Depositary NYSEs new corporate governance listing Shares are traded on the New York Stock standards.
The Company, as a foreign Directors All of the Directors will retire under Article 65 Exchange NYSE and the Company is issuer with American Depositary Shares of the Companys Articles of Association at subject to the reporting and other listed on the NYSE, is generally obliged to the Annual General Meeting AGM in April requirements of the US Securities and disclose any significant ways in which its 2004.
The Notice of AGM will give details of Exchange Commission SEC applicable to corporate governance practices differ from AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Report 44 Form 20-F Information 2003 Directors Report continued these standards.
The exception to this is Board structure and processes meetings: the composition of the Board: the that the Company must comply fully with Board composition, responsibilities practical arrangements for the work of the the provisions of the listing standards which and appointments Board: and the work and operation of the relate to the composition, responsibilities The Board comprises Executive and NonBoards committees.
Overall, Board and operation of audit committees.
In the view of the members concluded that the Board and its provisions incorporate the rules concerning Board, the majority of Board members committees were operating in an effective audit committees implemented by the SEC excluding the Chairman are independent and constructive manner.
under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
The differing roles of Executive Directors and Non-Executive At the same meeting, the Chairman also The Company has reviewed the NYSEs Directors are clearly delineated, with both reported to the Board on his conversations new listing standards and believes that its having fiduciary duties towards with each Non-Executive Director about corporate governance practices are shareholders and all being collectively their individual performance and that of the generally consistent with the standards, responsible for the success of the Board as a whole, which took place during with one exception.
However, Executive Directors the fourth quarter of 2003.
The Chairman that non-executive directors must have have direct responsibility for business then left the meeting while Sir Peter regularly scheduled meetings without the operations whereas the Non-Executive Bonfield, senior Non-Executive Director, directors involved in the management of the Directors have a responsibility to bring led a review of the Chairmans performance.
Other than meetings of independent, objective judgement to bear On the Chairmans return to the meeting, those Board committees comprised only of on Board decisions.
This includes the Board reviewed the performance of the Non-Executive Directors, the Companys constructively challenging management Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Non-Executive Directors have not to date and helping to develop the Companys Officer who, in each case, left the meeting held scheduled, formal meetings without strategy.
The Non-Executive Directors while the review took place.
the Executive Directors of the Company scrutinise the performance of management present.
and have various responsibilities The Company maintained directors and concerning the integrity of financial officers liability insurance cover throughout The Companys Audit Committee complies information, internal controls and risk 2003.
Cover was renewed at the beginning with the provisions of the listing standards management.
To help maintain a strong of 2004. which relate to the composition, executive presence on the Board in addition responsibilities and operation of audit to the two Executive Directors the Chief Independence of Directors under the committees.
More detailed information Executive and the Chief Financial Officer, UK Combined Code about the Audit Committee and its work Board meetings are attended by two At its meeting to review the revised during 2003 are set out in the Audit members of the Senior Executive Team.
Combined Code in October 2003, the Committees Report on pages 48 to 50.
Board considered the independence of The Board sets the Companys strategy and each Non-Executive Director.
With the Disclosure Policy policies and monitors progress towards exception of two of them as set out below The Companys original Disclosure Policy meeting its objectives.
It also assesses and the Chairman, the Board considers approved by the Board in October 2002 whether its obligations to the Companys that all of the Non-Executive Directors are principally provided a framework for the shareholders and others are understood independent in character and judgement handling and disclosure of price sensitive and met.
This includes regular reviews of and that there are no relationships or information.
The Chief Financial Officer, the the Companys financial performance and circumstances which are likely to affect Group Secretary and Solicitor and the Vicecritical business issues.
The Board met six their independent judgement.
President, Corporate Affairs are the times in 2003. members of the Disclosure Committee.
For the reasons explained below, the Board During 2003, the Disclosure Committee met There is an established and transparent does not believe that Hkan Mogren, Nonregularly to assist and inform the decisions procedure for appointments of new Executive Deputy Chairman or Marcus of the Chief Executive concerning price directors to the Board which is operated by Wallenberg can be determined independent sensitive information and its disclosure.
All of the under the revised Combined Code.
during the year, the Companys disclosure Directors retire at each AGM and may offer However, the Board believes that both controls and procedures, Disclosure Policy themselves for re-election by shareholders.
Dr Mogren and Mr Wallenberg bring and the operation of the Disclosure considerable business experience and Committee were reviewed.
A number of At its meeting in December 2003, the Board make valuable contributions to the work changes were approved by the Board in reviewed and assessed how it operates.
These changes were This included consideration and discussion designed to enhance the role of the Senior of the nature and level of its interaction with Dr Mogren was previously the Chief Executive Team concerning disclosure the Companys management: the quality, Executive Officer of Astra AB and Executive controls and procedures and assist the quantity and coverage of information which Deputy Chairman of the Company.
Both Disclosure Committees role in assuring that flows to the Board from management: the Dr Mogren and Mr Wallenberg are members appropriate processes are operating for the balance of the Boards time spent of the Board of Directors of Investor AB, Companys planned disclosures, such as its considering strategic issues compared to a company which, at 31 December 2003, quarterly results announcements and other matters: the content of Board had a 5% holding in the Ordinary Shares annual business review days.
meetings and presentations to Board of the Company.
This holding represents a AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Report Form 20-F Information 2003 45 significant proportion of Investor ABs Chief Executive and the Senior Each business function is subject to an overall investment portfolio.
Additionally, Executive Team annual budget and target-setting process Mr Wallenberg is the Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive, Sir Tom McKillop, has including forecasts for the following two of Investor AB.
delegated authority from, and is responsible years together with a sensitivity and risk to, the Board for directing and promoting analysis, quarterly updates of the forecast The Board also considered, in particular, the the profitable operation and development of for the current year and regular reporting.
positions of Sir Peter Bonfield, senior Nonthe Company, consistent with the primary Performance reviews are undertaken in Executive Director and Erna Mller.
For the aim of enhancing long term shareholder each part of the business regularly.
The reasons explained below, it is the Boards value.
Companys quarterly business performance view that Sir Peter and Professor Mller are management system uses a broad range of independent.
Both Directors discharge their The Chief Executive is responsible to the measures that link directly to the duties in a properly independent manner Board for the management and achievement of key business priorities.
and constructively and appropriately performance of the Companys businesses Treasury operations are centralised, operate challenge the Executive Directors and the within the framework of Company policies, within defined limits and are subject to Board.
reserved powers and routine reporting regular reporting requirements and Audit requirements.
He is obliged to refer certain Committee reviews.
Sir Peter is a Non-Executive Director of major matters defined in the formal Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson.
Marcus delegation of the Boards authority back to Internal controls and Wallenberg is also a Non-Executive Director the Board.
The roles of the Board, the management of risk of Ericsson.
Investor AB, of which Boards committees, the Chairman, the The Board has overall responsibility for the Mr Wallenberg is Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive and the Senior Executive Companys system of internal controls holds approximately 5% of Ericssons Team are documented, as are the which aims to safeguard shareholders shares representing approximately 38% of Companys delegated authorities and investments and the Companys assets, the voting rights.
The Board is satisfied that reserved powers, the means of operation of ensure that proper accounting records are Sir Peters presence on the Ericsson Board the business and the roles of corporate maintained and that the financial results from his broad experience of the functions.
information used within the business and for global telecommunications industry and not publication is accurate, reliable and fairly from any connection with Investor AB or the The Chief Executive has established and presents the financial position of the Wallenberg family.
The Board also had chairs the Senior Executive Team.
While the Company and the results of its business regard to the length of time which Sir Peter Chief Executive retains full responsibility for operations.
The Board is also responsible has served as a Non-Executive Director of the authority delegated to him by the Board, for reviewing the effectiveness of the system the Company he was first appointed in the Senior Executive Team is the vehicle of internal controls.
As the position was only established through which he exercises that authority in to provide reasonable assurance of effective in 2002, the Board wishes Sir Peter to respect of the Companys business operations and compliance with laws and continue in his current role as the senior including Salick Health Care and Astra regulations, although any system of internal Non-Executive Director of the Company for Tech.
controls can only provide reasonable, not two or three years more to provide further absolute, assurance against material continuity, subject to his re-election at The members of the Senior Executive Team misstatement or loss.
are Jonathan Symonds, Chief Financial Officer: Bruno Angelici, Executive ViceSince the publication in September 1999 by Professor Mller is the Chief Executive President, Europe, Japan, Asia Pacific and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Officer of the Board of the Knut and Alice ROW: David Brennan, Executive ViceEngland and Wales of the Turnbull Report, Wallenberg Foundation, a charitable President, North America: Jan Lundberg, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on foundation in Sweden which supports Executive Vice-President, Discovery the Combined Code, the Directors have scientific research and educational Research: John Patterson, Executive Vicecontinued to review the effectiveness of the programmes by awarding financial grants to President, Product Strategy & Licensing Groups system of non-financial controls, individuals or institutions.
Although one of and Business Development: Martin including operational and compliance the Foundations principal investments is in Nicklasson, Executive Vice-President, controls, risk management and the Investor AB, all investment decisions of the Development: Barrie Thorpe, Executive Companys high level internal control Foundation are made by its investment Vice-President, Operations: and Tony arrangements.
These reviews have included committee of which Professor Mller is not Bloxham, Executive Vice-President, an assessment of internal controls, and in a member.
Her role, as Chief Executive Human Resources.
particular internal financial controls, by the Officer of the Board, is principally to lead the internal audit function, management scrutiny of applications for grants and The Senior Executive Team normally meets assurance of the maintenance of control maintain close contacts with scientific and once a month to consider and decide all and reports from the external auditor on educational institutions in Sweden to major business issues.
It also usually matters identified in the course of its develop the work of the Foundation.
reviews those matters which are of a size statutory audit work.
A key part of these or importance to require the attention of, reviews is an annual letter of assurance or which are reserved to, the Board before process by which responsible managers such matters are submitted to the Board confirm the adequacy of their systems of for review and decision.
internal financial and non-financial controls, AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Report 46 Form 20-F Information 2003 Directors Report continued their compliance with Company policies observe the highest ethical standards of compliance with corporate objectives, including those relating to safety, health integrity and honesty and act with due skill, policies and procedures and external and the environment, local laws and care, diligence and fairness in the conduct legislation and regulation other than those regulations including the industrys of business.
The Companys management relating to safety, health and the environment regulatory requirements and report any recognises that such standards make a and product regulatory compliance which control weaknesses identified in the past significant contribution to the overall control are the responsibility of other audit year.
The Directors believe that the environment and seeks, by its words and functions : and on an ad hoc basis, Company maintains an effective embedded actions, to reinforce them throughout the reviewing that value for money is obtained.
system of internal controls and complies business.
In particular, all employees are with the Turnbull Report guidance.
required to comply with the letter and spirit GIA also acts as a source of constructive of the AstraZeneca Code of Conduct and advice and best practice, assisting senior The Company views the careful with the high ethical standards detailed by management with its responsibility to management of risk as a key management the Company in support of it.
improve the processes by which business activity.
Managing business risks to deliver risks are identified and managed and to opportunities is a key element of all During the year, the Code of Conduct was report and advise on the proper and activities.
This is done using a simple and reviewed and revised.
The amended version effective use of resources.
flexible framework which provides a was approved by the Board in July 2003. consistent and sustained way of The revised AstraZeneca Code of Conduct External auditor implementing the Companys values.
These is set out in full on pages 138 and 139.
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM on business risks, which may be strategic, It is an important demonstration of the 29 April 2004 for the re-appointment of operational, reputational, financial or Companys uncompromising commitment KPMG Audit Plc, London as auditor of the environmental, should be understood and to honesty and integrity.
To coincide with the Company.
The business context determines in launch of the new Code of Conduct, the each situation the level of acceptable risk Company also updated and extended its The external auditor has undertaken various and controls.
procedures for raising integrity concerns non-audit work for the Company during which include a confidential helpline for 2003.
More information about this work and Much of the Companys work in the area of employees worldwide.
In September 2003, the fees paid by the Company for it are set risk management is facilitated by the Risk the Company adopted a Finance Code of out in Note 33 to the Financial Statements Advisory Group consisting of Conduct which complements the main on page 107.
The external auditor is not representatives from each business AstraZeneca Code of Conduct and applies engaged by the Company to carry out any function.
Its role is advisory and is to assist to the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial non-audit work on which it might, in the senior management to identify and assess Officer and the Company s principal future, be required to express an audit the main risks faced by the Companys accounting officers.
The Finance Code of opinion.
As explained more fully in the Audit business in a co-ordinated manner, to Conduct also applies to all Finance function Committees Report on pages 48 to 50, the assess, identify and document the employees and reinforces the importance of Audit Committee has established preCompanys risk profile and to ensure that the integrity of the Companys accounts, the approval policies and procedures for audit the business focuses on critical business reliability of the accounting records on and non-audit work permitted to be carried issues.
It is chaired by the Chief Financial which they are based and the robustness of out by the external auditor and has carefully Officer and reports twice a year to the the relevant controls and processes.
monitored the objectivity and independence Senior Executive Team.
The Risk Advisory of the external auditor throughout 2003.
Groups reports on the Companys risk Group Internal Audit profile are reviewed by both the Audit Group Internal Audit GIA is an independent Board committees Committee and the Board.
appraisal function which derives its Audit Committee authority from the Board through the Audit Full details about the Audit Committee, its Under the auspices of the Risk Advisory Committee.
Its primary role is to provide composition, remit and work during 2003 Group, the Company has developed and is reasonable and objective assurance about can be found in the Audit Committees establishing an integrated risk management the adequacy and effectiveness of the Report on pages 48 to 50. framework with the aim of continuing to Companys financial control framework and ensure that the business understands the risk management.
Remuneration Committee key risks it faces, especially cross-functional The members of the Remuneration risks, has an embedded risk management GIA seeks to discharge the responsibilities Committee are Sir Peter Bonfield Chairman approach to all of its activities, links risk set down in its charter by reviewing the of the Committee, John Buchanan and management to business performance processes which ensure that business risks Erna Mller.
They are all Non-Executive reporting and seeks continuous are effectively managed: reviewing the Directors.
The Board considers them all to improvement in the management of risk by financial and operational controls which help be independent.
sharing best practice throughout the to ensure that the Companys assets are organisation.
properly safeguarded from losses, including The remit of the Remuneration Committee fraud: reviewing the controls which help to is, primarily, to recommend for decision by Code of Conduct ensure the reliability and integrity of the Board the fundamental remuneration The policy of the Company is to require all of management information systems: policy for the Company and to ensure the its subsidiaries, and their employees, to reviewing the processes which ensure proper operation of all plans for employees AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Report Form 20-F Information 2003 47 involving the Companys shares.
More of Project Evaluation normally attend In line with legal requirements and cultural particularly, it makes specific proposals in meetings of the Science Committee.
standards, more formal national and respect of the remuneration packages of business level employee consultation individual Executive Directors and the Shareholders arrangements exist in some countries, Companys most senior executives.
In its financial reporting to shareholders and including the UK.
There is a forum for other interested parties by means of annual employee consultation at European level, Further information about the membership and quarterly reports, the Board aims to chaired by the Chief Executive, in which and work of the Remuneration Committee present a balanced and understandable employee representatives from 19 countries and the Companys remuneration policy assessment of the Companys financial participate.
The Company also has a variety and practice is set out in the Directors position and prospects.
of constructive relationships with trade Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 59. unions across its worldwide operations The Company maintains a corporate including formal recognition and active Nomination Committee website containing a wide range of dialogue where appropriate.
The members of the Nomination Committee information of interest to institutional and are Percy Barnevik Chairman of the private investors: astrazeneca.
The Company believes that every employee Committee, Hkan Mogren, Sir Peter should be treated with the same respect Bonfield, Jane Henney and Joe Jimenez.
The Company has frequent discussions and dignity.
It values the rich diversity and Mr Jimenez was appointed as a member with institutional shareholders on a range of creative potential of people with differing of the Nomination Committee in December issues affecting its performance.
These backgrounds and abilities and encourages 2003.
They are all Non-Executive Directors.
include meetings following the a culture of equal opportunities in which With the exception of the Chairman and announcement of the annual results with personal success depends on personal Dr Mogren, for the reasons explained the Companys largest institutional merit and performance.
It is Company above, the Board considers them all to be shareholders on an individual basis.
In policy that there should be no discrimination independent.
addition, the Company responds to against any person for any reason.
All individual ad hoc requests for discussions judgements about people for the purposes The remit of the Nomination Committee is, from institutional shareholders.
The senior of recruitment, development and promotion primarily, to lead the process for and to Non-Executive Director is available to are made solely on the basis of their ability make proposals to the Board for any new shareholders if they have concerns which and potential in relation to the needs of the appointments as Directors of the Company.
contact through the normal channels of job.
Every manager is responsible for The remit of the Nomination Committee is Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief implementing this policy.
available on the Companys website: Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for astrazeneca.
During 2003, the which such contact is inappropriate.
It is Company policy that people with Nomination Committee held regular disabilities should have the same meetings.
Each meeting was attended by all All shareholders, including private investors, consideration as others with respect to of its members.
In particular, it considered have an opportunity to put questions to recruitment, retention and personal the appointment to the Board of two members of the Board on matters relating development.
Depending on their skills and additional Non-Executive Directors.
to the Companys operation and abilities, people with disabilities enjoy the External search consultants assisted with performance at the AGM.
same career prospects as other employees this work.
The Nomination Committee and the same scope for realising potential.
unanimously recommended to the Board Employees The Company also takes all reasonable that Michele Hooper and Joe Jimenez be The core values of the Company are respect steps to ensure that its working appointed as Non-Executive Directors.
for the individual and diversity: openness, environments can accommodate special honesty, trust and support for each other: needs.
As with all new Non-Executive Directors, a integrity and high ethical standards: and series of induction meetings with various leadership by example at all levels.
Other stakeholders senior managers were arranged for The Company aims to set, promote and Ms Hooper and Mr Jimenez following their The Company maintains an open maintain high standards of corporate appointments to the Board.
management style and involves its responsibility wherever it operates.
Dame employees both in daily decisions which Bridget Ogilvie, Non-Executive Director, is Science Committee affect them and longer term matters.
The the Board member responsible for this area In July 2003, the Board established a Company is fully committed to keeping all of and oversees the work of a cross-functional Science Committee.
The members of the its employees informed about their work unit committee.
The Company has established Science Committee are Jane Henney, and the wider business, as well as systems to monitor its performance.
Erna Mller and Dame Bridget Ogilvie.
discussing the implications of major Policies and standards relating to corporate business changes and other relevant responsibility are maintained and widely The remit of the Science Committee is, on matters.
Key business priorities are communicated within the organisation.
In behalf of the Board, to review and assess communicated throughout the organisation 2003, the Company was again included in the international competitiveness and and form part of the basis for the Companys the FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones quality of science within the Company.
employee bonus and incentive plans.
The Company The Executive Vice-President, Discovery of employees share plans appear in Note 30 publishes and sends to shareholders a Research and the Chief Scientist and Head to the Financial Statements.
