AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review Form 20-F Information 2003 21 Sales growth is shown in both reported and underlying performance.
Reported performance takes into account all the factors including those which we cannot influence, principally currency exchange rates that have affected the results of our business.
Underlying performance shows sales growth at constant exchange rates CER to reflect the volume and price changes of the geographic and therapy areas and individual products by excluding the effects of exchange.
A description of the calculation of this measure is set out in the Financial Review on page 31, together with the reasons Geographic Review for its use.
We consolidated the number of third largest statin in the US for patients advertising agencies we use, resulting in US who took statin therapy for the first time or substantial cost-savings for the business.
Sales fell by 6% $604 million in 2003 from who switched from another statin.
We $9,351 million to $8,747 million following submitted our regulatory package for We also established a new External the loss of $2,646 million in sales to generic Exanta for chronic indications to the FDA Scientific Affairs function dedicated to competition for Losec Prilosec, Zestril and in December 2003. enhancing relationships with key opinion Nolvadex.
The US remains the worlds leaders, academic and healthcare largest market for pharmaceuticals and US Our US sales force of 5,700 people is the institutions and importantly, the FDA.
Plans consumers continue to drive demand and sixth largest in the US.
Investment in are also underway to locate an office close reward innovation especially for medicines technology, strategic realignment and to the FDA to share scientific expertise on award winning training has significantly areas of common interest to the FDA.
that prolong, or improve the quality of, life.
increased productivity and customer Our sales in the US of $8.7 billion reflect our satisfaction.
Passage of a Medicare prescription drug commitment to driving growth in this key benefit market.
The US represents 46% of our total During 2003 we entered into an In November 2003, the US Congress sales.
AstraZeneca is currently the fifth arrangement whereby, from January 2004, passed bipartisan legislation to add a largest pharmaceutical company in the US a third party will manage the promotion, prescription drug benefit to the Medicare with our sales representing a 5% share of marketing and distribution of all Zomig programme.
This new legislation is the first US prescription pharmaceutical sales.
Underpinning our success in the highly formulations to provide greater field force major change to Medicare in nearly 40 competitive US market were the top-tier coverage in this key market.
The drug benefit programme will take performances of Nexium, Seroquel and full effect in January 2006 although discount Toprol-XL, with combined sales of In 2003, we settled the investigation into the cards will be available in 2004 and 2005.
Nexium surpassed the $2 billion sales and marketing of Zoladex between We believe aspects of the law will have a sales mark and now holds the position of 1993 and 1996 with the Department of positive incremental impact on patients and the fastest growing PPI in terms of total Health & Human Services.
This involved the the industry in 2004.
The final regulations prescriptions in a highly competitive market.
payment of $355 million and, under the for the laws implementation in 2006 and Total US sales were $2,477 million for 2003 terms of the settlement, the Company market forces will ultimately determine the $1,525 million for 2002 and total Group pleaded guilty to one count of violating the full effect on our business.
sales were $3,302 million for 2003 $1,978 Prescription Drug Marketing Act.
Toprol-XL became the addition, our sales and marketing function We anticipate that the issue of cross border most prescribed anti-hypertensive among and all other relevant employees received movement of products into the US and cardiologists and Seroquel continued to additional code of conduct and policy coverage for the uninsured will remain gain share in the atypical anti-psychotic training as part of the Corporate Integrity contentious among politicians, the media market.
Other key growth products, Agreement with the Office of Inspector and special interest groups during 2004. including Arimidex, Pulmicort Respules and General of the US Department of Health & We will continue to provide free and Rhinocort Aqua, outperformed the market Human Services.
Further information is set discounted medicines to qualifying patients in both sales and prescriptions.
As out on page 104. through our Prescription Partnership expected, sales of Losec Prilosec Programmes.
State Medicaid programmes continued to decline as four more generic Efficiency and effectiveness will continue to be a challenge to the market versions of omeprazole entered the market In 2003, we undertook and completed a in the US but innovative partnering and Proctor & Gamble launched the first number of projects focused on efficiency opportunities with key states are in over-the-counter OTC version of the brand and effectiveness.
development to mitigate downward Losec Prilosec OTC.
Iressa was launched pressures on reimbursement.
in May and has become an important We restructured our commercial medicine in the treatment of non-small cell organisation from a therapy area to a brandlung cancer.
Crestor was launched in led structure, adding new business units September into the intensely competitive dedicated to emerging brands and mature AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review 22 Form 20-F Information 2003 Geographic Review continued Canada effects of exchange of $210 million and successfully launched in a number of In 2003, underlying sales growth in Canada $149 million, respectively.
markets in Asia Pacific during 2003.
This was 14% reported growth of 25% with region represents an area of potential total sales of US$712 million.
We rank Crestor has exceeded expectations in most continued high growth for the future.
number three in Canada with a 7% market countries where it has been launched.
Canada was the first market to sales value, Crestor is, after seven months, Latin America launch Crestor and it has already achieved the most successful product launch ever in The region has during 2003 continued to 45% of new prescriptions in the private the UK and the Netherlands.
We have also grow strongly with 17% underlying growth payer market.
Iressa was also launched in seen strong uptake of market share for total 6% on a reported basis and sales reaching late 2003.
Symbicort and Nexium continued prescriptions, particularly in the $515 million.
Mexico with 24% underlying their strong performance as they both built Netherlands, Ireland and Finland.
growth 12% reported and Venezuela with market share.
Atacand and Seroquel 44% underlying growth 15% reported continued to enjoy double digit growth with The transformation of our portfolio due to provided strong sales growth with underlying increases of 29% and 42% strong contribution of new products and the AstraZeneca being the fastest growing reported growth of 44% and 55% fast development of central and eastern major pharmaceutical company in those respectively.
The oncology group grew 13% European markets constitute a solid countries.
In Brazil, Chile, Uruguay and due to the continued success of Casodex platform for future growth.
Peru, we grew significantly above market and Arimidex.
one in Canada in oncology with a 21% Japan market share.
We continued to be the fastest growing Crestor was successfully launched in, major pharmaceutical company in Japan.
among others, Mexico, Argentina and Rest of the World AstraZeneca was ranked 14th by sales at Venezuela and it rapidly achieved a 24% Europe the end of 2003.
Sales reached $1,189 volume market share in Mexico six months The market environment in Europe is million, up from $977 million in 2002.
increasingly challenging with governmental strongly performing product range in initiatives being taken to cut prices, oncology including Arimidex, Casodex and particularly in Germany, Italy and the Iressa, plus continued strong growth in Netherlands.
Generic substitution in Europe Losec Prilosec up 39% on an underlying is being encouraged through legislation and basis and 50% on a reported basis drove in 2003, this has been particularly an underlying 14% sales growth and a emphasised in France and the Netherlands.
After a weak first AstraZeneca is ranked fifth in the European quarter, Iressa sales in Japan grew steadily pharmaceutical market with a market share in 2003.
The growth is based on growing of 5%.
Sales reached $6.7 billion for the experience in Japanese patients and year resulting in an underlying 2% increase increasing confidence in second line in Europe 18% reported growth.
Strong treatment among oncology specialists.
We sales performance in France up 9% on an have initiated a number of studies to further underlying basis and 28% on a reported investigate the use of Iressa in Japan and basis to $1.5 billion and Spain up 12% on will continue to work with the Ministry of an underlying basis and 32% on a reported Health, Labour and Welfare to ensure that basis to $616 million offset declining sales Iressa is used appropriately in all patients in the UK, the Netherlands and Sweden.
who can be expected to benefit from the Our increased focus in central and eastern drug.
Europe has resulted in a strong growth 19% ahead of market growth for 2003.
Asia Pacific excluding Japan During 2003 we have achieved continued Our sales growth in Europe was driven strong sales growth in the region despite the particularly by Nexium 55% underlying, impact of the SARS outbreak earlier in the 80% reported, Symbicort 53% year.
Sales reached $918 million with an underlying, 77% reported, Casodex underlying growth rate of 18%.
Our 20% underlying, 40% reported, continued investment in China, which Arimidex 40% underlying, 63% reported resulted in above market performance and Seroquel 40% underlying, 60% 37% on both underlying and reported reported which offset the impact of patent basis, included increased manufacturing expiries, specifically Losec Prilosec, Plendil and commercial capability.
Strong growth and Zestril in the UK, Sweden and the also continued in South Korea and India.
The underlying decrease in Across the region the GI portfolio performed sales in Europe of these three products strongly.
In Australia, Nexium sales grew amounted to $390 million of which strongly 229% underlying, 279% Losec Prilosec alone accounted for $305 reported and its market share reached 25% million.
This decrease was offset by the in December.
