AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review Form 20-F Information 2003 27 Supply and Manufacturing With 31 manufacturing sites in 20 countries Capital expenditure on supply and base to ensure optimum utilisation of and almost 16,000 employees worldwide, manufacturing facilities totalled $496 million production facilities.
our Operations organisation provides in 2003.
New plant included additional secure, high quality, cost-effective supply of active ingredient capacity for Crestor in the The new supply system has also increased AstraZenecas product range globally.
We UK, formulation capacity for Crestor in the focus on managing costs throughout measure our performance using four key Puerto Rico and additional capacity for the product lifecycle.
Product supply chains metrics: customer service, supply Pulmicort in the US.
Plans are in place to are being modelled with a view to targeting capability, cost efficiency and licence to expand capacity in the US, France, Sweden cost of goods reductions through improving operate.
and Puerto Rico to meet the growing yields, undertaking process changes and demands of our product portfolio including adjusting buying patterns to reduce material Customer service Symbicort, Pulmicort Respules and Crestor.
Stock levels and stock turns are also The fast and effective introduction of new being modelled for major products with a products is key to success.
Our supply Raw materials view to targeting stock reductions to chains are designed to maximise flexibility.
AstraZenecas global purchasing policies improve working capital utilisation.
For example, in the US, Crestor was and processes together with our business available to wholesalers within three days of interruption risk management BIRM Licence to operate FDA approval and the majority of retail process are aimed at ensuring the supply of We are committed to delivering a secure stores were stocked within nine days.
All raw materials, manufacturing equipment basis for assured product quality that other major products and line extensions and other key supplies, all of which are ensures both the safety and efficacy of our were also successfully supported with purchased from a range of suppliers.
As part of this, the outcomes of supplies available to meet market demand.
BIRM process systematically examines a routine internal inspections as well as those Process improvements, additional capacity range of risk scenarios to global supply, by regulatory authorities are rigorously investments and the effective use of reviewed and, if required, actions taken to such as disasters that remove supply external contractors ensure the secure and further enhance compliance.
Device capability or the unavailability of key raw effective supply of established products.
As presentations of inhalation products present materials and ensures that these risks are part of our overall risk management, we manufacturing challenges and where mitigated by the implementation of carefully consider the timing of investment appropriate, like other manufacturers, we contingency plans, including the relating to the launch of new products.
keep these under review with relevant appointment of dual or multiple suppliers Secure supply chains are in place for all regulators.
The results of all external and maintenance of appropriate stock products in late stage development.
inspections carried out during 2003 were levels.
Although the price of raw materials satisfactory and we did not experience any may fluctuate from time to time, our global Supply capability delays to approvals due to regulatory purchasing policies seek to avoid such Our strategy remains to operate a small compliance issues at our sites or those of fluctuations becoming material to our number of sites for the manufacture of our contractors.
active ingredients and combine it with effective use of outsourcing.
AstraZeneca Safety, health and environment SHE Cost efficiency has active ingredient sites in the UK, Puerto operating standards are increasingly 2003 saw the continued implementation of Rico, Sweden and France and a bulk drug stringent with regulators placing particular the new AstraZeneca supply system which purification plant in Germany.
Around 1,750 emphasis on environmental issues and the has demonstrated benefits in the first year people are employed in active safety of chemicals.
AstraZenecas of operation, with higher customer service pharmaceutical ingredient supply.
manufacturing sites operate under various levels, reduced manufacturing lead times licensing regimes and we are focused on and consequently reduced requirements for AstraZenecas major products include meeting all regulatory requirements and the build up of stock.
The programme was Nexium, Crestor, Seroquel and current good practice standards.
There are implemented in the US, the UK and Sweden Losec Prilosec and these are manufactured currently no environmental issues that and will be extended to the rest of the in the US, the UK, Puerto Rico, Sweden and constrain AstraZeneca from fully utilising supply network in 2004.
We are making steady progress exchange effects, underlying improvements against our targets for the reduction of in stock levels are not readily apparent from Principal formulation sites for tablets and waste and energy usage and the level of the published financial statements.
capsules operate in six countries the UK, accidents with injury is falling.
Our aim for Sweden, Puerto Rico, France, Germany and continuous improvement includes learning Cost efficiencies are also driven by the US.
There are also major formulation from incidences of non-compliance and continuous review of our manufacturing sites for the global supply of parenteral and sharing best practice to further promote assets to make sure that they are being inhalation products in Sweden, France and high standards.
used most effectively, whilst preserving the the UK.
Packaging is undertaken at a large flexibility we need to respond to fluctuations number of locations, both at AstraZeneca in demand.
A number of older units were Further information and statistics about our sites and at contractors facilities, located closed during the year and our facility in SHE performance can be found in the close to our marketing companies to ensure Sanda Japan was sold.
A decision was separate 2003 Corporate Responsibility rapid and responsive product supply.
also taken to close a sterile production Summary Report or on our website: Around 13,000 people are employed in facility in Canada.
We will continue to make astrazeneca.
further adjustments to our manufacturing
