AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review 16 Form 20-F Information 2003 Oncology We aim to maintain our Products stabilised at 3%, a rate comparable to other Casodex bicalutamide is the worlds therapies.
By contrast, the reported rate is position as a world leader leading anti-androgen therapy for the below 0.5% outside Japan.
in cancer treatment treatment of prostate cancer.
Recent growth of Casodex has largely been driven by its Arimidex anastrozole is the worlds through continued growth use to treat early stage prostate cancer leading aromatase inhibitor.
The ATAC study for Casodex, Arimidex and EPC.
Casodex 150mg has received in breast cancer, first reported in December regulatory approval for the treatment of EPC 2001 and then subsequently updated in Zoladex, further launches in over 50 markets to date.
In the US, in December 2002, showed that Arimidex is of newer products, 2002 the FDA did not approve this new significantly more effective in prolonging indication.
It is under review in several other disease-free survival and has important Faslodex and Iressa and markets.
Elsewhere, the rapid uptake of tolerability benefits compared with the successful Casodex in EPC as a favoured therapy is a tamoxifen.
Based on the ATAC study, demonstration of physicians growing Arimidex is rapidly moving towards introduction of novel confidence in the efficacy and tolerability replacing tamoxifen as the standard of care approaches currently in profile of Casodex as a treatment in all in breast cancer.
Regulatory approvals for stages of prostate cancer.
Arimidex in the adjuvant treatment of early the pipeline.
breast cancer in post-menopausal women Zoladex goserelin acetate is one of the have been granted in 57 markets including worlds best selling luteinising-hormone the US, Europe and Japan.
Early breast releasing hormone LHRH agonists for the cancer represents a major new market for treatment of prostate cancer, breast cancer Arimidex and is driving significant growth.
It has been Recent data from a major trial has shown approved in 24 countries for the adjuvant significant improvements in efficacy and treatment of early stage pre-menopausal tolerability for women who switch therapy breast cancer, as an alternative to and or in from tamoxifen to Arimidex before their addition to chemotherapy.
Zoladex offers standard five year course is complete.
the proven disease free survival benefits of Arimidex is also approved for the treatment cytotoxics but with improved patient of advanced breast cancer in posttolerability.
In prostate cancer, Zoladex in menopausal women based on the adjuvant setting is the only LHRH demonstrated advantages over tamoxifen agonist shown to improve overall survival and megestrol acetate.
Therapy area overview following radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy.
Faslodex fulvestrant is a new type of World market value: cancer endocrine therapy, an oestrogen receptor therapies: $18 billion.
Iressa gefitinib is a novel anti-cancer agent antagonist, with no agonist effects, that that acts to block signals for cancer cell down regulates the oestrogen receptor.
It Globally, over 12 million people are growth and survival.
Clinical trials with was launched in the US in May 2002 and diagnosed with cancer each year.
Iressa as monotherapy for non-small cell subsequently in Brazil in July 2003, for the lung cancer NSCLC showed response second line treatment of hormone receptor Cancer is predicted to be the leading rates and disease control in approximately positive advanced breast cancer in postcause of death in the US by 2005. half of patients and symptomatic benefit in menopausal women.
Due to its novel mode over 40% of patients treated.
Regulatory of action, Faslodex offers an effective, well filings based on monotherapy began in tolerated treatment option for patients, with 2003 in brief December 2001.
Since first launch in Japan the compliance and convenience benefits of in 2002, uptake of Iressa has been rapid, a once monthly injection.
In November Rapid uptake of Iressa since first reflecting the high unmet need in NSCLC 2003, the Committee for Proprietary launch in Japan in 2002 and the US in and the significant benefit seen with Iressa.
Medicinal Products CPMP gave a positive 2003.
Over 100,000 patients treated In the US, the FDA granted Iressa approval opinion on the approvability of Faslodex in since launch.
in May 2003, conditional upon conduct of Europe.
We currently expect to receive further specified studies, and it is now European approval in early 2004.
Positive opinion on approvability of approved in more than 15 countries.
We are Faslodex from the CPMP in 2003. pursuing monotherapy submissions for Nolvadex tamoxifen citrate remains the Iressa in all other major markets, including worlds most commonly prescribed breast Arimidex rapidly moving towards Europe where filing was submitted in the cancer therapy and the first medication replacing tamoxifen as the standard first quarter of 2003 and definitive clinical approved in the US for reducing the of care in breast cancer.
studies are underway to secure incidence of breast cancer in women at high unconditional approval in the US.
To date, risk of developing the disease.
US Anticipated erosion of Nolvadex sales over 100,000 patients have been treated marketing exclusivity for tamoxifen expired following expiration of US marketing with Iressa.
In Japan, reporting of interstitial during 2003. exclusivity in early 2003. lung disease associated with Iressa has AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review Form 20-F Information 2003 17 Sales growth is shown in both reported and underlying performance.
Reported performance takes into account all the factors including those which we cannot influence, principally currency exchange rates that have affected the results of our business.
Underlying performance shows sales growth at constant exchange rates CER to reflect the volume and price changes of the geographic and therapy areas and individual products by excluding the effects of exchange.
A description of the calculation of this measure is set out in the Financial Review on page 31, together with the reasons for its use.
Sales of Nolvadex agents and novel approaches across a wide Oncologys reported sales growth was 16% elsewhere were $137 million.
range of cancers that include targeting as revenues grew by $374 million from tumour vasculature to control tumour $2,369 million to $2,743 million.
Performance 2002 growth, invasion and spread.
The potential Reported performance of Iressa to show benefits in a number of Underlying performance Sales grew by $258 million to $2,369 million tumours in addition to expanding use of Oncology sales grew by 8% to $2,743 in 2002, an increase of 12%.
Iressa in NSCLC is being investigated with million with growth from Casodex, Arimidex particular focus on head and neck, breast and Iressa offsetting the decline in Nolvadex.
Underlying performance and colorectal cancers.
Minimal exchange effects meant that Casodex sales outside the US increased by underlying sales growth was unchanged ZD6474 and AZD2171 are anti- 23%, driven by good growth in Europe up from reported performance at 12%.
angiogenics in phase 2 and phase 1 20% and Japan up 28%.
Growth in respectively which target the growth of Europe and Japan is driven by the Sales of Casodex outside the US increased blood vessels of tumours.
AZD9935 is expanding use of Casodex in early stage by 42% to $464 million in 2002.
Prescriptions another anti-angiogenic in pre-clinical disease.
In the US where the market for for Casodex grew by some 5% in the US development.
anti-androgen therapy of advanced market.
The reported sales decline in the US prostate cancer is maturing the underlying of 23% to $180 million reflected an adverse ZD6126 is a vascular targeting agent in demand is broadly unchanged with comparison against wholesaler stockbuilding phase 2 which targets and destroys the Casodex share of total prescriptions in this which occurred at the end of 2001. vasculature of tumours, working to destroy market being 83% in December.
US sales the tumour from within.
AZD4440, another growth of 18% is principally a reflection of Arimidex enhanced its leading position in vascular targeting agent, is in pre-clinical wholesaler destocking in 2002. the aromatase inhibitor market.
ZD4054 is an endothelin prescriptions in the US doubled since antagonist in phase 2 that works by Sales of Arimidex increased by 47% in the December 2001, driving the 127% increase targeting the endothelin A receptor, US and by 45% in the rest of the world, in US sales for the year to $134 million.
Sales outside the US increased by 51%.
AZD0530 and AZD0424, anti-invasives in Sales of Iressa reached $228 million during Sales of Faslodex reached $35 million after phase 1 and pre-clinical respectively, are the year including sales in Japan of $101 eight months in the US, representing the designed to prevent tumours from million.
Iressa sales in the US since launch in most successful US launch of a hormonal spreading.
AZD3409 is a prenylation May 2003 totalled $102 million.
In agent for breast cancer in the last 20 years.
inhibitor in phase 1 designed to inhibit the December, more than 7,300 retail proliferation of cancer cells.
AZD5438 is a prescriptions were dispensed in the US, Sales of Iressa for the treatment of novel selective cyclin dependent kinase bringing the total for the year to over 42,000. inoperable or recurrent NSCLC reached inhibitor in phase 1 targeted at proliferating $67 million.
Zoladex was the leading tumour cells.
AZD1152, an aurora kinase Faslodex sales of $77 million reflect a steady oncology product with $794 million sales inhibitor designed to target cell division in increase in usage for the treatment of and growth of 12%.
US revenues for proliferating tumours, is now in pre-clinical advanced breast cancer in the US market.
Nolvadex fell 27% to $337 million, as sales development.
AZD6244, also in pre-clinical of our tamoxifen products fell as a result of development, is a selective MEK inhibitor Underlying sales of Zoladex were the expiry of our distribution agreement with targeting proliferating tumour cells.
US sales of Barr Laboratories.
Nolvadex declined by $296 million to
