AstraZeneca Annual Report and Board of Directors 06 Form 20-F Information 2003 Board of Directors at 31 December 2003 Percy Barnevik Non-Executive Chairman Hkan Mogren Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Jane Henney Non-Executive Director Karl von der Heyden Non-Executive Director Sir Tom McKillop Jonathan Symonds Executive Director Executive Director Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Sir Peter Bonfield Dame Bridget Ogilvie Senior Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Marcus Wallenberg Michele Hooper Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director John Buchanan Joe Jimenez Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Erna Mller Non-Executive Director AstraZeneca Annual Report and Board of Directors Form 20-F Information 2003 07 Sir Tom McKillop 60 Jonathan Symonds 44 Percy Barnevik 62 Non-Executive Chairman Executive Director and Chief Executive Executive Director and Chief Financial Chairman of the Nomination Committee Appointed as a Director 1 January 1996.
Officer Appointed as a Director 6 April 1999.
Non-Executive Director of Lloyds TSB Group Appointed as a Director 1 October 1997.
Honorary Chairman of Sandvik AB.
President of the European Federation of Also has overall responsibility for Information Executive Director of General Motors Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations.
Non-Executive Director of QinetiQ Corporation.
Member of the Academies of Pro-Chancellor of the University of Leicester.
Member of the UK Accounting Engineering Sciences in Sweden and Finland Chairman of the British Pharma Group and Standards Board.
Chairman of The Hundred and Honorary Member of the Royal the North West Science Council.
Group of Finance Directors in the UK.
Member of Sir Peter Bonfield CBE, FREng 59 Advisory Councils in Korea, India and the Dame Bridget Ogilvie 65 Senior Non-Executive Director Investment Council advising the South Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration African Government.
Member of the Member of the Audit Committee and the Committee and Member of the Business Council of American CEOs.
Science Committee Nomination Committee Member of the Advisory Board, Centre for Appointed as a Director 1 January 1997.
Also has responsibility for overseeing Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Non-Executive Non-Executive Director of Hkan Mogren 59 Director of the Manchester Technology Fund Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson, Mentor Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Limited.
Chairman of the Medicines for Graphics Corporation and Taiwan Member of the Nomination Committee Malaria Venture and the Association of Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Appointed as a Director 6 April 1999.
Vice-President of The British Quality Formerly CEO and a Director of Astra AB Cancer Research UK.
Member of Citigroup appointed 18 May 1988.
Chairman of Trustees of the AstraZeneca Science International Advisory Board.
Affibody AB and the Sweden-America Teaching Trust.
Marcus Wallenberg 47 Member of the Board of Directors of Investor Michele Hooper 52 Non-Executive Director AB, Rmy Cointreau S. A. Groupe Danone Non-Executive Director Member of the Audit Committee and Norsk Hydro ASA.
Director of the Appointed as a Director 1 July 2003.
Marianne and Marcus Wallenberg President and Chief Executive Officer of Formerly a Director of Astra AB appointed Foundation.
President and Chief Executive Corporate Vice-President and President, Officer of Investor AB.
Non-Executive ViceJane Henney 56 International Businesses of Caremark Chairman of Saab AB, Skandinaviska Non-Executive Director International Inc. 1992-1998.
Non-Executive Enskilda Banken AB and Telefonaktiebolaget Member of the Audit Committee, the Director of PPG Industries, Inc. Target LM Ericsson.
Non-Executive Director of Nomination Committee and the Science Corporation and Davita Inc. Scania AB, Stora Enso Oyj and the Knut and Committee Alice Wallenberg Foundation.
Joe Jimenez 44 Senior Vice-President & Provost for Health Non-Executive Director John Buchanan 60 Affairs, University of Cincinnati Medical Member of the Nomination Committee Non-Executive Director Center.
Commissioner of Food and Drugs Appointed as a Director 1 July 2003.
Member of the Audit Committee and the 1998-2001 and Deputy Commissioner for Executive Vice-President of H J Heinz Remuneration Committee Operations 1992-1994, US Food and Drug Company and President and Chief Executive Appointed as a Director 25 April 2002.
Deputy Director, US National Officer of Heinz Europe since 2002.
Executive Director and Group Chief Financial Cancer Institute 1980-1995.
Non-Executive Corporate Vice-President then Senior ViceOfficer of BP p. l. c. 1996-2002.
Member of Director of AmerisourceBergen Corporation.
President and President of Heinz North the UK Accounting Standards Board 1997- Member of the Board of Trustees of the America 1998-2002.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Commonwealth Fund and the Scripps of Hain Celestial Group, Inc. Director of BHP Billiton Plc and NonResearch Institute.
Member of the Medical & Executive Director of Vodafone Group Plc.
Scientific Advisory Board of MPM Capital.
Other officers of the Company at 31 December 2003 included members of Erna Mller 63 Karl von der Heyden 67 the Senior Executive Team, as set out on Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director page 45, and: Member of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Science Committee Appointed as a Director 1 October 1998.
Graeme Musker Appointed as a Director 6 April 1999.
Executive Vice-President 1989-1992 and Group Secretary and Solicitor Formerly a Director of Astra AB appointed Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Appointed as Company Secretary 15 May 1995.
Executive Director of the Knut 1993 of RJR Nabisco.
President and Chief 6 June 1993. and Alice Wallenberg Foundation.
Professor Executive Officer of Metallgesellschaft Corp. of Clinical Immunology and Member of the 1993-1994.
Vice-Chairman of PepsiCo, Inc. Nobel Assembly and of the Nobel Committee, 1996-2001.
Non-Executive Director of Karolinska Institutet.
Member of the Royal Federated Department Stores Inc. Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences ARAMARK Inc. and Exult, Inc. and the Royal Swedish Academy of Science.
