AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review Form 20-F Information 2003 29 Industry Regulation Our products are subject to numerous Manufacturing plants and processes are Japan regulations concerning their safety and subject to periodic external inspection by There is formal central government control efficacy.
In many cases, governments also regulators as part of their monitoring of prices in Japan.
New product prices are fix their price and or restrict access to procedures to ensure that manufacturers determined primarily by comparison with reimbursement.
The degree and scope of are complying with prescribed standards of existing product classes.
All existing regulation varies according to the product operation.
products are subject to a price review and countries concerned.
Regulations based on the market price at least every two governing prescription pharmaceuticals are Price regulation years.
In addition, products with generic stringent and manufacture and marketing Prescription medicines are subject to competition are forced to further reduce are normally conditional upon regulatory government controls on price and prices by 4-6%.
Registration processes are reimbursement which operate in most 2000 included an overseas price complex and time-consuming and involve countries in which we sell our products.
This referencing system, under which prices can significant expenditure.
Regulation is can result in large price differentials between be adjusted according to the average price concerned not only with a products markets, which may be further aggravated of four major countries the US, the UK, chemical composition, but also with by currency fluctuations.
Generally, if the US matters such as manufacturing, handling, pricing environment remains unchanged, packaging, labelling, distribution, promotion US these regulations are likely to have a positive and marketing.
Currently, there is no direct government impact on pharmaceutical prices in Japan.
control of prices for non-government drug AstraZeneca routinely participates in various sales in the US.
Federal legislation Product regulation: Astra Tech industry associations and other bodies mandates minimum discounts to US Product registration and certified quality which, among other things, seek to ensure government agencies purchasing drugs for management systems form the basis of the that those implementing legislation and the active military, military veterans and regulatory environment relating to medical regulations affecting pharmaceutical other selected populations.
In Europe, compliance with companies are fully informed as to its impact.
substantial discounts to the US government regulatory requirements involves the is also a condition for the manufacturers implementation and maintenance of a Product regulation drugs to be reimbursed by state Medicaid quality management system and, for certain Before a pharmaceutical product is programmes and an additional rebate is products, a design dossier review.
Medical approved for marketing, it must undergo required if manufacturer price increases devices in the US are regulated through a exhaustive and lengthy clinical trials.
after 1990 exceed the increase in inflation.
Astra The process of developing a new Tech continues to maintain a European and pharmaceutical product, from discovery to In addition, certain states have taken action US compliant quality management system.
launch in the market, can take up to 12 to require additional manufacturer rebates years, but this period varies considerably in on Medicaid drug utilisation for the indigent Product regulation: Salick Health Care different cases and countries.
SHC taken from submission of an application for The healthcare facilities to which SHC marketing approval to launch of the product The Medicare Prescription Drug, provides administrative and management is typically one to two years.
Improvement, and Modernization Act of services on behalf of certain hospitals are 2003 was signed into law in December.
The subject to extensive US federal, state and After a product has been approved and legislation adds a prescription drug benefit local legislation and regulations, such as launched, it is a condition of the product for Medicare beneficiaries in 2006 and those relating to the reimbursement and licence that all aspects relating to its safety, makes discount cards available in 2004 control of healthcare costs.
The largest efficacy and quality must be kept under and 2005. single component of SHC revenue review.
Depending on the country, fines and continues to be fees that are affected other penalties may be imposed for failure to Europe by the reimbursement rates for healthcare adhere to the conditions of product licences.
Most governments in Europe control the services, which are set or regulated by In extreme cases, the product licence may price and reimbursement of medicines after federal or state authorities.
be revoked resulting in withdrawal of the taking into account the medical, financial product from sale.
Promotional and and social impact of a product.
This marketing activities are also tightly controlled budget-based approach reflects increasing by regulations and self-regulating codes of constraints in overall healthcare spending.
Governments increasingly require more assurance of value in their expenditures on During the marketing of a product, strict medicines.
procedures must be in place to monitor, evaluate and report any potential adverse In several European countries, the pricing reactions.
Where adverse reactions occur or and reimbursement systems are being it is judged that they may occur, changes reviewed, with the aim of controlling and may be required to prescribing advice and to limiting drug budgets.
This is an ongoing the product licences.
In extreme cases, the process that puts a downward pressure on product licence may be revoked resulting in pricing and reimbursement of medicines in withdrawal of the product from sale.
