AstraZeneca Annual Report and Global Market Overview Form 20-F Information 2003 03 Global Market Overview World markets Doctors are still the key decision makers in Across the industry there has been a In 2003, worldwide sales of pharmaceutical relation to which treatments should be reduction in the number of new chemical products totalled $430 billion, representing prescribed for their patients.
As the entities NCEs being developed, in part as a an 8% growth at constant exchange rates, economic burden of funding therapies result of investment in new technologies compared to 10% in 2002.
This lower increases, payers, including governments, taking longer than anticipated to deliver new growth is largely due to the performance of health insurers, managed care medicines, although there is evidence of an the US market, which accounts for around organisations and employers are increasing increase in NCEs entering development in half of the worlds pharmaceutical their influence over the choices doctors 2003.
The increased cost of providing more expenditure.
Whilst the US had a market make and health economics are an demanding safety and efficacy studies growth rate of around 10%, this increasingly important element in required by regulators and the effect of represented a decrease from 2002 14%.
patent expiries for a significant number of lower number of new product launches, companies products have also been patent expiries for several high sales Growth drivers and limiters contributory factors to limited growth.
products, together with pricing pressure Increasing populations and the rising have contributed to this decrease.
percentage of elderly people are strong The industry also faces issues that may growth drivers for the pharmaceutical curtail its ability to generate attractive return In Japan, the worlds second largest industry.
In addition there are still major on investment from the growing obligations pharmaceutical market with 12% of world areas of unmet medical need since many of corporate social and environmental revenues, sales grew 2% reflecting the diseases, such as Alzheimers Disease and responsibility and the threat of weakening increasingly tough pricing environment in many cancers have no effective therapies, intellectual property rights.
or are under diagnosed or sub-optimally treated.
Scientific advances and new forms Future pharmaceuticals market In Europe 27% of world revenues, 8% of communication, such as the internet, are There are early signs of increasing numbers growth, the variations in regulatory also growth drivers.
of potential products coming into frameworks were reflected in the development and despite the cost considerably varied growth rates within the Limiting the industrys growth is the containment pressures, dip in R&D region including France with growth of 5%, increasing pressure to contain healthcare productivity and imminent patent expiries of Germany 6%, Italy 5%, Spain 12%, Turkey costs from governments and other payers, some major products, the pharmaceutical 37% and UK 10%.
which affects the pricing and or the market overall is forecast to grow by around willingness to pay for certain therapies.
The companies China, which delivered 20% pharmaceutical has led to a rise in the requirement for cothat do best in this difficult environment will market growth in 2003, Korea, Mexico and pay arrangements where patients be those that combine real innovation with India are increasing in importance for the contribute towards the cost of their optimum operating efficiency.
Cost pressure is also driven by governments worldwide facing the Pharmaceuticals as part of healthcare challenge of providing more funding for the Expenditure on healthcare typically healthcare of the elderly.
A significant represents between 6% and 14% of a example of a response to this challenge is countrys gross domestic product GDP, the enactment of the Medicare Prescription with developed nations towards the top end Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act and developing nations spending less.
Also in the US, the high Pharmaceuticals as a proportion of this costs of pharmaceuticals for uninsured expenditure is usually between 10% and senior citizens have led to increased cross 20% and therefore, is in most cases still less border movement of products from Canada than 2% of GDP even in developed nations.
Differential pricing Pharmaceuticals offer many advantages across the world has long been a feature of over other forms of treatment for illness and the pharmaceutical industry but is now are progressively replacing in-patient care, particularly evident in the US, especially for particularly for cardiovascular and central the uninsured who have to pay the full cost nervous system conditions, and they are the for their medicines, and this increased principal treatment for illnesses such as awareness of different pricing structures is diabetes, asthma, gastric ulcers, skin contributing to a growing resentment of the complaints and many infectious diseases.
