AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review 10 Form 20-F Information 2003 Cardiovascular CV We are a world leader in Products anticipated during 2004.
The results of the Crestor rosuvastatin is a member of the CHARM programme will further differentiate CV medicines, backed by class of products known as statins.
During Atacand within its drug class.
The clinical over 40 years experience.
2003, Crestor gained regulatory approval in programme investigating the effect of more than 40 countries, including 13 Atacand on retinopathy in diabetic patients We aim to build on our European markets, the US and Canada.
DIRECT continued during 2003. strong position, focusing In multiple clinical studies, Crestor has been Seloken ZOK Toprol-XL metoprolol, a in the short to medium shown to be more effective in lowering low once daily tablet for 24 hour control of blood term on the growth density lipoprotein LDL-C than other pressure and for use in heart failure, is the prescribed statins.
Additionally, Crestor worlds leading product by sales in the beta segments of hyperproduces a significant increase in high blocker plain and combinations with tension, dyslipidaemia, density lipoprotein HDL-C, an effect that is diuretic class.
maintained across the 10-40mg dose range.
thrombosis and type 2 By the end of January 2004, we estimate Plendil felodipine is a calcium antagonist diabetes.
that more than 1.5 million prescriptions for the treatment of hypertension and angina.
were written for Crestor and over 750,000 patients had taken Crestor.
Along with Zestril lisinopril dihydrate, an ACE inhibitor, the extensive clinical trial database this is used for the treatment of a wide range of experience demonstrates that Crestor is well CV diseases, including hypertension.
tolerated in clinical use, with a safety profile in line with other marketed statins.
Information regarding patent challenges for Seloken Toprol-XL and Plendil is set out on Our extensive, long term global clinical page 104. research initiative known as the GALAXY programme, including studies which Pipeline investigate cardiovascular risk reduction We aim to broaden our CV portfolio into the Therapy area overview and patient outcomes with Crestor, is now areas of thromboembolism, dyslipidaemia, well underway.
More than 30,000 patients type 2 diabetes metabolic syndrome, atrial CV world market value: $98 billion.
are involved, two studies have been fibrillation and vascular disease prevention.
completed and 14 studies are ongoing in CV diseases account for 17 million important medical areas including heart Exanta, the first new oral anti-coagulant in deaths globally each year, making it failure, end stage renal disease, acute almost 60 years, is a novel oral direct the greatest risk to life for most adults.
coronary syndrome and regression of thrombin inhibitor targeted to prevent and atherosclerosis.
treat the formation of blood clots CV is the single largest therapy area thrombosis.
Exanta has been subject to in the global healthcare market.
By the end of January 2004, Crestor was the largest clinical study development launched in 25 countries including the US, programme in anti-coagulation to date, The statin market has a world market Canada, the UK and the Netherlands.
involving around 30,000 patients, and value of $22 billion.
Further launches are planned throughout providing extensive outcome data.
Several 2004 including in Japan, Italy and France.
clinical studies with Exanta in prevention of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation Atacand candesartan cilexetil is an SPORTIF III and SPORTIF V and treatment 2003 in brief angiotensin II antagonist for the first line of venous thromboembolism VTE THRIVE treatment of hypertension.
The Atacand Treatment were presented during 2003.
Crestor available in 25 markets family of products shows a strong market Liver enzyme elevations have been seen in a including the US by the end of acceptance and competes in the fastest small proportion of patients treated with January 2004. growing sector of the global hypertension Exanta in chronic studies and are typically market angiotensin II antagonists plain and transient occurring within the first two to six Over 750,000 patients treated with combinations with diuretic.
During 2003, months, not associated with specific Crestor by the end of January 2004. the CHARM programme, a comprehensive symptoms and tend to return towards clinical study programme in heart failure, was normal whether or not treatment is Seloken Toprol-XL sales grew by an published, showing significant reduction in continued.
All data from the extensive underlying 38% and exceeded $1 cardiovascular mortality and hospitalisation clinical study programme has been shared billion.
for heart failure in patients treated with with regulatory authorities to support a full Atacand.
The beneficial effect was evaluation of the benefit-risk profile for First approval for Exanta in France.
regardless of age, sex and background Exanta.
The practical benefits of Exanta US and EU filings submitted.
treatment also additive to the effect seen include fixed oral administration, rapid onset with angiotensin converting enzyme ACE of action, low potential for drug food and Erosion of Zestril sales following inhibition.
Initial regulatory approvals for the drug drug interactions and no need for patent expiries in 2002. new indication of heart failure are currently routine blood coagulation monitoring.
A AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review Form 20-F Information 2003 11 Sales growth is shown in both reported and underlying performance.
Reported performance takes into account all the factors including those which we cannot influence, principally currency exchange rates that have affected the results of our business.
Underlying performance shows sales growth at constant exchange rates CER to reflect the volume and price changes of the geographic and therapy areas and individual products by excluding the effects of exchange.
A description of the calculation of this measure is set out in the Financial Review on page 31, together with the reasons for its use.
Lisinopril, the active ingredient in Zestril, lost Exanta provides additional benefits when patent protection in most major markets added to standard therapy including during 2002.
The major part of anticipated Underlying performance aspirin in prevention of major CV events in Excluding exchange effects of $249 million, sales erosion has taken place during 2003, patients following a heart attack.
CV underlying sales growth was $92 million with sales falling by 50% to $478 million or 3%.
Sales in the US exceeded $1.6 billion.
In the US, generic Exanta received its first regulatory approval lisinopril held an 80% share of sales by the for the prevention of VTE in major elective Global sales of Seloken Toprol-XL end of 2003. orthopaedic hip or knee replacement exceeded $1 billion for the first time, on surgery in December 2003 in France.
First continued strong growth in the US up Plendil sales rose by 5%, to $540 million.
regulatory submissions for the chronic 47%, where total prescriptions increased Continuing the trend of the last two years, indications in the US, Canada and Europe by 25%, and market share of total beta growth in the US, where sales were up 13% were made in December 2003.
The filing in blocker prescriptions of Seloken Toprol-XL to $237 million, was offset by lower sales in the US also includes prevention of VTE in reached 26.2% in December, up 2.6 the rest of the world.
major elective orthopaedic knee percentage points compared to 2002. replacement surgery.
Despite destocking in the last quarter, Performance 2002 wholesaler inventories remained higher than Reported performance Galida is a treatment for insulin resistance normal at the year end.
CV sales grew by 2% to $3.6 billion in 2002, related glucose and lipid abnormalities an increase of $86 million compared to 2001. associated with type 2 diabetes metabolic Atacand sales increased by 28% in the US, syndrome.
It is in phase 3 development for and by 18% in the markets outside the US, Underlying performance the treatment of diabetes.
which account for nearly two-thirds of CV sales growth included $32 million of global Atacand sales.
US sales growth exchange effects.
Underlying sales Our further research in thrombosis includes exceeded growth in total prescriptions, increased by 1%.
AZD6140, an oral anti-platelet therapy indicating some increase in wholesaler which is in phase 2.
Novel research in atrial inventories.
Atacand sales grew by 36% to $569 million fibrillation includes AZD7009, an atrial with an increase in the US of 37% to repolarisation delaying agent, which is in Crestor sales were $129 million, including $206 million.
phase 2 and AZD0837 and AZD0303 both $62 million in the US.
The early launch for thrombosis which are in phase 1 and in markets for Crestor included the Prescriptions grew strongly for pre-clinical development respectively.
Netherlands, Canada and the UK.
Based Seloken Toprol-XL in the US generating AZD9684 a carboxy peptidase-U inhibitor on recent market research data, Crestor sales of $617 million, an increase of 43% for thrombosis is in phase 1.
AZD7806 and share of total prescriptions in these markets and a market share of 25%.
Worldwide AZD8294 in the dyslipidaemia area and has reached 8.2% the Netherlands, 6.9% sales grew by 27% from $711 million to AZD4619 and AZD6610, for the treatment Canada, and 2.9% UK respectively, with $901 million.
of metabolic disorders diabetes mellitus shares of the dynamic segment new and and dyslipidaemia, are all in pre-clinical switch therapies only considerably higher.
Erosion of Zestril sales commenced during development.
In the US, Crestor was launched in midthe second half following patent expiry in September.
In the week ending 16 January the US, the UK and Japan, falling by 18% Performance 2003 2004, Crestor share of new prescriptions in from $1,067 million to $877 million.
Reported performance the US statin market was 4.6%, a good start Reported growth for CV was 10% with sales in a highly competitive market.
Crestor Plendil sales rose by 5% to $489 million.
As of $3,910 million, an increase of $341 dynamic share of new statin treatments new in 2001, growth in the US up 6% to $209 million from $3,569 million, notwithstanding and switch therapy only in the US is 13.7%.
million was offset by falling sales in the rest the anticipated erosion of Zestril sales of the world.
