AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review 26 Form 20-F Information 2003 Commercialisation and Portfolio Management AstraZeneca continues to have one of the programmes have widened accordingly to position by developing new, innovative and most competitive product portfolios in the take account of every aspect of building cost-effective products from our R&D and pharmaceutical industry, supported by a global brands.
in-licensing activities, which add value for robust new product development pipeline.
healthcare professionals and our patients.
Maintaining the quality of AstraZenecas Our products have to bear scrutiny in portfolio requires careful prioritisation to relation to clinical efficacy and safety as Our products are marketed primarily to manage both the progression of promising well as value and ease of use for patients.
physicians both general and specialist as compounds from development to market Efficient pharmaceutical development well as to other healthcare professionals.
place and to maximise the value of high requires transparent, quality assured Marketing efforts are also directed towards potential marketed products.
processes which are acceptable to explaining the economic and therapeutic regulatory authorities plus the use of benefits of our products to governments We are committed to organic growth, but in complementary new technologies and and healthcare buying groups, for example, common with other leading pharmaceutical strategic outsourcing.
We use internetmanaged care organisations in the US, trust companies, our licensing activities seek to enabled processes and external hospitals and budget-holding medical bring in new products and or technologies partnerships to simplify the processes for groups in the UK and other organisations and to support growth products in a costour clinical trials, and internally, we exploit which pay for healthcare costs in various effective manner.
best use of document exchange sites and countries.
In the US, we invest a significant intranets to share knowledge and improve amount of money in direct-to-consumer The proven ability to bring major primary effectiveness and efficiency.
advertising campaigns for certain of our care products to market, replacing products.
revenues lost due to patent expiry, is The internet also efficiently expands our integral to the ongoing success of the channels of communication with patients AstraZenecas principal competitors are Company.
Product Strategy & Licensing and doctors.
We use e-business other international, research-based PS&L provides commercial leadership, opportunities to strengthen our pharmaceutical and biotechnology while working closely with R&D and our relationships with key stakeholders and to companies which also sell branded, patent major marketing companies, to manage the improve our overall speed and protected, prescription pharmaceuticals.
commercial aspects of drug development effectiveness.
and to co-ordinate our global product Following patent expiry, our products also marketing strategy.
We are also utilising our knowledge and compete with generic pharmaceuticals.
expertise to share medical and disease Competition with generic pharmaceuticals To ensure the success of our medicines, we information and best practice with health is principally on price since generic must address unmet medical needs, find professionals and, where allowed, with pharmaceutical companies typically incur novel solutions, minimise technical risk and patients themselves.
only limited R&D costs compared to those maximise commercial opportunity.
PS&L is of research-based companies such as responsible for selecting the appropriate To maximise the potential for empowering AstraZeneca.
products for investment, developing patients and patient groups, we have effective marketing platforms to create developed an e-learning programme which Our ability to maintain and enhance our market place awareness in time for new provides our marketing companies with a competitive position in our chosen therapy product launches and directing the creation comprehensive range of resources with areas depends mainly on our development and delivery of product marketing strategies which to share disease and therapy of new, innovative, cost-effective products that successfully align global and national information with healthcare practitioners, from our R&D and in-licensing activities, the plans.
leading medical specialists and patients.
manufacture and supply of products to high In addition, a portfolio of online learning quality standards and the effective Target product profiles TPPs for each new modules has been developed for employee marketing of products to our global product are clearly defined at a very early use, deepening our own knowledge and customer groups.
stage in Discovery in order to both set awareness of key disease areas to better parameters for R&D activity and to help serve our customers.
shape the marketing strategy of the Company.
Among the factors considered in We monitor market and industry trends to developing a TPP are product features and assess implications for our sector and for benefits, medical and health outcomes AstraZeneca in particular.
Besides being information, positioning, demonstration of driven by external environmental factors value and the competitive environment.
such as advances in science and technology, unmet medical needs and an We have clearly defined lifecycle ageing population, we need to meet future management programmes for all our challenges such as pricing pressures and products, which maximise not just the access to medicines.
A sharp focus on commercial potential of the brands, but also threats and opportunities ensures we the value they bring to patients lives.
In continue to deliver a commercially addition, our customer base has broadened successful result from a pharmaceuticals over the past year and our marketing business that maintains its competitive
