AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review 18 Form 20-F Information 2003 Respiratory and Inflammation R&I We aim to build on our Products grown strongly as a result of its beneficial Symbicort budesonide formoterol is an profile and it has strengthened its position leading position in asthma innovative and effective asthma treatment as the inhaled corticosteroid of choice for treatment through the that offers easily adjustable dosing.
This will the treatment of children under five with enable doctors to tailor a patients treatment asthma.
growth of key products, of this variable disease with a single inhaler particularly Symbicort, for all situations: for baseline therapy for Oxis formoterol is a beta-agonist asthma increasing the dose during worsening therapy with a fast onset and long-acting new indications and attacks as well as for acute situations, clinical effect for the relief of asthma market launches and the thereby achieving greater efficacy than with symptoms when corticosteroid treatment fixed doses.
It is a combination of the is not adequate.
The RELIEF study, successful introduction of inhaled corticosteroid, budesonide, and the comparing Oxis to salbutamol albuterol novel approaches to other fast onset, long-acting bronchodilator, for exacerbation and asthma symptom formoterol, in the Turbuhaler dry powder control, was published in November 2003. areas of inflammatory inhaler.
Symbicort Turbuhaler is approved in Encompassing more than 18,000 patients, disease such as chronic 85 countries and launched in 62 countries.
the study showed that Oxis is a more Encouraging clinical results confirm the effective reliever therapy and at least as safe obstructive pulmonary efficacy and safety of Symbicort as an as salbutamol albuterol.
disease COPD and adjustable maintenance treatment for asthma providing superior asthma control Rhinocort budesonide is a nasal steroid rheumatoid arthritis.
compared to traditional fixed dose treatment for allergic rhinitis hay fever, treatment.
Phase 3 trials in asthma are perennial rhinitis and nasal polyps.
In 2003 Symbicort combines powerful efficacy with rapid onset became the first fixed combination of of action and minimal side effects and is inhaled corticosteroid and fast onset, longavailable as a once daily treatment in the acting bronchodilator approved for COPD in Rhinocort Aqua pressurised metered dose Europe.
inhaler and the Turbuhaler dry powder inhaler forms.
In November 2003 a regulatory application in Europe was submitted for the new Accolate zafirlukast is an oral leukotriene asthma treatment concept Symbicort receptor antagonist for the treatment of Single inhaler Therapy SiT, which is a asthma available in most markets.
further development of Symbicort adjustable maintenance dosing.
Pipeline Symbicort phase 3 development is Pulmicort budesonide is a corticosteroid progressing in the US in the pressurised anti-inflammatory inhalation drug that helps metered dose inhaler for asthma and Therapy area overview prevent symptoms and improves the COPD.
Pulmicort remains one of R&I world market value: the worlds leading asthma medicines and is Development of Symbicort to further over $30 billion.
available in several forms, including the enhance its competitive differentiation in Turbuhaler dry powder inhaler, a asthma is underway.
The World Health Organisation pressurised metered dose inhaler and the estimates that 100 million people Respules suspension for the treatment of Four new compounds have entered preworldwide suffer from asthma and children.
The START study is a five year clinical development.
They are targeted at that COPD is the fourth greatest global trial and the largest of its kind asthma AZD3778, AZD2098, AZD1981 cause of death globally.
involving more than 6,000 patients in 31 and COPD AZD6067.
Compounds countries, with the objective of evaluating currently in clinical development include whether early intervention with inhaled AZD8309 and AZD9056, each of which 2003 in brief glucocorticosteroids will affect the evolution have novel mechanisms of action and are of newly diagnosed asthma.
The first three targeted at rheumatoid arthritis.
AZD3342, Clinical data confirm efficacy and year clinical results of the study AZD0902, AZD8309 and AZD9056 are all safety of Symbicort as an adjustable demonstrate the benefits of Pulmicort in pre-clinical development for COPD.
showing high efficacy and a good safety AZD0902 for rheumatoid arthritis and profile in the early treatment of asthma in AZD9056 and AZD8955, for osteoarthritis Filing submitted in Europe for adults and children preventing serious are also in pre-clinical development.
Symbicort as a single inhaler attacks.
We have discontinued the development of Pulmicort Respules is the first and only AZD7140 and AZD0275 as a result of their First approval for Symbicort for COPD nebulised corticosteroid in the US for failure to meet the target profile.
children as young as 12 months.
It has AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review Form 20-F Information 2003 19 Sales growth is shown in both reported and underlying performance.
Reported performance takes into account all the factors including those which we cannot influence, principally currency exchange rates that have affected the results of our business.
Underlying performance shows sales growth at constant exchange rates CER to reflect the volume and price changes of the geographic and therapy areas and individual products by excluding the effects of exchange.
A description of the calculation of this measure is set out in the Financial Review on page 31, together with the reasons for its use.
Sales Reported sales grew by 18% from $1,539 increased from $1,818 million to $2,261 million in 2001 to $1,818 million in 2002. million, with Pulmicort and Symbicort driving the improvement.
Underlying performance After adjusting for the positive benefits of Underlying performance exchange of $27 million, sales increased After excluding exchange effects of $168 by 16%.
million, R&I sales grew by 15% during 2003.
Symbicort sales for the year were $299 Symbicort sales for the full year increased million, an increase of nearly 250%.
61% to $549 million, as the product continues to gain share in the rapidly Pulmicort Turbuhaler sales globally reflect growing market for fixed combination the declining inhaled bronchial steroid asthma treatments.
Launches for the COPD market in the face of growing acceptance of indication as well as promotion of its combination products.
However, this was specific adjustable maintenance dose more than offset by the 75% growth of regimen for asthma treatment, are fuelling Pulmicort Respules in the US, enabling this growth.
Pulmicort to achieve a 5% global sales increase for the full year to $812 million.
Pulmicort sales for the full year increased by 12% as a result of growth in the US market Rhinocort sales in the US increased by 19% up 41%.
Pulmicort Respules accounts for for the year to $211 million, fuelled chiefly by most of this growth, with total prescriptions share gains for Rhinocort Aqua, which in the US market up 32% for the year.
Sales were flat in the rest of the world resulting in a global Rhinocort sales in the US were up 27%, as 13% increase in the Rhinocort franchise growth in Rhinocort Aqua 58% continues sales to $299 million in 2002. to more than offset the sales lost from the discontinuation of the Rhinocort Nasal Inhaler formulation.
The sales growth in the US accounts for almost all of the global increase of 19% in Rhinocort sales.
