AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review 14 Form 20-F Information 2003 Neuroscience We aim to be a leader Products replacing the previous standard treatment Seroquel quetiapine is an atypical antiof bupivacaine in major markets.
in neuroscience, by psychotic for the treatment of schizophrenia continuing to deliver a as an established first line, first choice Xylocaine lidocaine continues to be the treatment for a broad range of symptoms.
It worlds most widely used local anaesthetic range of life changing combines excellent efficacy with unique after 50 years on the market.
medicines in the three patient tolerability in terms of dose independent low level of extrapyramidal Information regarding legal proceedings in key areas of psychiatry, symptoms providing schizophrenia patients relation to Seroquel is set out on page 104. analgesia and neurology with benefits in mood symptoms.
Pipeline and by maintaining our This profile has led to the increased usage We are focused on unmet medical needs in world leading position of Seroquel, substantially exceeding market three key areas.
Seroquel is the in anaesthesia.
only leading atypical to be gaining market Psychiatry share.
In January 2004, the weekly new US Further developments of Seroquel are prescriptions for Seroquel exceeded those planned to show the full spectrum of clinical written for olanzapine for the first time.
benefit in those suffering from mood Therapy area overview disorders.
In addition, new formulations are Seroquel is now widely approved in Europe being developed to expand the treatment Neuroscience world market value: and the US for the treatment of bipolar options available for patients.
mania offering clinicians rapid control of their patients manic symptoms including AR-A2 is a novel 5HT autoreceptor 1B Psychiatry market value: $37 billion psychosis, aggression agitation with no antagonist in phase 2 for the treatment of More than six million people suffer emergent depression and a superior side depression and anxiety and AZD5455 is a from schizophrenia and 17 million effect profile.
pre-clinical candidate drug with a novel suffer from bipolar disorder in the mechanism of action for treating anxiety.
Zomig zolmitriptan is indicated for the treatment of migraine with or without aura We have discontinued the development of Neurology market value: $20 billion which offers migraine sufferers rapid, AZD1134 as a result of its failure to meet Migraine is one of the 20 leading reliable relief of headache pain and other the target profile.
causes of disability in the world.
migraine symptoms and is well tolerated.
Stroke is the third leading cause of Available in over 80 countries, it is the The collaboration with Shanghai Jiaotong death and one of the major causes of leading second-generation triptan with a University on neurogenetics, established in serious long term disability among unique range of formulations to provide 2001, continues to progress well.
Analgesia Analgesia market value: $25 billion Zomig Nasal Spray is a new formulation in a In pain control, our research focus is Over 46% of adults in the western convenient device, which delivers fast pain nociceptive pain caused by tissue damage world suffer from chronic pain.
The nasal spray has been successfully and neuropathic pain caused by nerve management is the most common launched in Europe and the US.
Our pipeline includes AZD4282 in reason for seeking medical care.
Japan is expected in 2004. phase 1 for the treatment of neuropathic pain.
Anaesthesia market value: $3 billion Zomig Rapimelt is a rapidly dispersible Each year more than 26 million formulation offering patients a convenient, We have discontinued the development of people in the US undergo medical orange flavoured melt-in-the-mouth tablet AZD3582 and AZD4717 as a result of their treatment requiring anaesthesia.
that now accounts for more than 30% of failure to meet our target profile and have Zomig sales.
returned all rights to these compounds to NicOx.
2003 in brief Diprivan propofol, the worlds largest selling general anaesthetic, is used in the Neurology Seroquel sales grew by an underlying induction and maintenance of anaesthesia Cerovive previously known as NXY059 is 27% to $1.5 billion.
and for intensive care sedation.
More than a nitrone with free radical trapping 90% of total Diprivan sales consist of properties under development for the Seroquel widely approved in Europe Diprivan EDTA, a microbial resistant treatment of acute ischaemic stroke, a and the US for the treatment of formulation, which is approved in the disease with substantial unmet need for bipolar mania.
Pre-clinical data show that Cerovive preserves function and Zomig Nasal Spray launched in the Naropin ropivacaine is the best selling, brain tissue, otherwise irreversibly US and Europe.
With its damaged, when administered after the improved safety and mobility profile, it is onset of permanent ischaemia in a model of AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review Form 20-F Information 2003 15 Sales growth is shown in both reported and underlying performance.
Reported performance takes into account all the factors including those which we cannot influence, principally currency exchange rates that have affected the results of our business.
Underlying performance shows sales growth at constant exchange rates CER to reflect the volume and price changes of the geographic and therapy areas and individual products by excluding the effects of exchange.
A description of the calculation of this measure is set out in the Financial Review on page 31, together with the reasons for its use.
We have commenced two In the US, Seroquel sales reached $1,134 Performance 2002 major phase 3 trials known as the SAINT million for the full year, an increase of 22%.
Reported performance Stroke Acute Ischaemic NXY Treatment Total prescriptions for Seroquel in the US Neuroscience sales increased by 21% to trials, which will compare the efficacy and were up 34% for the year.
The share of total $2,418 million in 2002, an overall increase safety of a 72 hour intravenous infusion of prescriptions for Seroquel in the US antiof $421 million.
Cerovive given within six hours of the onset psychotic market reached a new high at of symptoms versus placebo.
21.2% in December, up 3.4 percentage Underlying performance points compared to 2002.
Seroquel was the Underlying sales growth was also 21%, with ZD0947, a novel non-muscarinic approach only product among the three leading minimal exchange effects.
to overactive bladder, which is a common brands to increase its market share in 2003. condition, is currently in phase 2.
Sales growth in the last quarter of the year Seroquel sales grew strongly by 67% to was lower than the underlying prescription $1.1 billion.
US sales also grew by 67% to AZD0328, AZD2858 and AZD3102 are trend implying some reduction in wholesaler $927 million.
Market share of new new candidate drugs with novel stocking.
prescriptions in the US market was 19.2% mechanisms of action for the treatment of by the end of the year, up 3.7 percentage Alzheimers disease, a core strategic focus Sales of Seroquel in markets outside the US points in the year making it the only major of our research.
Alzheimers disease, the increased 45% for the full year.
Sales in anti-psychotic with increasing share in this most common cause of dementia, affects Europe were up 40%, and sales in Japan key market.
more than 45 million people in the US.
Japan is now the second largest market for Seroquel where it is sold by Zomig sales grew by 19% to $328 million Our collaboration with NPS Fujisawa and continued growth is a global market share of 16% with the bulk Pharmaceuticals continues to progress well anticipated through the development of of the increase arising in Japan up 67% to with early and late phase pre-clinical new claims, new indications, new $14 million, France up 29% to $60 million projects on metabotropic glutamate formulations and increasing penetration of a and the US up 20% to $177 million.
receptors covering all major neuroscience growing schizophrenia market.
The sales increase for Diprivan in the US Zomig sales for the full year fell by 1% to up 3% to $216 million was the result of We have discontinued the development of $349 million global market share remains at growth in the underlying demand for AZD5106 as a result of its failure to meet 16% : growth was 7% outside the US, propofol.
However, global sales fell by the target profile.
whilst sales were down 8% in the US.
Rapimelt continued to grow strongly in Performance 2003 southern Europe and Japan and now Reported performance contributes more than half of brand sales in Reported growth for Neuroscience was these markets.
Zomig Nasal Spray 17%, with sales up $415 million from launches continue and the introduction of $2,418 million in 2002 to $2,833 million in this formulation in the US helped drive sales 2003.
The performance of Seroquel in the last quarter.
accounted for the majority of this increase.
Sales of Diprivan worldwide, at $458 million, Underlying performance fell by 2%.
The rate of decline since patent In the US, sales grew strongly by 14% to expiry has slowed.
In the rest of the world sales also grew strongly by 10% to deliver global sales of $2.8 billion, a combined growth of 12% worldwide.
