AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review Form 20-F Information 2003 23 Research and Development R&D R&D continues to focus on improving the efficiencies and exchange of ideas and Our product focus in 2003 was to complete productivity and efficiency of new drug project opportunities.
the development programmes and deliver discovery and development.
We are the regulatory support required for the simplifying our processes and continually Specialised groups in Safety Assessment approval of Exanta and approval and launch review our plans and decision-making.
We and Process R&D work across all research of Crestor and Iressa.
We also placed high have streamlined portfolio reviews and areas, starting in Discovery and following priority on successful delivery of lifecycle target our strategic investment on areas projects through to Development and management programmes designed to directly linked to increased quality and lifecycle management initiatives.
optimise growth of key marketed products output of new products.
Our strategic effort to significantly upgrade including Nexium, Seroquel and Symbicort.
the links between clinical medicine and In Discovery, we aim to increase the output basic science Discovery-Medicine is We continue to focus on improving our of high quality candidate drugs CDs with a already proving to be valuable to the drug productivity and speed of product lower risk of failure in development.
Significant e-based clinical Development, we aim to develop better helps us gain a better understanding of and regulatory systems were introduced in drugs faster.
human diseases and how future drugs will 2003 that significantly increase the speed of work to prevent and treat those diseases.
access to data worldwide and reduce During 2003 we significantly increased the We also continue to introduce more regulatory file preparation and submission number of new Discovery projects, stringent safety and drug metabolism timelines.
These activities will be continued delivered a more consistent flow of good pharmacokinetic testing earlier in the and extended.
quality CDs, progressed a greater number process, in order that CDs chosen for of products to a robust clinical proof of development are more likely to succeed.
Collaborations principle stage and increased the number To complement our in-house R&D of drugs reaching human testing.
During 2003, a further 15 CDs were capabilities, over 200 new collaborations selected 11 in 2002 and, in addition, 10 have been entered into in 2003 with leading As described in the Development Pipeline early development projects reached the academic centres and biotechnology table on pages 24 and 25, we now have 12 stage of human testing six in 2002. companies.
projects in phase 2 and 28 projects in phase 3 development.
Our global knowledge exchange system, We entered into a collaboration with which serves all Discovery sites maximises Abgenix Inc. with the aim of discovering fully AstraZeneca employs around 11,600 the benefits of the latest communication humanised monoclonal antibodies for the people in R&D.
We have six major joint and informatics technologies.
Our global treatment of cancer.
This arrangement is discovery and development facilities in the Enabling Science and Technology group complementary to our major activity in small UK, the US and Sweden: a further four sites continues to support all research areas with molecules and will allow us to tackle a in the US, Canada, India and France which skills in compound management, natural broader range of targets.
Abgenix will focus only on discovery, and a facility in product screening, structural chemistry, provide antibody expertise and will take Japan for development only.
These bio-imaging, genetics, transgenics, protein projects into clinical trials.
We will provide resources are complemented by clinical science and informatics.
New enabling the cancer expertise that will guide the development at 43 sites around the world.
technologies for drug searching have been choice of targets, the properties required In 2003, our R&D investment totalled introduced and a global compound out of the candidate drugs and clinical $3.5 billion.
collection enhancement project is ongoing.
R&D remains an integrated, project driven We continue to invest in R&D facilities in Other examples of external collaborations organisation.
Our approach is therapy area line with our strategy.
New or upgraded include those with the University of Dundee led with scientific, medical, technical and laboratory facilities were opened in 2003 and the University of Gratz as well as ethical input and control being provided by in Sweden, the UK, the US and India.
with, among others, Sumitomo large, multi-skilled Discovery and Recruitment of highly skilled new staff Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd. NeoGenesis Development organisations.
This offers a continues alongside the ongoing training Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Cytokinetics, Inc. number of advantages including sharing of and development of existing employees.
Biosignal Inc. and Array Biopharma.
best practice in terms of science and technology and efficient use of resources Development across a multi-site, global organisation.
Our Development organisation consists of people skilled in clinical research, regulatory We remain focused on meeting our affairs and pharmaceutical development.
objectives of delivering new, medically We believe that efficiencies are achieved important and commercially successful from global working applied flexibly across products to the market every year.
Our therapy area led product teams represent a matrix of all relevant Discovery functional skills and experience needed for Our Discovery organisation consists of robust, rapid drug development.
highly skilled scientists working together across boundaries to gain critical mass
