AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review 28 Form 20-F Information 2003 Other Businesses Main Facilities Intellectual Property Astra Tech AstraZeneca owns and operates numerous During 2003, AstraZeneca invested $3.5 Astra Tech is engaged in the R&D, production, marketing and R&D facilities billion in R&D activities.
Obtaining adequate manufacture and marketing of medical worldwide.
Our corporate headquarters are protection for the intellectual property devices and implants for use in healthcare, in London, UK and our R&D headquarters associated with these activities continues to primarily in urology and odontology, as well are in Sdertlje, Sweden.
The range of as in surgery and diagnostic radiology.
Astra protection includes patents, trade marks, Tech has a leading position in several Our principal R&D facilities are in the UK design registrations, copyrights and internet countries in Europe and is expanding Alderley Park and Charnwood : Sweden domain name registrations.
its operations in key markets, particularly Lund, MIndal and Sdertlje : the US in the US.
Boston, Massachusetts and Wilmington, Our policy is to seek patent and or other Delaware : Canada Montreal, Quebec : and appropriate intellectual property protection All products showed good sales growth, in India Bangalore.
Other R&D activity is for all of the inventions and innovations of particular the Dental Implant System, which carried out at Macclesfield and Avlon in the significant commercial value, which arise is gaining market share in several key UK and Reims in France.
from our drug discovery, development, markets.
Further investments have been manufacturing, marketing and other made in R&D, clinical research and new Out of a total 31 manufacturing sites in 20 business activities.
It is also our policy to production facilities to strengthen the countries, our principal manufacturing apply for intellectual property protection for product portfolio and in the US in sales facilities are in the UK Avlon and all inventions and innovations being created and marketing.
Macclesfield : Sweden Snckviken and as a result of the investments in R&D Gartuna, Sdertlje : the US Newark, throughout the AstraZeneca organisation.
Salick Health Care Delaware and Westborough, Salick Health Care SHC is a leading Massachusetts : Australia North Ryde, This policy is designed to provide each of provider of outpatient oncology New South Wales : France Dunkirk, Monts our new products with an effective portfolio management and consulting services.
and Reims : Germany Plankstadt and of valid, enforceable patent and other Ownership of SHC provides AstraZeneca Wedel : Italy Caponago : Japan Maihara intellectual property rights in all significant with a unique window on the provider sector and Puerto Rico Canovanas, Guayama markets to protect unauthorised of the US oncology market and access to and Carolina.
shield of intellectual property rights extends Bulk drug production is concentrated in the to those areas of target identification, SHC manages full-service outpatient UK, Sweden, France and Puerto Rico.
genomics and other research technologies comprehensive cancer centres in affiliation in which we invest significant resources.
with major teaching and community Substantially all of our properties are held The adequacy of the patent, design, trade hospitals in California, Florida and New York freehold, free of material encumbrances mark and domain name portfolio for and is affiliated with a large network of over and we believe such properties are individual products is kept under review 120 physicians, working in specialised adequate for their purposes.
during product development, clinical areas such as medical, radiation and evaluation and marketing so that, wherever surgical oncology.
possible, additional protection may be sought for new applications and other In 2003, SHC continued to perform well in developments.
The therapy area focus of its cancer centre management business our R&D operating model allows with positive profit and cash contributions appropriate intellectual property strategies and is actively pursuing new growth to be formulated and regularly updated from opportunities.
During the year, SHC an early stage in product development.
announced a long term agreement for the provision of services to NYU Hospitals We vigorously defend our intellectual Center and signed an agreement with Boca property rights, including taking appropriate Raton Community Hospital in Florida for infringement action in various courts management of a Lynn Regional Cancer throughout the world.
SHC also continued the development of its innovative clinical research network to improve patient care and cancer treatment.
The SHC Research Network is conducting a growing number of centrally co-ordinated phase 2 and 3 clinical trials.
