description of business General ICI believes that its balance sheet provides sufficient scope to invest ICI is one of the worlds major specialty products and paints businesses in the capabilities needed for driving profitable growth.
In particular, with products and ingredients developed for a wide range of ICI has consistently invested in marketing appropriation for ICI Paints, consumer and industrial markets.
and research and development across the other International Businesses.
The specialty products and paints businesses, referred to as the International Businesses, comprise National Starch, Quest, Performance Cash flow Specialties and Paints.
These businesses serve diverse consumer Finally, ICI is committed to improving cash flow.
Its target will be to and industrial markets through some 80 strategic business units, generate positive cash flow before acquisitions on a sustainable basis comprising around 180 operating units with an array of market from 2005 onwards.
leadership positions across the world.
In addition, a number of ICIs historic performance for the areas discussed above is presented Regional and Industrial businesses remain in ICIs portfolio.
in the table below, and the definitions upon which these targets are Group strategy based are included on page 122 of this report.
ICIs over-riding vision is to develop genuine leadership in formulation Group financial history science.
ICI has, and will continue to build, a portfolio of businesses 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 that are leaders within their respective industries, bringing together Sales growth % 2 2 1 4 2 n a outstanding knowledge of customer needs with leading edge Trading margin % 7.4 8.7 8.9 7.9 7.2 7.0 technology platforms to provide a distinctive competitive advantage for ICIs customers.
ROCE % 5.8 7.0 7.2 7.8 7.1 7.4 Earnings per share p 18.5 23.7 29.8 32.7 28.7 26.1 Following a recent strategic review, ICI believes that there are Cash flow before significant opportunities for creating and capturing additional value.
acquisitions m 276 366 43 330 1,666 437 ICI plans to achieve this by ensuring that the right level and type of comparable basis resource is allocated to each business unit according to its potential before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation for profitable growth, while making substantial improvements in cost and capital effectiveness, and aligning its organisational model to Recent history facilitate effective execution of its strategy.
In July 1997, ICI took a major step to reposition its business towards the higher added value sector of the industry with the acquisition of Group financial objectives the companies and businesses comprising the Speciality Chemicals ICIs financial objectives derive from a combination of top-down goals businesses of Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. for a cash consideration and a biannual strategic planning process.
This acquisition was consistent with its strategy to objectives then form the basis for all financial targets.
shift its business profile towards products that meet specific customer At the Group level, management is focused on achieving the following needs and to areas where leading positions in profitable growth goals over the medium term.
While demanding, management believes markets can be won through the application of its technology and they should be achievable.
Sales growth Consistent with the Groups strategy, ICI has divested nearly all of Average sales turnover growth at, or better than, the growth in real its industrial chemicals portfolio, including its Polyester, Fertilisers, GDP over the four-year period 2004 to 2007.
This target is expressed Tioxide, Petrochemicals, Chlor-Chemicals and Klea businesses.
Since on a comparable basis, excluding exchange rate translation impacts July 1997, ICI has divested more than 50 businesses with proceeds and the effects of acquisitions and divestments.
This compares with from the sale of assets and businesses in excess of 7.3bn.
In average growth from 1998 to 2002 of 0.9% below GDP.
addition, it has continued to reposition its business towards higher added-value sectors of the industry through a number of acquisitions Trading margin expansion within the international specialty and paints businesses.
An increase in Group trading profit margins, before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, by an average of 0.5% per annum over the In 2002 ICI sold its catalyst business, Synetix and in 2003 completed next four years.
This compares with an average improvement in the sale of its interests in Huntsman International Holdings LLC.
margins from 1998 to 2002 of 0.4% per annum.
Also in 2003 ICI participated in a refinancing agreement for Ineos Chlor, a company to which it had previously sold its Chlor-Chemicals Return on capital employed business.
As a consequence of the refinancing, which was completed In addition, reflecting the importance of improving capital effectiveness on 31 December 2003, a claim by Ineos Chlor on ICI was withdrawn in enhancing economic profit, ICI also intends to improve after tax and a number of major long-term supply contracts were novated from return on capital employed ROCE by an average of 1% per annum, to members of the ICI Group to Ineos Chlor.
ICI believes that it has now essentially completed the transformation of the Group.
However, the Group will continue to look for opportunities Earnings per share to grow its business both organically and through small, strategic boltIf delivered, the combination of these targets should result in, on on acquisitions, thereby strengthening its portfolio.
average, double-digit growth in earnings per share, before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, each year from 2004 until 2007.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 9 description of business Geographic focus ICIs headquarters is in the UK, where it also has several significant manufacturing sites.
Outside the UK, operations are conducted by locally managed subsidiary companies staffed almost entirely by nationals of the country concerned.
Eighty-six per cent of the employees of ICIs businesses are located outside the UK.
The following table shows the turnover and profit before taxation, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation for the Groups businesses located in each geographic area for the three years ended 31 December 2003.
Turnover Profit before exceptional items, taxation and goodwill amortisation 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 2001 m m m m m m Continuing operations United Kingdom Sales in the UK 684 852 1,054 Sales overseas 456 516 503 1,140 1,368 1,557 60 87 71 Continental Europe 1,541 1,559 1,533 87 96 142 USA 2,005 2,202 2,276 76 131 168 Other Americas 664 656 748 44 45 36 Asia Pacific 1,381 1,277 1,263 155 168 150 Other countries 64 54 53 8 66 6,795 7,116 7,430 430 533 573 Inter-area eliminations 946 991 1,005 Total 5,849 6,125 6,425 430 533 573 Associates Share of operating profits less losses 2 18 57 Interest receivable payable 1 28 67 Group net interest payable 92 123 162 Total 5,849 6,125 6,425 341 400 401 Business segments The following table shows turnover and profit before taxation, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation for the Groups classes of business for the three years ended 31 December 2003 see Operating and financial review for more information.
Turnover Profit before exceptional items, taxation and goodwill amortisation 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 2001 m m m m m m Continuing operations National Starch 1,866 1,841 1,853 199 224 218 Quest 691 716 727 45 82 107 Performance Specialties 669 804 832 8 49 68 Paints 2,163 2,182 2,233 203 188 176 Regional and Industrial 481 615 821 25 10 4 Inter-class eliminations 21 33 41 Total 5,849 6,125 6,425 430 533 573 Associates Share of operating profits less losses 2 18 57 Interest receivable payable 1 28 67 Group net interest payable 92 123 162 Total 5,849 6,125 6,425 341 400 401 10 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Continuing operations The divisions products are used in packaging for sealing cases and ICIs businesses comprise National Starch, Quest, Performance cartons and fixing labels to bottles and cans.
There are a number of Specialties and ICI Paints, which are referred to as the International paper converting applications such as laminating, bag making, tissue, businesses, and a number of smaller Regional and Industrial businesses.
paper tube winding and box manufacturing.
Converting adhesives are also used in bookbinding, envelopes, magazines, and remoistenable National Starch stamps.
Adhesives are also critical components in the construction of National Starch, which accounted for 32% of the Groups sales in disposable nappies diapers, personal sanitary products and 2003, is a global leader in industrial adhesives and specialty food disposable hospital supplies.
In addition, the business has strong positions in electronic materials, specialty polymers and specialty starches, and has niche National Starchs high performance curing adhesives are used to businesses in personal care and healthcare ingredients.
It provides laminate plastic films, metal foils and paper for numerous flexible specialty ingredients for attractive, relatively non-cyclical markets.
Pressure sensitive adhesives are used to The Group believes that National Starchs position in these markets manufacture self-adhesive tapes, labels, decals, and transdermal has been achieved through its unique polymer technology and drug delivery patches.
application understanding, both natural and synthetic, and a high National Starchs adhesives and primers are used in the assembly of degree of technical support for its customers.
Within the overall sports shoes.
The Bondmaster business unit supplies adhesives for Group strategy, National Starchs strategy is to: assembly operations in the woodworking, construction, recreational continue to build on these strengths in areas where it sees good vehicle and transportation industries.
growth opportunities, such as electronic materials, personal care, For the corrugating industry, specialty carrier starches provide bond and Asia Pacific, strength for adhering board to corrugating medium and contribute to innovate and introduce new products to all of its customers, and increased production and reduced waste.
They improve the overall quality and water resistance of meat, fruit, vegetable and shipping focus in its more mature businesses on improved cost efficiency.
Specialty synthetic polymer products add increased water National Starch produces thousands of technically advanced products resistance for demanding applications.
and operates an international network of 152 manufacturing and In 2003, the adhesives division introduced a number of new products customer service centres, located in 37 countries on six continents.
including: two transdermal grade acrylic-solution pressure-sensitive National Starchs world and American headquarters is in Bridgewater, adhesives Duro-Tak 87-201A and 87-900A, which give formulators New Jersey, USA.
Its European headquarters is in High Wycombe, UK new transdermal drug-delivery options and exceptional wear properties: and its Asia Pacific operations headquarters is in Singapore.
Cool-Lok 34-207B low-temperature hot melt adhesive, which enables high-speed sealing of cases and cartons that are stored in freezers: Major manufacturing facilities are located in the USA, Canada, the and Bondmaster H130 A sealant for bonding the moulded glass on UK, Germany, Netherlands, Japan, Thailand, Korea, China and Brazil, automobile headlights to untreated polypropylene or polyamide.
with other manufacturing facilities located in 21 other countries around the world.
Specialty Starches National Starchs food starches are an important part of many At the end of 2002, National Starch acquired the Hi Maize resistant everyday foods.
They enhance texture and appearance and provide starch business of Penford Corporation to increase its focus on effects which enable end-consumer products to withstand the rigours applications in human nutrition.
In 2003, Nationals Specialty Starch of ultra-high temperature UHT processing, microwave cooking, division commissioned new starch drum-drying facilities in Thailand freeze thaw cycles and extended storage.
to expand its ability to service its growing Asian customer base.
In the specialty food ingredients area, the Starch division produces The adhesives business entered into a joint venture called Purbond products which are used for fruit preparations, meals and canned AG with Collano AG of Switzerland.
The new business will produce foods, binders for meat and fish products and pet foods and a range engineered wood adhesives for structural applications ranging from of coating agents to control texture, crispiness and appearance in home construction to large commercial structures.
Products for the dairy market are used to improve the Also during 2003 National Starch sold its Permabond cyanoacrylate quality and stability of a range of dairy foods.
Ingredients for cereals and anaerobic adhesive product lines and its Plasticoat cheeseand snacks influence the expansion, texture and eating quality of coating business.
a variety of baked, fried and extruded foods.
National Starchs stabilisers and thickeners are used to control the viscosity, stability, National Starch comprises four distinct business groupings: mouth-feel and texture of a wide variety of sauces and salad dressings.
Adhesives 41% of National Starch sales in 2003, In the bakery market, the divisions ingredients are used to control the moisture retention, texture and structure of baked doughs and their Specialty Starches 26% of National Starch sales in 2003, fillings.
Encapsulation products encapsulate flavours and fragrances, Specialty Synthetic Polymers 20% of National Starch sales in 2003, stabilise flavour emulsions and are used in starches that improve and mouth-feel properties in beverage systems.
Electronic and Engineering Materials EEM 13% of National Starch Products in the pharmaceutical and nutrition areas include specialty sales in 2003. starches for use as carriers, binders and disintegrants in tablets and capsules, thickeners for liquid dosage medicines, pharmaceutical Adhesives grade dusting powders for surgical gloves and specialty ingredients National Starch is one of the largest producers of industrial adhesives for the nutrition industry.
It manufactures a broad range of adhesive types, including adhesives based on both natural and synthetic polymers, water-borne, hot melts, 100% solids, reactive adhesives and pressure sensitive adhesives.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 11 description of business In the pulp and paper industry, the divisions specialty starches Acheson supplies thick film materials and specialty coatings used provide strength and contribute to enhanced productivity in the in cathode ray tubes, keyboards and switches, printed circuits, and manufacture of unbleached kraft, fine papers, bleached board, other electronic components.
Specialty coatings are also used for newsprint and recycled fibre stocks.
Additives and liquid polymers noise reduction and wear resistance in automotive components.
improve the biodegradability and strength of tissue and towel Acheson also supplies process lubricants and application systems products.
Specialty surface size starches increase runnability in used in metalworking and casting.
the size press and printability on the end users printing press, while replacing more costly functional additives.
Emerson & Cuming supplies adhesives, encapsulants, and coatings used in circuit assembly and in fabrication of electronic, electrical, New products introduced in 2003 included: Dry-Tack 250 binder, and electromechanical components.
which enables food manufacturers to adhere seeds, seasonings, small cubes of meat, cheese, vegetables and other food particulates to Tra-Con provides adhesives and coatings in single-use and other snacks, crackers, chips, rolls and cookies without the use of fatspecialty packages serving a broad range of industrial customers increasing liquids or oil coatings: Impression, a new specialty starch through telemarketing programmes.
that gives yogurt producers a replacement for gelatin that is more Quest economical and achieves similar textural properties and clean flavour Quest, which accounted for 12% of the Groups sales in 2003, is profiles in stirred and cup-set yogurts.
a leader in the creation, application and production of fragrances, Specialty Synthetic Polymers flavours and food ingredients for a wide variety of consumer brands.
National Starch has multiple capabilities in specialty polymers, resins Quest operates in fast moving markets that the Group believes and redispersible powders for markets as diverse as personal care, present attractive growth opportunities.
It comprises two major construction, water treatment, detergents, paper coatings and apparel.
strategic businesses: The Vinamul Polymer businesss binders, saturants and laminants Food 60% of Quest sales in 2003, and add desirable characteristics to non-wovens fibrefill, interlinings, Fragrance 40% of Quest sales in 2003. disposable garments, textiles and papers.
ICI believes that Quests competitive position is based on four Specialty polymers improve the holding power in hair sprays and distinctive strengths.
These are: gels and the manageability and softness of mousses, conditioners, shampoos and other styling aids.
They are also used to thicken and the quality of its customer relationships, emulsify cosmetic and beauty products and increase the functionality the creative skills of its perfumers and flavourists, of sunscreens, hand and body creams and lotions.
the technological advances resulting from its research and The Alco businesss products include dispersants, anti-scalants and development, and detergent builders, as well as rheology modifiers thickeners for the carpet, adhesive and detergent industries.
Dithiocarbamate chemistry the customer service and support provided by the marketing and is used in microbiocides and metal precipitants for process water application groups as well as its global network of servicing units.
These strengths enable Quest to assist its customers in making their Elotex redispersible powder polymers improve the adhesion, flexural products and brands successful.
Within the overall Group strategy, strength, insulation properties and shrink-resistance of cements, Quests strategy is to continue to build on these strengths, while: grouts, adhesives and other construction products.
focusing on growth with key customers, New products introduced in 2003 included: Alcoguard 4000 polymer, a investing in consumer understanding, new polymer that combines scale inhibition with anti-filming to meet the increasingly rigorous demands of todays automatic dish washers and creating and making best use of an effective and efficient innovation cleaning formulations and Amaze XT fixative for hair styling products.
process, and The new Amaze XT technology combines unprecedented styling working to ensure operational excellence in both service levels and performance with consumer pleasing attributes in an all-natural product.
costs by focusing on appropriate parts of the value chain and Electronic and Engineering Materials EEM continuous process improvement.
The EEM division manufactures, markets and sells adhesives, Quests innovative flavours and fragrance products consist of encapsulants, specialty coatings and process lubricants used in the compounds of blended ingredients under formulae created by expert manufacture of electronic, automotive, medical, aerospace and other flavourists, perfumers and scientists.
Certain of these compounds equipment and components.
The division serves customers worldwide contain molecules which have been created by Quests chemists and with formulations and application assistance to meet demanding which add distinctive characteristics to its products.
Quest also has a performance and processing requirements.
strong presence in nature-identical flavours for sweet and culinary The EEM division is comprised of four business units, each focused on applications.
specific product lines and end-use markets.
Ablestik supplies adhesives and encapsulants used for semiconductor packaging and microelectronic assembly.
Products include adhesive pastes, films, tape adhesives, and underfill encapsulants.
12 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Food ingredients include emulsifiers, hydrocolloids, proteins and ICI believes that Uniqemas strength is its strong market position bio-ingredients enzymes, cultures and yeast, developed to meet in the synthetic lubricants, personal care and the European and US the changing commercial requirements in taste and texture of its oleochemicals sector.
Within the overall Group strategy, Uniqemas customers brands.
strategy is to selectively grow its key markets, while maintaining tight operational controls throughout the product line.
Fragrance ingredients are the scented building blocks of the fragrance formulae.
They also contribute additional technical characteristics, ICI believes that Uniqema has a strong position in synthetic such as deodorisation or insect repellence, to the finished compound.
It manufactures and markets a wide range of synthetic basestocks and ingredients which are formulated into engine, In the food market, growth has been driven by the desire of consumers compressor, gear hydraulic and process oils and fluids, where high for new and more sophisticated flavours as well as for foods that are performance or environmental characteristics are required.
Products compatible with a healthy lifestyle.
These factors have stimulated the are frequently tailored to specific customer requirements.
ICI believes demand for products such as convenience foods, ethnic foods, lowthat Uniqema is also a leader in synthetic refrigeration lubricants, to cholesterol and low-fat food products, as well as soft drinks that must which it provides worldwide technical support.
also meet expectations in taste, texture and appearance.
As a prominent player in the personal care market, Uniqema provides During 2003, Quest Citrusense, a new citrus flavour range based ingredients for skin care, hair care, oral care and toiletries.
These on special ingredients was launched across the globe.
Q-Pearl, a include new vegetable-based products for skin care formulations, new technology to protect and release flavours, was also launched mild ingredients for cleansing formulations and functional ingredients in the confectionery and tea markets and has gained significant for skin repair products and UV protection products.
customer interest with its particular ability to control flavour release.
New Culinary formulations were introduced building on the success Uniqema also supplies process intermediates based on natural fats of newly discovered flavour ingredients in a number of foods and have and oils such as coconut, palm kernel and rape seed, which are split partly contributed to Quest being listed as core supplier to several to yield fatty acids and by-product glycerine.
Further processing of major customers.
Following a fire in 2002 in the Research and fatty acids yields a range of higher added-value products, such as Development building at Naarden, the Netherlands, a new $25m R&D surfactants, soaps, lubricants and polymers.
facility for flavour ingredients, beverages and naturally fermented The headquarters and one of the major operating centres of Uniqema products was commissioned to a very tight schedule in 2003. is in Gouda in the Netherlands.
The other major operating centres of In addition to having collaborated with Estee Lauder on Beyond Paradise, Uniqema are in Wilton in the UK, Newcastle Delaware, USA and Kuala the industrys most successful fine fragrance launch for many years, Lumpur in Malaysia.
Uniqema has a total of 16 manufacturing sites in Quest perfumes can also be found in Still Jennifer Lopez, the successful Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.
follow-up to Glow, and the niche hit Narcisco Rodriguez.
Paints Science, innovation and creativity are the key pillars of Quests ICI Paints is a leading international paint business and accounted for research effort.
Innovation is at the heart of Quests business.
It concentrates on decorative paint designs and develops new fragrance and flavour ingredients and 91% of ICI Paints sales in 2003 and packaging coatings for food and compounds that create a distinctive sensory impact.
This demands beverage cans 8% of ICI Paints sales in 2003 with other businesses a complex artistic and technical process, combining the knowledge 1% of ICI Paints sales in 2003.
In 2003, 42% of ICI Paints sales were and skill of Quests perfumers and flavourists with the expertise of its in North America, 36% in Europe, 13% in Asia and 9% in Latin application and research chemists.
Quest has research centres at America and Rest of World.
ICI believes that ICI Paints strengths Ashford in the UK and Naarden in the Netherlands, together with include its well-established brands and the global nature of the specific product process development teams at six other sites around business which allow ICI Paints to use its resources, expertise and the world.
Quest also benefits from its membership of the wider ICI experience to offer the best solution for each local market and the Group and the science base that is available to support innovation.
The Food divisions headquarters is in Naarden, the Netherlands, Within the overall Group strategy, the strategy of ICI Paints is to where Quests corporate headquarters is also located.
The Fragrance maintain and develop its branded leading market positions in the divisions headquarters is in Ashford, in the UK.
Major manufacturing global paints and coatings industry.
ICI Paints expects to further facilities are located in the Netherlands, the UK, USA, Mexico, France, develop its strategy by: Australia, Ireland and Indonesia, with smaller manufacturing facilities building its business in high growth areas such as China, Thailand in 10 other countries.
Quest has its own sales distribution network in and Vietnam, 36 countries and is represented elsewhere by sales agents.
using innovation to differentiate from competitors and drive Performance Specialties profitable growth, Following the divestment of Synetix the Groups catalyst business in 2002, Performance Specialties now comprises Uniqema a surfactants continuing to capitalise on supply chain rationalisation, and oleochemicals business which in 2003 accounted for 11% of the utilising best practice throughout the business to reduce costs and Groups sales.
Uniqema The decorative paints business has well-established brands in paint, Uniqema was formed at the beginning of 1999 and supplies a broad woodcare, metalcare, adhesives and fillers and these include Dulux, range of base and specialty chemicals into a wide range of end Glidden, Valentine, Coral, Alba, Xyladecor, Hammerite, markets and applications.
Its market scope includes polymers, Polycell, Polyfilla and Alabastine.
lubricants, personal care, health care, process intermediates, crop protection, oilfield, textiles, polymer additives and cleaning.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 13 description of business During 2003 ICI Paints has continued to focus on strengthening its ICI Argentina manufactures a range of products of which wine brands and developing innovative products and services which meet chemicals and sulphur related products are the most important.
The and anticipate customers needs around the world.
In 2003, ICI Paints wine chemicals business is located near Mendoza, whilst the sulphur launched a number of new and innovative products and services to related products are manufactured at San Lorenzo, near Rosario.
strengthen its brands across all key markets.
Rapid growth in China Huntsman International Holdings LLC has been supported by the introduction of the new Guardian brand Huntsman International Holdings LLC HIH was a principal associate which was initially launched in Shanghai, Wuhan and other major of ICI from 1999 until the second quarter of 2002.
International product initiatives have included the launch of 1999 and was controlled by Huntsman Corporation.
It comprised Magic White, a revolutionary concept to help consumers apply ICIs former Polyurethanes and Tioxide businesses and the majority white paint.
This product goes on pink and then dries pure white.
of ICIs former UK based Petrochemicals businesses, together with Developments in packaging include EasyCan, an ergonomically the propylene oxide assets of Huntsman Corporation.
shaped can that is easier to hold, easier to open, with an integral brush-rest and wipe.
Dulux in the UK retail market has a new look During the second quarter of 2003, ICI announced the completion of with a strikingly different livery across the whole product range.
There the sale of its interests in HIH to CSFB Global Opportunities Partners, has also been a major enhancement of the Cuprinol livery in the UK, LP now Matlin Patterson Global Opportunities Partners.
109m had and development of new Dulux interior woodcare ranges.
Polycell been received on initial closing of this transaction in the second quarter Basecoat, supported by a strong advertising campaign, has become of 2002, and the balance of 173m was received during the second an extremely successful decorating initiative across the European quarter of 2003.
The transaction gave rise to a profit before tax of business.
Hammerite radiator paints are now available in all 50m, which has been recorded as an exceptional item in 2003.
Markets and distribution ICI Paints is also a leader in the sale of internal and external coatings ICI sells its products through an extensive network of subsidiaries, for food and beverage cans.
It manufactures and distributes a broad associates and distributors.
product offering of packaging coatings and has significant market Specialty products manufactured by National Starch, Quest and positions in both the established markets of Europe and North Uniqema are sold mainly by direct sales forces, alliances and America and the emerging markets of Asia and Latin America.
Customers are primarily other manufacturers, in a range Technology and innovation are also important factors in the growth of markets from consumer-oriented manufacturers of branded goods of ICI Paints.
Success is dependent on being first to the market with in the food, perfume and personal-care sectors to those involved in innovative, value-adding products and services that meet real market surfactants, lubricants, papermaking and chemicals.
ICI Paints benefits technologically from the colloid, polymer Paints are sold through a range of distribution channels.
Branded and particle related science base and research carried out by other architectural paints are sold through a combination of both independent parts of the Group.
retailers and stores and the Groups own retail concerns, particularly ICI Paints global business headquarters is located in Slough, in the in North America.
Can coatings are supplied directly to beverage and UK.
Major manufacturing facilities are located in the USA, UK, Brazil, food manufacturers in Europe, the Americas and Asia.
Argentina, Germany, the Netherlands, France, China, India and The Groups Regional and Industrial businesses sell into a wide Malaysia.
Additional manufacturing facilities are located in 16 other range of industries including engineering, textiles, pharmaceuticals, countries.
ICI Paints maintains its own sales distribution network in 32 aerospace, electronics and the extractive industries.
These products countries, and sells elsewhere through sales agents and distributors.
are either marketed directly or through independent merchants, Regional and Industrial wholesalers and distributors who resell to small users.
Commodity The Regional and Industrial businesses comprise several businesses, products are sold through a direct sales force or through distributors which are essentially local in their scope.
Excluding sales related to primarily to other operators in the chemical industry.
continuing supply contracts involving businesses that have been Seasonality divested and which are transacted at nil margin, Regional and Due to the diversity of their product portfolios and broad international Industrial businesses accounted for 8% of the Groups sales in 2003. coverage, seasonality in the National Starch, Quest and Uniqema The most significant of these businesses are located in Pakistan, India businesses is not significant.
ICI Paints, however, is affected, with and Argentina.
In Pakistan and India, ICI operates through non whollyhigher sales of products used on the exterior of buildings normally owned subsidiary companies whose share capital is quoted on the during better weather conditions.
With the geographic profile of ICI local stock exchanges.
Paints, this results in higher activity levels in the second and third ICI Pakistan has interests across a number of different market sectors.
The more important of these are the manufacture of polyester staple Sources and availability of raw materials fibre for the textile industry and soda ash for soaps, detergents, glass The raw materials used by the Group are from a diversity of sources, and paper.
Other businesses of ICI Pakistan include pharmaceuticals, principally comprising petrochemical based raw materials, renewable specialty products and trading.
Pakistan PTA Limited, located at Port resources, and a range of other materials.
These raw materials are Qasim near Karachi, manufactures purified terephthalic acid PTA for generally available from multiple suppliers which would enable the fibre industry.
business to continue in the event of any interruption of supply, ICI Indias regional business comprises rubber chemicals and although some business units rely on a small number of suppliers nitrocellulose and pharmaceuticals.
The rubber chemicals business for their key raw materials.
The prices of raw materials are subject to has manufacturing facilities near Kolkata, and the nitrocellulose normal conditions of supply and demand, however the prices of some business is based in Gujarat.
ICI Indias explosives business was sold raw materials are volatile and are affected by cyclical movements in in November 2003. commodity prices and the availability of such materials.
14 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Group expenditure on tangible fixed assets 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 2001 m m m m m m Continuing operations Continuing operations National Starch 59 52 85 United Kingdom 21 53 59 Quest 20 52 34 Continental Europe 39 65 49 Performance Specialties 22 38 43 Americas 60 64 86 Paints 43 53 55 Asia Pacific 34 33 44 International Businesses 144 195 217 Other countries Regional and Industrial 10 20 21 Total 154 215 238 Total 154 215 238 The primary raw materials used by National Starch are petrochemical ICI Paints competition is mainly national in character.
However, based raw materials, corn and tapioca.
National Starchs main chemical international competitors include Sherwin Williams, Akzo Nobel and raw material is vinyl acetate monomer, the cost and supply of which Nippon Paints.
is dependent on the price of natural gas and manufacturing capacity Capital expenditure of suppliers.
Specialty hybrid corn high amylose and waxy seeds The analyses in the tables above summarise the Groups capital is planted under contract for National Starch in an attempt to assure expenditure on tangible fixed assets over the three year period ending supply of these special strains.
Starch manufacturing facilities in 31 December 2003.
Capital expenditure of 154m for 2003 was 61m Thailand are located close to the sources of production of tapioca lower than 2002, primarily due the Groups increased focus on capital root to ensure reliability of supply.
effectiveness and the absence of large IT projects, particularly in Quest Quest purchases thousands of different raw materials from sources and Performance Specialties in Europe.
The main natural raw materials are extracts and In 2003, capital expenditure was incurred on a large number of relatively concentrates from fruits, vegetables and other flora as well as animal minor projects aimed at achieving additional capacity, as well as products and essential oils.
Synthetic raw material purchases are for productivity improvements through increased automation of mostly organic chemicals.
manufacturing processes and the relocation and consolidation The raw materials for Uniqema include a wide range of both renewable of facilities.
palm oil, rape-seed oil and tallows and petrochemical based ethylene Commitments for capital expenditure not provided in the Groups oxide and propylene oxide raw materials.
consolidated financial statements totalled 132m at 31 December The raw materials for ICI Paints include resins, solvents and pigments 2003, compared with 163m at the end of the previous year.
These are analysed further in note 39 to the consolidated financial statements between those for which contracts have been placed Intellectual property and those authorised but not yet contracted.
ICI has thousands of patents and applications which help to protect its technology and numerous trademark registrations which help to Research and development R&D protect its brands.
In addition, ICI derives substantial competitive A Technology Board, comprising the senior business R&D managers advantage from trade secrets and proprietary business knowledge and led by the Group Vice President of R&D, is responsible for the relating to formulae, products, processes and technical know-how.
development of the Groups Technology Strategy and its implementation ICI uses appropriate terms of employment and management processes by the R&D staff employed by the Groups businesses.
In 2003, to identify and protect its intellectual property.
As necessary, it enters expenditure on R&D by continuing operations before exceptional into confidentiality agreements with customers, suppliers and other items and excluding Technical Service, amounted to 150m 2002 third parties to protect the confidentiality of its proprietary, technical 148m: 2001 151m.
This expenditure represented 2.6% of sales and business information.
Competition Each of the Groups businesses is responsible for its own R&D Owing to the breadth and variety of the products and end markets resources and for driving innovation to meet the needs of its customers served, the Group encounters a wide range of competitors, from and markets.
The business R&D teams are complemented by a central multinational companies to many small local and independent firms.
R&D resource that aims to provide world class capabilities that are common to all the businesses.
Its capabilities are in colloid interface National Starch does not compete with any one competitor in all of science: high throughput experimentation HTE : modelling: particle its markets.
However, multinational competitors in specific markets engineering and polymer science.
It also provides measurement include HB Fuller, Rohm & Haas, Henkel, Air Products and A E Staley.
science services to the ICI businesses as well as undertaking a Similarly, Uniqema does not compete with any one competitor in all small measurement science development programme.
The Groups of its markets, but competitors in particular markets include BASF, distributed technology network draws on the expertise across ICI thus Cognis, Croda, Degussa and Rhodia.
allowing new products and processes to be developed and exploited Quest is a leader in the development application and production of by individual businesses more rapidly, and stimulating new options fragrances, flavours and food ingredients.
Quests main competitors from the combination of the technical capabilities of the Groups are multinational flavour and fragrance houses, including International different businesses.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 15 description of business In 2002, a Business Development Board was established, comprising Regulation, safety, health and the environment senior managers from the individual Businesses, the Group Vice ICIs businesses are subject to the normal regulatory framework President of R&D, planning support from the Corporate Centre, and applicable to a specialty products and paints company, notably chaired by the Executive Vice President Performance Specialties.
various health, safety and environmental rules both at national and local levels in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The purpose of the Board is to accelerate the commercial exploitation of technology opportunities within ICI, and reflects the desire to Its businesses also voluntarily conform to international and national continuously develop and strengthen the links between market needs codes of best practice appropriate to their business.
In 2003 the Business Development Boards ICI attaches great importance to the safety and health of its attention has been focused on accelerating the exploitation of the employees, to reducing any adverse environmental impact of its technical capabilities in the Group for control of the in-use release activities year-on-year and to developing products and services of products in the personal care, flavours, and fragrances markets.
ICI has appointed three leading academics to a newly formed Science Most aspects of the Groups business are subject to laws relating Advisory Board to help challenge and develop its expertise in the to safety, health and environment SHE.
The scope and severity of breadth of rapidly changing science and technology needed in its such laws vary across the different businesses and according to the Businesses.
The appointees are Paul Calvert, Professor of Materials jurisdiction concerned.
The various manufacturing processes that are Science at the University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth: Jean Frechet, operated require consents and licences including relevant emission Professor of Chemistry at the University of California, Berkeley, and permits.
The Group requires full compliance by its businesses with Gary Beauchamp, Director and President of the Monell Chemical all relevant SHE laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which it Senses Center in Philadelphia.
The Groups prime technology areas, namely biosciences, molecular ICIs policy is to improve its SHE performance continuously and to sciences, and materials, have been established to support its goals have in place quantitative measures to monitor progress.
For these in selected growth markets.
Within each of these areas is a portfolio reasons, ICI published a set of targets in 2001 to be achieved by of projects which is intended to accelerate the Groups long-term the end of the year 2005 for improvements in Safety, Health and technology development.
Targets included reducing its Bioscience has key areas of knowledge and expertise, which the environmental burden in specific categories and a commitment to Group applies to the development of personal care, food and improve energy efficiency per tonne of production by a further 5% of beverage products.
Products to combat the rise in human obesity the 2000 base level.
ICI developed the measurement of environmental are an opportunity that ICI is already addressing and shows good burden in order to take account not just of the quantity of an emission growth potential.
The Business Development Board and the Technology but its potential impact on the environment.
It uses the environmental Board are supporting projects in this sector to develop knowledge burden methodology to help prioritise actions for further performance and strengthen capabilities.
Molecular Sciences underpin much of the Groups product Challenge 2005 focuses on the effects of the Groups activities on development and here its focus is on high throughput R&D to explore climate change, land, water, and other potential impacts using the novel molecules, formulations and processes.
In addition to growing environmental burden concept introduced in 1995, and to achieve capabilities in the ICI businesses a significant centre of excellence a further 50% reduction in employee injuries and illnesses from the has been established with corporate funding to apply the HTE 2000 outturn.
methodologies in developing ICIs position in formulation science ICI maintains its focus on SHE and, in the third year of its current fiveand technology.
Projects have been completed in areas such as year programme, is on plan to meet the majority of its Challenge 2005 personal care, lubricants and materials development.
objectives and have actions in place to address those areas where we Current projects in the materials area are directed towards increasing are behind.
Full details are published in the Sustainability Report and the Groups ability to fabricate at the nano-scale for macro-scale on our website, www.
ICIs performance in 2003 is currently effects.
The combination of these capabilities is particularly focused being verified by Enviros Consulting Ltd, and the detailed performance on controlled and targeted delivery of effect products e. g. the results and verification statement will be published on the website.
collaboration between National Starch and Uniqema has already During 2003, there were seven instances of breaches of safety, health led to the launch of two new crop protection products Metasperse or environmental regulations which resulted in prosecutions or fines dispersants, and Semkote seed coatings.
Each was investigated and appropriate action taken.
between Quest and Uniqema has generated improved products for The main process by which the Group manages SHE issues and seeks the fragrancing of textiles.
to meet its objectives is the Responsible Care Management System The competitive edge of the Group comes from the combination of RCMS.
This sets out standards along with guidelines, training, auditing these capabilities, not merely the demonstration of excellence in any and procedures for reviewing and reporting performance, all of which one area.
Nowhere is this more evident than in ICIs ability to offer are essential to continuous improvement.
The system covers products with a multi-sensory touch, taste, fragrance and colour operations on site as well as product stewardship and community dimension.
The power and opportunity that this approach offers relations.
RCMS has been independently verified by Lloyds Register is displayed in the ICI report on The Secrets of the Senses Quality Assurance Limited as complying with the US and UK commissioned from Dr Charles Spence from the Department of Responsible Care Codes, the certifiable international standard for Experimental Psychology at the University of Oxford.
environmental management systems, ISO 14001 and the ICC International Chamber of Commerce Business Charter for Sustainable Development.
16 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 ICI works to manage and minimise the risks associated with the condition of its sites and has developed further procedures to enable the ranking of priorities for management attention.
ICI is engaged in research aimed at developing and implementing more cost effective environmental remediation technologies, some of which is being done in collaboration with other companies and academic institutes.
The raw materials which the Groups businesses use and the products that they produce are subject to demanding regulations concerning product safety in all parts of the world.
These regulations, which also cover product testing and risk assessment requirements, are subject to review and revision, as is currently happening in Europe with the European Union Chemicals Policy White Paper.
The Group is assessing the potential impact of these proposals on its businesses and will ensure compliance when the new European Union regulations come into force.
There is a growing pressure from legislators, customers and the general public to reduce the environmental and health impacts of products throughout their life cycle.
ICI is responding to this by ensuring that each business has a Product Stewardship programme in place.
This voluntary programme embraces, through best business practices, product regulatory requirements, societal pressures, reducing the risk of harm to people and the environment, and ICI aims to provide the relevant information to enable correct use and disposal of products.
Anticipating external pressures and concerns and providing speedy, innovative solutions with lower environmental impact is becoming a key aspect of sustaining competitive advantage.
ICI recognises these pressures and is responding with the introduction of new processes, products and services that improve the efficiency of use of raw materials and utilities and reduce adverse environmental effects.
Processes are in place for regular reviews of environmental liabilities, and provisions were established by 31 December 2003 in accordance with the accounting policy described in the Group financial statements on page 53.
Although there can be no guarantees, management believes that, within the existing legislative framework and taking account of the provisions already established, the cost of addressing currently identified environmental obligations as ICI currently views these obligations is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations.
Employees As of 31 December 2003, ICI employed 35,030 employees.
An analysis of employee numbers by business and geographical area may be found in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
ICI has a mixture of unionised and non-unionised operations across the world.
ICI considers its relations with its employees to be generally good.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 17
