Report of the Directors The Directors submit their report together with the consolidated accounts Substantial shareholdings of Hanson and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended December Details of substantial interests 3% or more in its share capital notied 31, 2003. to Hanson are shown in the Investor information section.
Incorporation and name Annual General Meeting The Company New Hanson was incorporated in England and Wales The AGM will be held at 11.00am on May 13, 2004, in the Ballroom No.
4626078 on December 31, 2002 as Broadcast Sales Limited and at the Millennium Hotel London Mayfair, Grosvenor Square, London changed its name to Hanson Building Materials Limited on June 4, 2003.
Shareholders being sent this document will also be sent It was re-registered as a public limited company, as Hanson Building a separate notice of the AGM incorporating explanatory notes of Materials PLC, on July 10, 2003 and changed its name to Hanson PLC the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
The company formerly known as Hanson PLC Old Hanson re-registered as a private limited company and changed Shareholder communications its name to Hanson Building Materials Limited on October 14, 2003.
Hanson values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors.
Based on publicly available information, constructive two-way Scheme of Arrangement and share capital reduction communication with fund managers, institutional investors and analysts is Following shareholder approval at the Scheme Court Meeting and promoted and encouraged.
The views of major shareholders are reported the EGM, both held on September 19, 2003, and Court sanction on to the Board, with independent surveys undertaken on specic issues of October13, 2003 and October 20, 2003, a scheme of arrangement relevance to the Company.
Additional forms of communication include the Scheme and share capital reduction was implemented whereby the interim and annual results presentations and the AGM see details shareholders in Old Hanson received, in substitution for each ordinary of meeting above where shareholders are invited to participate.
share of 2, one ordinary share of 10p in New Hanson.
The Scheme became effective on October 14, 2003 and the reduction in nominal value The Hanson website at www.
biz provides access to information of the new ordinary shares to 10p each was effected on October 21, 2003. to shareholders on the Company and its businesses.
Further details of the website can be found in the Investor information section.
The Scheme and the reduction in nominal value, which were implemented in order to increase the parent companys distributable At the AGM, the Chief Executive will present a review of the results and reserves and provide additional exibility for the future, had no direct current business activity.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions on impact on the market value of shareholders investment in Hanson.
items of business put before the meeting and will have the opportunity to vote separately on each resolution.
The Chairman will indicate the level Results and dividends of proxy votes lodged in respect of each resolution following each vote The profit after exceptional items and taxation for the year was on a show of hands.
Details of those abstaining from voting will also be 179.9m.
An interim dividend of 5.0p per ordinary share was paid disclosed.
After the meeting the Directors will also be available to meet on September 19, 2003.
The Directors recommend a final dividend with shareholders.
of 11.95p per ordinary share which will, if approved at the AGM, be paid on May 18, 2004, to ordinary shareholders on the register at close Directors of business London time on April 23, 2004.
After providing for cash The present Directors of New Hanson are: 2 dividends of 120.9m, the retained profit transferred to reserves was C D Collins, Chairman 59.0m note 20 of the notes to the accounts of the Annual Report 1 A J Murray, Chief Executive and Form 20-F. A financial review and prospects for the year 2004 2 The Rt Hon.
Lord Baker of Dorking CH are included within the Chairman and Chief Executives overview and 2 W F Blount the operating and financial review.
1 G Dranseld 2 Activities S L Keswick Hanson is a focused heavy building materials company with operations 3 W S H Laidlaw in North America, the UK, Australia, Continental Europe and Asia Pacic.
2 J C Nicholls Note 1 to the accounts of the Annual Report and Form 20-F gives an 2 The Baroness Noakes DBE analysis of operating profit including joint-ventures and associated undertakings, turnover and capital employed by activity and by Independent Non-executive Director geographical location.
The present Directors were appointed to the Board on 1 June 16, 2003: Acquisitions and disposals 2 July 30, 2003: 3 October 1, 2003.
During the year Hanson acquired businesses at a total cost of 207.9m.
Net proceeds from the disposal of subsidiaries and investments during As a consequence of the Scheme, all the present Directors will seek the year totalled 181.3m.
Further information is contained in note 21 election to the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
of the notes to the accounts of the Annual Report and Form 20-F. Brief biographical details of the Directors are given on page 32 and Fixed assets accompany the notice of the AGM.
Details of movements in Hansons xed assets are shown in note 11 of the notes to the accounts of the Annual Report and Form 20-F.
The Company was newly incorporated for the purposes of the Scheme and Directors were appointed for administrative purposes and at relevant Subsequent events dates appropriate to implementation of the Scheme.
Other Directors Material post balance sheet events are described in note 32 of the of the Company during the year were as follows: notes to the accounts of the Annual Report and Form 20-F. Business Legal Limited, appointed on December 31, 2002, resigned on April 7, 2003 Research and development E J Laurie, appointed on April 7, 2003, resigned on June 16, 2003 The development and improvement of new and existing products is A C Bolter, appointed on April 7, 2003, resigned on June 16, 2003 an essential continuing process in our companies.
Expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Neither E J Laurie nor A C Bolter received remuneration from the Company in respect of their services as Directors of the Company.
Share capital Details of changes in Hansons share capital during the year and the number of ordinary shares reserved for issue at December 31, 2003 are shown in note 19 of the notes to the accounts of the Annual Report and Form 20-F. Report of Directors 33 Report of the Directors continued All of the present Directors were also Directors of Old Hanson The overall safety statistics for the group showed continued at the beginning of the year with the exception of W S H Laidlaw.
Although the incidence of lost time injuries All Non-executive Directors of Old Hanson resigned on October 14, remained at the same level as 2002, the number of lost work days 2003.
The following changes to the Board of Old Hanson occurred shifts per lost time incident was reduced by 26%, evidencing during the period to October 14, 2003, the Scheme Effective Date: continued improved case management.
D M Hoare resigned on January 31, 2003 J M Schubert resigned on May 15, 2003 However, during 2003, there were sadly three employee work related S N Vivian resigned on June 30, 2003 fatalities.
Although this equals the lowest recorded annual number, the W S H Laidlaw appointed on October 1, 2003. only acceptable number is zero.
Every opportunity is taken to learn from the investigations which follow any accident or unsafe act.
Directors interests The interests of the Directors, in ofce at December 31, 2003, Further information on Hansons policies and procedures can in the ordinary shares of Hanson appear in the remuneration report be found on page 31 and within the Companys separate corporate on pages 39 to 44. responsibility publications.
In addition to providing indemnification pursuant to Hansons The environment Memorandum and Articles of Association or the charter or the The progress of Hansons environmental performance is tracked and by-laws of Hansons subsidiaries, Hanson maintains directors and reported quarterly to the Board.
P D Tunnacliffe, the Company Secretary, ofcers liability insurance for Directors and ofcers of Hanson and its is responsible to the Board for environmental matters.
Except for such indemnification and insurance and except for the respective terms of service of such Directors and ofcers, no Further information on the Companys approach to environmental matters Director or officer of Hanson or any relative or spouse thereof either can be found on page 31 and within the Companys separate corporate had an interest in any contract or transaction which was material to responsibility publications.
Hanson or such related party or unusual in its nature or conditions or had any outstanding indebtedness of a material nature owing Charitable and political donations to Hanson at any time during the last three years.
During the year, the group made worldwide charitable donations of 484,000 2002 429,000, including 152,000 2002 129,000 Employees and employment policies in the UK.
As in the previous year, no political donations were made The success of the business ultimately rests upon the people working to EU political parties or organisations.
The better the understanding among employees of their part in achieving the objectives of the business the greater the opportunity Policy on payment of suppliers for success.
The holding company, Hanson PLC, has no trade creditors.
The policy of Hanson companies is to agree payment terms with their suppliers and Group policies are framed for adaptation to local legislation by the abide by those terms, subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier.
In addition to ensuring compliance the policies centre around business improvement and creating an environment where employees At December 31, 2003, the group trade creditors represented 40 days can reach their full potential.
This includes employment practices of trade purchases.
Auditors Wide ranging employment policies are in place throughout the group, Ernst & Young LLP were appointed independent auditors of New Hanson covering areas such as role and goal clarity, performance management, on June 16, 2003 and having expressed their willingness to continue employee development, succession planning, recruitment, health and in ofce a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be submitted safety and equal opportunity in employment.
The independent auditors reports are on page 38.
Employment communication and involvement through a range of media Corporate governance and meetings allows employees to have a better understanding of the The Directors are committed to high standards of corporate governance, business performance and important information on operational news, recognising that Hansons good reputation is one of the Companys most health and safety and the environment, employee news and community valuable assets.
To maintain this reputation Hanson will strive to act in activities.
Two-way communication is encouraged and employees are able accordance with the laws and customs of each country in which it to make valuable contributions to improvement in business processes.
operates: adopt proper standards of business practice and procedure: operate with integrity: and observe and respect the culture of each country Divisional companies all play their part in informing employees of the in which it operates.
Within adopted business principles, divisional codes financial and economic factors affecting the Companys performance of conduct and supporting policies are in place.
A code of ethics for the and the actual results.
purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 SOX covering Hansons Chief Executive, Finance Director and senior financial ofcers is in place.
Health and safety This code is available on request from the Company Secretary or on The progress of the safety performance throughout the businesses Hansons website.
worldwide is tracked and reported quarterly to the Board using standard measures.
P D Tunnacliffe, the Company Secretary, is responsible to the The Board is accountable to shareholders for good business governance.
Board for health and safety.
The way in which Hanson applies the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Old Code is described Hanson uses the following indicators to provide a consistent measure within this Report of the Directors and in the Remuneration report.
According to best international practice the measures has been in full compliance with the Old Code throughout the year under are per 200,000 hours worked.
In addition the Board is addressing those few areas where Hanson Lost time incidence rate: this is the frequency rate of injuries resulting does not currently fully meet the requirements of the new Combined Code in an employee being absent for one or more shifts.
on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in Lost day incidence rate: this is the frequency rate for days lost July 2003 the New Code, which will formally apply to Hanson for the as a result of accidents.
34 Report of Directors Report of the Directors continued As well as being subject to UK legislation and practice Hanson, The Board manages overall control of the Companys affairs with reference as a company listed on the NYSE, is subject to the listing requirements to the schedule of matters reserved for its authorisation and approval, of the NYSE and the rules of the SEC.
Compliance with the provisions review and responsibility.
Matters reserved for authorisation and approval of SOX as it applies to foreign issuers, is continually monitored.
Whilst include long-term strategy, financial statements and significant changes the Directors believe that the groups corporate governance policies are in accounting policy, dividend recommendations, treasury activities, major robust, changes have and will continue to be made to ensure compliance acquisitions and disposals, major capital projects or expenditure, with the rules that are in place at any point in time.
Hanson follows UK appointment of Directors, risk management policies and major changes corporate governance practice which does not differ signicantly from in the groups pension arrangements.
Matters for which the Board has the NYSE corporate governance standards except that the Nominations responsibility include compliance with the groups environmental and Committee is required to be comprised of a majority, rather than entirely, health and safety policies and, as set out below, the groups system of of Independent Directors and there is no requirement in the UK for internal control.
Matters which the Board reviews include quarterly results, a comprehensive code of business conduct and ethics.
the groups management resource planning, charitable donations and the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control, as set out below.
The Board of Directors The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, All Directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of two other Executive Directors and five Non-executive Directors.
The Non-executive Directors have a particular There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and Chief responsibility for ensuring that the business strategies proposed are Executive.
As Chairman, C D Collins has the responsibility for the running fully discussed and critically reviewed.
This ensures the Directors act of the Board and for ensuring that all Directors are fully informed of matters in the best long-term interest of shareholders, whilst taking account relevant to their roles.
As Chief Executive, A J Murray has responsibility for of the interests of employees, customers, suppliers and the communities implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for managing the group.
in which the businesses operate.
The Non-executive Directors also oversee the operational performance of the whole group.
To do this During the year, there was no change in the Chairmans other they have full and timely access to all relevant information, with updates commitments.
He remains a Non-executive Director of four other also provided on governance and regulatory matters affecting the public companies, including the role of Non-executive Chairman Company.
In addition senior executives below Board level are invited, of Forth Ports PLC.
as appropriate, to Board and strategy meetings to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
All of the Non-executive Directors are, in the opinion of the Board, considered to be independent of management and free from any As part of the initial induction process for those Directors newly business or other relationships which affect their ability to exercise appointed, documents describing the Company and its activities are independent judgement.
In the case of S L Keswick and The Rt Hon.
Site visits are arranged, with Directors also provided with the Baker of Dorking, the Board considers their effective appointment date as opportunity and encouragement for training to ensure they are kept February 24, 1997, being the date of the final demerger which resulted in up to date on relevant new legislation and best practice and changing the current business focused on heavy building materials.
S L Keswick commercial and other risks.
In order to full their duties, procedures are is the Senior Independent Director.
in place for Directors to seek both independent advice and the advice and services of the Company Secretary, P D Tunnacliffe, who is responsible for The Board considers that the current Non-executive Directors bring advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
a wide range of business and financial experience vital to the successful direction of Hanson as an international force in the heavy building During the year an evaluation of the Boards effectiveness, including materials industry and provide a solid foundation for good corporate the effectiveness of committees of the Board, was undertaken by the governance, ensuring that no individual or group dominates the Boards Chairman by way of a written questionnaire to and individual meetings decision making.
The Nominations Committee is looking to make a with all Directors.
The responses were subject to review by the Board recommendation to the Board on the appointment of new Non-executive and identied improvements will be introduced in 2004, during which Directors.
Lord Baker of Dorking, who will reach the age year a similar evaluation process will be undertaken.
of 70 later in the year, will retire from the Board at the AGM in 2005.
In order to provide continuity, S L Keswick has agreed to remain on the As part of the evaluation process, the Chairman considered Board until the end of 2005.
Through the Nominations Committee the the performance, including time commitments, of each individual Board ensures that plans are in place for the succession of Executive Non-executive Director and concluded that the performance of and Non-executive Directors.
each continues to be effective.
There were six Board and strategy meetings held during the year The Non-executive Directors full a key role in corporate accountability.
and the attendance records of individual Directors is set out below: The remits and membership of the Remuneration, the Nominations and the Audit Committees of the Board are set out below.
The terms Attendance of reference of these Committees have been reviewed as part of the C D Collins 6 Companys overall review of SOX and the New Code.
A J Murray 6 G Dranseld 6 Remuneration Committee J C Nicholls 6 The Remuneration Committee comprises three independent Non-executive Directors: The Rt Hon.
Lord Baker of Dorking Chairman, The Rt Hon.
Lord Baker of Dorking 6 W F Blount and The Baroness Noakes.
Its role is described in the W F Blount 6 Remuneration report.
W S H Laidlaw appointed October 1, 2003 1 S L Keswick 5 The terms of reference of the Committee are available on request The Baroness Noakes 6 from the Company Secretary or on Hansons website.
S N Vivian resigned June 30, 2003 2 J M Schubert resigned May 15, 2003 2 D M Hoare resigned January 31, 2003 Report of Directors 35 Report of the Directors continued Nominations Committee Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures The Nominations Committee consists of C D Collins as Chairman, The Chief Executive and the Finance Director have evaluated the A J Murray and all the Independent Non-executive Directors.
effectiveness of the groups disclosure controls and procedures as of The Committees revised terms of reference include the review of the the end of the period covered by this report.
Based on this evaluation, structure, size and composition of the Board, with recommendations the Chief Executive and Finance Director concluded that the disclosure to the Board on any changes, and planning for the orderly succession controls and procedures are effective in all material respects to ensure of Executive and Non-executive Directors.
C D Collins will not chair that material information relating to the group would be made known meetings when the appointment of his successor is being reviewed.
to them by others within the group.
During the year, on behalf of the Board, the Committee undertook a search for the appointment of a new Non-executive Director.
There have been no significant changes in the groups internal controls In conducting this process, the Committee appointed an external search or in other factors that have occured during the period that have materially consultancy and met with candidates prior to making a recommendation affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the groups internal to the Board, which resulted in the appointment of W S H Laidlaw as control over financial reporting.
a Director of the Company on October 1, 2003.
A candidate prole for the search was agreed.
It is anticipated that, for the appointment Internal control of further Non-executive Directors, a similar procedure will be adopted.
The Board recognises that it is responsible for the groups system Within its terms of reference and membership existing during the year of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Old Code the Committee met in full on a number of occasions, principally in the introduced a requirement that the Board reviews the effectiveness of the search for a new Non-executive Director.
system of internal control, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management, at least annually.
In addition, Internal Control: Guidance Following appointment by the Board, new Directors must submit for Directors on the Combined Code was published in September 1999, themselves for election by the shareholders at the AGM following to provide guidance to Directors in respect of this requirement.
Thereafter, subject to the Articles of Association in relation to the re-election of Directors, all Directors are subject to The Board confirms that the procedures, which accord with the re-election every three years.
Recommendations to shareholders on guidance, have been in place for the year to December 31, 2003 and up the re-appointment of the Directors is not automatic and is subject to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Form 20-F by the Board.
to consideration by the Committee, prior to approval by the Board.
These procedures ensure that the Board is aware of the key risks facing the group and that the system of internal control is regularly reviewed for The terms of reference of the Committee are available on request effectiveness and adequacy.
However, such a system can only provide from the Company Secretary or on Hansons website.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure Audit Committee to achieve business objectives.
In seeking to achieve these objectives, The Audit Committee comprises three Non-executive Directors: many of which are already features of the existing processes and The Baroness Noakes Chairman, C D Collins and W S H Laidlaw.
procedures within the Company, the Board has specifically instituted It meets at least three times a year, with the external auditors in the following processes, which have been in effect throughout the attendance.
During the year the Committee met four times and, reporting period and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report other than S L Keswick, a member during the year, who was unable and Form 20-F by the Board.
to attend two meetings, there was full attendance.
It is anticipated that on the appointment of a new Independent Non-executive Director, Policies C D Collins will cease to act as a member of the Committee, and will A planning framework which incorporates a four year plan be replaced by the new Director.
approved by the Board, with objectives for each business unit.
A mechanism for reporting weaknesses in internal control The Finance Director and the Head of Internal Audit attend by invitation systems and for monitoring corrective action.
and during the year the Committee also met with the external auditors without the presence of management.
Processes Appointment of experienced and professional staff, both The Committees duties include recommendations on the appointment by recruitment and promotion, of the necessary calibre to full of, and an assessment of the independence of, the auditor: pre-approval their allotted responsibilities.
of audit, review and attest services and permitted non-audit services: A comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board, ensuring the objectivity and independence of the auditors is maintained: based on an annual budget with monthly reports against actual review of the internal audit programme: the establishment of results, analysis of variances, scrutiny of key performance whistleblowing procedures: review of the effectiveness of systems for indicators and regular re-forecasting.
internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management: the Formal business risk reviews performed by management which Companys accounting policies, financial and other reporting procedures: evaluate the potential financial and non-financial impacts of and the review of the Companys statement on internal control prior identied risks and possible new risk areas, set control, mitigation to endorsement by the Board.
and monitoring procedures and review actual occurrences identifying lessons to be learnt.
The Baroness Noakes is identied as the Audit Committee financial Regular treasury reports to the Board which analyse the funding expert for the purposes of SOX.
requirements of each class of assets, track the generation and use of capital and the volume of liquidity, measure the groups The Committee has reviewed and approved a policy for the provision exposure to interest and exchange rate movements and record of audit and non-audit services by the auditors.
The policy requires all the level of compliance with the groups funding objectives.
audit and non-audit services to be approved in advance by the Committee Well dened procedures governing the appraisal and approval or by a delegated body.
The approval process requires full disclosure of investments including detailed investment and divestment of the objectives and scope of services to be performed in addition to the approval procedures incorporating appropriate levels of authority fee structure.
The Committee reviews all approved services and fees and regular post investment reviews.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on request from the Company Secretary or on Hansons website.
36 Report of Directors Report of the Directors continued Verication An internal audit function within the business operations which undertakes periodic examination of business units and processes and recommends improvements in controls to management.
The external auditors who are engaged to express an opinion on the Annual Report and Form 20-F. An Audit Committee of the Board, consisting of Non-executive Directors, which considers significant control matters and receives reports on internal controls from both the internal and external auditors on a regular basis.
A Risk Committee of the Board, consisting of the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Legal Director and other senior financial executives, which monitors and reviews significant financial and non-financial risk.
Internal Audit Each major operating division has internal audit capability and these are co-ordinated centrally by the Head of Internal Audit.
The Board, whilst satisfied that it is adequate, believes that further development of the internal audit capability will continue, necessitated in part by the growing demands of the regulatory environment.
Going concern The Directors confirm that, after making appropriate enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that Hanson has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Directors responsibilities for the accounts Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that year.
In preparing these accounts, the Directors consider that they have: selected suitable accounting policies, and applied them consistently: made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and followed applicable UK accounting standards.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the group keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the Annual Report and Form 20-F of the Company is placed on the Companys website.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of statutory and audited information on the Companys website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board Paul Tunnacliffe Company Secretary February 19, 2004 Registered ofce 1 Grosvenor Place London SW1X 7JH Registered in England and Wales No.
