Description of business 16:03GMT 10:03Local Hanson North America, Grand Prairie pressure pipe factory, Texas, USA.
11:15GMT Hanson UK, Tilmanstone brick factory, Kent, UK.
4 Description of business Description of business continued 01:41GMT 11: 41Local Hanson Australia, Wolffdene hard rock quarry, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
07:38GMT 15:38Local Hanson Continental Europe & Asia, delivery from Putrajaya readymixed concrete plant, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
Group structure North America UK Australia Continental Europe & Asia Hanson Aggregates Hanson Aggregates Hanson Hanson Continental Europe North America UK Australia & Marine Hanson Building Products Hanson Building Products Hanson Asia Pacic North America UK Description of business 5 Description of business continued Hanson is one of the worlds leading building were changed to Hanson.
We are the largest producer Hanson Quarry Products Europe: Cornerstone of aggregates crushed rock, sand and gravel and Hanson Building Materials America and Hanson one of the largest producers of concrete products, Brick Hanson Bricks Europe.
The Companys clay bricks and ready-mixed concrete in the world, business in south east Asia was Hanson Pacic.
with over 28,000 employees including joint-ventures Acquisitions continued, particularly in the USA, and associates and operations in 16 countries.
and the Company became a global player with the Hanson products are fundamental to the fabric of acquisition in May 2000 of the Australian construction our world.
They are used in a variety of construction materials business, Pioneer International.
products, from schools, hospitals and ofces to In January 2002 Hanson created an integrated roads, tunnels and bridges.
building materials business in Europe by combining The fundamentals of our strategy, which is reviewed its quarry products and brick operations into a new annually by the Board, remain unchanged.
We will division called Hanson Building Materials Europe continue to focus on developing and improving our HBME.
core products, with the intention of delivering longAs part of its objective of streamlining term value for our shareholders.
We will operate administration, reducing overheads, improving internationally in selected markets which we believe customer service and with an aim to make the have good long-term prospects.
Our aim is to existing group more responsive to market conditions, establish strong local market positions through Hanson restructured its trading operations in June bolt-on acquisitions and capital investment with strict 2003 into four identiable trading regions: Hanson investment criteria.
We will continue to look at ways North America 41.9% of 2003 continuing turnover, to reduce operating costs and increase efficiency, Hanson UK 30.1% of 2003 continuing turnover, enhance our long-term mineral reserves and share Hanson Australia 13.6% of 2003 continuing best practice and management expertise across turnover, and Hanson Continental Europe & Asia the group.
Whilst this General development of business restructuring did not indicate any change in Hansons In 1996 a decision to demerge the business overall strategy, it did reinforce a continued focus on into four separate companies was taken.
Imperial its core values of cost and margin control, together Tobacco, The Energy Group and the US chemicals with disciplined and proactive growth via capital business, Millennium, subsequently became quoted expenditure and bolt-on acquisitions.
companies in their own right.
Hansons strategy was North America to change from a diversied industrial conglomerate Prior to June 2003, Hansons North American into a focused heavy building materials business.
operations were organised into five groups The major building materials companies remaining operating across the USA, as well as in Mexico within Hanson were ARC, Hanson Brick and and the Canadian provinces of Ontario and Quebec.
As part of the simplication of the North American From 1997-2000 Hanson management undertook structure, the North American operations have been the substantial changes required to deliver the new reorganised into two new operating groups, Hanson strategy.
The remaining non-core businesses were Aggregates North America and Hanson Building sold.
Considerable sums were spent on acquisitions Products North America, with a corporate ofce to build up the existing businesses and capital in Neptune, New Jersey.
investment in plant upgrades was stepped up to improve efficiency and reduce costs.
Early in 1999, to highlight the fact that Hanson was now a unied company, the names of all the operating companies 6 Description of business Description of business continued a Hanson Aggregates North America Hanson Building Products UK supplies bricks, Hanson Aggregates North America, headquartered concrete pipes, manholes, blocks, ooring, precast in Dallas, Texas produces aggregates, asphalt, concrete and packed aggregates products cement and ready-mixed concrete and has over throughout the UK.
400 operating locations throughout the USA.
Australia b Hanson Building Products North America Hanson Australia is a major supplier of Hanson Building Products North America, construction materials to the Australian market, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is divided into two focusing on aggregates and ready-mixed concrete.
sub-groups, Pipe & Products and Brick & Tile.
Pipe Hanson Australia has national coverage in Australia & Products, also headquartered in Dallas, produces with a presence in metropolitan and major regional concrete pipes, related drainage products and centres.
There was no change to the corporate precast concrete products for the US and Canadian structure of Hanson Australia in the June 2003 markets and has over 80 production facilities group reorganisation.
throughout the USA and Canada.
Brick & Tile, with Hanson Australias other major interests include its headquarters in Charlotte, North Carolina, produces i its 25% share in Cement Australia Holdings Pty clay bricks for the US and Canadian markets from Ltd, jointly owned with Rinker Group Ltd and Holcim its principal manufacturing plants in Canada, Texas, Ltd, which operates cement plants in New South and the Carolinas as well as having roof tile plants Wales, Tasmania and Queensland, and ii Pioneer in Florida, California, Texas and Arizona.
Road Services Pty Ltd, jointly owned with Shell UK Australia Ltd, which operates as an asphalt and Prior to June 2003, HBME, the groups European contracting business.
trading arm, was divided into two divisions, Continental Europe & Asia European Aggregates and UK Building Products.
Hanson Continental Europe & Marine HCEM As a result of the simplication of the European and Hanson Asia Pacic make up Hansons structure, HBME ceased to exist from June 30, operations in the rest of the world.
Under the new structure, Hanson reports as former Continental European trading division two groups in the UK, Hanson Aggregates UK and of HBME with various aggregates, ready-mixed Hanson Buildings Products UK.
These two divisions concrete and asphalt operations in Spain, the constitute a significant part of what was HBME, Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, with the remaining part consisting of the marine Germany and Israel.
Included within HCEM are and continental European aggregates operations Hansons European marine dredging operations now forming a sub-group of Continental Europe which, through a wholly owned subsidiary and United & Asia region.
Marine Holdings Limited, a joint-venture with a a Hanson Aggregates UK member of the Tarmac group of companies, supply Hanson Aggregates UK produces aggregates, sea-dredged aggregates to the UK, Belgium, the ready-mixed concrete and asphalt in the UK.
Prior to June 2003, Hanson In addition, Hanson Aggregates UK is a partner Asia Pacic was known as Hanson Pacic.
There in a number of joint-venture companies in the UK, was no change to the corporate structure of Hanson the most significant of which is Midland Quarry Pacic in the June 2003 group reorganisation.
Products Limited, owned jointly with a member Hanson Asia Pacic operates in the south east of the Tarmac group of companies.
Pacic region, principally in Malaysia, Hong Kong, Thailand and Singapore.
b Hanson Building Products UK Hanson Building Products UK is the former UK Building Products division of HBME.
Mineral reserve base bn tonnes based on worldwide proven reserves at December 31, 2003 North America 8.3 UK 1.3 Australia 0.7 Continental Europe & Asia 1.6 Group total 11.9 We estimate that Hanson has approximately 50 years of proven reserves at current production levels which demonstrates the sustainable nature of both our profit stream and the cash generative nature of our assets.
Proven reserves, as dened by The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, are those measured reserves of which detailed technical and economic studies have demonstrated that extraction can be justied at the time of determination.
On this basis we estimate that Hanson has 11.9bn tonnes of proven reserves which we believe are economically viable.
The majority of these reserves are planned although some reserves have yet to receive planning consent.
