board of directors Peter B Ellwood, CBE Chairman Philips Lighting Asia Pacific in 1996 and Executive Vice President Appointed a Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman on 27 June of Philips Lighting and Chief Executive Officer of the Lamps business 2003 and Chairman with effect from 1 January 2004. group two years later.
In May 2001 he became President and Chief Executive Officer of Philips Lighting.
Peter Ellwood joined Barclays Bank in 1961 where he held a number of senior roles including Chief Executive of Barclaycard from 1985 David Hamill has broad experience in international business and to 1989. has held senior management roles in Europe and Asia where he has gained considerable production, commercial, marketing and finance In 1989 he joined TSB Bank as Chief Executive, Retail Banking, was experience.
He has a strong track record of leadership in global appointed a Director of TSB Group in 1990 and became Group Chief businesses with extensive experience in Asia and working with large Executive in 1992.
Following the merger with Lloyds Bank in 1995, retail groups.
Aged 46. he became Deputy Group Chief Executive of Lloyds TSB Group plc, subsequently becoming Group Chief Executive in 1997.
He was William H Powell Director Chairman of Visa International from 1994 to 1999.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive of National Starch and Chemical Company and has Board responsibility Peter Ellwood was made a Commander of the British Empire for for Sustainability which includes Group Safety, Health and Environment.
services to banking in 2001, is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers and has received Honorary Doctorates from both Leicester He joined the Company in 1997 following the acquisition of the University and the University of Central England.
He is Chairman of the Speciality Chemicals businesses from Unilever, where he held a UK Royal Parks Advisory Board, The Royal Parks Charitable Trust and number of senior positions.
The Work Foundation of Great Britain.
He is also Director of the Royal William Powell joined National Starch and Chemical in 1976, Philharmonic Orchestra and Deputy Chairman of the Royal College gaining extensive experience in production, planning and general of Music.
In 1981, he was appointed divisional Vice President John D G McAdam Chief Executive of Manufacturing for Adhesives and Resins.
In 1984, he was promoted Appointed a Director in 1999 and Chief Executive on 9 April 2003.
He to Corporate Vice President of the Resins and Specialty Chemical joined the Company in 1997 following the acquisition of the Speciality division: Corporate Vice President, International in 1986: Group Vice Chemicals businesses from Unilever.
President, Industrial Starch and Food Products division in 1989: and Executive Vice President in 1997.
In 1999, he was appointed John McAdam graduated from Manchester University with a first class Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
honours degree in chemical physics and, after completing his doctorate, was awarded a research fellowship.
William Powell has a degree in chemistry and a masters degree in chemical engineering from Case Western Reserve University.
In 1974 he joined Unilever as a management trainee and held a variety In addition he has a Masters in Business Administration from the of managerial positions within Birds Eye Foods before joining the University of North Dakota.
He is past Chairman of the Corn Refiners Board of Unilevers flavours and fragrance business, PPF International, Association and currently an Honorary Director.
He is a member of as Technical Director.
In 1987, he joined the Board of Quest International the Institute of Food Technologists and the American Institute of as Senior Vice President in charge of Manufacturing, Logistics and Chemical Engineers.
He is also a member of: the Board of Directors Procurement before returning to Birds Eye Walls, where he assumed of the American Chemistry Council: the Executive Committee of Board responsibility for Manufacturing, Research and Development.
the Society of Chemical Industry: the Board of Overseers of the In 1993 he was appointed Chairman of Unichema International New Jersey Institute of Technology: and the Board of Trustees of and, following ICIs acquisition of the Unilever Speciality Chemical the State Theater of New Jersey.
Aged 58. businesses in 1997, became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Timothy A Scott Chief Financial Officer of Quest and a member of the ICI Executive Management Team.
In Appointed a Director and Chief Financial Officer in 2001.
He is January 1998 he was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive of ICI Chairman of the ICI Charity Trust and Appeals Committee.
Paints and the following year he was elected to the Board of ICI with additional responsibility for Research, Development and Technology A graduate of St Catherines College, Oxford with a degree in chemistry, he is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management and ICIs activities in Asia.
John McAdam is a Non-Executive Director of Severn Trent Plc and is a member of the University of Surrey Business Advisory Board.
Timothy Scott joined the Company in 1997 following the acquisition Aged 55. of the Speciality Chemicals businesses from Unilever.
He joined Unilever in 1983 and during the first six years of his career worked in David C M Hamill Director a variety of businesses in the UK, US and the Netherlands in a range Appointed a Director on 8 December 2003.
He is Chairman and Chief of financial positions.
In 1989 he joined Unilevers UK-based Mergers Executive of ICI Paints.
& Acquisitions department and three years later moved to Unichema David Hamill joined the Company from Royal Philips Electronics where in the Netherlands as Senior Vice President Commercial, becoming he was a member of the Group Management Committee.
Group Vice President, Europe in 1995.
A graduate in production engineering and management from Strathclyde In 1998 he was appointed Chief Administrative Officer for ICI Paints in North America and the following year became ICIs Vice President University, David Hamill worked for Honeywell and General Instruments before joining Philips Semiconductors as product manager in 1986.
He held a number of senior positions within Philips Power Semiconductors and Lighting businesses, becoming President of 30 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Adri Baan Non-Executive Director A past Chairman of the US-Japan Business Council, he received Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2001.
He has a masters Japans 1994 Prime Ministers Trade Award for his contributions to degree in physics from the University of Amsterdam and joined Philips promoting improved US-Japan trade relations.
He has served on as a project manager in 1969.
He has held a series of senior positions the Boards of the US-China Business Council and the Prince of with Philips in Europe and North America.
From 1984 to 1986 he was Wales Business Leaders Forum and is a trustee of the Centre for Vice Chairman Philips Industrial Electronics in Eindhoven and two Strategic and International Studies.
He also serves the Council on years later was appointed Executive Vice President, North American Competitiveness as a co-industry vice chair and member of the Philips.
He was Managing Director of Philips Business Electronics executive committee and was also a member of the Presidents from 1993 to 1996 and Chief Executive Officer and a Member of Export Council.
the Group Management Committee from 1996 to 1998.
In 1998 he Joseph Gorman is a Director of Alcoa, Inc.
The Procter & Gamble was appointed Executive Vice President Royal Philips Electronics Company and National City Corporation.
Aged 66. and Member of the Management Board, a position which he held until 2001.
Richard N Haythornthwaite Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2001.
He is Chairman of the In addition he was formerly the Chairman of Integrated Production and ICI Remuneration Committee.
Test Engineering N. V. and a Director of Mediquist, NPM Capital and PSA Corporation Limited Port of Singapore Authority.
A graduate of Queens College, Oxford, with a degree in geology and a Sloan Fellow of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Richard He is currently a Director of: Hesse-Noord Natie, Port of Antwerp: Haythornthwaite has over twenty years of international industry Wolters Kluwer N. V. : ASM International N. V. : Koninklijke Volker experience covering a broad mix of strategic and operational roles.
Wessels Stevin N. V. : International Power plc: the Trust Office of KAS His career has spanned extensive experience in organisational and BANK NV: OCE NV: and AFM the Authority for Financial Markets in cultural change leadership, cost reduction programmes, results-driven the Netherlands.
Aged 61. performance initiatives and executing and negotiating acquisitions Rt.
Lord Butler of Brockwell, KG, GCB, CVO and divestments worldwide.
Senior Independent Director Richard Haythornthwaites career began with BP plc where he held Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1998.
He is the Boards Senior a variety of positions in its European and American operations from Independent Director.
1978 to1995, including Chief Geologist BP France, General Manager After graduating with a double first in Mods and Greats from University of the Magnus Oilfield and President of BP Venezuela.
College, Oxford, Robin Butler joined the Treasury in 1961 where he In 1995 he joined the Board of Premier Oil plc, where he was held a succession of posts before becoming Private Secretary to the responsible for corporate and commercial affairs, and two years later Financial Secretary in 1964 and Secretary of the Budget Committee was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Blue Circle Industries plc.
He was seconded to the Bank of England in 1969 Following its acquisition of Blue Circle in 2001, he became a Nonand subsequently acted as Private Secretary to three Prime Ministers.
Executive Director of Lafarge S. A. standing down from that Board In 1985 Robin Butler became second Permanent Secretary, Public in July 2003.
From 1999 to 2003 he was a Non-Executive Director Expenditure and in 1988 he was appointed as Secretary of the of Cookson Group plc.
Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Service.
Richard Haythornthwaite is Group Chief Executive of Invensys plc.
Lord Butler is currently Master of University College, Oxford, a NonIn addition he is a Director of the British-American Arts Association Executive Director of HSBC Holdings plc and is a member of the Limited, The British Council Board and the National Museum of Advisory Panel to the UK Management Group of Marsh & McLennan.
He is also Chairman of the Centre for Creative He has recently been appointed to chair the Review of Intelligence on Communities and the Almeida Theatre Company Limited.
He is also a trustee of the Globe Trust, a trustee of the Rhodes Trust and Chairman of the Churchill Museum Appeal Committee.
Joseph T Gorman Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2000.
He is Chairman of the ICI Audit Committee.
A graduate of Kent State University and holding a doctorate from Yale Law School, Joseph Gorman practised law for 5 years before joining the legal department of automotive safety systems manufacturer, TRW Inc. in 1962.
He became Secretary of TRW in 1970 and Vice President in 1972.
He served as Vice President and General Counsel from 1976 to 1980 when he was elected Executive Vice President and given responsibility for the Industrial & Energy business unit.
In 1985 he was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company and three years later became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 31
