executive management team The Executive Management Team comprises the Executive Directors Date first appointed as an Officer and the following: Leonard J Berlik 1 April 2000 Appointed a member of the Executive Management Team in 2000.
He is Executive Vice President Performance Specialties.
He also has regional oversight responsibilities for Group activities in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
He joined National Starch and Chemical Company in 1972 and, prior to his appointment with Industrial Specialties now Performance Specialties in 2000, served as Executive Vice President of the Adhesives Division.
Charles F Knott 28 March 2003 Appointed a member of the Executive Management Team on 28 March 2003.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive of Quest International.
He joined National Starch and Chemical Company in 1984 where he has held a number of senior positions in the UK, Germany, the Netherlands, Asia Pacific and the US.
Prior to his appointment with Quest International he had been President and Chief Operating Officer of National Starch since 2001.
Michael H C Herlihy 1 January 1996 Appointed a member of the Executive Management Team in 1996.
He was appointed General Counsel in 1996, Executive Vice President Mergers and Acquisitions in 2000 and Company Secretary on 1 November 2003.
Rolf Deusinger 1 July 2002 Appointed a member of the Executive Management Team in 2002.
He is Executive Vice President Human Resources.
He joined the Company in October 1999 as Senior Vice President Human Resources for ICI Paints.
Previously he was Head of International Human Resources for Messer Griesheim GmbH based in Germany.
He has nearly 20 years international experience in the field of Human Resources, predominantly in consumer businesses, including PepsiCo covering the Americas, Europe and Central Asia.
The persons listed above together with David J Gee, Executive Vice President, Regional and Industrial Businesses, are regarded as the Officers of the Company for the purposes of the Annual Report and Accounts.
At each Annual General Meeting of the Companys shareholders one third of the Directors being those longest in office since their last election retire and are eligible for re-election.
New Directors appointed between Annual General Meetings to fill casual vacancies, or as additional Directors, retire at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and are also eligible for election.
Dr J D G McAdam and Lord Butler retire under Article 96 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Both are recommended for re-election.
All Executive Directors are employed on rolling contracts subject to no more than one years notice.
No Director or Officer has a family relationship with any other Director or Officer.
Excludes Directors appointed as additional Directors or to fill a casual vacancy since the last Annual General Meeting.
32 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003
