directors report The Directors of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC have pleasure business issues with senior management of the Group.
The EWC in presenting their Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended holds two meetings each year at one of which the Chief Executive 31 December 2003. attends to discuss Company strategy.
Principal activities ICI has a mixture of unionised and non-unionised operations across The principal activities of the Company are research, manufacture the world and is committed to fostering a positive employee relations and sale of specialty products and paints.
A review of the Company environment at all its locations.
and its subsidiaries businesses, including research and development, Payment to suppliers is given on pages 9 to 29 of this Report.
The Company agrees terms and conditions for its business Dividends transactions with suppliers.
Payment is then made to these terms, The Directors have declared the payment of a second interim dividend subject to the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
of 3.5 pence per Ordinary Share to be paid on 16 April 2004 to Ordinary Payment terms can differ in the many markets in which ICI trades.
shareholders on the Companys Register on 5 March 2004.
A first Trade creditors of the Company at 31 December 2003 were equivalent interim dividend of 2.75 pence per Ordinary Share was paid on to 60 days 2002 59 days purchases, based on the average daily 3 October 2003 making a total of 6.25 pence 2002 7.5 pence.
amount invoiced by suppliers to the Company during this year.
Share capital Political and charitable donations Changes in the Companys ordinary share capital during the year are The Groups worldwide charitable donations in 2003 amounted to given in note 23 to the Accounts.
Of this total, 0.5m was spent in the UK.
The Group made no donations for political purposes.
Purchase of own shares The Directors are authorised by the shareholders to purchase, in Auditor the market, the Companys own shares, as is permitted under the KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Companys Articles of Association.
Although no such purchases auditor of the Company and resolutions proposing its re-appointment have been made, the Directors will seek to renew the authority from and authorising the Directors to agree its remuneration will be shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
Directors The remuneration and expenses of the Auditor in respect of the The names of the Directors of the Company at the date of this statutory report to the members of the Company for the year 2003 Report and biographical details are given on pages 30 and 31. amounted to 65,000 2002 61,000.
The total figure for the Group A complete list of Directors who served during the year is shown was 3.1m 2002 2.8m which includes charges for audits of within the Remuneration Report, on page 41. subsidiary companies in the UK and overseas, both for the purposes of consolidation into the Group accounts and to meet statutory Corporate governance requirements of the countries in which subsidiaries operate.
A review of the Groups corporate governance arrangements is given on pages 33 to 36 of this Report.
Fees paid to the Auditor and its associates of the Company for services other than statutory audit supplied to the Group during 2003 Directors remuneration and interests totalled 1.8m 2002 3.3m of which 0.9m 2002 2.1m was for A statement of Directors remuneration and their interests in the audit-related services, 0.8m 2002 1.1m was for taxation services shares, debentures and options of the Company and its subsidiaries and 0.1m 2002 0.1m was for other services.
These fees have been is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 48. fully reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Employment policies Going concern ICIs vision is based on inspiring and developing outstanding people and The operation of the Groups control procedures gives the Directors the Company is committed to cultural diversity and equal opportunities.
a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to Respect for the individual is enshrined in the Companys Code of continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they continue Business Conduct, launched in October 2000, which states that: to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group accounts.
ICIs policy is to treat individuals in all aspects of employment Annual General Meeting solely on the basis of ability irrespective of race, religion, colour, age, The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday disability, gender, sexual orientation or marital status.
The practical 26 May 2004 is contained in a separate letter from the Chairman application of this policy is a matter for individual ICI businesses accompanying this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Company is committed to fair treatment of people with disabilities in relation to job applications, training, promotion and career development.
Every effort is made to find appropriate alternative On behalf of the Board jobs for those who are unable to continue in their existing job due Michael Herlihy to disability.
Company Secretary ICI believes also that knowledgeable and well informed employees 11 February 2004 are essential to its success and that there should be clear channels Registered Office of communication and opportunities for consultation and dialogue 20 Manchester Square on issues which affect both business performance and employees London working lives.
The mechanisms for achieving this aim vary between W1U 3AN different countries and between different businesses in the ICI Group.
Registered number: 218019 A European Works Council EWC exists which enables employee representatives in the UK and Continental Europe to discuss overall ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 37
