INVESTOR INFORMATION This section discusses shareholder return the return to shareholders in the form of dividends and share price movements andprovides .
This was intended to increase the financing capability of the Group for acquisitions and other investments.
Over the last three years the dividend has been increased in line with inflation.
Dividend cover the ratio of attributable earnings before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, as set out in the Five Year Record, toordinarydividends has  in2001 to 3.7times in2003.
Smith & Nephew has paid dividends on its Ordinary Shares in each year since 1937.
An interim dividend in respect of each fiscal year is normally declared in August and from 2002 onwards paid in November, and the final dividend for each year is normallyrecommended by the Board of Directorsinthe followingFebruary and paid inMayafter approval byshareholders at the  Meeting.
Future dividends of Smith & Nephew will be dependent upon future earnings, the future financial condition of the Group, the Boards dividend policy and the additional factors that might affect the business of the Group set out inSpecial NoteRegarding  page 3 and Risk Factors page 20.
The following table shows the dividends on each Ordinary Share as increased by the associated UK tax credit, but before deduction of withholding taxes for the fiscal years 1999 through 2003.
The associated UK tax credit was reduced from 20% to 10% for dividends paid on or after 6 April 1999.
If approved by shareholders, 2003s final dividend will be payable on 14 May 2004.
The dividends, which are declared in pence per share in respect of each fiscal year, have been translated into US cents per share at the Noon Buying Rate at each respective payment date.
On 11 August 2000, a special dividend of 415.6m 41.27p per old Ordinary 10p Share, including tax credit, equivalent toUS$3.105 per ADS was paid.
123 Share Prices The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the highest and lowest middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares, as derived from the Daily Official List of the UK Listing Authority and the highest and lowest sales pricesof ADSs as reported onthe NewYorkStockExchange compositetape.
124 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Financial Calendar AnnualGeneral Meetingandquarter oneresults announced 6 May 2004 Payment of2003finaldividend 14 May 2004 Half-yearresults announced 5 August 2004 Quarter three results announced 5 November2004 Payment  12 November2004 Fullyearresults announced early February 2005 AnnualReview posted March2005 AnnualGeneral Meeting early May 2005 Final Dividend The Ordinary Shares will trade ex-dividend on both the London and New York Stock Exchanges from 21 April 2004 and the record date will be 23 April 2004 in respect of this years proposed final dividend to be paid on14May2004.
Information for Holders of Ordinary Shares Payment ofcashdividends Shareholders who wish their dividends to be paid directly to a bank or building society and who have not already completed  mandate shouldcontactthe Companysregistrars.
 plan The Company has a dividend re-investment plan that offers shareholders, except those in North America, the opportunity to invest their cash dividends in Smith & Nephew Ordinary shares, which are purchased in the market at competitive dealing costs.
Application forms for re-investing the 2003 final dividend are available from Lloyds TSB Registrars who administer the plan on behalf of the Company.
Applications for re-investment should be returnedto the Companysregistrars by27 April 2004.
UK capital gainstax Forthe purposes ofUK capital gainstax the priceof OrdinaryShares on31 March1982 was 35.04p.
Smith& Nephewshare price The Companys share price is quoted daily in UK national newspapers, as well as on Ceefax and Teletext and at www.
com where it is updated at intervals throughout the day.
The Financial Times Cityline Service, telephone 44 0 906 0034043, provides an up to the minute share price.
A fee is charged for this service.
 A postal and telephone facility that provides a simple low-cost method of buying and selling Smith & Nephew shares is available through Hoare Govett Limited.
For information contact Hoare Govett Ltd. 250 Bishopsgate, LondonEC2M 4AA, UK.
Smith& NephewcorporateISA The Company has a corporate Individual Savings Account ISA, for UK shareholders, administered by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Shareview To view information about Smith & Nephew shareholdings on the internet, register at www.
com, the Lloyds TSB enquiry and portfolio management service for shareholders.
When you have registered for shareview you will also be able to register your proxy instructions online and elect to receive future shareholder communicationsvia the Companys website at www.
125 Shareholderenquiries For information about the AGM, shareholdings, dividends and changes to personal details all shareholders should contact: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DS, UK.
Information for Holders of American Depositary Receipts ADRs In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the form of ADSs, evidenced by ADRs, and trade on the NYSE under the symbol SNN.
Each American Depositary Share represents five Ordinary Shares.
Bank of New York is the authorised depositary bank for the companys ADR programme.
A Global BuyDIRECT plan is available for US residents, enabling investment directly in ADSs with reduced brokerage commissions and service costs.
For further information on Global BuyDIRECT contact: Bank of New York on 1-888-BNY-ADRS toll-free or visit www.
The Company furnishes the Bank of New York, as depositary, with this annual report containing Consolidated Financial Statements and an opinionthereon by its independent auditors.
Such financial statements are prepared under UK GAAP.
The annual report contains reconciliations of net income, cash flow and shareholders funds prepared under UK GAAP to those prepared under US GAAP.
The Company also furnishes the Bank of New York with semi-annual reports prepared in conformity with UK GAAP, which contain unaudited interim consolidated financial information.
Upon receipt thereof, the Bank of New York mails all such reports to recorded holders.
The Company also furnishes to the Bank of New York all notices of shareholders meetings and other reports and communicationsthat are made generally available to shareholders of the Company.
The Bank of New Yorkmakes such notices, reports and communications available for inspection by recorded holders of ADSs and mails to all   receivedbythe BankofNewYork.
Smith& NephewADS price The Companys ADS price is quoted daily in the Wall Street Journal and can be obtained from the official  at www.
ADR Enquiries All enquiries regarding ADR holder accounts and payment of dividends should be addressed to Bank of NewYork, PO Box11258, ChurchStreet Station, NewYork, NY10286-1258, USA.
Annual General Meeting The companys 67th Annual General Meeting is to be held on 6 May 2004 at 1.00 pm at the Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED, UK.
Notice of the meeting is enclosed with an accompanying letter fromthe Chairman.
Registered office Smith& Nephewplc, 15Adam Street, LondonWC2N6LA, UK.
324357 Advisors Solicitors: Ashurst Pinsents Auditors: Ernst & YoungLLP Stockbrokers: Cazenove& Co  126 2003QUARTERLY RESULTS Smith & Nephew will commence reporting its results quarterly in 2004.
Accounting Calendar The application of the Groups internal accounting calendar means that the first quarter of 2004 will contain four more working days than the first quarter of 2003.
Reported sales growth in quarter one will be inflated as a result of these additional days but underlying growth rates will be adjusted to exclude this effect.
Quarter four 2004 will contain three less working days than the same quarter in 2003 and underlying rates of sales growth will correct forthiseffect.
127 SHARE CAPITAL The principal trading market for the Ordinary Shares is the London Stock Exchange.
The Ordinary Shares were listed on the New York Stock Exchange on 16 November 1999, trading in the form of ADSs evidenced by ADRs.
On 15 December 2003 a ratio change was effected whereby the number of ordinary shares represented by each ADS changed from ten to five.
All prices of ADSs prior to this date have been restated to reflect this ratio change.
Shareholdings As of 8 March 2004, 3,967,473 ADSs equivalent to 19,837,365 Ordinary Shares or approximately 2% of the total OrdinaryShares inissue, wereoutstandingand were held by 40 registered holders.
As of 8 March 2004, to the knowledge of the Group, there were 26,836 registered holders of Ordinary Shares, of whom 92 had registered addresses in the US and held a total of 337,713 Ordinary Shares 0.04% of the total issued.
Because certain Ordinary Shares are registered in the names of nominees, the number of shareholders with registered addresses in the US is not representative of the number of beneficial owners of Ordinary Shares resident inthe US.
Until 23 June 2003 Smith & Nephew had in issue 268,501 5.50% Cumulative Preference Shares of 1 each, whose right to a dividend of 5.50% per annum was preferred over the rights to dividends of the holders of OrdinaryShares.
Major Shareholders As far as is known to Smith & Nephew, the Group is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another .
As of 8 March 2004, no persons are known to Smith & Nephew to have any interest as defined in the Companies Act 1985 in 3% or more of the Ordinary Shares, other than FMR Corp & Fidelity 8.3%, 77,502,828 Ordinary Shares, Capital Group of Companies Inc 6.8%, 63,396,025 Ordinary Shares, AXA Investment Managers 3.7%, 34,377,968 Ordinary Shares, and Legal & General Investment Management 3.4%, 31,890,915 OrdinaryShares.
The following table shows changes over the last three years in the percentage of the issued share capital for the , as notifiedto the Companyunderthe CompaniesAct 1985: As at 31 December 2003 2002 2001 % Capital GroupofCompaniesInc 8.0 FMR Corp& Fidelity.......... 7.9 6.8 8.1 AXA Investment Managers... 3.7 5.0 5.8 LegalandGeneral Investment Management.................... 3.4 Exchange Controls and Other Limitations Affecting Security Holders There are no UK governmental laws, decrees or regulations that restrict the export or import of capital or that affect the payment of dividends, interest or other payments to non-resident holders of Smith & Nephews securities, except for certain restrictions imposed from time to time by Her Majestys Treasury of the United Kingdom pursuant to legislation, such as the United Nations Act 1946 and the Emergency Laws Act 1964, against the  ofcertaincountries.
There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or under the Articles of Association of Smith & Nephew, restricting the right of non-UK residents to hold or to exercise voting rights in respect of Ordinary Shares, except that where any overseas shareholder has not provided to the Companya UK address for the service of notices, the Company is under no obligation to send any notice or other document to an overseas address.
It is, however, the current practice of the Company to send every notice or other document to all shareholders regardless of the country recorded in the register of members, with the exception of details of the Companys dividend re-investment plan, which are not sent to shareholders with recorded addresses in the US andCanada.
128 PRINCIPALSUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS The information provided below is given for principal subsidiary undertakings, all of which are 100% owned, in accordance with Section 231 5 a of the Companies Act 1985.
A full list will be appended to Smith & Nephews next : Countryof operationand CompanyName Activity incorporation United Kingdom: Smith&  MedicalDevices United Kingdom Smith& NephewMedicalLimited MedicalDevices United Kingdom TJ Smith& NephewLimited MedicalDevices United Kingdom ContinentalEurope: Smith& NephewGmbH MedicalDevices Austria Smith& NephewSA-NV MedicalDevices Belgium Smith& NephewA S MedicalDevices Denmark Smith& NephewOY MedicalDevices Finland Smith& NephewSAS MedicalDevices France Smith& NephewGmbH MedicalDevices Germany Smith& NephewLimited MedicalDevices Ireland Smith& NephewSrl MedicalDevices Italy Smith& NephewBV MedicalDevices Netherlands Smith& NephewA S MedicalDevices Norway Smith& NephewLda MedicalDevices Portugal Smith& NephewSA MedicalDevices Spain Smith& NephewAB MedicalDevices Sweden Smith& NephewAG MedicalDevices Switzerland America: Smith& NephewInc MedicalDevices Canada Smith& NephewSA fide CV MedicalDevices Mexico Smith& NephewInc MedicalDevices PuertoRico Smith& NephewInc MedicalDevices United States Africa, Asia andAustralasia: Smith& NephewPty Limited MedicalDevices Australia Smith& NephewLimited MedicalDevices HongKong Smith&  MedicalDevices India Smith& NephewKK MedicalDevices Japan Smith& NephewLimited MedicalDevices Korea Smith& NephewHealthcareSdn Berhad MedicalDevices Malaysia Smith& NephewLimited MedicalDevices NewZealand Smith& NephewPte Limited MedicalDevices Singapore Smith& Nephew Pty Limited MedicalDevices SouthAfrica Smith& NephewLimited MedicalDevices Thailand Smith& NephewFZE MedicalDevices United Arab Emirates Principal Associated Undertakings, Joint Ventures and Other Arrangements TheGroupowns50% ofBSNMedicalGmbH& CoKG, a medicalsupplies .
In 2002, the Group owned 21.5% of AbilityOne Corporation, a supplier of rehabilitation products to hospitals,  United States.
During2003, the Groupdisposed of this interest.
In 2001, the Group owned interests in two joint arrangements with Advanced Tissue Sciences, Inc. one relating to products for the treatment of diabetic foot ulcers and other wound indications, and the other for cartilage replacement.
iii Adjusted basic earnings per Ordinary Share is calculated by dividing profit before taxation, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items  exceptional itemsby the average number ofshares.
131 Amounts in accordance with US GAAP: Smith & Nephew prepares its accounts in accordance with UK GAAP which differ in certain respects from US GAAP.
A summary of differences and reconciliations of profit for the financial year and shareholders funds for the relevant years are set out in Note 40 of Notes to the Accounts.
ii In 2002, 2001, 2000 and 1999 per ADS amounts have been restated to reflect each ADS representing five Ordinary Shares as the ratio changed fromten tofivein2003.
iv Net assetsincludes non-equity capitalofnil 2002, 2001, 2000 and 1999 0.3m.
133 TAXATIONINFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS The comments below are of a general and summary nature and are based on the Groups understanding of certain aspects of current UK and US federal income tax law and practice relevant to the ADSs and Ordinary Shares not in ADS form.
The comments address the material US and UK tax consequences generally applicable to a person who is the beneficial owner of ADSs or Ordinary Shares and who, for US federal income tax purposes, is a US citizen or resident, a corporation or other entity treated as a corporation created or organised in or under the laws of the United States, or an estate or trust the income of which is included in gross income for US federal income tax purposes a US Holder.
The comments set out below do not purport to address all tax consequences of the ownership of ADSs or Ordinary Shares which may be material to a particular holder and in particular do not deal with the position of shareholders who directly or indirectly own 10% or more of the issued Ordinary Shares.
This discussion does not apply to persons operating clearance and or depository services and those whoseholdingofADSs orOrdinaryShares is effectively  to either i a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom through which the US Holder carries on a business in the United Kingdom, or ii a fixed base from which the US Holder performs independent personal services in the United Kingdom.
This discussion does not apply to certain investors such as tax-exempt entities, insurancecompanies, broker-dealers, traders in securities that elect to mark to market, US Holders holding ADSs or Ordinary Shares as part of a hedging or conversion transaction or whose functional currency is other than the US dollar and investors liable for alternative minimum tax.
In addition, the comments below do not address US state, local or non-US other than UK taxes.
The summary deals only with US Holders who hold ADSs or Ordinary Shares as capital assets.
The summary is based on the Companys understanding of current US and UK law and practice and advice received from the Companys UK and US tax advisors.
US Holders are recommended to consult their own tax advisors as tothe  ownershipof ADSs orOrdinaryShares.
This discussion is based in part on representations by the depositary and assumes that each obligation under the deposit agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
For the purpose of the US UK Double Taxation Treaty the Treaty and the prior US UK Double Taxation Treaty the Prior Treaty and US federal income tax law US Holders of ADSs will be treated as owners of the Ordinary Shares represented by the ADSs.
However, the US Treasury has expressed concerns that parties to whom depositary shares are pre-released may be taking actions that are inconsistent with the claiming of foreign tax credits by owners of ADSs.
Accordingly, the analysis of the creditability of UK taxes described below could be affected byfutureactionsthat maybe takenby the US Treasury.
Taxation of Dividendsin The United Kingdom and the United States Under the Prior Treaty, certain US Holders who are the beneficial owners of dividends on Ordinary Shares or ADSs were generally entitled to a tax credit payment in respect of dividends equal to one-ninth of the dividend paid the Tax Credit Amount.
This tax credit payment is reduced by a UK withholding the UK withholding of upto15% ofthe gross dividendpaid.
Therefore, a US  of this credit.
Under the Treaty, US Holders are no longer entitled to the Tax Credit Amount because the Treaty does not provide for that entitlement.
The Treaty applies to dividend payments after 1 May 2003.
However, if a US Holder would have been entitled to greater benefits under the Prior Treaty, the US Holder may elect to continue to apply the .
Dividends paid and, if a US Holder elects under the Prior Treaty to claim a foreign tax credit with respect to the UK withholding, the associated Tax Credit Amount will be treated as foreign source ordinary income to a US Holder when the dividend is received to the extent paid out of current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Dividends will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
The amount of the dividend included in taxable income is the US dollar value of the dividend, converted using the exchange rate on the date the depositary receives the dividend in the case of ADSs, or the date the US Holder receives the dividend in the case of Ordinary Shares.
Conversion by a US Holder of sterling received as a distribution from Smith & Nephew into US dollars may result in US source ordinaryincometo the US Holder to the extent attributable to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates between the date of receipt and the date of conversion.
Under recently enacted US legislation, dividends received by noncorporate US Holders of Ordinary Shares or ADSs may be subject to US federal income tax at lower rates than other types of ordinary income if certain 134 conditions are met.
US Holders should consult their own tax advisors regarding the application of this new .
For US foreign tax credit limitation purposes, dividends, and any associated Tax Credit Amounts, will be passive income or, in the case of certain holders, financial services income.
The UK withholding under the Prior Treaty is treated as foreign income tax which may, subject to certain limitations and restrictions, be eligible for credit against a US Holders US federal income tax liability for a US Holder that elects to include the associated Tax Credit Amountinincome.
Taxation of Capital Gains US Holders, who are not resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the UK, will not generally be liable for UK capital gains tax on any capital gain realised upon the sale or other disposition of ADSs or Ordinary Shares unless held in connection with a trade carried on in the UK through a permanent establishment.
Furthermore, UK resident individuals who acquire ADSs or Ordinary Shares before becoming temporarily non-UK resident, may remainsubject toUK taxation ofcapital gainsongainsrealised whilenon-resident.
For US tax purposes, gains realised upon the sale or disposition of ADSs or Ordinary Shares by US Holders generally will be US source capital gains and will be long-term US source capital gains if the ADSs or Ordinary Shares .
Inheritance and Estate Taxes The UK Inland Revenue imposes inheritance tax on capital transfers which occur on death, and in the seven years preceding death.
The UK Inland Revenue considers that the US UK Double Taxation Convention on Estate and Gift Tax applies to inheritance tax.
Consequently, a US citizen who is domiciled in the United States and is not a UK national or domiciled in the United Kingdom will not be subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of ADSs and Ordinary Shares.
A UK national who is domiciled in the United States will be subject to both UK inheritance tax and US Federal Estate Tax but will be entitled to a credit for US Federal Estate Tax charged in respect of ADSs and Ordinary Shares in computing the liability to UK inheritance tax.
Conversely, a US citizen who is domiciled or deemed domiciled in the United Kingdom will be entitled to a credit for UK inheritance tax charged in respect of ADSs and Ordinary Shares in computing the liability to US Federal Estate Tax.
Special rules apply where ADSs and Ordinary Shares are business property of a permanent establishment of an enterprise situated in the United Kingdom.
US Backup WithholdingTax A US Holder may be subject to US backup withholding tax on dividends paid or the proceeds of sales made within the US, or through certain US-related foreign persons, unless the shareholder is a corporation or other exempt recipient, or provides a US taxpayer identification number.
US backup withholding tax may also apply if there has been a notificationfromthe InternalRevenue Service of a failureto report all interest ordividends.
Backup withholding tax deducted may be credited against the US Holders US income tax liability, and, where the withholding tax exceeds the actual liability, the US Holder may obtain a refund by filing the appropriate refund claimwiththe InternalRevenue Service.
UK Stamp Duty and Stamp Duty ReserveTax UK stamp duty is charged on documents and in particular instruments for the transfer of registered ownership of Ordinary Shares.
Transfers of Ordinary Shares will generally be subject to UK stamp duty at the rate of % of the  transfer withthe duty roundedupto the nearest 5 ifnecessary.
UK stamp duty reserve tax SDRT arises when there is an agreement to transfer shares in UK companies for consideration in money or moneys worth, and so an agreement to transfer Ordinary Shares for money or other consideration may give rise to a charge to SDRT at the rate of % rounded up to the nearest penny.
If an instrument of transfer of the OrdinaryShares is subsequently executed the instrumentof transfer willgenerallybe subject to stamp duty.
The charge of SDRT will be cancelled, and any SDRT already paid will be refunded, if within 6 years of the agreement an instrument of transfer is produced to the United Kingdom Inland Revenue and the appropriate stamp dutypaid.
135 Transfers of Ordinary Shares into CREST an electronic transfer system are exempt from stamp duty so long as the transferee is a member of CREST who will hold the Ordinary Shares as a nominee for the transferor and the transfer isina formthat willensurethat the securitiesbecomeheld .
Paperless transfers of Ordinary Shares within CREST for consideration in money or moneys worth are liable to SDRT rather than stamp duty.
SDRT on relevant transactions will be collected by CREST at %, and this will apply whether or not the transfer is effected in the United Kingdom and whether or not the parties to it are resident or situated in the United Kingdom.
A charge of stamp duty or SDRT at the rates of 1% of the consideration or, in some circumstances, the value of the shares concerned will arise on a transfer or issue of Ordinary Shares to the Depositary or to certain persons providing a clearance service or their nominees or agents and will generally be payable by the Depositary or person providing clearance service.
In accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, any tax or duty payable by the Depositary on deposits of Ordinary Shares will be charged by the Depositary to the party to whom ADRs are delivered against such deposits.
No liability for SDRT will arise on any agreement to transfer an ADS or beneficialinterest inanADS.
No liability for stamp duty will arise on any transfer of, oragreement to transfer, anADS  an ADS, provided that the ADS and any instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer remains at all times outside the United Kingdom, and provided further that any instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer is not executed in the United Kingdom and the transfer does not relate to any matter or thing done or to be done in the United Kingdom the location of the custodian as a holder of Ordinary Shares not being relevant in this context.
In any other case, any transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS or beneficial ownership of an ADS could, dependingonall the circumstancesof the transfer, give rise to a chargeto stamp duty.
136 MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The following summarises certain material rights of holders of the Companys Ordinary Shares under the material provisions of the Companys memorandum and articles of association and English law.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 1985 and the Companys memorandum and articles of association.
Copies of the Companys memorandum and articles of association have been filed as exhibits to this AnnualReport.
The Companys shares may be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
No holder of the Companys shares will be  capital inrespect of the Companysshares inthe future.
In the followingdescription, a shareholder is the person registered inthe Companysregister of members as the .
The Company is incorporated under the name Smith & Nephew plc and is registered in England and Wales with registered number 324357.
The fourth clause of the Companys memorandum of association provides that its objects include to carry on business as an investment holding company, to carry on all or any of the businesses of dealers in and manufacturers of surgical dressings and instruments, pharmaceutical preparations or articles, proprietary articles of all kinds, surgical and scientific apparatus and materials of all kinds and buyers and sellers of goods of all kinds.
The memorandum grants to the Company a range of corporate capabilities to effect these objects.
Directors Under the Companys articles of association, a Director may not vote in respect of any contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal in which he, or any person connected with him, has any material interest other than by virtue of his interests in securities of, or otherwise in or through, the Company.
This is subject to certain exceptions relating to proposals a indemnifying him in respect of obligations incurred on behalf of the Company, b indemnifying a third party in respect of obligations of the Company for which the Director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee, c relating to an offer of securities in which he will be interested as an underwriter, d concerning another body corporate in which the Director is beneficially interested in less than one percent of the issued shares of any class of shares of such a body corporate, e relating to an employee benefit in which the director will share equally with other employees and f relating to any insurance that the Company is empowered to purchase for the benefit of Directors of the Company in respect of actions undertakenas Directors orofficers ofthe Company.
A Director shall not vote or be counted in any quorum concerning his own appointment or terms of his appointment.
The Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all monies borrowed after deducting cash and current asset investments by the Company and its subsidiaries shall not exceed an amount equal to two and one half times the Companys consolidated share capital and aggregate reserves, but after: adjustments for the variation to share capital and aggregate reserves since the latest audited consolidated balance sheet: deducting distributed and proposed distributions not previously provided out of profits earned prior to the date of the latest audited consolidated balance sheet, any amount attributable to non-Group shareholders in subsidiaries of the Company and any debit balance on the combined or Group profit and loss account, unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of the Company: adding back any goodwill on the acquisition of businesses that had been previously set off against reserves to the extent that the businesses have not been discontinued or disposed of and after deducting any permanent decrease in the value of these businesses: and making such adjustments as the auditors may considerappropriate.
Any Director who has been appointed by the Directors since the previous Annual General Meeting of shareholders, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional Director, holds office only until the next Annual General Meeting and then shall be eligible for election by the shareholders.
The other Directors shall retire and be eligible for re-appointment at the third annual general meeting after the meeting at which they were last reappointed.
The Directors are subject to removal with or without cause by the Board or the Shareholders.
Any director attaining 70 years of age shall retire at the next Annual General Meeting.
Such a Director may be reappointed but shall retire and be  at the next AnnualGeneral Meeting.
Rights Attaching to Shares Under English law, dividends are payable on the Companys Ordinary Shares only out of profits available for distribution, as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom and by the Companies Act.
Holders of the Companys Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive such dividends as may be declared by the shareholders in general meeting, rateable according to the amounts paid up on such shares, providedthat the dividendcannotexceed the  Directors.
The Companys Board of Directors may pay shareholders such interim dividends as appear to them to be justified by the Companys financial position.
If authorised by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, the Board may also direct payment of a dividend in whole or in part by the distribution of specific assets and in particular of paid upshares ordebentures ofthe Company.
Any dividend unclaimed after 12 years from the date the dividend was declared, or became due for payment, will be forfeited andwillrevert tothe Company.
Voting Rights Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless a poll, which is a written vote, is duly demanded.
On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or 2 by proxy has one vote for every 12 9 pence in nominal amount of the shares held by that shareholder.
A poll maybe demanded byanyofthe following: the chairmanofthe meeting: at least five shareholdersentitled tovote at the meeting: any shareholder or shareholders representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total voting rightsofall shareholdersentitled tovote at the meeting:or any shareholder or shareholders holding shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting on which there have been paid-up sums in aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferringthat right.
A proxy form will be treated as giving the proxy the authority to demand a poll, or to join others in demanding one.
The necessary quorum for a general meeting is two shareholders present in person carrying a right to vote upon the business tobe transacted.
Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company by the processing and passing of resolutions of whichthere are three kinds: an ordinary resolution, which includes resolutions for the election of Directors, the approval of financial statements, the cumulative annual payment of dividends, the appointment of auditors, the increase of authorisedshare capital orthe  shares: a special resolution, which includes resolutions amending the Companys memorandum and articles of association, disapplyingstatutory  Companysname:and an extraordinary resolution, which includes resolutions modifying the rights of any class of the Companys shares at a meeting of the holders of such class or relating to certain matters concerning the Companys windingup.
An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes of those persons voting at a meeting at whichthere isa quorum.
Special and extraordinary resolutions require the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the persons votingat a meetingat whichthere isa quorum.
138 In the case of an equality of votes, whether on a show of hands or on a poll, the chairman of the meeting is entitled tocast the decidingvote inadditionto anyothervote hemayhave.
Annual General Meetings must be convened upon advance written notice of 21 days.
Other meetings must be convened upon advance written notice of 21 days for the passing of a special resolution and 14 days for any other resolution, depending on the nature of the business to be transacted.
The days of delivery or receipt of notice are not included.
The notice must specify the nature of the business to be transacted.
Meetings are convened by the Board of Directors.
Members with 10% of the Ordinary Share capital of the Company may requisitionthe Boardtoconvenea meeting.
Variation of Rights If, at any time, the Companys share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, with the consent in writing of holders of three-quarters in value of the shares of that class or upon the adoption of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the articles of association relating to proceedings at an Extraordinary General Meeting apply, except that the quorumistobe the numberofpersons whichmust be twoormore whoholdorrepresent by proxynotless than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class and at any such meeting a poll may be demanded in writing by any five persons who hold or represent by proxy not less than one fortieth of the nominal value of the shares ofthat class.
Rights in a Winding-Up Except as the Companys shareholders have agreed or may otherwise agree, upon the Companys winding up, the balanceof assets available fordistribution: after the payment of all creditors including certain preferential creditors, whether statutorily preferred :and subject toanyspecial  of shares: is to be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to the amounts paid-up on the shares held by them.
This distribution is generally to be made in cash.
A liquidator may, however, upon the adoption of any extraordinary resolution of the shareholders and any other sanction required by law, divide among the shareholders the wholeoranypart ofthe Companysassets inkind.
Limitations on Voting and Shareholding There are no limitations imposed by English law or the Companys memorandum or articles of association on the right of non-residents or foreign persons to hold or vote the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs, other than the limitationsthat wouldgenerallyapply toall ofthe Companysshareholders.
