The Remuneration Report gives details of the Groups policies on senior managements remuneration in 2003 pages 51to58.
Discussion of the Groups operating and financial performance liquidity and financial resources for 2003 and 2002isgiveninthe Operating andFinancialReview, Liquidityand Prospects pages 23 to 42.
4 THE BUSINESS HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT Group Overview Smith & Nephew is a global company engaged in the development and marketing of medical devices in the sectors of orthopaedics, endoscopy and advanced wound management.
These three businesses comprise the  whichSmith& Nephewbelieves have goodgrowthprospects.
The Group has a history dating back 148 years to the family enterprise of Thomas James Smith who opened a small pharmacy in Hull, England in 1856.
On his death in 1896, his nephew Horatio Nelson Smith took over the management of the business.
Smith & Nephew was incorporated and listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1937.
Today it is a public limited company incorporated in Great Britain registered in, and conducted under the laws of, England and Wales.
Operations in countries other than the UK are under the laws of those countries.
In November 1999, the Company was listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The corporate headquarters is in the UK andthe registered address is: Smith& Nephewplc 15Adam Street LondonWC2N6LA Tel: 44 0 2074017646 Website: www.
com In 2001, Smith & Nephew became a constituent part of the FTSE-100 index in the UK.
This means that Smith & Nephew is included in the top 100 companies traded on the London Stock Exchange measured in terms .
Recent Developments On 20 March 2003, Smith & Nephew entered into an agreement the Combination Agreement with Centerpulse AG a public company incorporated under the laws of Switzerland Centerpulse, and an agreement with InCentive Capital AG the InCentive Agreement, a public company incorporated under the laws of Switzerland InCentive which held, or had the right to acquire, approximately 19% of the issued share capital of Centerpulse.
Centerpulse is a leading medical technology group, serving the reconstructive joint, spinal and dental implant markets.
It was contemplated by the Combination Agreement and the InCentive Agreement that Smith & Nephew Group plc Smith & Nephew Group, a new holding company for Smith & Nephew, would seek to acquire all outstanding shares of Centerpulse and InCentive in exchange for Smith & Nephew Group shares andcash.
On 20 May 2003, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. announced its intention to make competing offers to acquire Centerpulse andInCentive andon19June2003 it made formalcounteroffers.
On 6 August 2003, Smith & Nephew announced that following Zimmer Holdings, Inc. s counter offers Smith & Nephew would not submit revised offers to acquire Centerpulse and InCentive.
On 28 August 2003 ZimmerHoldings, Inc. acquiredCenterpulse and InCentive.
In September 2003, Smith & Nephewdisposed of its 21.5%equityinterest inAbilityOne a companyincorporated inthe US toPatterson DentalInc.
On 16 March 2004, Smith & Nephew completed the acquisition of Midland Medical Technologies MMT, the global market leader in metal-on-metal hip resurfacing for 67m in cashandnotes.
Additionalpayments of33m in cash and notes are contingent upon certain regulatory and development milestones being met.
MMTwillbe integrated intothe orthopaedicsbusiness unit.
5 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Group Structure Smith & Nephew operates on a worldwide basis.
This has been achieved through a series of investments and acquisitions, predominantly in the US but also in Europe, and through continued emphasis on the development  Groups principalmarkets.
Smith & Nephew is organised into the three global business units of orthopaedics, endoscopy and advanced wound management and a separate indirect market unit.
Each of the three global business units manages its sales directly in ten internationalmarkets the US, Canada, the UK, Germany, Japan, Australia, France, Italy, New Zealand and Ireland and takes full responsibility for strategy, research and development R&D, manufacturing, marketing, sales and financial performance.
The remaining 22 markets in which the Group has selling companies are managed by country managers, with business responsibility for the whole of the Groups productrange, andcomprisethe indirectmarket unit.
A head office team in London, England directs the overall business and supports the business units, primarily in the areas of business development, company secretarial, finance, humanresources and investor relations, with a legal department based in Memphis, Tennessee.
A central research facility in York, England is charged with the development  scienceand biology, .
Orthopaedics Overview Orthopaedic products comprise reconstructive joint implants, trauma products and associated clinical therapies.
Reconstructive implants include hip, knee and shoulder joints as well as ancillary products such as bone cement and mixing systems used in cemented reconstructive joint surgery.
Trauma products consist of internal and external fixation devices, used in the stabilisation of severe fractures.
Clinical therapies consist of products applied in an orthopaedic office or clinic setting and currently comprise bone growth stimulators and a joint fluid therapy product.
The orthopaedics business is managed worldwide from Memphis, Tennessee, which is also the site of its main manufacturing facility.
Orthopaedic implants and trauma products are also manufactured at a small facility in Tuttlingen, Germany.
The Groups reconstructive knee business is built on two major knee systems: GENESIS II, designed to facilitate the accuracy and efficiency of the operating procedure and provide improved long-term clinical results: and PROFIX, a  featuringsimpler instrumentsand surgicaltechnique.
Within the reconstructive hip line, the SPECTRON cemented hip system and the REFLECTION acetabular cup system have documented positive long-term clinical performance.
More recently, the success of SYNERGY, a tapered titanium stem system, and ECHELON, a revision stem system, have established Smith & Nephew as a strongplayer inthisproductsegment.
The Group has developed and now manufactures knee and hip implant components made from oxidised zirconium OXINIUM which is patent protected and which management believes has improved wear  ofsignificantbenefit to younger, moreactive patients.
Products such as the RUSSELL-TAYLOR, IMHS and TRIGEN intramedullary nail systems and the AMBI and CLASSIC compression hip screws provide trauma surgeons with a comprehensive management system for a wide variety of fractures.
The ILIZAROV and the TAYLOR SPATIAL FRAME external fixator systems provide limb .
The EXOGEN ultrasonic bone healing stimulator and SUPARTZ hyaluronic acid joint fluid therapy are the main productsinthe clinicaltherapies sector.
To compete effectively in the growing global orthopaedic market, management believes that as well as having a leading edge product range it is important to have a skilled sales force that can build strong relationships with surgeons.
6 Strategy Smith & Nephews orthopaedics strategy is for future growth through product development in its existing core business and expansion into the fast-growing market for less invasive therapies.
Management believes that the orthopaedic market will continue to grow for the foreseeable future.
This is largely attributable to the increasing portion of the population aged over 65 and the increasing need for joint reconstructive products and other orthopaedictherapies inyounger, moreactive patients.
Smith & Nephew also intends to further penetrate this market by taking advantage of its portfolio of products and services, by expanding its sales force, and by introducing less invasive and alternative therapies.
Management is working to accelerate the Groups growth in the trauma market by creating greater customer and market focus through the creation of separate divisions for trauma and reconstruction with separate internal resources and specialised salesforces.
The Group is also contributing to patient education and empowerment through its websites .
New Products In 2003, the orthopaedics business continued the promotion and roll-outof OXINIUM technologyacross the knee and hip product line.
OXINIUM is a material exclusive to Smith & Nephew which contains the strength of a metal with the wear properties of a ceramic material and expands the market for hip and knee implants.
The introduction of OXINIUM femoral components for the ACCURIS minimally invasive unicompartmental knee system occurredin2003andthe OXINIUMfemoralhead was launchedinthe hipmarket.
In 2003, the Group launched the JET-X Unilateral Fixation System which complements the external fixation product offering and brings greater breadth to the trauma range.
The Group continues to focus on less invasive procedures with the introduction of mini-incision hip, knee and trauma applications as well as procedures .
Recent Regulatory Approvals InFebruary2003, the FDA issued  Unicompartmental Uni components.
Also in February 2003, FDA approved the JAX GEL Bone Graft Substitute.
This product is a synthetic form of bone andisused .
It is resorbed by the bodyand is replaced by naturalbone.
In May 2003, the Group received 510k clearance for uncemented porous coated knees for both the PROFIX and GENESIS II Knee Systems.
Porous coated knees had been recently down-classified by the FDA allowing 510k submissions to be filed for the devices.
In August 2003, the Group received 510kclearanceforthe GENESIS II HA porouscoated Knee System as a result ofthe priorclearanceof HA porouscoated hipdevices.
Competition Management estimates that the worldwide orthopaedic market excluding spine served by the Group grew by 13% in 2003 and is currently worth more than 5.9 billion per annum.
Management believes that Smith & Nephewholdsan8% share ofthismarketbyvalue.
Principal global competitors in the orthopaedic market and their estimated global shares, are Zimmer 21%, Stryker 19%, DePuy Johnson& Johnson 18%, Biomet 11% and Synthes-Stratec 9%.
Endoscopy Overview Smith & Nephews endoscopy business, headquartered in Andover, Massachusetts, develops and commercialises a range of endoscopic minimally invasive surgery techniques, educational programmes and value-added services for surgeons to treat and repair soft tissues, articulating joints, spinal discs and vascular structures.
The business focuses principally on the arthroscopy sector of the endoscopy market.
Arthroscopy is the , inparticularthe knee, hipand shoulder.
The endoscopy business offers surgeons endoscopic technologies for surgery, including: fluid management and insufflation instruments for surgical access: digital cameras, digital image capture, central control, multimedia broadcasting, scopes, light sources and monitors to assist with visualisation: radiofrequency wands, electromechanical and mechanical blades, and hand instruments for resecting tissue: and specialised devices, fixationsystems andbioabsorbable materials to repairdamaged tissue.
7 Manufacturing facilities are located in Andover and Mansfield, Massachusetts and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
Majorservicecentres are located inthe United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan and Australia.
Jim Taylor was appointed President in November 2003, replacing Ron Sparks, who left to take up another post.
MrTaylorwas formerlyhead ofSmith& Nephews indirectmarket unit.
Strategy Smith & Nephews strategic intent is to establish the endoscopy business as the leading provider of endoscopic tools and techniques for joint and ligament repair and to use its core capabilities to penetrate other select endoscopic markets.
Management believes the endoscopy business capitalises on the growing acceptance of endoscopyas a preferred , payors and patients.
To sustain growth and maintain its market position, the endoscopy business supports its strategy with surgeon education programmes, financing solutions, global fellowship support initiatives, partnerships with professional associations and surgeon advisory boards.
The Group also enhances its reputation for surgeon-focused innovation with its proprietary InVentures Bioskills Lab programme, which enables surgeons to work directly with a Smith & Nephew multi-disciplined team to develop concepts and explore the commercialisation of their .
In 2002, Smith & Nephew expanded its endoscopy business by acquiring ORATEC Interventions, Inc. a medical device innovator in the use of radiofrequency thermal energy to treat joint and spine disorders through the cutting, removal, ablation or modification of damaged or stretched tissue.
Management believes that this will enable the Grouptoestablish itself as a lead player  surgery.
New Products In 2003, Smith & Nephew introduced the POWERMAX motor drive unit a new lightweight arthroscopic shaver handpiece that management believes provides the benefit of additional power and torque without any compromise to ergonomics, comfort or weight.
The Group also introduced several improvements and enhancements to its soft tissue repair line in the knee and shoulder, includingthe DURABRAID suture for TWINFIX SUTURE ANCHORS, the SURETAC fixation system, QUICK-T fixation system, an absorbable version of the FASTFIX meniscalrepairsystem andmost recentlythe WHIPNOTsoft tissue cinch.
In 2003, Smith & Nephew introduced a number of new offerings to its Digital Operating Room programme, an integrated and fully functional operating room suite utilising central control, information and image management, multi-media broadcast and other endoscopic equipment that management believes enables hospitals and surgical centres to maximise performance within their operating rooms.
Central and voice control capability was extended to the DYONICS power shaver control box and other key endoscopic equipment.
In addition, Smith & Nephew launched the 640 Image Management, a surgical documentation system used to store, access and distribute  reports, as well as digital  still images.
The acquisition of Reed Medical Designs, Inc. Reed was announced on 9 February 2004.
Reed is a provider of audio-visual technology to hospitals and healthcare institutions and will supplement the Digital Operating Room productrange.
Recent Regulatory Approvals During 2003, the endoscopy business obtained regulatory approvals for the following products in all major markets, except Japan where the approval process is traditionally slower: the next generation integrated TRIVEX system: HERMES central control capability for the majority of product control units, including the DYONICS Power shaver system, the INTELIJET fluid management system and the 300XL light source: and expanded indications or lineextensions , bioabsorbable interferencescrews and TWINFIXAB anchors.
Competition Management estimates that the global arthroscopy markets in whichthe business  is worth 743 million a year and is growing at 8% annually, driven by increasing numbers of sports injuries, longer and more active lifestyles, patient desire for minimally invasive procedures, innovative technological developments and a need for cost effective procedures.
Management believes that Smith & Nephew has a 29% share of the global arthroscopy market.
Smith & Nephew also participates in the growing minimally invasive spinal and minimally invasive vascular markets and continues to seek way to leverage its knowledge, experience and core capabilities inotherselected endoscopicmarkets.
8 Smith & Nephews main competitors and their estimated shares of the global arthroscopy market are: Mitek Johnson& Johnson 17%, Linvatec Conmed 14%, Arthrex 14%, Stryker 12% and Arthrocare 7%.
Advanced Wound Management Overview Smith & Nephews advanced woundmanagement business is headquartered inHull, England.
It supplies a range of products and clinical support services for the treatment of chronic and acute skin wounds.
It offers a range of products from initial wound bed preparation through to full wound closure.
These products are targeted particularly at chronic wounds connected with the older population such as pressure sores and venous leg ulcers, diabeticfootulcers, .
Advanced wound management products are manufactured in facilities in Hull and Gilberdyke, England: Largo, Florida:andLaJolla,  manufacturers.
The advanced wound management business has continued to build its sales and marketing infrastructure in the worlds major markets, with expansion of its sales force and global brand development.
These initiatives have led to increased levels of demand on the Groups manufacturing and the global supply chain, which are being addressed  inthe facilities inHulland Largo.
Strategy The strategy for future advanced wound management products and sales growth focuses on wound bed preparation and moist and active healing.
The formation of a joint venture with Beiersdorf AG, BSN Medical, enabled the business to contribute its traditional medical textile woundcare business to BSN Medical effective 1 April 2001, allowing the advanced wound management business to focus its attention on higher added value advanced woundcareproducts.
In November 2002, the Group acquired the remaining50% of its  withAdvanced Tissue Sciences, Inc. ATS for the rights to apply human tissue technology to the treatment of all skin wounds.
The transaction has brought the full costs and benefits of two significant products, DERMAGRAFT and TRANSCYTE, into the Group.
DERMAGRAFT is a human dermal replacement designed as a treatment for diabetic foot ulcers.
TRANSCYTE isa  treatment of burns.
The business has continued to build its sales and marketing infrastructure in the worlds major markets, both through investment in its existing network and through the additional sales teams gained through its acquired businesses in recent years.
The integration of the acquired sales forces has increased the capability of the business throughoutthe world, particularlyinthe keymarkets of the United States and Germany.
New Products Management believes that the market will continue to trend towards advanced products with their ability to accelerate healing rates, reduce hospital stay times and cut the cost of nursing and cliniciantime and aftercare in the home.
At the end of 2002, ACTICOAT achieved Class III medical device approval in Europe and during 2003 the product achieved a drug tariff listing in the UK.
Sales have been driven by worldwide introduction of ACTICOAT.
ACTICOAT, acquired from Westaim of Canada in May 2001, is an antimicrobial barrier dressing incorporating the smallest crystallised silver nanocrystalline silver used in the treatment of burns or wounds.
The silver reduces the risk of bacterial colonisation and acts to kill micro-organisms that can cause infection and prevent or retard healing.
During 2003, the Group relaunched the expanded ALLEVYN hydrocellular dressing range.
Management believes that ALLEVYN is the largest selling dressing in its category in the world and that the continued focus on the brand will aid Smith & Nephew in maintaining this position.
Also duringthe year GLADASE, a papain urea ointment, was launched to replace SANTYL a collagenase product previously marketed in the US and Canada.
GLADASE is indicatedforthe use inthe debridement ofnecrotictissue to prepare the woundbed forhealing.
2003 was the first full year of DERMAGRAFT sales in the US.
Sales targets were achieved and management believes that substantially all of the US outpatient population has been approved for Medicare reimbursement coverage.
9 In January 2004, the business announced the acquisition of VERSAJET, a fluid jet debridement system, from HydroCisionInc.
toadd toits growingrangeof advanced woundbed preparationproducts.
Recent Regulatory Approvals During 2003, the business secured over 125 medical device and 100 pharmaceutical registration approvals in various markets throughout the world.
Among the most significant approvals were those for ACTICOAT and ACTICOAT 7 as Class III medical devices in the European Union and the new shape range of ALLEVYN HYDROSITE in Japan.
In addition, approval to market the VISITRAK wound measurement product in Canada and the European Union was obtained.
Reimbursement was secured for PROGUIDE, a patented two-layer specialised bandagingsystem totreat venousleg ulcers, and the ACTICOAT rangeonthe UK drugtariff.
Competition Management estimates that the sales value of the advanced wound management market worldwide is 1.6 billion a year, and that this grew 12% in 2003, and that Smith & Nephew has a 20% market share.
Growth is driven by an ageing population and by a steady advancement in technology and products that are more clinically efficient and cost effective than their conventional counterparts.
Management believes that, with approximately 50% of chronic wounds globally still treated with conventional dressings, there is a strong growth potential for advanced technologyproducts.
Worldwide competitors in advanced wound management and their estimated market shares comprise Kinetic Concepts 18%, Johnson& Johnson 14%, the Convatecdivisionof Bristol-MyersSquibb 12% and 3M 10%.
Joint Ventures and Discontinued Operations Joint Ventures, Associated Undertakings, Joint Arrangements and Other Interests Joint ventures are those in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and which are controlled by the Groupand oneotherentityundera contractualagreement.
Smith & Nephew owns 50% of the BSN Medical joint venture, which became operational on 1 April 2001.
It is owned jointly with Beiersdorf AG and is independently managed.
BSN Medical comprises traditional woundcare, casting and bandaging and compression hosiery businesses.
Headquartered in Hamburg, Germany it has manufacturing facilities in US, UK, Germany, France, Republic of Ireland, South Africa, Mexico and Pakistan.
In certain markets, Smith & Nephews sales forces sell BSN Medicals products on an agency basis in return for an agency commission and in some markets, mainly in Asia, Smith & Nephew distributes BSN Medical products.
Results are accounted for under the gross equity method, whereby 50% of turnover, operating profit, interest, taxation andattributable profitforthe yearare & Nephews profit and loss account.
On 11 December 2003, BSN Medical announced the acquisition of the fracture casting and splinting business of DePuy, Inc. a Johnson and Johnson company, funded by its own bank facilities.
This acquisition furthers the Groupsstrategy toestablish BSNMedicalas a majorindependent medicalsupplies company.
Associated undertakings are those in which the Group has a beneficial interest of 50% or less in the equity capital and where the Group exercises significant influence over commercial and financial policy decisions.
In March 2002, the Group acquired 21.5% of AbilityOne Corporation AbilityOne as part of a transaction in which it disposed of its rehabilitation business to AbilityOne.
In September 2003, the Group disposed of its 21.5% interest in AbilityOne to Patterson Dental Inc. From 27 March 2002 to 12 September 2003 this interest was included in the Groups accounts as an associated undertaking and accounted for under the equity method, whereby 21.5% of operating profit, interest, taxation and attributable profit are incorporated into Smith & Nephews profitandloss account.
The Group had an interest in two joint arrangements with ATS, relating to products for the treatment of diabetic foot ulcers DERMAGRAFT since 1996, and cartilage replacement NEOCYTE since 1994.
On 25 November 2002, the  the interests it did notalready owninthe jointarrangements.
Operations Contributed to the Joint Venture Operations contributed to the joint venture consist of the casting and bandaging and traditional woundcare businesses  the .
10 Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations in 2002 comprise three months of results of the rehabilitation business disposed of in March 2002.
The rehabilitation business manufactured and marketed products, equipment and product systems used to increase, maintain or improve functional capabilities after surgery or stroke or of individuals with disabilities.
Discontinued operations in 2001 comprise the results of the ear, nose and throat business disposed of in June 2001 and a full year of rehabilitation results.
The ear, nose and throat business comprised a wide range of , as wellas  the head and neck.
11 OPERATING ENVIRONMENT REGULATION The international medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances and materials can be developed into marketable products and the amount of timeandexpense that shouldbe allotted tosuchdevelopment.
National regulatory authorities administer and enforce a complex series of laws and regulations that govern the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare and pharmaceutical products.
They also review data supporting the safety and efficacy of such products.
Of particular importance is the requirement in many countries that products be authorised or registered prior to manufacture, marketing or sale and that such authorisation or registration be subsequently maintained.
The major regulatory agencies for Smith & Nephews products are the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the UK, the FDA in the US and the Ministry for Health Labour and Welfare in Japan.
Payment for many medical device products are defined by reimbursementtariff .
The trend in recent years has been towards greater regulation and higher standards of technical appraisal, which generally entail lengthy inspections for compliance with appropriate standards, including regulations such as good manufacturing practices.
Smith & Nephew believes that these recent changes will not have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition and the results of operations.
All significant facilities within the Group are subject to regular internal audit for medical device regulatory compliance with national and Group standards andpolicies.
Smith & Nephew believes that the Groups operations currently comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations.
Although the Group continuesto make capital expenditure for environmental compliance, it is not currentlyaware of any significant expenditure that would be required as a result of suchlaws andregulationsthat wouldhave a material adverse impactuponthe Groups financialcondition.
PRODUCT LIABILITY The Group monitors the safety of its products from initial product development through to product use or application.
In addition, the businesses of the Group analyse on a worldwide basis reports of adverse reactions and complaints relating to its products.
Each business reviews these adverse reactions and complaints and any safety matters arising with independent medical advisors.
These conclusions are subsequently reviewed by the Groupsindependent medicaladvisor.
Product liability is a commercial risk for the industry of which the Group is a part, particularly in the US where there are increasing numbers of claims involving medical devices.
Smith & Nephew has implemented systems it believes are appropriate in respect of loss control techniques.
These include reporting mechanisms to ensure  legal department whichmanages  lawsuits.
The Group carries product liability insurance to cover exposure as far as practicable.
To date any instances of loss to the Group arising from product liability claims have been covered either directly or by the Group or by insurance.
There are currently no individual product liability claims that are expected to have a material adverse effect onthe Groups  ofoperations.
There can be no assurance that consumers, particularly in the US or elsewhere, will not bring product liability or related claims that would have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations in the future or that the Group will continue to resolve such claims within insurance limits as in the past in view of changing legal doctrines and attitudes regarding such matters.
See Risk Factors Product Liability Claims and LossofReputation.
12 RISK MANAGEMENT Smith & Nephews products are not in life support activities and in general are unlikely to threaten life.
But, if they malfunction, they could damage or impair the repair of body functions.
Management believes that the Groups quality, regulatory and medical controls and insurance activities are adequate and appropriate for this class of products.
The Groups reputation is crucially dependent on strong performance in this area and on appropriate crisismanagement ifa .
The Board of Directors of Smith & Nephew is responsible for the maintenance of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
An ongoing process was in place for the full year identifying, evaluating and managing key risks through a Risk Committee that comprises GEC members, which reports to the Board of Directors annually, and by a system of functional reports to the Board of Directors and the review of internal financial controls by the Audit Committee.
These procedures are designed to identify and manage those risks that couldadversely impact the achievement of the Groups objectives.
Whilethey donot provide absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss, the Directors, following a review of the systems described, are of the opinion that proper systems of risk management and internal control are in place withinthe Group.
The Group is insured against product, employers and directors and officers liabilities and physical and consequential loss, subject to limits and deductibles.
The Group maintains liability provisions to cover known uninsuredrisks.
13 OPERATING ACTIVITIES MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Smith & Nephews customers are the various providers of medical and surgical services worldwide.
In certain parts of the world, including the UK, much of Continental Europe, Australia, Canada and South Africa, these are largely governmental organisations funded by tax revenues.
In the US, the Groups major customers are public and private hospitals, many of which have combined to form large purchasing groups and receive revenue from private health insurance and governmental reimbursement programmes.
In the United States, Medicare is the   regimes.
Competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
In many countries, and particularly in the United States, providers are under pressure to reduce the total cost of healthcare delivery.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer base, as well as amongst the Groups competitors, and these trends are expected to continue in the long term.
Smith & Nephew competes against both specialised and multinational corporations, including those with greater financial, marketing and otherresources.
The Groups customers reflect the wide range of distribution channels, purchasing agents and buying entities in over 90 countries worldwide.
The largest single customers worldwide are the National Health Service in the UK and HealthTrust in the US.
Sales to these customers in 2003 each represented approximately 4% of the Groups worldwidetotal sales.
In the US the Groups products are marketed directly to doctors, hospitals and other healthcare facilities.
Each business unit operates a separate specialised sales force.
Within the orthopaedics business further specialisation of the sales force is being introduced progressively for reconstructive and trauma products.
In both orthopaedics and endoscopy the sales forces consist of independent commissioned sales agents who are managed by a mix of independent agents and the Groups own managers.
These agents are not permitted contractually to sell products that compete with Smith & Nephews.
In both businesses products are shipped and invoiced direct to the ultimate customer.
The advanced wound management business in the US operates a sales force of its own employees who market direct to the ultimate customer.
Advanced wound management products are shipped andinvoicedtoa numberoflarge wholesale distributors.
In the other direct markets of the UK, Ireland, France, Germany, Italy, Australia, New Zealand, Canada and Japan the business units manage separate sales forces directly.
In most of these markets the sales forces comprise employees  ultimate customer.
The indirect markets unit comprises selling and marketing operations in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Eastern Europe, Finland, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, China, Hong Kong, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, Mexico, Puerto Rico, the United Arab Emirates and South Africa.
In these markets orthopaedics and endoscopy frequently share sales resources.
The advanced wound management sales force is separate since it calls on different customers.
In all other countries Smith & Nephew sells to third party distributors whichmarketthe .
In Continental Europe, the Group operates two centralised distribution facilities.
Orthopaedics operates a facility in Paris which acts as a central holding and consolidation point for Continental European stock and stock returns.
Product is shipped to Group companies who hold small amounts of stock locally for immediate or urgent customer requirements.
Advanced wound management operates from Veghel, in the Netherlands from where stockisshipped directlytothe ultimate .
MANUFACTURE AND SUPPLY The Group has a policy of manufacturing the majority of its products to ensure quality, regulatory and cost goals are met.
TheGroupinvests inthe expansionof its  and equipmentto meet these aims.
Each business unit purchases raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials from certain key suppliers.
These comprise principally metal forgings and stampings for orthopaedics, optical and electronic sub-components for endoscopy, active ingredients and finished goods for advanced wound management and packaging materials for all businesses.
Management believes that prices of principal raw 14 materials and finished goods purchased are not particularly volatile and that these materials are generally available from various specialist suppliers.
Finished goods purchased for resale are primarily SUPARTZ joint lubricant in the orthopaedic business, monitors and electrical devices in the endoscopy business and enzyme debrider agents and ACTICOAT in the advanced wound management business.
Following continuing problems relating to the supply of the SANTYL collagenase enzyme debrider product to the US, both the product and the .
SEASONALITY Smith & Nephews sales are generally at their highest in quarter four of any year and at their lowest in the first and third quarters.
This is caused by the relatively high number of accidents and sports injuries which occur in the North American and European autumn and winter which increases sales of orthopaedic and endoscopy products and by the deferral of elective surgery during the peak summer holiday period in North America and Europeduringthe thirdquarter.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The business units each manage a portfolio of short and long-term product development projects designed to meet the future needs of their customers and to continue to provide growth opportunities for their businesses.
The Groups research and development is directed towards all three business segments.
The Groups expenditures on research and development amounted to 66.8m in 2003 2002 61.3m, 2001 50.9m, representing approximately 6% ofgroupturnover 2002 6%, 2001 5%.
The Groups principal research facility is located in York, England.
The Groups research programme seeks to underpin the longer-term technology requirements for its businesses and to provide a flow of innovative products.
The Group continues to invest in future technology opportunities, particularly bio-resorbable materials, tissue  across the Group.
Product development programmes are carried out at the Groups principal manufacturing locations, notably in Memphis, Tennessee orthopaedics, Andover and Mansfield, Massachusetts endoscopy and Hull, England and La Jolla, California advanced wound management.
In-house research is supplemented by work performed by academic institutionsand other external research organisations principally in the UK and the US.
INTELLECTUALPROPERTY Management believes that the Groups active  rightspromotes innovationin its businesses.
Smith & Nephew has a policy of protecting, with patents, the results of the research and development carried out throughout the Group.
Patents have been obtained for a wide range of products, including those in the fields of orthopaedic, endoscopic and advanced wound management technologies.
Patent protection for Group products is sought routinely in the Groups principal markets.
Currently, the Groups patent portfoliostands at over2,500existing patents and patent applications.
Smith & Nephew also has a policy of protecting the Groups products in the markets in which they are sold by registering trademarks as soon as possible under local laws.
The Group vigorously protects its trademarks against infringement and currently is not aware of any significant infringement of its trademark registrations.
The present trademark portfolioofthe Groupconsists of over3,300 trademarks and design rights.
Smith & Nephews principal products are protected by intellectual property comprising patents, licences and know how, and it strives to provide a collection of intellectual property for each major product that reduces the risk associated with failure of any individual piece of intellectual property.
In addition, most pieces of intellectual property protect a relatively small proportion of the Groups annual turnover.
As a result, the Group tries to ensure that its overallbusiness isnotsensitive tothe loss howevercaused of anysinglepieceof intellectualproperty.
In addition to maintaining a policy of protecting its market position by the filing and enforcement of patents and trademarks, Smith & Nephew has a policy of opposing third party patents and trademarks in those areas that mightconflictwiththe Groupsbusiness interests.
In the ordinary course of its business, the Group enters into a number of licensing arrangements with respect to its products.
None of these arrangements individually is considered material to the operations and the financial results ofthe Group.
15 PROPERTY, PLANTAND EQUIPMENT  as follows: Approximate area Square feet 000s GroupHead Office inLondon, England 15 , England 83 Orthopaedics headquarters , Tennessee.............. 673  facilityinAndover, Massachusetts 92 , Massachusetts 110 , Massachusetts 90 , Oklahoma 55 Woundmanagement headquarters , England............... 546 Woundmanagement , Florida 188 Woundmanagement , California 69 The facilities in Memphis, Hull and Largo and the manufacturing facility in Andover are freehold while all other principal locations are leasehold.
The Group also has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate in many  world, but  the Groupas a whole.
During 2003, the completion of a new building at Memphis increased manufacturing capacity for orthopaedic reconstructive products, the Andover facility was expanded in order to absorb the manufacturing and development operations of ORATEC, the construction phase of the Hull facility expansion was completed and the Largo facility was extended to create additional manufacturing capacity for advanced wound management products.
The Group considers its existing facilities to be adequate to meet anticipated demands for its products.
Where required, the appropriate  approved the existing facilities.
LEGALPROCEEDINGS The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal proceedings including product liability, which are considered to constitute ordinary and routine litigation incidental to the businesses conducted by the Company and or the relevant subsidiary, in some of which claims for damages in substantial amounts have been asserted.
The outcome of such proceedings cannot readily be foreseen, but management believes that they will not result inanymaterial adverse effect onthe  of operationsof the Group.
16 THE BUSINESSAND THE COMMUNITY CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Smith & Nephew is committed to making continuous improvements to the management of its environmental,  andtodevelopinga sustainable business.
In August 2003, Smith & Nephew launched its new corporate brand identity, which is an expression of how the Group seeks to contribute to society in the course of its daily business.
The new brand reinforces the Groups focus on advanced medical devices that help healthcare professionals treat patients more effectively and patients to get back to their lives faster.
The new brand emphasises the Groups core values of performance, innovation and trust and sets out a corporate culture and personality that is intended to be embraced by all Smith & Nephew people throughout the world.
The aim is to be the best in helping people regain their lives by repairing andhealingthe humanbody.
The Group published its third Sustainability Report in May 2003, recording its progress in corporate social responsibility.
The scope of the report was wider than 2002 and included new measurements and information on activities.
At the same time, a new Code of Business Principles was published that updates a number of existing policies and broadened these to coversuchareas of concernas childlabourand humanrights.
Therevised Code of Business Principles has been adopted throughout the organisation.
The fourth Sustainability Report will be published onthe Companyswebsite inApril2004.
A number of independent organisations recognise Smith & Nephews progress in sustainable development.
The Company made its second submission to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI in 2003 and has been included in the Index for the second year running.
This is the most widely recognised arbiter of good practice and is truly international in scope.
The DJSI have included the company in both the World Index and the European Index.
Inthe UK, Smith& Nephewhas been includedinthe list of FTSE4Good companies.
Through its code of business principles, the Group respects the rights of all its stakeholders and seeks to build open, honest and constructive relationships.
It takes account of ethical, social, environmental, legal and financial  decisions.
BusinessIntegrity Smith & Nephew aims to be honest and fair in all aspects of its business and expects the same from all those with whom it does business.
The Group does not give or receive improper financial inducements, either directly or indirectly, for business or financial gain.
Accounting records and supporting documents are designed to accuratelydescribe andreflect the  conformto UK GAAP.
Environmental Management The Group has an established environmental policy and an environmental committee comprising representatives from the business.
Smith & Nephew is committed to the protection of the environment by using renewable resources wherever possible and developing manufacturing processes and products that minimise adverse effects on the environment.
The Groups business units take effective action to control risks and minimise environmental impacts through systems and procedures based on a thorough understanding of the risks and provideappropriate trainingandsupport.
The Group has environmental management systems that are designed to deliver cost savings and benefits to the environment.
Manufacturing processes are relatively low in environmental impact.
Close control is kept on energy, water consumption and waste, the latter being the main area of impact at its manufacturing sites.
Waste prevention and minimisation programmes operate and sustainable development aspects of the companys products are assessed during the research and development process.
In 2002, waste increased for the first time in a number of years due to the installation of additional manufacturing plant in all three business segments.
As a result, this has been an area of particular focus during 2003 with waste reduction of 10% when compared to 2002 being achieved.
Energy consumption increased by only 1% in 2003 when compared to 2002 despite % forthe Group.
Social responsibility Employees Smith & Nephew seeks to provide an open, challenging, productive and participative environment based on constructive relationships.
The Group endeavours to maintain good communication with employees through 17 regular and timely dissemination of Group information and consultation.
It provides clearly communicated goals and performance standards, and the training, information and authority needed to do a good job.
Smith & Nephew aims to provide fair recognition and reward based on performance.
Employees are able to share in the Groups performance by participating in Sharesave and Stock Purchase Plans.
Smith & Nephew welcomes disabled people andmakes every effort toretainanyemployee whobecomes disabled.
Training and Development Appropriate learningand development programmesare inplace to ensurethat the companyattracts, retains, and develops to their full potential the best talent at all levels where possible.
It aims to fill vacancies by internal promotion, but looks to strike a balance between home-grown talent and new talent from outside the Group.
It endeavours torecruit,  onthe sole basis of qualificationsand the abilities needed for the work to be performed.
Discrimination is not tolerated on any grounds and the Group provides equal opportunitybased onmerit.
Leadership The Group aims to develop its current and future leaders and harness their talent to improve the performance of the business.
The 2003 Management Conference involving senior managers from all parts of the business with the objective to develop strategies aimed at channeling the energy and enthusiasm of the organisation into delivering a culture of superior performance in line with the companys values.
Across the business, performance evaluation, coaching and attendance at high quality leadership programmes are utilised for development purposes.
Workplace Smith & Nephew aims to provide healthy and safe working conditions for all its employees.
This is achieved by ensuring that health and safety and the working environment are managed as an integral part of the business andemployee  a keypart of this process.
The Group does not use any form of forced, compulsory or child labour.
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations is supported and the company respects human rights, the dignity and privacy of the individualandthe rightofemployees tofreedom of association, freedom of expression and the rightto be heard.
Two-way Communication Smith & Nephew looks forward to conducting its third bi-annual global opinion survey in 2004.
Improved scores have been seen as a result of actions taken in response to previous surveys and it is the intention to once again respond to the issues raised by employees in the 2004 global opinion survey.
This is an important measure of howthe Groupmeets its values inpracticeand achieves  areas.
The communications functions at Group Head Office, group research facility and within the global business units, work closely with human resources at each site on all forms of internal communication.
As part of the new corporate brand launch, the linked business unit and corporate intranets have been improved.
They allow easy two-way communication worldwide and increase peoples awareness of financial, economic and market factors affecting Groupperformance.
Society and Community The Group works with national and local governments and other organisations to meet its legal and civic obligations, manage its impact on the environment and contribute to the development of laws and regulations that affect its business interests.
Smith & Nephew strives to be a good corporate citizen by being an active memberofits  supportingemployees .
It supports a range of charitable causes, mainly at local level, by donations of money, gifts in kind and employee time.
The Group recognises a strong obligation to contribute to the communities in whichit operates.
Examples of the programmes supported around its manufacturing sites can be found in the Performance section of the Sustainability Report onthe Companyswebsite.
In 2003, direct donations to charitable and communityactivities totalled 937,000 of which 300,000 went to the Smith & Nephew Foundation to fund research by individual nurses.
Smith & Nephew made no political contributionsin2003.
18 Customers The Group is committed to developing and delivering innovative, cost-effective solutions to provide benefits to healthcare professionals and their patients through improved treatment, ease and speed of product use and reduced healthcare costs.
To underpin this commitment, it will continue to provide education and training support   inresearchand development.
The Groups products are designed to be safe and reliable for their intended use and comply with or exceed all legal and regulatory requirements, includingthose concerningpackaging, labelling and user instructions.
The aim is to anticipate future standards and requirements so that the health and safety of its customers and patients is enhanced.
BusinessPartners Smith & Nephew is committed to establishing mutually beneficial relationships with its suppliers, customers and business partners.
The Group will only work with partners who it believes adhere to business principles and health, safety,  consistentwithits own.
Economic Contribution The Group business policies aim to achieve long-term growth and profits which in turn bring continued economic benefits to shareholders, employees, suppliers and local communities.
Smith & Nephews sustainable development depends ultimately on its ability to provide a satisfactory economic return.
In 2003, the Group generated an operating return on capital employed ratio of operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items to the average of openingand closingcapital employed plus average net debt, as set outinthe Five Year Record of 32%.
Smith & Nephew continues to invest in research and development focused on delivering better outcomes for patients and improvements in application and use for practitioners.
Importantly, the Group also aims to deliver overall cost savings to healthcare systems through such benefits as reduced dressing changes and shorter surgical operating times.
Through the use of its products the Group seeks to reduce patients time in hospital and , improvingtheirlives and potentially bringingbroader socialand economicbenefits.
EMPLOYEES Smith & Nephew had an average of 7,451 full-time equivalent employees in 2003, of whom 1,600 were located in the UK, 3,177 were located in the US and 2,674 were located in other countries.
The Group does not employ a .
In 2002, response rates were 84% and the general level of employee satisfaction was 82%.
Where the Group has collective bargaining arrangements in place with labour unions, these reflect  effectively.
Further informationabout Smith & Nephew employees, management principlesand Visionand Valuesis set out inthe sustainability reportonthe Smith& .
19 RISK FACTORS There are risks and uncertainties related to Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below are those that Smith & Nephew believes could cause the Groups financial condition or results of operations to differ materially from expected and historical results.
Factors other than those listed here, that Smith & Nephew cannot presently identify, couldalso adversely affect Smith& Nephews business.
Thefactors listed belowshouldbe consideredin connection with any forward-looking statements in this report and the cautionary statements contained in  NoteRegarding .
Trends in Healthcare Expenditure In most markets throughout the world, expenditure on medical devices is to a large extent ultimately controlled by governments.
Funds may be made available or withdrawn from healthcare budgets depending on government policy.
The Group is therefore largely dependent on future governments providing increased funds commensuratewiththe increaseddemand .
Pricing of the Groups products is controlled in most major markets largely by governmental reimbursement authorities.
This control may be exercised by determining prices for an individual product or for an entire procedure.
The Group is exposed to changes in reimbursement policy and pricing which may have an adverse impactonsales andoperatingprofit.
In addition, competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer base, as well as among the Groups competitors, and these trends are expected to continue long term.
Increased competition and unanticipated  to downwardpressure onpricesand ora declineinmarket share in any of the Groups business units which would adversely affect Smith & Nephews results of operations and hinderits growthpotential.
Currency Fluctuations The Group reports its results in Sterling.
However based on 2003 results, only 8% of group turnover arises in the UK compared with 54% in the Americas comprising the US, Canada and Latin America, 23% in Continental Europe and 15% in Africa, Asia and Australia.
Fluctuations in the exchange rates used to translate the financial statements of operations outside the UK into Sterling may have a material effect on the Group.
If the Sterling exchange rate should strengthen against the US Dollar and or Euro then group turnover and operating profit wouldbe .
The Groups manufacturing cost base is situated in the US and UK from where finished products are exported to the Groups selling operations worldwide.
Thus the Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates between the US Dollar and Sterling and the currencies of the Groups selling operations, particularly the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
If the US Dollar and or Sterling should strengthen against the Euro and the Japanese Yen then  adversely affected.
Product Liability Claims and Lossof Reputation The Groups products are not in life-support activities and are therefore unlikely to threaten patients lives.
Nevertheless, these products could malfunction, causing damage to or impairing the repair of body functions.
Smith & Nephew may become subject to liability, which could be substantial, because of actual or alleged malfunction of products sold by the Group or by companies it has acquired.
In addition, product malfunction could also lead to the need to recall from the market existing products, which may be costly and harmful to the Groups reputation which is crucially dependent on product safety and efficacy.
Product liability is a growing risk in the medical devices industry, particularly in the US, the Groups largest geographic market where claims for pain and suffering and loss of earnings may involve substantial amounts.
There is a risk that patients will bring product liability or related claims that would have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
The potential exists for claimants to join together in a class action which would have the effect of increasing the total potential liability.
The Group maintains product liability insurance, but this insurance is subject to limits and deductibles.
There is a risk that this insurance could become unavailable at a reasonable cost or at all, or will be inadequate to cover specific product liability claims.
Insurance premiums are relatively high, particularly for coverage in the US, and 20 there is a risk at the medical devices industry level that insurance coverage could become increasingly costly.
If Smith & Nephew or any companies it acquires do not have adequate insurance, product liability claims and costs associated with product recalls, could significantly limit Smith & Nephews available cash flow and negatively impactproductsales fromanyassociated loss of business.
Highly CompetitiveMarkets The Groups principal business units compete across a diverse range of geographic and product markets.
The markets in which each of the three business units operates each contain a number of different competitors, including specialised and international corporations.
Significant product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of price competition by competitors could adversely affect the Groups operating results.
Some of the Groups competitors focus on certain specialised products, while others are large, multinational corporations.
Some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than Smith & Nephew.
These competitors may be able to deliver products on more attractive terms, more aggressively market their products or invest larger amounts of capital and research and development intotheir businesses.
There is a risk of further consolidation particularly in the orthopaedic industry which could adversely affect the Groups ability to compete with much larger companies due to insufficient financial resources.
If any of the Groups businesses were to lose market share or achieve lower than expected sales growth there could be a  impactonthe Groups share priceand its strategic options.
Failure to make Successful Acquisitions A key element of the Groups strategy for continued growth is to make acquisitions or alliances to complement its existing businesses.
Failure to identify appropriate acquisition targets or failure to integrate them successfully wouldhave anadverse impactonthe  profitability.
Attracting and Retaining Key Personnel The Groups continued development depends on its ability to hire and retain highly skilled personnel with particular expertise.
This is critical, particularly in research and new product development and in the orthopaedics and endoscopy sales forces of which the largest are in the US.
If Smith & Nephew is unable to retain key personnel in research and new product development or if its largest sales forces suffer disruption or upheaval, its sales  adversely affected.
Regulatory Approvals and Controls The medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances and materials can be developed into marketable products and the amount of time and expense that should be allotted to such development.
At any time the Group is awaiting a number of regulatory approvals, which if not received, could adversely affect results of operations.
Regulatory approval of new products and new materials is required in each country in which the Group operates although a single approval may be obtained for all countries within the European Union.
Regulatory approval of new products may entail a very lengthy process particularly if materials are employed which have not previously been used in similar products.
Regulatory approvals in the US, Japan, Europe and the UK are the most critical to the Groups success .
The Group is required to comply with a wide range of regulatory controls over the manufacturing, testing, distribution and marketing of its products particularly in US, UK and Continental Europe.
Such controls have become increasingly demanding and management believes that this trend will continue.
Failure to comply with such controlscouldhave a numberofadverse  approval to sell a productin a  .
Patent Infringement Claims Due to the technological nature of medical devices, the Group is subject to the potential for patent infringement claims.
Smith& Nephewattempts toprotect its intellectualproperty and regularlyopposes thirdparty patents and trademarks in those areas that might conflict with the Groups business interests.
If Smith & Nephew fails to successfully enforce its intellectual property rights, its competitive position could suffer, which could harm its operating results.
Claims asserted by third parties regarding infringement of their intellectual property rights, if successful, could require the Group to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non-infringing productsorto obtainlicencestothe productswhichare the subject of suchlitigation.
21 Continual Developmentand Introduction of New Products The Group operates in the medical devices industry, which has a rapid introductionrate of new products.
In order to remain competitive, each of the Groups business units must continue to develop innovative products that satisfy customer needs and preferences or provide cost or other advantages.
Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process.
A potential product may not be brought to market for any number of reasons, including failure to work optimally, failure to receive regulatory approval, failure to be cost-competitive, infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights and changes in consumer demand.
Furthermore, new products that are developed and marketed by the Groups competitors may affect price levels in the various markets in whichthe Groupsbusiness unitsoperate.
If  products, the Groupssales revenuecoulddecline.
There is a risk that a major disruptive technology could be introduced into one of the Groups markets and adversely affect its  plans and targets.
Manufacturing and Supply The Groups manufacturing production is concentrated at seven main facilities in Memphis, Tennessee, Andover and Mansfield, Massachusetts, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, La Jolla, California and Largo, Florida in the United States and Hull in the United Kingdom.
If major physical disruption took place at any of these sites, it would adversely affect the results of operations.
Physical loss and consequential loss insurance is carried to cover such risksbut issubject  and maynotbe sufficientto .
Each of the three business units is reliant on certain key suppliers of raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials.
These comprise principally metal forgings and stampings for orthopaedics, optical and electronic subcomponents for endoscopy and active ingredients and finished products for advanced wound management as well as packaging materials for all businesses.
If any of these suppliers is unable to meet the Groups needs or substantially increases its prices, Smith & Nephew would need to seek alternative suppliers.
For example, in 2003 the advanced wound management business was negatively impacted by supply issues for SANTYL, an enzymatic wound debrider and consequently appointed a new supplier, launching a new product, GLADASE.
There can be no assurance that alternative suppliers would provide the necessary raw materials or components on favourable or cost-effective terms.
Consequently, the Group may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain raw materials or components, which it may not be able to pass on to its customers in the form of increased prices for its finished products.
In addition, some of the raw materials or components used may become unavailable, and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to obtain suitable and costeffective substitutes.
Any interruption of supply or price increases caused by these or other factors could negatively impactSmith& Nephews turnoverand operatingprofit.
Medical DeviceCompany Valuations As a growth industry, medical device companies currently have higher stock market valuations than other industrial companies.
If market conditions change, or other companies in the sector fail to perform, or the Group is perceived to be performing less well than the sector, then the share price rating of the Group may be adversely affected.
Political and Economic Uncertainties Because the Group has operations in 32 countries, political and economic upheaval in those countries or in the regions surrounding those countries may impact the Groups results of operation.
Political changes in a country could prevent the Group from receiving remittances of profit from a member of the Group located in that country or from selling its investments in that country.
Furthermore, legislative measures in a country could result in changes in tariffs, import quotas or taxation that could adversely affect the Groups turnover and operating profit.
Terrorist activities and ongoing global political uncertainties, including conflict in the Middle East, could adversely impactthe Group.
Other Risk Factors The Board considers that Smith & Nephew is subject to a number of other risks whichare commonto most global groupsandwhichare reviewed as part ofits riskmanagement process.
In the financial area these include interest rate volatility, challenges by taxation authorities, failures in reporting  anduninsuredlosses.
Adverse events in the areas of corporate social responsibility, environmental management and health and safety protectioncouldalso adversely .
