Corporate governance Organisational structure of Unilever Corporate governance developments NV and PLC are the two parent companies of the Unilever Group The text that follows describes Unilevers corporate governance of companies.
NV was incorporated under the name Naamlooze arrangements throughout 2003.
This text should be read in Vennootschap Margarine Unie in the Netherlands in 1927.
PLC the light of the proposals that will be put to the NV and PLC was incorporated under the name Lever Brothers Limited in Great shareholders for consideration at the Annual General Meetings Britain in 1894. in 2004 to change those arrangements.
The principal change is to make individuals who are currently Advisory Directors formal, Since 1930 when the Unilever Group was formed, NV and PLC non-executive members of the Boards of NV and PLC, with full together with their group companies have operated, as nearly as entitlement to vote at meetings and responsibility for the actions is practicable, as a single entity.
They have the same directors, of the Boards.
Full information on these proposed changes can be adopt the same accounting principles, and are linked by a series found on the Unilever website at of agreements.
The Equalisation Agreement, which regulates the www.
mutual rights of the two sets of shareholders, is particularly important.
It makes the position of the shareholders of both These and other changes are being proposed in order to maintain companies, as far as possible, the same as if they held shares Unilevers high standards of corporate governance in response to in a single company.
the latest developments in Europe and the US.
Subject to acceptance of these proposals by shareholders, fuller details of NV and PLC are separate companies, with separate stock Unilevers changed corporate governance arrangements will be exchange listings and different shareholders.
You cannot convert placed on Unilevers website at www.
or exchange the shares of one for shares of the other and the relative share prices on the various markets can, and do, Directors uctuate.
This happens for a number of reasons, including The Chairmen and all of the Directors are full-time executives and changes in exchange rates.
However, over time the prices directors of both NV and PLC and, as well as holding specic of NV and PLC shares do stay in close relation to each other, management responsibilities, they are responsible for the conduct in particular because of our equalisation arrangements.
of the business as a whole.
NV and PLC are holding and service companies.
Our businesses The Chairmen of NV and PLC are the principal executive ofcers are carried out by our group companies around the world.
holding companies have agreed to co-operate in all areas, to exchange all relevant business information and to ensure all Our operations are organised into two global divisions Foods group companies act accordingly.
Usually, shares in the group and Home & Personal Care headed by Division Directors.
companies are held ultimately by either NV or PLC, with the main Reporting to their respective Division Directors are the Foods and exception being that the US companies are owned by both and, the Home & Personal Care Business Presidents, responsible for the as a result of the legal integration of Bestfoods into Unilever, profitability of their regional and global businesses.
For details of a number of the group companies are partly held by Unilever the Division Directors and Business Presidents, see pages 52 to 53.
These group companies are therefore also ultimately owned jointly by NV and PLC.
The Directors have set out a number of areas for which the Boards have direct responsibility for decision making.
They These arrangements are designed to create a balance between meet at least five times a year to consider the following corporate the funds generated by the NV and PLC parts of the Group.
events and actions: See pages 142 to 145 for a listing of the Groups principal Agreement of quarterly results announcements subsidiaries and also Control of Unilever on page 152.
Approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and Form 20-F Declaration of dividends Convening of shareholders meetings Legal structure of the Group Approval of corporate strategy Authorisation of major transactions Shareholders Shareholders All other matters are delegated to committees whose actions are reported to and monitored by the Boards.
Directors Board meetings are held in London and Rotterdam and chaired by the Chairmen of NV and PLC.
The Chairmen are assisted by the Joint Secretaries, who ensure the Boards are supplied with all the NV Equalisation PLC information necessary for their deliberations.
Information is and other agreements normally supplied a week prior to each meeting.
Directors are elected by shareholders at the Annual General NV owned Jointly owned PLC owned Meetings of NV and PLC, to hold ofce until the end of the operating operating operating companies companies companies next Annual General Meetings.
For details of the nomination procedure for Directors, see Control of Unilever on page 152.
All the Directors submit themselves for re-election each year and Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 47
