Risk management Treasury risks: The analysis below presents the sensitivity of the fair value Unilever Treasury manages a variety of market risks, including the of the financial and derivative instruments the Group held at effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and 31 December 2003, to the hypothetical changes described below.
Other risks managed include liquidity, country and counterparty risks.
Interest rate sensitivity: The fair values of debt, investments and related hedging Unilever has an interest rate management policy aimed at instruments are affected by movements in interest rates.
The optimising net interest cost and reducing volatility.
This is analysis shows the sensitivity of the fair value of interest rate achieved by modifying the interest rate exposure of debt and cash sensitive instruments to a hypothetical 10% change in the interest positions through the use of interest rate swaps.
Further details rates across all maturities as at 31 December 2003. on the xing levels of the projected net debt are given in note 15 on page 97.
Foreign exchange rate sensitivity: The values of debt, investments and hedging instruments, Unilevers foreign exchange policy requires that operating denominated in currencies other than the functional currency companies hedge trading and financial foreign exchange of the entities holding them, are subject to exchange rate exposures.
This is achieved primarily through the use of forward movements.
The analysis shows the sensitivity of these values foreign exchange contracts.
Some exibility is permitted within to a hypothetical 10% change in foreign exchange rates as at overall exposure limits.
Business groups monitor compliance with 31 December 2003. this policy.
At the end of 2003, there was no material exposure from companies holding assets and liabilities other than in their Fair value changes: Sensitivity to a functional currency.
hypothetical 10% change in rates as at 31 December Unilever conducts business in many foreign currencies but million million publishes its financial statements and measures its performance in 2003 2002 euros.
As a result, it is subject to exchange risk due to the effects Interest rate risk 175 218 that exchange rate movements have on the translation of the Foreign exchange rate risk 5 1 results and underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
Unilever aims to reduce its foreign exchange exposure in The above-mentioned interest rate sensitivity relates to financial operating companies by borrowing in the local currency, except and derivative instruments with fair values amounting to where inhibited by local regulations, lack of local liquidity or local 16 411 million at the end of 2003 2002: 20 854 million.
An exception may also be made where the For further information on fair values see note 15 on page 98. economic value of the net assets locally is considered substantially The above-mentioned foreign exchange rate risk relates to a value to exceed their book value.
From time to time, currency of financial instruments and derivatives of 46 million at the end revaluations will trigger exchange translation movements in our of 2003 2002: 10 million.
balance sheet as a result of these exceptions.
In 2003, the significant weakening of the US dollar against the euro has had Further details on derivatives, foreign exchange exposures and a negative impact on our results, but has had a positive impact other related information on financial instruments are given in on our debt and equity, when reported in euros.
Counterparty exposures are minimised by restricting dealing In addition, as a multinational group, Unilevers businesses are counterparties to a limited number of financial institutions that exposed to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty related to have secure credit ratings, by working within agreed counterparty other factors including competitive pricing, consumption levels, limits, by obtaining collateral for outstanding positions and by physical risks, legislative, scal, tax and regulatory developments, setting limits on the maturity of exposures.
Counterparty credit terrorism and economic, political and social conditions in the ratings are closely monitored and concentration of credit risk environments where we operate.
All of these risks could with any single counterparty is avoided.
There was no significant materially affect the Groups business, our turnover, operating concentration of credit risks with any single counterparty as at profit, net profit, net assets and liquidity.
There may also be risks the year end.
which are unknown to Unilever or which are currently believed to be immaterial.
As a result of the share option plans for employees, we are exposed to movements in our own share price.
In recent years we have hedged this risk through buying Unilever shares in the market when the share option is granted and holding these shares until the share option is exercised or lapses.
In 2001, we also entered into a contract with a bank for the forward purchase of Unilever shares, further details of which are given in note 15 on page 98.
At the year end, 93% of all outstanding employee share options were hedged: based on Unilevers experience with the exercise level of options we consider this position as being fully hedged.
46 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
