About Unilever to rise to 75%.
Although this will fall short of the 100% target In Ghana, our Annapurna iodine-fortied salt has increased set in 1996, we have nevertheless achieved very substantial its sales and brought essential micronutrients within the reach improvements.
We remain rmly committed to working with of low-income consumers.
Annapurna consumer-education others to help drive the whole sheries market towards a programmes have helped promote UNICEF and government sustainable future.
health messages on the need for an improved diet.
Almost all our products rely on water in growing ingredients, Our business depends on understanding and meeting consumers in manufacturing and in use by the consumer.
We also need to understand societies evolving needs if sites have continued to reduce water consumption.
Unilever we are to anticipate potential concerns as well as trends that Indonesia, for example, has since 2001 pioneered a Zero Industrial present business opportunities.
This is why we continually seek Waste policy, which has now been rolled out to all its Indonesian to engage with our stakeholders.
We listen and learn through operations.
In Jakarta, treated efuent from ice cream and food consumer carelines, focus groups and websites, research with plants is pumped across the industrial estate to our detergent universities and participation in industry and government working factory and used as process water.
As a result, the factory has cut groups.
We are also involved in dialogue with NGOs and support water consumption by up to 60%.
international initiatives such as the UN Global Compact.
We are implementing our environmental strategy to tackle three Partnerships are an effective way to help address social issues: additional areas: connecting with the consumer on environmental they are a common feature of our many community initiatives, care: leveraging our eco-manufacturing skills across the wider on which we spent approximately 66 million in 2003.
Our new supply chain: and embedding environmental sustainability in our global partnership with the World Heart Federation is just one decision-making processes.
We shall report on progress in 2005. example: heart disease is now regarded as the principal cause of death worldwide and our Becel Flora brand is helping to promote We continue to be the leading company in the food industry a healthy heart lifestyle around the world.
category in two of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes DJSI, one for the fifth year running - the DJSI World Index.
To gain the support of our stakeholders, we need to foster We were ranked top of the food sector in the UKs first Corporate their understanding of our business and the challenges we face.
Responsibility Index, published by Business in the Community Our local companies recognise this clearly, and have started to in 2003. produce reports that cover their interaction with their local societies.
Following our second Unilever-wide social review Responsible corporate behaviour in 2002, last year saw new social reports from some of our We seek to be a responsible employer, business partner and businesses such as those in Brazil and the UK.
Designed for local good corporate citizen, earning respect for our values wherever people, they share the common core theme of responsibility we operate.
towards consumers, employees, business partners and society as the way towards sustainable growth for our business.
In 2003 we Unilever has clear values and standards that govern the way we have continued to work on the assessment and measurement of do business around the world.
They are set out in our Corporate our corporate responsibility performance, to ensure that our next Purpose and our Code of Business Principles which are available social review in 2005 gives an insightful and rounded view of at www.
It is by putting these shared values into our business.
everyday working practice that we can operate successfully as a multinational company, and as a trusted corporate citizen in For more information about Unilevers environmental and social diverse local societies.
Our Code Committee oversees compliance with the Code of Competition Business Principles throughout our business.
During 2003 we We have a wide and diverse set of competitors in our consumer rolled out a global e-learning programme for new employees, and goods businesses.
Many of our competitors also operate on developed and rolled out an e-learning programme on European an international scale, but others have a narrower regional or competition law to support understanding of the Code.
completed work on a set of key principles to achieve greater transparency of social and environmental standards in our Competition is a normal part of business.
We aim to compete supply chains.
and give value to our consumers, customers and shareholders in three ways: Two examples illustrate our commitment to the local communities by continually developing new and improved products: in which we operate.
In India, Hindustan Lever is taking part in an by sharing our innovations and concepts with our businesses innovative scheme that trains villagers in business skills and all around the world: and creates a new sales and distribution mechanism for its products.
by striving to lower the cost of our sourcing, manufacturing Through project Shakti, Hindustan Lever provides free business and distribution processes while still maintaining, and training to womens self-help groups set up by Nonimproving, the quality of our products.
Governmental Organisations NGOs and the government.
Once trained, the women have the option to become local small-scale We support efforts to create a more open competitive sellers of Unilevers products, which can generate a steady income environment through the liberalisation of international trade.
of around $20 per month, nearly double their usual household We also support the fuller implementation of the Single incomes.
European Market and inclusion of other European countries in the European Union.
12 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
