Corporate governance External Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee All these committees are formally set up by Board resolution The External Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee currently with carefully dened remits.
They report regularly and comprises four Advisory Directors and normally meets four times are responsible to the Boards of NV and PLC.
It is chaired by Lady Chalker, and its other members are Lord Brittan, Senator George J Mitchell and Professor Wim Dik.
Requirements general Charles R Shoemate retired as a member in 2003.
The Committee Unilever is subject to corporate governance requirements in the oversees the Code of Business Principles, advises on external Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States.
A vital matters of relevance to the business including issues of factor in the arrangements between NV and PLC is their having corporate social responsibility and reviews our corporate the same directors.
The concept of the non-executive director, relations strategy.
The Committee is supplied with necessary as recognised in the United Kingdom, was, until recently, not a information by the Corporate Development Director.
feature of corporate governance in the Netherlands, and the supervisory board, as recognised in the Netherlands, is hitherto Nomination Committee unknown in the United Kingdom.
It is also the case that the role The Nomination Committee comprises a minimum of three of the board differs in certain key respects between the UK and Advisory Directors and the Chairmen of NV and PLC and meets the US.
Nevertheless, Unilevers Advisory Directors have long at least once a year.
It was chaired by Frits Fentener van provided a strong independent element, performing many of the Vlissingen until his retirement at the 2003 Annual General functions of supervisory and non-executive directors.
The Audit, Meeting and thereafter by Bertrand Collomb.
Its other members External Affairs and Corporate Relations and Remuneration are Antony Burgmans, Niall FitzGerald, Lord Simon and Jeroen Committees consist exclusively of Advisory Directors and the van der Veer.
It recommends to the Boards candidates for majority of the members of the Nomination Committee are the positions of Director, Advisory Director and Executive Advisory Directors.
It had hitherto not Committee member.
The Committee is supplied with information been considered practicable to appoint supervisory or nonby the Joint Secretaries.
The Committees terms of reference are executive directors who could serve on both Boards.
However, as on our website at www.
indicated above, following a review in 2003, proposals to change this aspect of Unilevers corporate governance arrangements will Remuneration Committee be put to shareholders for adoption in 2004.
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises three Advisory Directors and meets at least three times a year.
It was chaired Requirements the Netherlands by Frits Fentener van Vlissingen until his retirement at the 2003 In December 2003, the Corporate Governance Committee Annual General Meeting and thereafter by Bertrand Collomb.
Tabaksblat Committee published the denitive version of the Its other members are Lord Simon and Jeroen van der Veer.
Dutch Corporate Governance Code Dutch Code which replaces It reviews executive Directors remuneration and is responsible the 1997 Recommendations on Corporate Governance in the for the executive share-based incentive plans.
The Committee Netherlands of the Peters Committee.
The Dutch legislature will determines specic remuneration packages for each of the provide the Dutch Code with a legal basis, and is expected to Directors.
The Committee is supplied with information by apply the Dutch Code to all companies, such as NV, whose J A A van der Bijl, Joint Secretary of Unilever.
registered ofce is in the Netherlands and whose shares or depositary receipts are ofcially listed on a recognised stock The detailed report to shareholders on Directors remuneration is exchange with effect from financial years starting on or after on pages 54 to 68.
The Committees terms of reference are on 1 January 2004. our website at www.
Unilevers compliance at present with the Dutch Code should Other committees be considered in the light of the proposals that will be put to the The Boards and the Board Committees are assisted by: NV shareholders for consideration and approval at the Annual General Meeting of 2004.
Unilever has taken the Dutch Code a Code Compliance Committee, that is responsible for into account when making the changes to its governance monitoring and reporting on compliance with the Code of arrangements that will become effective, subject to shareholder Business Principles.
The Joint Secretaries are responsible for the approval, as from the NV Annual General Meeting of 2004. operation of this Committee: and In this meeting we will discuss our corporate governance structure a Disclosures Committee, that is responsible for helping the and arrangements with the NV shareholders.
The notice for the Boards ensure that information that ought to be disclosed Meeting will address Unilevers main departures from the publicly is disclosed and that the information that is disclosed Dutch Code.
The Controller is responsible for the operation of this Committee.
As from the 2004 financial year onwards, Unilever will fully disclose in its Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F its Committees are also set up to conduct routine business as and compliance with the Dutch Code, as well as any non-application when they are necessary.
They comprise any two of the Directors of provisions of the Dutch Code and an explanation.
Unilever and certain senior executives and company ofcers.
They expects to comply with the Dutch Code to a substantial extent.
administer certain matters previously agreed by the Boards or However, due to our structure, we may have to depart in certain the Executive Committee.
The Joint Secretaries are responsible respects from the provisions of the Dutch Code.
In line with the for the operation of these committees.
recommendation made in the Dutch Code, NV intends to discuss its compliance with the Dutch Code at the Annual General Meeting of 2005.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 49
