Corporate governance retire at the latest by the age of 62.
They are executive ofcers, Board Committees and cease to hold executive ofce on ceasing to be directors.
The Directors have established the following committees: We appoint our other executive ofcers, who are full time, for an indefinite period.
These other executive ofcers are the corporate Executive Committee ofcers listed on page 53.
None of our Directors or executive The Executive Committee comprises the Chairmen of NV and PLC ofcers are elected or appointed under any arrangement and five other members: the two Division Directors for Foods and or understanding.
for Home & Personal Care: the Corporate Development Director: the Financial Director: and the Personnel Director.
Members of All of our Directors have been with Unilever full time for at least the Executive Committee are appointed by all of the Directors for five years, and in most cases for most of their business careers.
The Executive Committee is responsible for For details see pages 52.
There are no family relationships agreeing priorities and allocating resources, setting overall between any of our Directors or executive ofcers.
corporate targets, agreeing and monitoring divisional strategies and plans, identifying and exploiting opportunities created by A procedure is in place to enable Directors, if they so wish, Unilevers scale and scope, managing external relations at the to seek independent professional advice.
On election, Directors corporate level and developing future leaders.
The Executive are briefed thoroughly on their responsibilities and updates on Committee generally meets formally at least monthly and is corporate governance developments are a frequent item at board chaired, alternately, by the Chairmen of NV and PLC.
The Directors regularly visit Unilevers operations Committee is supplied with information by the Executive around the world and the Business Presidents routinely give Committee Secretariat.
Audit Committee The Joint Secretaries are appointed and removed by the Boards.
The Audit Committee comprises a minimum of three Advisory Directors.
The Committee met five times in 2003.
It is chaired Advisory Directors by Hilmar Kopper, and its other members are Oscar Fanjul and The Advisory Directors have hitherto been the principal external Claudio X Gonzalez.
The Boards have satisfied themselves that presence in the governance of Unilever.
The role of an all the members of the Committee are competent in financial independent Advisory Director involves giving advice to the matters and that, for the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Boards in general, and to the Executive Committee in particular, Act of 2002, Hilmar Kopper is the Committees financial expert.
on corporate governance, business, social and economic issues.
The Committees meetings are attended by the Financial Director, They serve on certain key Board committees, the roles the General Counsel, the Controller, the Chief Auditor and our and membership of which are described below.
The Audit Committee assists the Boards in fullling their oversight responsibilities in respect of the integrity The appointment of Advisory Directors is provided for of Unilevers financial statements, risk management and internal in the Articles of Association of both parent companies, although control arrangements, compliance with legal and regulatory they are not formally members of the Boards.
They are therefore requirements, the performance, qualications and independence not entitled to vote at meetings of the Boards and bear no legal of the external auditors and the performance of the internal audit responsibility for the Boards actions.
Their terms of appointment, function.
The Committee is directly responsible, subject to local role and powers are enshrined in resolutions of the Boards.
laws regarding shareholder approval, for the nomination, As well as Board committee meetings, they attend the quarterly compensation and oversight of the external auditors.
The Chief Directors meetings, other Directors conferences, and other Auditor ensures that the Committee is supplied with necessary meetings with the Chairmen.
In addition, the Advisory Directors information.
Both the Chief Auditor and the external auditors may meet as a body, at their discretion, and appoint a senior have direct access to the Audit Committee separately from member as their spokesman.
Our Advisory Directors are chosen for their broad experience, See page 69 for the Report of the Audit Committee to the international outlook and independence.
by resolutions of the Boards, normally for an initial term of three to four years and thereafter for terms of three years.
The Committees terms of reference, including its full responsibilities, can be read on the Unilever website at Their remuneration is determined by the Boards and it, and www.
any other financial relationships, are reported on page 67.
All appointments and re-appointments are based on the Corporate Risk Committee recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
The Corporate Risk Committee currently comprises the Financial Director, the Foods Director, the Home & Personal Care Director, In the context of Unilevers unique arrangements for corporate the Personnel Director, the General Counsel, the Chief Auditor governance, all the Advisory Directors are considered to be and the Controller.
It meets at least four times a year.
The report on pages 59 and 67 objective of the Committee is to assist the Boards to carry out describes the relationships between the Advisory Directors their responsibilities to ensure effective risk management and and Unilever.
It reports to the Boards, the Executive Committee and, as relevant, to the Audit Committee.
The The position of Advisory Director will cease if shareholders accept Committee is supplied with information by the Controller.
the proposals being put to the NV and PLC shareholders at the Annual General Meetings in 2004.
48 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
