About Unilever Distribution and selling An example of this is our Leadership Growth Journeys led by the Unilevers products are generally sold through its sales force and Chairmen, which provide an opportunity for our future leaders through independent brokers, agents and distributors to chain, to share their experiences and discuss future strategies.
wholesale, co-operative and independent grocery accounts, food service distributors and institutions.
Products are distributed There are many other examples, such as the HPC Learning Forum through distribution centres, satellite warehouses, companyand the Knowledge Management Group that provide learning operated and public storage facilities, depots and other facilities.
opportunities for managers at all levels.
We believe learning that is related to the needs of the business and that results Exports in clear action plans is essential to the development of We sell our products in nearly all countries throughout the world high-performance teams.
and manufacture in many of them.
Inside the European Union we make many of our products in only a few member countries, for Our internal e-learning programme, a screen-based education sale in all of them.
More than 24 000 employees have used the facility, with 40% returning to use the sites We also export a wide range of products to countries where we more than once.
do not currently make them.
We often use this export trade to develop new markets, usually relying on manufacturing facilities Our international management training centre has been in neighbouring countries, before building local manufacturing redeveloped to allow more people to benefit from focused facilities in such new markets.
Seasonality Professional skills training has continued with two new learning Certain of our businesses, such as ice creams and prestige academies for Human Resources and Supply Chain set up in fragrances, are subject to significant seasonal uctuations in sales.
Increasingly our academies will link up and share best However, Unilever operates globally in many different markets practice and learning across Unilever.
No individual element of seasonality is likely to be material to the results of the Group as a whole.
Many of our learning experiences involve our people taking part in a wide range of projects based in local communities these People have included helping to renovate old school premises, providing Our future success lies in the hands of the 234 000 people days out for disadvantaged children and helping with educational who work for Unilever in around 100 countries.
These, together with the getting into the skin developing and rewarding their skills, energy and commitment programme, which gives managers the opportunity to experience is our priority.
for themselves the lives of consumers and their families, help us to engage with the communities in which we operate.
We also Number of employees believe these activities underline our commitment to being a Year end in thousands 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 responsible corporate citizen.
Europe 55 60 71 80 74 North America 20 21 22 39 22 We have continued to use the results of our 2002 Global People Africa, Middle East Survey as the basis for much of our thinking on how to link and Turkey 52 52 49 48 50 business performance with personal development.
Asia and Pacic 77 82 85 84 71 Latin America 30 32 38 44 29 A priority has been to help people understand their role in Total 234 247 265 295 246 achieving our performance targets.
Our organisational and reward systems reect the changing needs of the business and the need to reward high performance.
People are at the heart of our business.
Our continued success depends on the commitment, enthusiasm and energy of our Unilever is one of the most diverse companies in the world our people around the world.
top team is made up of 32 nationalities and we continue to strive to leverage this strength.
Recruiting, developing and rewarding our people for their skills and expertise remains a priority.
We aim to recruit and retain In 2004 these activities will continue to help shape the business high-calibre people through our graduate recruitment for future growth and foster a sense of belonging to a truly programmes, augmented by mid-career entrants and by international enterprise.
promoting those who have demonstrated ability to take responsibility in their roles.
Related party transactions Transactions with related parties are conducted in accordance Our commitment to creating an enterprise culture one of with the transfer pricing policies described on page 75 and consist our six strategic priorities gained momentum in 2003.
New primarily of sales to joint ventures and associates.
Other than programmes were developed and these, combined with our those disclosed in this report, there were no related party established initiatives, show our creative approach to developing transactions that were material to the Group or to the related individuals and diverse, well-led teams.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 13
