About Unilever The gures quoted in the following discussion on pages 9 to 14 emerging markets, we meet consumers needs for good nutrition are in euros, at current rates of exchange, ie the average or in affordable formats with Annapurna and, under AdeS, a range year-end rates of each period.
of tasty, nutritional, soy-based drinks.
Description of business We lead the market in tea-based beverages with Lipton, the Unilever is the worlds leading supplier of fast moving consumer global market leader in leaf and ready-to-drink tea.
Innovations goods across foods, home and personal product categories.
including Lipton Ice Tea Green and Lipton Fusion target the Unilevers portfolio includes some of the worlds best known growing market for healthy, refreshing beverages.
A new joint and most loved brands.
venture, the Pepsi Lipton International partnership, will help us to extend the reach of our brands through a distribution network Business structure complementary to our own supply chain.
Our operations are organised into two global divisions Foods and Home & Personal Care HPC headed by Divisional Ice cream and frozen foods Directors.
This structure allows the appropriate focus on foods We are the worlds leading producer of ice cream, with sales in and home & personal care activities at both regional and global more than 40 countries.
Ice cream products under the Heart levels and allows us to optimise synergies across the product brand, including Cornetto, Magnum, Carte dOr and Solero, are portfolio.
Breyers, Ben & Jerrys, Klondike and Popsicle are leading North American-based brands.
Ben & Jerrys is also The two divisions operations are organised into business groups sold in Europe.
on a regional basis, with certain exceptions: the global businesses of Prestige, our fragrance business within HPC, and within Our frozen foods business is number one in Europe, focused on Foods, Ice Cream and Frozen Foods, Slim Fast Worldwide and the Birds Eye Findus brand family and Iglo.
The regional and global businesses are headed by Business Presidents.
These businesses remain the driving force UBF Foodsolutions behind Unilever, comprising the operating companies which Although not a separate reporting category as its results are provide the key interface with customers and consumers, allowing reported within the categories above, UBF Foodsolutions is our quick response to the needs of local markets.
global food service business providing solutions for professional chefs and caterers.
For example, it provides pre-prepared Full details of significant acquisitions and disposals can be found ingredients that save time and new ways of serving food on pages 17 and 18. on a large scale at consistent quality.
Foods Home & Personal Care Savoury and dressings Home care We are the global leader in savoury and dressings, with strong We are market leaders in laundry products in developing and brands rooted in chefmanship and taste, including Knorr, emerging markets, with number two positions in North America Hellmanns, Calv, Wishbone, Amora and Bertolli.
Our products have been developed to meet the diverse requirements of consumers to clean and care for their Our leading savoury brand, Knorr, is Unilevers biggest brand, clothes.
They include tablets for convenience, traditional powders and is sold in over 100 markets.
Its product range includes and liquids for washing by hand or machine, and for soaking.
In soups, bouillons, sauces, snacks, noodles, frozen food and meal developing and emerging markets, tailored products, including solutions.
Our wider savoury product range is marketed around soap bars, are available for lower income consumers.
the world under a variety of brand names.
Our combined dressings business is the biggest in the world.
With Bertolli, which Our brands are available in over 100 countries, many of them began as a leading Italian olive oil brand, we are building on the holding leading market positions.
They include Comfort, Omo, qualities associated with Italian food to extend the brand into Radiant, Skip, Snuggle and Surf.
spreads, dressings and pasta sauces.
In household care, our products are designed to tackle most Spreads and cooking products cleaning and hygiene needs around the home.
In this category We lead the spreads and cooking products category with two key we are strongest in Europe, where Cif and Domestos hold leading brand families with increasingly consistent positionings around positions in the key markets in which they operate.
Healthy Heart brands Becel and Flora deliver strong growth through health benets enabling people to enjoy life to Personal care the full.
Family brands including Rama, Blue Band and Country We lead the global skin cleansing and deodorants markets, and Crock are building a positioning based on tasty, nutritious foods are in the top three in daily hair care and mass-market skin care.
Six global brands Axe, Dove, Lux, Ponds, Rexona and Sunsilk form the core of our business in these categories, each with its Health & wellness and beverages own distinctive character.
These brands are complemented by Consumers increasingly demand healthier options in their food others such as Suave, principally in North America, together with and drinks.
We respond with products and brands across our health brands such as Clear, Lifebuoy and Vaseline and portfolio including Slim Fast, whose range includes meal regional local jewels.
replacement drinks, soups and snack bars.
In developing and Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 09
