Risk management The following discussion about risk management activities Some of our businesses, principally edible fats companies in includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and Europe, may use forward contracts over a number of oils to uncertainties.
The actual results could differ materially from those hedge future requirements.
We purchase forward contracts in projected.
See the Cautionary Statement on page 3. bean, rape, sunower, palm, coconut and palm kernel oils, almost always for physical delivery.
We may also use futures contracts to Unilevers system of risk management is outlined on page 71. hedge future price movements: however, the amounts are not Particular risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to material.
The total value of open forward contracts at the end of vary from those described in forward-looking statements within 2003 was 292 million compared with 417 million in 2002. this document, or which could impact on our ability to meet our published targets under the Path to Growth strategy which In addition, our plantations businesses may use forward contracts consists of focusing resources on leading brands, closing for physical delivery of palm oil and tea under strictly controlled manufacturing sites and reorganising or divesting underpolicies and exposure limits.
Outstanding forward contracts at the performing businesses include the following: end of 2003 were not material.
Our brands: Managing restructuring and reorganisation programmes: A key element of our strategy is the development of a small Unilever is engaged in a wide-ranging business transformation number of global leading brands.
Any adverse event affecting programme, Path to Growth, which has the potential temporarily consumer confidence or continuity of supply of such a brand to disrupt normal business operations.
Through our change would have an impact on the overall business.
management expertise and detailed execution plans, we have experienced no material disruption during the first four years Innovation: of Path to Growth.
Our growth depends in large part on our ability to generate and implement a stream of consumer-relevant improvements to our Reputation: products.
The contribution of innovation is affected by the level of Unilever has a good corporate reputation and many of our funding that can be made available, the technical capability of the businesses, which operate in some 100 countries around the research and development functions, and the success of operating world, have a high prole in their region.
Unilever products management in rolling out quickly the resulting improvements.
carrying our well-known brand names are sold in over 150 countries.
Should we fail to meet high product safety, social, Developing our managers: environmental and ethical standards in all our operations and Unilevers performance requires it to have the right calibre of activities, Unilever's corporate reputation could be damaged, managers in place.
We must compete to obtain capable recruits leading to the rejection of our products by consumers, devaluation for the business, and then train them in the skills and of our brands and diversion of management time into rebuilding competencies that we need to deliver growth.
Examples of initiatives to manage key social and environmental risks are mentioned on pages 11 and 12.
Economic conditions in developing countries: About a third of Unilevers turnover comes from the group of Borrowings: developing and emerging economies.
We have long experience in The Group had gross borrowings totalling 15 900 million at the these markets, which are also an important source of our growth.
Any shortfalls in our cash ow to service these These economies are more volatile than those in the developed borrowings could undermine our credit rating and overall investor world, and there is a risk of downturns in effective consumer confidence.
Market, interest rate and foreign exchange risks to demand that would reduce the sales of our products.
which the Group is exposed are described on page 46.
Customer relationships and distribution: Pensions and similar obligations: Unilevers products are generally sold through its sales force and Pension assets and liabilities pre-tax of 12 918 million and through independent brokers, agents and distributors to chain, 17 870 million respectively are held on the Groups balance wholesale, co-operative and independent grocery accounts, food sheet as at 31 December 2003.
Movements in equity markets, service distributors and institutions.
Products are distributed interest rates and life expectancy could materially affect the level through distribution centres, satellite warehouses, companyof surpluses and deficits in these schemes, and could prompt the operated and public storage facilities, depots and other facilities.
need for the Group to make additional pension contributions in Sales to large customers or sales via specialised distribution the future.
The key assumptions used to value our pension channels are significant in some of our businesses.
liabilities are set out in note 17 on page 99.
The loss of a small number of major customers or a major disruption of a specialised distribution centre or channel could have an adverse effect on the Groups business and results of operations.
Price and supply of raw materials and commodities contracts: Unilevers products are manufactured from a large number of diverse materials.
Unilever has experience in managing uctuations in both price and availability.
However, movements outside the normal range may have an impact upon margins.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 45
