General information The Unilever Group Reporting currency and exchange rates Unilever N. V. NV is a public limited company registered in the Details of key exchange rates used in preparation of these Netherlands, which has listings of shares or certicates depositary accounts are given on page 130, together with Noon Buying receipts of NV on the stock exchanges in Amsterdam, New York, Rates in New York for the equivalent dates.
Basis of Discussion and Analysis Unilever PLC PLC is a public limited company registered in In parts of this document, notably the Chairmens statement England which has shares listed on the London Stock Exchange on pages 7 and 8 and the review of operations by region and and, as American Depositary Receipts, on the New York Stock category on pages 21 to 44, discussion of performance is based Exchange.
on constant rates of exchange.
This removes the impact of currency movements and more clearly portrays the underlying The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their performance of the operations themselves.
The constant rate used group companies, operate as nearly as is practicable as a single is the annual average rate for the prior year.
For each two-year entity the Unilever Group, also referred to as Unilever or the period, the year-on-year trends in euros are the same as those Group.
NV and PLC and their group companies constitute a which would arise if the results were shown in sterling or US single group under Netherlands and United Kingdom legislation dollars at constant exchange rates.
for the purposes of presenting consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever Group are presented by Wherever used in this document, the abbreviation BEIA refers both NV and PLC as their respective consolidated accounts.
to profit measures before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets.
Unilever believes that reporting Publications profit measures before exceptional items and amortisation of This publication is produced in both Dutch and English and goodwill and intangible assets BEIA provides valuable additional comprises the full Annual Report and Accounts for 2003 of NV information on underlying earnings trends to shareholders.
This document complies with the Netherlands and the term BEIA is not a dened term under Netherlands, UK, or US United Kingdom regulations.
It also forms the basis of the NV and Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP, and may not PLC Annual Reports on Form 20-F to the Securities and Exchange therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements Commission in the United States for the year ended 31 December reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute 2003, and cross references to Form 20-F are set out on page 162. for or superior to GAAP measurements of profit.
It is made available to all shareholders who request or elect to receive it, and on the website at Operating profit BEIA is a key metric used by management and www.
investors to measure the progress of Unilevers Path to Growth strategy which commenced in 1999 and will conclude at the The separate publication, Unilever Annual Review 2003, end of 2004.
At the beginning of the Path to Growth, Unilever containing a Summary Financial Statement with gures expressed communicated to investors its targets for the programme, in euros, with translations into pounds sterling and US dollars, is including a target based on earnings measured on a BEIA basis.
also published in Dutch and English.
It is a short form document Unilevers internal performance targets and management that is prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom information are also measured on a BEIA basis.
As such, Unilever regulations for Summary Financial Statements.
The Unilever believes that the communication and explanation of measures Annual Review 2003 is mailed to all registered shareholders and BEIA is essential in order for readers of Unilevers financial to other shareholders who are either entitled or have asked to statements to understand fully the performance of Unilever receive it, and is also made available on the website at and progress towards Path to Growth targets.
02 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
