About Unilever We have an important market share in oral care, with products The Foods division took major initiatives to focus its innovation sold widely, predominantly under the Signal brand with Close Up programme on health and wellness and introduced a range of playing a complementary role.
As part of the Knorr brand extension into the frozen food category, a new range of premium We also have a global prestige fragrance business with the Calvin quality soups were launched in Belgium, France and Germany Klein range including cK one, Eternity and Obsession and ranges during October 2003.
The new soups are well positioned to developed with other designers.
address consumers increasing concerns about nutrition, as they are full of chunky, natural, fresh vegetables.
We continued the Other operations roll-out of mealkits in Europe with an introduction in five new To support our consumer brands, we have invested in tea countries including Germany.
Knorr also innovated within its core plantations in India, Kenya and Tanzania and palm oil plantations with a host of seasoning launches in developing and emerging in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Cte dIvoire and Ghana.
countries, particularly in China, Malaysia, Turkey and the Caribbean.
We entered the large European cream market with Corporate venture activities three varieties of dairy cream alternatives.
Under Lipton we We are investing 170 million, over three years 2002-2004, introduced Lipton Ice Tea Green, a refreshing ice tea extending in venturing activities to build business opportunities that t our the brand into the exciting green tea segment.
In ice cream, core business interests in Foods and Home & Personal Care.
Of innovations such as Magnum 7 Sins, Magnum Moments, this, we have committed 97 million to Langholm Capital Partners Magnum Sandwich and Carte dOr Origin and Carte dOr Fruit Fund, which completed fundraising in 2003, raising a total of & Fresh as well as new Cornetto variants stimulated the ice 242 million.
This fund invests in private European companies cream Heart brand.
Slim Fast introduced a full programme of with above-average longer-term growth prospects.
It has invested innovations at the end of 2003 in line with its new positioning in Physcience, a French natural food supplements business, and as a plan.
It addresses the key consumer needs for weight loss, Noiro, the leading company in the mass prestige personal care with the launch of hot, savoury meal replacements, soups and market in Finland.
pasta, low-carbohydrate shakes and bars, as well as high-protein bars and ice cream.
In the Hellmanns and Calv brands, key Up to 70 million will be invested over the three years, in two innovations addressed the growing snacking opportunity and venture funds of our own, Unilever Ventures and Unilever included the roll-out of the Idaho snack sauces in the UK and Technology Ventures.
Unilever Ventures acts as an early stage Central Europe.
Calv chilled salad dressings were introduced in business development fund for businesses both from within the Netherlands and fresh Amora yoghurt mayonnaise in France.
It has invested in Persil Services, In Europe Bertolli has launched a range of products such as pasta a laundry and dry-cleaning business in the UK, Ponds Beauty sauces, salad dressings and vegetable toppings for bread.
The Centres in Spain and Insense, a technology spin-out from main 2003 innovations for the Iglo, Birds Eye and Findus brand Unilever.
Unilever Technology Ventures invests in technology family focused in four areas: launching microwaveable Steam funds and start-up companies.
It has invested in NGEN material Fresh vegetables and sh recipe dishes launched in Europe: science fund, Burrill life science fund and in Perlegen, a start-up authentic, premium, fresh egg pasta meals launched in Italy: the company working with the human genome.
relaunch of Sofcini fun, light, family snacks in Italy: and within the platform of kids nutrition, launches of chicken dishes and As of 31 December 2003 we have invested 59 million in all our complete meals for kids.
UBF Foodsolutions launched a range of venture activities.
dairy cream alternatives in Europe.
Technology and innovation In Home & Personal Care, the focus has continued to be To support our Path to Growth strategy we continue to focus on global projects in support of our leading brands.
Key research and development on select, global projects to reinforce developments in personal care have included the Dove exfoliating our leading brands.
Our network of Global Innovation Centres bar and face care range and the roll-out of Dove moisturising continues to develop these brands and to accelerate their growth shampoo and conditioner.
The Sunsilk relaunch in Asia was across sectors and regions.
underpinned by new consumer-preferred packaging.
The growth of other key personal care brands was driven by a new bar range In 2003, we spent 1 065 million 2002: 1 166 million: 2001: for Lux, a low deposit formulation for Rexona and a male range 1 178 million on research and development 2.5% of our for Rexona and Degree.
The launch of Axe Dry in Western turnover.
We have further strengthened our interactions with Europe, Latin America, North America and the Philippines was academia and start-up companies, which will help us to identify very successful.
In Home Care we launched a new core cleaning hotspots in science and technology and develop radical innovation and a new bar for Omo and an aloe vera version capabilities for our businesses through the application of these of Skip in Europe.
We relaunched Cif cream globally and we technologies.
One such example is our interaction with Perlegen, launched Comfort Fast Dry in Europe.
In 2003, a new research which is a genomics start-up company based in California with laboratory was opened in China in support of our business in whom we are exploring the application of this new science to this important region and investment has now begun on a open up novel avenues for detailed investigation within our multidisciplinary skin care innovation centre in Trumbull, R&D programmes.
10 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
