About Unilever parties concerned that are required to be reported in 2003 or the preceding two years.
In approximately 40 countries, our associated company, JohnsonDiversey Inc. acts as Unilevers sole and exclusive sales agent for professional channels, in return for which it receives an agency fee.
Information concerning guarantees given by the Group is stated in note 24 on page 112 and under Mutual guarantee of borrowings on page 154.
Guarantees are also given within the Group by the parent companies, as described on pages 147 and 150.
Intellectual property We have a large portfolio of patents and trademarks, and we conduct some of our operations under licences which are based on patents or trademarks owned or controlled by others.
We are not dependent on any one patent or group of patents.
We use our best efforts to protect our brands and technology.
Description of our properties We have interests in properties in most of the countries where there are Unilever operations.
However, none is material in the context of the Group as a whole.
The properties are used predominantly to house production and distribution activities and as ofces.
There is a mixture of leased and owned property throughout the Group.
There are no environmental issues affecting the properties which would have a material impact upon the Group.
The Directors take the view that any difference between the market value of properties held by the Group and the amount at which they are included in the balance sheet is not significant.
See the schedule of principal group companies and xed investments on page 142 and details of tangible xed assets in note 10 on page 91.
Legal and arbitration proceedings and regulatory matters We are not involved in any legal or arbitration proceedings and do not have any obligations under environmental legislation which we expect to lead to a material loss in the context of the Group results.
None of our Directors or Ofcers are involved in any such material legal proceedings.
Unilever has businesses in many countries and from time to time these are subject to investigation by competition and other regulatory authorities.
The most significant of these in recent years concerns ice cream distribution in Europe, notably the issues of outlet and cabinet exclusivity.
In October 2003, the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg ruled in favour of the European Commissions decision banning Unilevers Irish ice cream business, HB Ice Cream, from seeking freezer cabinet exclusivity for their products in the Irish market.
HB Ice Cream has submitted an appeal against the decision of the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg.
Government regulation Unilever businesses are governed, in particular, by national laws designed to ensure that their products may be safely used for their intended purpose and that their labelling and advertising complies in all respects with relevant regulations.
The introduction of new products and ingredients and processes is, specifically, subject to rigorous controls.
Unilever businesses are further regulated by data protection and anti-trust legislation.
Important regulatory bodies in respect of our businesses include the European Commission and the US Food and Drug Administration.
14 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
