About Unilever In total, Unilever led 397 new patent applications.
While some Our Ariba online buying system enables purchases of noninnovations made a significant contribution in 2003, the benets production items to be made at volume-negotiated prices from of others will be felt during 2004. selected suppliers.
We have extended its use into further areas of procurement including market research and plant items.
Using Information technology eBreviate technology, we have introduced new capabilities for In 2003 we continued to direct our IT towards achieving electronic auctions and electronic requests for proposals.
The success of these marketplaces and gateways is, of course, We further simplied business processes and core transaction dependent on industry standards for electronic information systems, using IT to enable a simpler and more agile business.
We continued our commitment to industry standards In Western Europe, almost all our Home & Personal Care business by co-chairing the Global Commerce Initiative, a global user is now operating with common processes, supported by common group representing the largest companies in our industry, information and SAP systems, as are the Foods businesses in the and participating fully in the development and promotion larger European markets.
Similarly, much of our business in subof standards.
Using these standards, we are now making our Saharan Africa has moved to common processes and systems for electronic catalogue of products available through the Unilever supply chain and finance.
In North America, we deployed a single Private Exchange, further simplifying ordering for retailers and system from point of order to cash settlement across the Home gaining efficiencies in our information supply chain.
& Personal Care business, improving operational efficiency and raising customer service levels.
Unilever continues to take an active role in the application of IT in our industry.
We are working actively with retailers to realise the Our Latin American business continued to roll out common potential of Radio Frequency Identication RFID technology, or finance and supply chain processes, information and systems intelligent tagging, to achieve new levels of shared information across the region, and started an IT-enabled programme to on our products as they move from factory to supermarket shelf.
A single system Siebel has been introduced for customer relationship management, Environmental responsibility enabling the roll-out of good practices in eld sales, key account We continue to make progress towards our long-term ecomanagement and trade marketing operations.
We have also efficiency objectives, as well as driving forward our three main deployed Siebel in our Foodsolutions businesses in Europe and initiatives on sustainable agriculture, sh and water.
All these North America, with further roll-out under way in consumer foods activities are central to our commitment to contribute to in Europe.
In Asia, we began implementing Siebel decision support systems Our manufacturing operations use seven parameters for reporting for trade marketing investments, with completion across the emissions and setting future reduction targets for eco-efficiency.
We have also rolled out the standard We have continued to improve our eco-efficiency performance Unilever data warehouse in six countries so far, with at least four although we did not meet three out of seven of our targets in more Asian markets to follow in 2004.
This system, rmly based 2002 latest data.
The setting and achievement of targets at on information standards, provides our sales operations with site level can be difficult, for example, ongoing changes in our better quality and more timely information than ever before.
business through acquisitions, disposals and closures have an impact on our site operations.
Following the signing of our global contract with British Telecom BT, we are targeting a 20% reduction in our If we are to secure a continuing high-quality supply of our main telecommunications costs, by reducing the number of our agricultural raw materials, sustainable production methods are suppliers around the world from 400 to one.
For Unilever IT this crucial.
In 2003, five years after laying the foundations for the is the first implementation of such a contract on a global scale current programme, we published Good Agricultural Practice and has resulted in a high level of learning for both organisations.
Guidelines for five crops palm oil, peas, spinach, tea and This complex project is on track, with BT now providing voice, tomatoes.
We also began implementing these guidelines mobile and data services for more than half of our business.
Learning and sharing with all stakeholders is vital, and some success stories are available on During 2003 work started on the simplication of our IT server www.
The next challenge is to develop base.
This will involve a significant reduction in the number of programmes for more crops, beginning with vegetable oils.
This servers as well as increased performance and utilisation.
This work work is being supported by the food industrys jointly established is fundamental to the IT strategy and will continue over the next Sustainable Agriculture Initiative Platform.
The Marine Stewardship Council MSC has established a global Our global e-business gateway, the Unilever Private Exchange, standard for sustainable sheries.
We encourage our suppliers to strengthens our e-business capability by providing secure links work towards the MSC Standard, and three important sheries between our operating companies and our suppliers and are making good progress towards this certication Alaskan customers systems and to external electronic marketplaces.
pollock, Chilean hake and South African hake.
By year-end, the volume of customers orders being transacted through the gateway had reached the annual equivalent of At the start of 2003, we were buying more than a third of our 2 billion.
sh from sustainable sources, and by 2005, we expect this gure Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 11
