Financial review Unilever maintains access to global debt markets through an Total Shareholder Return infrastructure of short-term debt programmes principally US Total Shareholder Return TSR is a concept used to compare domestic and euro commercial paper programmes and long-term the performance of different companies stocks and shares over debt programmes principally a US Shelf registration and eurotime.
It combines share price appreciation and dividends paid to market Debt Issuance Programme.
Debt in the international show the total return to the shareholder.
The absolute level of the markets is, in general, issued in the name of NV, PLC or Unilever TSR will vary with stock markets, but the relative position reects Capital Corporation.
NV and PLC will normally guarantee such the market perception of overall performance relative to a debt where they are not the issuer.
Treasury Unilever calculates TSR over a three-year rolling period.
This Unilever Treasurys strategic purpose is to provide financial period is sensitive enough to reect changes but long enough to exibility in support of Unilevers Path to Growth strategy and smooth out short-term volatility.
The return is expressed in US shareholder value creation within the context of the financial dollars, based on the equivalent US dollar share price for NV and strategy set out in the Finance and liquidity section above.
US dollars were chosen to facilitate comparison with Unilever Treasurys role is to ensure that appropriate nancing is companies in Unilevers chosen reference group.
The choice of always available for all value-creating investments.
Additionally, currency affects the absolute TSR but not the relative ranking.
Treasury delivers financial services to allow operating companies to manage their financial transactions and exposures in an Unilevers TSR target is to be in the top third of a reference group efficient, timely and low-cost manner.
of 21 international consumer goods companies on a three-year rolling basis.
Unilever Treasury operates as a service centre and is governed by policies and plans agreed by the Executive Committee of the At the end of 2002 we were positioned 12th, and during 2003 Board.
In addition to policies, guidelines and exposure limits, a we rose to 6th, achieving our target position which remains the system of authorities and extensive independent reporting covers top third of our reference group.
all major areas of activity.
Reviews are undertaken by the corporate internal audit function.
In 2003, the following companies formed the peer group of comparative companies: The key financial instruments used by Unilever are shortand long-term borrowings, cash and other xed and current Altria Group Kao investments and certain straightforward derivative instruments, Avon Lion principally comprising interest rate swaps and foreign exchange Beiersdorf LOral contracts.
The accounting for derivative instruments is discussed Cadbury Schweppes Nestl in Accounting policies on page 75.
The use of leveraged Clorox Orkla instruments is not permitted.
Coca-Cola Pepsico Colgate Procter & Gamble Other relevant disclosures are given in notes 14 and 15 on pages Danone Reckitt Benckiser 94 to 98.
Gillette Sara Lee Heinz Shiseido Unilever Treasury manages a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and Unilevers position relative to the TSR reference group credit spreads.
Further details of the management of these risks are given on page 46.
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Pensions investment strategy The Groups investment strategy in respect of its funded pension plans is implemented within the framework of the various 7 statutory requirements of the territories where the plans are based.
The Group has developed policy guidelines for the allocation of assets to different classes with the objective of 14 controlling risk and maintaining the right balance between risk and long-term returns in order to limit the cost to the company of the benets provided.
To achieve this, investments are well 21 diversied, such that the failure of any single investment would The reference group, including Unilever, consists of 21 companies.
Unilevers position is not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
The based on TSR over a three-year rolling period.
plans invest the largest proportion of the assets in equities which the Group believes offer the best returns over the long term commensurate with an acceptable level of risk.
The Group also significant changes keeps a proportion of assets invested in property, bonds and cash.
Any important developments and post-balance sheet events that Most assets are managed by a number of external fund managers have occurred since 31 December 2003 have been noted in this with a small proportion managed in house.
Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003.
Otherwise, there have been no significant changes since 31 December 2003.
20 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
