Further statutory information and other information Unilever PLC Employee involvement and communication Auditors Unilevers UK companies maintain formal processes to inform, consult A resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on and involve employees and their representatives.
Most of the United 12 May 2004 for the re-appointment of  LLP Kingdom sites are accredited to the Investors in People standard.
The present appointment will end at the sites also use tools such as Total Productive Maintenance which rely conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
heavily on employee involvement, contribution and commitment.
Authority to purchase own shares A European Works Council, embracing employee and management At the Annual General Meeting of PLC held on 7 May 2003, authority representatives from 15 countries of Western Europe, has been was given pursuant to Article 64 of the PLC Articles of Association to in existence for several years and provides a forum for discussing make market purchases of PLC ordinary shares of 1.4p each, to a issues that extend across national boundaries.
This authority will expire at the Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2004, and a resolution will be The directors reports of the United Kingdom group companies proposed to renew it.
The company has not exercised this authority contain more details about how they have communicated with their during the year.
Details of shares purchased by employee share trusts and Unilever Equal opportunities and diversity group companies to satisfy options granted under PLCs employee The heads of all operating companies and units in the UK have share schemes are given in the Remuneration report on page 66 committed their businesses to achieving greater diversity.
Every and in note 29 to the consolidated accounts on page 124.
Unilever company in the United Kingdom has an equal opportunities policy and actively pursues equality of opportunity for all employees.
Directors report of PLC For the purposes of Section 234 of the Companies Act 1985, the The company carries out an annual employee monitoring survey and Directors Report of Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December has also conducted an equal pay audit.
The company continues to 2003 comprises this page and the information contained in the review ways in which greater diversity can be achieved in recruitment Report of the Directors on pages 2 to 69, Dividends on page 161 and selection.
and Principal group companies and xed investments on pages 142 to 145.
A new exible working policy was introduced in 2003, offering every employee the opportunity to request a exible working option.
Training workshops were run for line managers to maximise Corporate Centre understanding and commitment to the policy.
Unilever PLC PO Box 68 Unilever House Charitable and other contributions Blackfriars Unilever collates the cost of its community involvement activities using London EC4P 4BQ the London Benchmarking Group model.
The model recommends the separation of charitable donations, community investment, Unilever PLC Registered Ofce commercial initiatives in the community and management costs Port Sunlight relating to the programme of activity.
Wirral Merseyside CH62 4ZD During 2003 UK group companies made a total contribution of 8.7 million, analysed as follows: Unilever PLC Registrars Charitable donations: 1.4 million Lloyds TSB Registrars Community investment: 2.0 million The Causeway Commercial initiatives in the community: 4.6 million Worthing Management costs: 0.7 million West Sussex BN99 6DA No contribution was made for political purposes.
Supplier payment policies Individual operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
The directors reports of the United Kingdom By Order of the Board operating companies give information about their supplier payment J A A van der Bijl policies as required by the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
S G Williams PLC, as a holding company, does not itself make any relevant payments in this respect.
Joint Secretaries of Unilever PLC 2 March 2004 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 151
