Chairmens statement continued Home and Personal Care division HPC Our consumers are also citizens and demanding ever higher Leading brands continued to drive growth in the Home and standards of corporate behaviour.
We are proud of our reputation Personal Care division at 4.2%.
Operating profit BEIA rose by for governance, transparency and engagement with communities 4.9% and operating margin BEIA reached 15.8%.
and the environment, and believe that the Unilever name is a valuable asset.
By the time we celebrate our 75th birthday in mid Mass personal care is now a powerhouse in the HPC division and 2005, the Unilever name will be present on our packs as well as accounts for 27% of Unilever leading brand sales.
We achieved letterheads and company signs.
double-digit growth for Axe, Lifebuoy, Lux, Rexona and Sunsilk, and our largest personal care brand, Dove, grew by an For the period 2005-10 our priority continues to be sustained topoutstanding 21%.
third TSR performance and we intend to deliver shareholder value by the generation of over 30 billion of ungeared free cash ow Growth in laundry was at as we put the priority behind value and growth in economic profit, the latter translating into an creation through excellent improvements in our margins and increased return on invested capital from 12.5% in 2003 to capital efficiency.
Household care had a difficult first half year, at least 17% by 2010. but we saw the new strategy of stronger innovations on the core brands start to bite in the second half.
The overall objective is to build our brands and to build sustainable value.
We will continue to be exible in how we pull Prestige fragrances diluted the growth rate of the division by 1%.
the levers of value creation as challenges and opportunities arise from time to time.
So we will not commit Unilever to any one The year ahead and Unilever 2010 combination of sales and margin growth in any one year.
In 2004, our first priority is to deliver on our promises in the final However, our ambitions for value creation are underpinned by year of Path to Growth.
We intend once again to achieve low the expectation of sustained revenue growth, continued margin double-digit earnings BEIA growth and will focus all the talent expansion and further improvements in capital efficiency.
and ingenuity of our people on delivering in full our commitments on brand focus, margin improvement and capital efficiency.
We In the combination of trusted brands, talented people and an will end the year a much stronger and more agile and focused inspiring mission we believe that Unilever is a stronger business business than at the start of the programme.
Yet as we complete Path to Growth we are also preparing Unilever for the next phase of our strategy to 2010.
The Board has conducted a thorough review of the forces that will shape Unilevers world, and of what makes us unique as a business.
Our roots in hygiene, nutrition and personal care mean that people all over the world choose our brands 150 million times every day for the benets they bring in helping them feel good, look good and get more out of life.
We know that these are benets that are wanted by more and more of the worlds population from those just entering the consumer society to the more afuent, ageing, health conscious citizens of the developed world.
We sum this up in the single word, Vitality, and intend the mission of Unilever, which is set out at the top Antony Burgmans Niall FitzGerald KBE of this letter, to be to add vitality to life through our brands, Chairmen of Unilever our people and the communities we serve.
08 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
