Other Information Economic and Monetary Union, International Financial Reporting Standards and Supervision and Regulation Whilst carrying out these objectives, the FSA is also required to take into Economic and Monetary Union account a number of factors principles of good regulation including: Barclays is maintaining a prudent programme to validate and develop using its resources in the most efficient way: further its existing plans relating to the potential membership of taking into account the international character of financial services European Monetary Union by the UK, and to conduct feasibility studies and the desirability of maintaining the UKs competitive position: and with selected suppliers and partners.
facilitating and not having an unnecessarily adverse effect on Barclays continues to take an active role via the British Bankers competition.
Association and other groups in industry-wide discussions, and maintains The FSA Handbook contains the rules and regulatory guidance a dialogue with the regulatory community on UK Entry issues.
It is also applicable to the UK financial services industry.
The Handbook consists contributing to the further development of the Managed Transition Plan of sourcebooks providing the basis of FSA requirements, guidance and being authored by HM Treasury.
Since its first introduction, the Handbook has Given the considerable uncertainty that continues to surround whether undergone revision and updating.
New sourcebooks are being added to and when the UK may enter, it has not been possible to draw any the Handbook to provide the rules for the regulation of mortgages and denitive conclusions as to the final overall cost of preparing the Groups general insurance.
In its role as supervisor, the FSA is seeking to ensure the safety and Barclays incurred minimal expenditure during 2003 with respect to any soundness of financial institutions in fullment of the first and third decision to introduce the euro in the UK.
objectives above with the aim of strengthening, but not guaranteeing, the protection of customers.
International Financial Reporting Barclays Bank PLC is authorised by the FSA to carry on regulated activities within the UK and is subject to consolidated supervision.
Standards The FSAs continuing supervision of financial institutions authorised by it is conducted through a variety of regulatory tools, including the By Regulation, the EU has agreed that virtually all listed companies must collection of information from statistical and prudential returns, reports use International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in obtained from skilled persons, visits to rms and regular meetings with the EU in the preparation of their 2005 consolidated accounts.
Barclays management to discuss issues such as performance, risk management will have to comply with this Regulation.
The objective is to improve and strategy.
financial reporting and enhance transparency to assist the free ow of capital throughout the EU and to improve the efficiency of the capital Under the FSAs risk-based approach to supervision, the starting point markets.
Details of the Barclays implementation programme are for the FSAs supervision of all financial institutions is based on a discussed on pages 118 to 119. systematic analysis of the risk prole for each authorised rm.
The FSA has adopted a homogeneous risk, processes and resourcing model in its approach to its supervisory responsibilities known as the ARROW Supervision and Regulation model and the results of the risk assessment will be used by the FSA UK to develop a risk mitigation programme for a rm.
The FSA also The Financial Services Authority FSA is the independent body promulgates requirements that banks and other financial institutions responsible for regulating financial services in the UK.
The FSA was are required to meet on matters such as capital adequacy see Capital established by the Government and it exercises statutory powers under Resources on page 100, limits on large exposures to individual entities the Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 FSMA.
Since 1st December and groups of closely connected entities, and liquidity.
2001, the FSA is the single statutory regulator responsible for the Banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions in the UK are regulation of deposit taking, life insurance and investment business.
subject to a single financial services compensation scheme the Financial In December 2001, HM Treasury announced that the powers of the FSA Services Compensation Scheme where an authorised rm is unable or would be extended to include the regulation of mortgages and general is likely to be unable to meet claims made against it due to its financial insurance.
There are two implementation dates, known as N M&GI.
This single scheme replaces a number of pre-FSA From 31st October 2004, the FSA will regulate mortgage lending, sales schemes, including the Deposit Protection Scheme, the Investors and administration.
From 14th January 2005, the FSA will regulate the Compensation Scheme and the Policyholders Protection Scheme.
sale and administration of general insurance contracts.
Under the FSMA 2000, the FSA is required to pursue four statutory objectives to: 1 Maintain market confidence in the UK financial system: 2 Promote public awareness and understanding of the financial system: 3 Secure an appropriate degree of protection for consumers: and 4 Reduce the scope for financial crime.
108 Other Information Supervision and Regulation Eligible claimants under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme Rest of the World may make claims against the Scheme in the event of an authorised rms In the United States, Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and certain US default and may receive compensation if their claim is a protected claim.
subsidiary undertakings, branches and agencies of the Bank are subject Different levels of compensation are available to eligible claimants to a comprehensive regulatory structure, involving numerous statutes, depending upon whether the protected claim is in relation to a deposit, rules and regulations, including the International Banking Act of 1978, a contract of insurance or protected investment business.
The manager the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, the Foreign Bank of the Scheme is able to make an offer of compensation or, in respect Supervision Enhancement Act of 1991 and the USA PATRIOT Act of of insurance contracts, offer to continue cover or provide assistance to 2001.
Such laws and regulations impose limitations on the types of an insurance undertaking to allow it to continue insurance business businesses, and the ways in which they may be conducted, in the United in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
Most deposits made States and on the location and expansion of banking business there.
with branches of Barclays Bank PLC within the European Economic The securities and investment management activities conducted in the Area EEA which are denominated in sterling or other EEA currencies United States are also subject to a comprehensive scheme of regulation including the euro are covered by the Scheme.
Most claims made in under the US federal securities laws, as enforced by the Securities and respect of designated investment business will also be protected claims Exchange Commission.
if the business was carried on from the UK or from a branch of the bank Barclays operates in many other countries and its overseas ofces or investment rm in another EEA member state.
The Scheme subsidiary and associated undertakings are subject to reserve and establishes the maximum amounts of compensation payable in respect reporting requirements and controls imposed by the relevant central of protected claims: for eligible protected deposit claims, this is 31,700 banks and regulatory authorities.
100% of the first 2,000 and 90% of the next 33,000 and for protected investment business, this is 48,000 100% of the first 30,000 and 90% of the next 20,000.
There is no maximum limit for protected insurance claims.
The first 2,000 of a valid claim is paid in full together with 90% of the remaining loss.
The UK has implemented the minimum requirements imposed by the European Community Directives on such matters as the carrying on the business of credit institutions and investment rms, capital adequacy, own funds and large exposures.
These form part of the European Single Market programme, an important feature of which is the framework for the regulation of authorised rms.
This framework is designed to enable a credit institution or investment rm authorised in one European Union member state to conduct banking or investment business through the establishment of branches or by the provision of services on a crossborder basis in other member states without the need for local authorisation.
Many of these Directives are being amended to reect changes in the market and further European Community Directives are planned including in the areas of distance marketing, market abuse and insurance regulation are to be implemented, which once in effect, will further shape and influence the UK regulatory agenda.
With effect from February 2003, the Group became subject to The Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 which further strengthens the law with regard to anti-money laundering.
Additionally, new Money Laundering Regulations came into effect on 1st March 2004.
These replace the 1993 Regulations and will be supported by the recently revised Joint Money Laundering Steering Group Guidance Notes.
Formal consultation is a key aspect of the UK Governments reform programme and the Group has been reviewing and, where relevant, commenting on proposals both directly and through industry associations.
The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the European Commission have also issued consultation papers designed to replace the existing framework for the allocation of regulatory capital for credit risk and to introduce a capital adequacy requirement for operational risk.
These bodies recognise that a more sophisticated approach is required to address both financial innovation and the increasingly complex risks faced by financial institutions.
The revised Basel Capital Accord and the EU Risk Based Capital Directive are not currently expected to be implemented until the end of 2006.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2003 109 Other Information Risk Factors A market downturn or worsening of the economy could cause the Risk Factors Group to incur mark to market losses in its trading portfolios.
A market This document contains certain forward-looking statements within the downturn also could potentially result in a decline in the fees Barclays meaning of section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as earns for managing assets.
For example, a higher level of domestic or amended and section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, foreign interest rates or a downturn in trading markets could affect with respect to certain of the Groups plans and its current goals and the ows of assets under management.
An economic downturn or expectations relating to its future financial condition and performance.
signicantly higher interest rates could adversely affect the credit quality of Barclays on balance sheet and off balance sheet assets by increasing The Group may also make forward-looking statements in other written the risk that a greater number of the Groups customers would be materials, including other documents led with or furnished to the SEC.
unable to meet their obligations.
In addition, the Groups senior management may make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, representatives of the media and Credit risk others.
In particular, among other statements, certain statements in the The Groups provisions for credit losses provide for losses inherent in Financial Review and Business Description with regard to management loans and advances.
Estimating potential losses is inherently uncertain objectives, trends in results of operations, margins, costs, return on and depends on many factors, including general economic conditions, equity, risk management, and competition are forward looking in nature.
rating migration, structural changes within industries that alter These forward-looking statements can be identied by the fact that competitive positions, and other external factors such as legal and they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
statements often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, Market risks estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, or other words of The most significant market risks the Group faces are interest rate, similar meaning.
foreign exchange and bond and equity price risks.
Changes in interest By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect the interest rate margin because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will realised between lending and borrowing costs.
Changes in currency occur in the future.
The Groups actual future results may differ rates, particularly in the sterling-dollar and sterling-euro exchange materially from those set out in the Groups forward-looking statements.
rates, affect the value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign There are many factors that could cause actual results and developments currencies and affect earnings reported by the Groups non-UK to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardsubsidiaries and may affect revenues from foreign exchange dealing.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on The performance of financial markets may cause changes in the value behalf of the Group speak only as of the date they are made.
Barclays of the Groups investment and trading portfolios and in the amount of does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reect any revenues generated from assets under management.
The Group has changes in the Groups expectations with regard thereto or any changes implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is these and other market risks to which the Group is exposed.
The reader should, however, consult any additional disclosures it is difficult to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market Barclays may make in documents it les with the SEC.
conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on the Groups financial performance and business operations.
The following discussion sets forth certain risk factors that the Group In addition, the value of assets held in the Groups pension and believes could cause its actual future results to differ materially from long-term assurance funds are also affected by the performance.
The discussion also acknowledges a risk factor specic to the Groups ability to achieve its primary goal for 2004 to 2007 Non-financial risks inclusive.
The reader should also note the references to liquidity risk The Groups businesses are dependent on the ability to process a large page 66 and non-financial, compliance, legal and tax risk page 70. number of transactions efficiently and accurately.
Non-financial risk and However, other factors could also adversely affect the Group results and losses can result from fraud, errors by employees, failure to properly the reader should not consider the factors discussed in this report to be document transactions or to obtain proper internal authorisation, failure a complete set of all potential risks and uncertainties.
to comply with regulatory requirements and Conduct of Business rules, equipment failures, natural disasters or the failure of external systems, Business conditions and general economy for example, the Groups suppliers or counterparties.
Although the The profitability of Barclays businesses could be adversely affected by Group has implemented risk controls and loss mitigation actions, and a worsening of general economic conditions in the United Kingdom or substantial resources are devoted to developing efficient procedures and abroad.
Factors such as the liquidity of the global financial markets, the to staff training, it is only possible to be reasonably, but not absolutely, level and volatility of equity prices and interest rates, investor sentiment, certain that such procedures will be effective in controlling each of the ination, and the availability and cost of credit could signicantly affect non-financial risks faced by the Group.
the activity level of customers.
A market downturn would likely lead to a decline in the volume of transactions that Barclays executes for its customers and, therefore, lead to a decline in the income it receives from fees and commissions.
110 Changes in governmental policy and regulation The Groups businesses and earnings can be affected by the scal or other policies that are adopted by various regulatory authorities of the UK, other European Union, foreign governments and international agencies.
The nature and impact of future changes in such policies are not predictable and are beyond the Groups control.
Areas where changes could have an impact include, inter alia: the monetary, interest rate and other policies of central banks and regulatory authorities: general changes in government or regulatory policy that may signicantly influence investor decisions in particular markets in which the Group operates: general changes in the regulatory requirements, for example, prudential rules relating to the capital adequacy framework: changes in competition and pricing environments: changes in the financial reporting environment see Conversion to International Financial Reporting Standards in 2005 on pages 118 to 119 : expropriation, nationalisation, confiscation of assets and changes in legislation relating to foreign ownership: and other unfavourable political, military or diplomatic developments producing social instability or legal uncertainty which in turn may affect demand for the Groups products and services.
Impact of strategic decisions taken by the Group The Group devotes substantial management and planning resources to the development of strategic plans for organic growth and identication of possible acquisitions, supported by substantial expenditure to generate growth in customer business.
If these strategic plans do not meet with success, the Groups earnings could grow more slowly or decline.
Competition The UK and global financial services market remains highly competitive and innovative competition comes both from incumbent players and a steady stream of new market entrants.
The landscape is expected to remain highly competitive in all the Groups businesses, which could adversely affect the Groups profitability.
Impact of external factors on the Group and peer group The Groups primary performance goal is to achieve top quartile TSR performance for 2004 to 2007 inclusive against a group of peer financial institutions.
This goal assumes that external factors will impact all peer group entities equally.
The Groups ability to achieve the goal will be signicantly impacted if the Group is disproportionately impacted by negative external factors.
Even if the Group performs well, if others perform better or the market believes others have performed better, we may not achieve our goal.
