Business Description Personal Financial Services Business Description Personal Financial Services PFS provides a wide range of Introduction products and services to 14 million personal customers Barclays is an international financial services group engaged primarily in throughout the United Kingdom, including current banking, investment banking and asset management.
In terms of market capitalisation employed, Barclays is one of the largest financial services accounts, savings, mortgages, consumer loans and general groups in the UK.
The Group also operates in many other countries and insurance.
These are available to customers through is a leading provider of global services to multinational corporations and integrated channels comprising the branch network, financial institutions in the worlds main financial centres.
Worldwide, automated teller machines, telephone banking and the Barclays Group had 2,916 branches at 31st December 2003. online banking.
The Group is organised in Strategic Business Units SBUs, which are supported by shared services.
Each SBU has been tasked with identifying PFS works closely with other businesses in the Group, in particular and implementing value maximising strategies, and achieving these Barclays Private Clients, Barclaycard and Business Banking.
by creating advantage for customers through superior products Openplan from Barclays and The Woolwich is an integrated banking and services.
service that links customers current account, savings and mortgage, For reporting purposes, the SBUs have been organised into the following allowing customers automatically to switch money to earn a higher rate business groups or clusters: of interest, avoid overdraft charges, offset credit balances against mortgage balances and borrow at mortgage rates.
Openplan offers Personal Financial Services access through the branch, on the phone and over the internet.
Barclays Private Clients Barclaycard Within PFS, the principal goal has been to do more business with more Business Banking customers.
This has been achieved by building broader and deeper Barclays Africa relationships with the existing customer base as well as attracting new Barclays Capital customers.
There has also been a focus on increasing risk-adjusted Barclays Global Investors returns and continuing to strengthen the quality of the lending portfolio.
Results are also provided for Head ofce functions and other operations.
Key business developments in 2003: The results for Personal Financial Services and Business Banking are Openplan has continued its strong growth and now has some reported after allocating the costs of shared support functions, the UK 2.6 million customers.
Balances within Openplan from Barclays branch network and other common infrastructure.
grew to 17.5bn, comprising 12.9bn savings and 4.6bn mortgage The structural changes in the Groups organisation announced on balances.
The proportion of customers new to Group choosing 9th October 2003 took effect from 1st January 2004.
Openplan from Barclays was 10% for 2003.
67% of customers choosing Openplan from Woolwich were new to Group.
The number of value-added customer accounts Additions and Platinum increased to 2m representing 19% of the current account base.
Online customers increased to 4.5 million, with an increasing proportion of transactions now being undertaken online.
Online savings balances, on average, are some 60% larger than balances through other channels.
Income growth was broadly based within PFS across general insurance, consumer finance and mortgages.
The market for independent financial advice remained challenging.
Total mortgage balances increased 3% to 59.8bn.
Gross new mortgage lending was 18.3bn 2002: 22.2bn whilst net new mortgage lending was 2.0bn 2002: 6.9bn.
Market share of net new lending in mortgages was 2% versus 9% in 2002.
The loan to value ratio within the residential mortgage book on a current valuation basis averaged 40%.
PFS has continued to be a market-leading performer in the personal savings market.
Total average savings balances increased 9% to 31.8bn, with Barclays branded savings balances increasing 19%.
76 Barclays Private Clients Barclaycard Barclays Private Clients serves afuent and high net worth Barclaycard is one of the leading credit card businesses clients, primarily in the UK and continental Europe, in Europe.
In addition to its operations in the United providing banking and asset management services.
Kingdom, Barclaycard is active in Germany, Spain, Greece, France, Italy and across Africa.
The businesses have continued to maintain a strong focus on improving operational efficiency and developing a distinctive customer service.
Barclaycard offers a full range of credit card services to individual and corporate customers, together with card payment facilities to retailers The comparison with the 2002 results is impacted by the Caribbean and other businesses.
business being accounted for as an associated undertaking, following the formation of FirstCaribbean on 11th October 2002, and by the Barclaycard continued to grow both its domestic and international acquisitions made during 2003. businesses through organic and non-organic activity in 2003.
The contribution recognised from the closed life assurance activities is Key business developments in 2003: reported separately to provide increased transparency in the financial Barclaycard has 11.4 million customers, primarily in the UK and reporting within Barclays Private Clients.
In the UK alone, around one in every five credit cards is a Barclays Private Clients works closely with other Group businesses, Barclaycard.
particularly Personal Financial Services, Business Banking, Barclays Average extended credit balances amounted to more than 75% of Global Investors and Barclays Capital, in order to enhance product total card outstandings.
Average extended credit balances in the UK development and customer service.
Key business developments in 2003: UK customer recruitment increased 27% to 1.5 million.
The retail stockbroking business Charles Schwab Europe was acquired The number of customers registered for Barclaycard online services on 31st January 2003.
In May 2003, Barclays announced the increased 36% to 1.5m 2002: 1.1m.
acquisition of Banco Zaragozano in Spain, which completed in midJuly.
The acquisition of Gerrard completed in mid-December 2003.
Barclaycard International has 1.42 million cards in issue.
Barclays Private Clients businesses were constrained in 2003 by lower Barclaycard International achieved a full year profit of 4m average market levels and lower average interest rates than in 2002.
Income increased by 48% and average extended credit balances rose by 43%.
Globally afuent and high net worth client numbers increased 8% to 1,060,000.
In April, Barclaycard purchased the global rights excluding the UK and Singapore to use the Manchester United credit card brand.
Barclays Spain excluding Banco Zaragozano saw income rise 22% and operating profit rise 36%.
Barclaycard acquired Clydesdale Financial Services, a retailer point of sale of business, in May.
Afuent customer numbers in Spain increased by 26% to 81,000.
Openplan in Spain attracted 15,000 new customers.
Barclaycard International entered the South African market in August through a strategic alliance with the Standard Bank of South Africa.
In Spain, the average products per customer was 3.2 increasing to 4.3 for Openplan customers.
Barclaycard, already established in Spain, is working with Banco Zaragozano to accelerate growth from the established Barclaycard Banco Zaragozano operating profit for 2003 increased by 15%.
In the presence and the existing Banco Zaragozano cardholder base.
period since acquisition, Banco Zaragozano contributed operating profit of 18m.
Barclays Stockbrokers, including Charles Schwab Europe, saw average daily deal volumes increase to 8,350 per day 2002: 6,300, maintaining a leading market share in the UK of client order business.
With the acquisition of Gerrard, Barclays became the UKs largest private client investment manager by funds under management.
The contribution from the closed long-term assurance funds was a loss of 77m 2002: loss 87m including redress for customers in respect of sales of endowment policies.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2003 77 Business Description Business Banking Barclays Africa Business Banking provides relationship banking to the Barclays Africa provides banking services to personal and Groups large, medium and small business customers in corporate customers in North Africa, sub-Saharan Africa the United Kingdom.
Customers are served by a network and islands in the Indian Ocean.
The portfolio comprises of relationship and industry sector specialist managers banking operations in Botswana, Egypt, Ghana, Kenya, who provide local access to an extensive range of Mauritius, Seychelles, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda, products and services, as well as offering business Zambia and Zimbabwe.
Customers are also offered Barclays is one of the leading international banks in the region serving access to business centres in continental Europe and 1.5m customers.
The strategy is to develop and grow the franchise through the migration of products skills and processes from other parts to the products and expertise of other businesses in of the Barclays Group.
Key business developments in 2003: The strategy to accelerate business growth is underpinned by the Value Continued a programme of reinvestment and restructuring, Aligned Performance Measurement VAPM system which is linked to modernising the business and positioning it for future growth.
VAPM helps demonstrate the additional value that is generated through the acquisition of new customers, together Regional Head ofce functions were relocated from the UK to with the strengthening and the expansion of relationships with South Africa.
Increased investment was reected in further branch refurbishment Key business developments in 2003: and upgrading operating systems.
Business Banking has a relationship with over 730,000 customers and The integration of BNPI Mauritius, acquired in November 2002, was a market share of some 21%.
completed and contributed to the growth of the business.
Recent independent research found that customers rate Business Banking first in the market for overall quality of service to Large and Medium Businesses: and second for overall quality of service to Small Businesses.
Business Banking revenues were impacted by the Competition Commission Inquiry transitional pricing remedy for small and medium business customers.
Business Banking responded by consulting with qualifying customers and offered them a choice of either interest on current account or reduced money transmission charges.
Medium Business targeted propositions to specic customer segments including a Law Society accredited proposition for solicitors rms, a sector where customer recruitment rose 70%.
Over 75% of ailing business customers referred to Barclays Business Support during 2003 were returned to health and normal trading.
Average lending balances increased 11% to 47.0bn and average deposit balances increased 5% to 46.2bn.
Lending growth remained concentrated towards better graded business customers and was well diversied by sector.
78 Barclays Capital Barclays Global Investors Barclays Capital is the investment banking division Barclays Global Investors BGI is one of the worlds of Barclays, providing corporate, institutional and largest asset managers and a leading global provider government clients with solutions to their nancing of investment management products and services.
BGI offers structured investment strategies such as indexing, tactical asset allocation and risk-controlled The Barclays Capital business model is distinctive.
It focuses on a broad span of nancing and risk management services in the interest rate, active products such as hedge funds.
foreign exchange, commodities and credit markets combined with BGI also provides related investment services such as securities lending, certain capabilities in equities.
Activities are split between two areas: cash management and portfolio transition services.
Barclays Global Rates, which includes xed income, foreign exchange, commodities, Investors investment philosophy focuses on managing all dimensions emerging markets, money markets sales, trading and research, prime of performance: return, risk and cost.
brokerage and equity related activities: and Credit, which includes origination, sales, trading and research relating to loans, debt capital Key business developments in 2003: markets, structured capital markets, and private equity.
BGI had over 2,500 institutional clients in 47 countries.
Barclays Capital works increasingly with other Group businesses, Investment performance continued to be good in our active including Barclays Private Clients, Business Banking and Barclays Global strategies.
2003 average alpha across active products was 1.36% Investors, to provide a more integrated customer service and to develop above benchmark.
business opportunities across the Group.
Several important milestones were achieved by 31st December 2003: Key business developments in 2003: total assets under management exceeded US$1 trillion, of which more Barclays Capital continued to improve its ranking in the global all than US$200bn were in actively managed assets: and for the first time debt league table, to fourth position from fifth position in 2002. total revenues exceeded US$1bn.
Barclays Capital increased its issuance volume of international bonds 67bn net new assets were attracted in 2003.
Approximately 25bn of and syndicated loans to US$199bn compared to US$162bn in 2002. net new assets owed into index products, 23bn into active products, 14bn into Global iShares, Barclays brand of Exchange Traded Funds Barclays Capital increased its issuance volume of European all debt to ETFs, and 5bn into cash.
The active business accounted for over 60% of management fees and Barclays Capital remained in first position for issuing sterling over 50% of total income.
denominated bonds with a 19% market share.
BGIs leading position in ETFs was extended with the launch of eight Barclays Capital improved its ranking to top ten in US investment new funds and it became the largest ETF manager in the world.
grade corporate bonds from 13th position in 2002 with market share Global iShares, saw assets under management grow to US$69bn, more than doubling.
Barclays Capital led 49 dollar denominated deals for US issuers in BGI is the largest global institutional asset manager of hedge 2003 versus 24 in 2002 and only one prior to 2001. fund assets.
E-commerce channels continued to see an increase in the volumes BGI results were signicantly affected by exchange rate translation of business processed: half of clients foreign exchange tickets were movements.
Barclays Capital won several awards for e-commerce initiatives in 2003.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2003 79 Business Description Head ofce functions and other operations Competition and outlook Head ofce functions comprise all the Groups central activities, The UK financial services market remains highly competitive and including Group Executive, Group Finance, Marketing and innovative.
Competition comes both from incumbent players and a Communications, Human Resources, Group Strategy and Planning, steady stream of new market entrants.
Barclays remains at the forefront Internal Audit, Marketing, Legal, Corporate Secretariat, Tax, Compliance of market innovation to introduce new propositions to the market.
Central function costs incurred wholly on behalf of the The landscape is expected to remain highly competitive in all our business units are recharged to them.
We are confident that the integrated business model Transition Businesses comprise discontinued South American and employed by the Group, combined with rigorous application of Middle Eastern corporate banking businesses and other centrally managing for value principles, will stand the Group in good stead to managed Transition Businesses.
These non-core relationships are now meet the challenges ahead.
being managed separately with the objective of maximising the recovery The Group believes that the UK domestic economy is likely to perform from the assets concerned.
well relative to the rest of Europe.
A strong pick-up in external economic Central items include internal fees charged by Barclays Capital for conditions particularly from the United States should help to bolster structured capital markets activities, income from the management of economic activity in the UK further and encourage a modest recovery in the Groups operational premises, property related services and other the Eurozone.
central items including activities which support the operating business Financial markets recovered somewhat from the very low points reached and provide central information technology services.
in 2002, also reecting the global economic recovery.
Interest rates in the US and UK bottomed out in the latter part of 2003, creating conditions for modest rises over the next 12 months.
Group structure Within Barclays Private Clients, the contribution recognised from the closed life assurance activities is reported separately to provide increased transparency.
The Group identied certain non-strategic operations in the Middle East which were previously reported within Barclays Capital.
These are now separately managed with the objective of maximising the recovery from the assets concerned.
These operations, together with South American Corporate Banking, which was separately identied in 2002, and residual balances from other Transition Businesses, are collectively reported as Transition Businesses within Head ofce functions and other operations.
The structural changes in the Groups organisation announced on 9th October 2003 took effect from 1st January 2004.
80 Changes in accounting presentation In 2003, the SEC adopted regulations relating to the presentation of financial data which is not based on the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP applied by SEC reporting companies.
These regulations are commonly referred to as Regulation G. Barclays has in the past published both Group statutory financial statements, as well as Group and business further analyses which were designed to assist the understanding of underlying operating trends.
In this Annual Report, Barclays presents its financial results solely on a GAAP basis.
As a consequence, goodwill amortisation, restructuring costs and costs directly associated with the integration of Woolwich plc are included in all presentations of Group operating expenses and operating profit, while the profit loss from joint ventures and associates is taken into account below operating profit.
The analysis of results by business incorporates goodwill amortisation, restructuring costs, costs directly associated with the integration of Woolwich plc and profit loss from joint ventures and associates in a manner consistent with the Group presentation detailed above.
Additionally, exceptional items are now allocated out to individual businesses.
This is a different treatment to that included in the Results Announcement where the analysis of results by business excludes goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, and separately identies restructuring costs.
The prior period presentation has, where appropriate, been restated to conform with current year classication, and the change in accountancy policies discussed above.
Accounting developments in UK GAAP are described on pages 118 to 119 and those under US GAAP are described on pages 183 to 184.
