Corporate Governance Accountability and Audit judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which Accountability and Audit they consider to be applicable have been followed.
Going Concern The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. the accounts.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are Internal Control reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that management prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
maintain an effective system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate Signed on behalf of the Board the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Throughout the year ended 31st December 2003, and to date, the Group has operated a system of internal control which provides Sir Peter Middleton reasonable assurance of effective and efficient operations covering all 11th February 2004 controls, including financial and operational controls and compliance with laws and regulations.
Processes are in place for identifying, Disclosure Controls and Procedures evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the Group in The Group Chief Executive, Matthew Barrett, and the Group Finance accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors Director, Naguib Kheraj, conducted with Group Management an on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the in England and Wales.
The Board regularly reviews these processes Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31st December 2003, through the Board Committees.
which are dened as those controls and procedures designed to ensure The Directors review the effectiveness of the system of internal control that information required to be disclosed in reports led under the US annually.
An internal control compliance certication process is Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, summarised and reported conducted throughout the Group in support of this review.
The within specified time periods.
As of the date of the evaluation, the effectiveness of controls is periodically reviewed within the business Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director concluded that the areas.
Quarterly risk reports are made to the Board covering all risks of design and operation of these disclosure controls and procedures were Group signicance including credit risk, market risk, operational risk, and effective.
No significant changes were made in our internal controls or legal and compliance risk.
Regular reports are made to the Board Audit in other factors that could signicantly affect these controls subsequent Committee by management, Group Internal Audit and the compliance to their evaluation.
and legal functions covering particularly financial controls, compliance and operational controls.
Reports covering risk measurement standards and risk appetite are made to the Board Risk Committee.
The key document for the Groups internal control processes is the record of Group Governance practices which describes the Groups governance and control framework and details Group policies and processes.
The record of Group Governance practices is reviewed and approved on behalf of the Group Chief Executive by the Group Governance and Control Committee.
Further details of risk management procedures are given in the Risk management section on pages 37 to 71.
The system of internal financial and operational controls is also subject to regulatory oversight in the United Kingdom and overseas.
Further information on supervision by the financial services regulators is provided under Supervision and regulation on pages 108 to 109.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities for Accounts The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors report set out on page 112, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 114 to 203 and 208 to 215, and the additional information contained on pages 23 to 34, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent Barclays PLC Annual Report 2003 35
