Commercial Property Market Summary ATIS REAL Weatheralls Limited The comments below reflect our views as at 31 March 2003 and now that this will not now happen until, say, 2006.
As a consequence, underlie our approach to the valuation of the portfolio.
the value of City development sites and other shorter leased investments here have reduced as, respectively, schemes are deferred and General both yields and rental values have moved in an adverse direction.
26 Commercial property has enjoyed another year of strong performIn contrast, yields for well let long leased investments, which make ance compared to other asset types.
This has arisen principally from up the majority of British Lands City holdings, moved favourably the high income returns available relative to todays low interest rate during the final quarter of 2002 with an upward impact on values.
environment, combined with capital increases due to yield moveExamples of this in the market include the sales of Winchester House, ments across the retail spectrum where further rental growth is London Wall and One Great St Helens, Bishopsgate.
flight to certainty, and more immediately the ability of such properties By contrast, over the period leading up to the valuation date, there to provide a secure return with a duration that exceeds the current have been continuing declines in the stock markets, and over a three, short term problems in the lettings market.
five or ten year view, lack-lustre performance from fixed income inNotwithstanding this, we have reduced the valuation of the vestments such as Gilts.
Broadgate Estate to reflect much more conservative estimated rental Although overall future property investment performance in some values.
Whilst the letting to ICAP demonstrates the continued appeal areas is forecast to be more modest than in recent years - reflecting of Broadgate, even in the thinnest of markets, we have, nonetheless, declining occupational markets - the appeal of well let property with adopted lower rental values for reviews looking forward over the next long leases should continue.
As a consequence, the valuation of the Estate is now We suspect that shorter leases will become more prevalent in the largely initial yield driven.
There is, therefore, limited risk attached to future.
Although these may in time become the norm, longer term current reversions and any subsequent increases in reversionary income streams, particularly those which cover current vagaries in value should feed through to improved capital values.
the occupational market, will continue to command a premium.
In the West End, although the occupational market is thin, sentiExceptionally long income streams, due to increasing scarcity, are, ment is currently more favourable than in the City.
This is in part and will be, correspondingly even more sought after.
thanks to a more diversified tenant base and the shortage of supply We therefore see a polarisation of the market with, on the one as a consequence of planning and more precisely defined geohand, investments with long term income streams which appeal to, graphical boundaries.
for example, pension providers concerned principally with certainty Occupiers are typically looking for well specified buildings that and the ability to match liabilities.
On the other, there will be those offer reasonable value for money.
The companys substantial stake at with shorter term income where strong property fundamentals will Regents Place satisfies these requirements and, as a consequence, become crucial.
progress with lettings has been made at 350 Euston Road.
Much of the British Land portfolio benefits from both characterMeanwhile, the majority of the Regents Place Estate offers well istics.
It includes a substantial number of prime High Street retails, secured long term income in top quality buildings let to tenants such and significant investments located out of town where the fundaas Bank One and Abbey National.
In the medium term there is also mentals of demand and supply are favourable.
Central London significant development potential at the North East corner, which in a offices, although experiencing short term occupational difficulties, are more benign climate could offer some 500,000 sq ft net of additional also strategically sound propositions.
Looking forward, we expect some upward movement in Gilt yields The landmark Euston Tower, currently let to the Government for but do not necessarily subscribe to the often quoted view that another 16 years, was recently substantially refurbished by the tenant at property and Gilt yields are, or should be, linked.
Empirically the evino cost to British Land, and longer term has a number of potential alterdence is scant.
We therefore see this as another plus for property natives including, subject to planning, residential on the upper levels.
with the potential for continuing out-performance compared to other In the investment market, as in the City, yields for well secured asset types.
long income streams have improved since our last valuation in September 2002.
Examples of this in the market include the sale of Offices 151 Buckingham Palace Road, SW1 and 3-8 Whitehall Place, SW1.
Declining stock markets have continued to erode confidence and Provincial offices have generally held steady as progress with activity in The City.
The problems of other European centres have lettings and active management initiatives have proceeded.
also had negative consequences for occupational requirements amongst the many international banks and other organisations who Retail make up the City office market.
Although, as always, the return of Retail Warehousing has yet again out-performed all other investment demand will probably be more sudden than expected, forecasts are classes.
The Company has invested significantly in this sector over The British Land Company PLC Property Review Property Review recent years and continues to make carefully chosen purchases, an Budget proposals to exempt a number of areas in the UK from stamp example being the Orbital Shopping Park in Swindon.
duty, including the area within which Meadowhall is located, have Rents have moved on in many locations across the country and been announced by the Government.
This measure would produce parks offering scope for active management are very strongly sought potential savings to an incoming purchaser, which could in this case after, an example being Pillars purchase of the former Chartwell Land be reflected in an increase in the price achievable, of up to 50m.
This transaction suggests that prime yields have improved This has not been reflected in our current valuations as the budget over the last few months reflecting investors perceptions and expecmeasures occurred after the date of our valuation.
tations of future rental growth.
With rents regionally achieving 35 per sq ft or more, and in Other Sectors excess of 25 per sq ft in a large number of locations, British Lands Demand remains strong for Industrial Property, which offers steady 27 retail warehousing portfolio such as Homebase, spread across rather than volatile performance.
Although in Greater London, where Greater London and the South East, should also produce a rising a number of developments have been successfully completed, let income.
The Homebase covenant has been enhanced since its and sold on, values have probably peaked.
The relatively high yield acquisition by Great Universal Stores.
available, in this low interest rate environment, means that we have Furthermore, in terms of future rental growth, it has been suggested been able to improve the value of regional estates such as Clifton that many occupiers of out-of-town stores have not refined their offer Moor in York.
to the extent that they have in the High Street.
As the out-of-town marA number of Public Houses held within the joint venture with ket reaches maturity these factors should enable the better retailers to Scottish and Newcastle have sold recently at auction and have achiincrease their ability to pay higher rentals, despite the pressure on eved prices ahead of previous valuations, reflecting the beneficial yield margins in the current climate.
shift that has occurred since then.
Several others have been sold out Supermarkets are rarely available as investments but given the of the joint venture, back to Scottish and Newcastle.
Our current eagerness of investors of many types to secure long income streams valuation of those remaining reflects these factors.
with longer term robust residual values, we are confident that a modern long let food-store, rack rented, would command an initial yield of 5.75%, possibly less.
Department store values have improved, particularly those within the BL Fraser joint venture where guaranteed minimum increases are ATIS REAL Weatheralls Limited now approaching.
We have adjusted the emphasis of our approach to Norfolk House the near reversionary yields and reflected the unusually long unexpired 31 St Jamess Square term around 30 years remaining at that time.
Yields adopted reflect London SW1Y 4JR the popularity of long, secure incomes.
In the High Street, there are mixed signals coming from retailers and rental growth prospects are therefore variable.
Underlying strength of location and rent affordability remain key considerations.
More recent sales figures create some uncertainty as to the extent of rental growth anticipated in the short term.
Despite this, yields for prime shops fell by around 25 basis points between September last year and March 2003 and small lot sizes continue to attract very aggressive bids from a range of private investors.
Some centres still offer scope for an uplift in rentals, and these naturally find most favour.
Shopping Centre values have generally improved, in line with the High Street.
At the Companys Peacocks Centre, in Woking, rental values have increased by around 20%.
Progress continues at the recently completed Centre West, adjoining the established Plaza Centre at East Kilbride, Scotland.
Here, 26 tenants have been secured so far including Next and Debenhams, with a further nine units already under offer.
There should be a reflected benefit to Plaza Centre as uncertainty and delay on the part of retailers, pending the opening of Centre West, has now passed.
At Meadowhall, active management initiatives have continued including a number of strategic tenant relocations within the centre.
Reversions and income have remained broadly in line with expectations.
For both in, and out of, town retail, we have sharpened yields reflecting also the quality and length of the income stream and the positive attitude to prime retail.
The British Land Company PLC
