Valuation Certificate Instruction to Valuers Development properties ATIS REAL Weatheralls Limited For properties in course of development, we reflect the stage Norfolk House, 31 St. James's Square, reached in construction and the costs already incurred and those London SW1Y 4JR remaining to be spent at the date of valuation.
We have regard to the 61 contractual liabilities of the parties involved in the development and Dear Sirs, any cost estimates which have been prepared by the professional Valuations for the year ending 31 March 2003. advisers to the project.
The British Land Company PLC For recently completed developments we take no account of any and various Joint Venture Companies retentions, nor do we make allowance for any outstanding development costs, fees, or other expenditure for which there may be a liability.
I confirm our instructions to prepare reports and valuations, for inclusion in the year end Report and Accounts, in respect of the properties owned by the Valuation date above in the United Kingdom.
For this purpose, tenancy schedules have been provided to you and will be updated through to 31 March.
Property values may change substantially over a relatively short Your valuation certificates are to include a schedule with all relevant period.
If you wish to dispose of this property or part thereof, or to information for each property.
accept a charge over it as security for a loan after the valuation date, Your valuations are to be prepared on an open market basis in accorwe strongly advise a further consultation with us.
dance with the current Appraisal and Valuation Manual The Red Book published by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, which, inter alia, Costs of realisation states that the surveyors undertaking the work are to be appropriately No allowance is made in our valuations for the costs of realisation, qualified.
In accordance with usual market practice, your valuations are to be any liability for tax which might arise in the event of disposal or for reported net after the deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, includany mortgage or similar financial encumbrance over the property.
You will conduct appropriate inspections of each of the properties and measure, in those cases where you have not been provided with floor areas, This valuation is provided for the stated purposes and is for the use as agreed between the landlord and tenant at the time of rent review or the initial letting.
In respect of planning, your surveyors will make their own only of those to whom it is addressed.
No responsibility is accepted to enquiries of the various planning authorities.
You will also refer to title reports any other party.
and leases either in your possession or made available to you.
No part of this certificate may be reproduced, or reference made These instructions are given on the basis, as previously, that your proto it, without our prior written approval.
Furthermore, no reference fessional indemnity policy is in place and sufficient on a per claim basis to may be made to the certificate in any other publication without our cover this instruction.
Yours faithfully Yours faithfully for and on behalf of The British Land Company PLC ATIS REAL Weatheralls Limited M. I. Gunston, FRICS Norfolk House Chief Surveyor 31 St. James's Square London SW1Y 4JR 30 January 2003 30 April 2003 The British Land Company PLC
