Valuation Certificate Valuation Certificate Long Short The Directors Freehold Leasehold Leasehold The British Land Company PLC A Held as 10 Cornwall Terrace, Regents Park, investments 7,002,787,025 467,917,000 1,000,000 London NW1 4QP B Held for 59 development 63,433,392 Dear Sirs, C Owner occupied 13,675,000 UK Portfolio Valuation 31 March 2003 D In the course of development 456,540,000 In accordance with your instructions we have carried out a valuation Total value 7,522,760,417 481,592,000 1,000,000 of certain freehold, heritable, and leasehold properties in the United Kingdom owned by The British Land Company PLC or its wholly owned subsidiaries in order to advise as to the open market value for balWe would draw your attention to paragraph b of the above ance sheet purposes of these property assets as at 31 March 2003. definition of open market value.
Given market conditions as at the We are of the opinion that the total of the open market values of valuation date, a period of three to six months can be considered a the properties listed on the attached schedules and owned by the reasonable time in which to effect a sale of any individual property.
Company as at that date is in the sum of: Our valuation does, however, assume that any sale would be as part of an orderly disposal of such assets and that the market would not 8,005,352,417 be adversely affected by an attempt to dispose of a significant Eight billion, five million, three hundred and fifty two thousand, four holding over a short period.
hundred and seventeen pounds Existing use value means an opinion of the best price at which the sale of an interest in property would have been completed unconThe above figures represent the aggregate of the values attributable ditionally for cash consideration on the date of valuation, assuming: to the individual properties, and should not be regarded as a valuation aa willing seller: of the portfolio as a whole in the context of a sale as a single lot.
bthat, prior to the date of valuation, there had been a reasonable Certain properties within the group are held on 999 year or similar period having regard to the nature of the property and the state of length leases, some with the option to purchase the freehold for 1. the market for the proper marketing of the interest, for the agreeOthers are held predominantly on a freehold basis but include parts ment of the price and terms and for the completion of the sale: held on a long leasehold basis at a peppercorn or nominal ground cthat the state of the market, level of values and other circumrent.
In calculating the apportionments between tenure types above, stances were, on any earlier assumed date of exchange of we have included these in the freehold category.
Short leasehold contracts, the same as on the date of valuation: properties are classified as having less than 50 years unexpired.
dthat no account is taken of any additional bid by a prospective purchaser with a special interest: Basis of Valuation ethat both parties to the transaction had acted knowledgeably, The properties have been valued on an open market basis with the prudently, and without compulsion: exception of the owner occupied properties at Cornwall Terrace, the f the property can be used for the foreseeable future only for the Companys headquarters, which has been valued on an existing use existing use: and basis.
Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which the g that vacant possession is provided on completion of the sale of sale of an interest in the property would have been completed all parts of the property occupied by the business.
unconditionally for cash consideration on the date of valuation, This certificate and valuation and the detailed reports attached assuming: have been prepared in accordance with the current edition of the aa willing seller: Appraisal and Valuation Manual The Red Book issued by The Royal bthat, prior to the date of valuation, there had been a reasonable Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
period having regard to the nature of the property and the state of Whilst we have not examined the title documents themselves, we the market for the proper marketing of the interest, for the agreehave in all but a very few cases seen your solicitors reports on title ment of the price and terms, and for the completion of the sale: and, we have therefore, assumed that, unless stated otherwise, the cthat the state of the market, level of values and other interests are not subject to any onerous restrictions, to the payment circumstances were, on any earlier assumed date of exchange of of any unusual outgoings or to any charges, or rights of way or easecontracts, the same as on the date of valuation: ments, other than those to which we have referred.
We have assumed dthat no account is taken of any additional bid by a prospective that any outstanding requirements of the various repairing covenants purchaser with a special interest: and will be met.
ethat both parties to the transaction had acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
The British Land Company PLC Properties and accommodation occupied by the company or Tenure and tenancies subject to inter-company leases have been valued assuming vacant We rely upon information supplied as to the property, tenure, tenpossession.
ancies, permitted uses and related matters.
We assume such The properties included in this report were inspected between information to be accurate, up-to-date and complete.
We assume 60 March 2002 and March 2003, and were measured in accordance that your solicitors are able to confirm the accuracy of these details with The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Code of Measuring as set out in our report, and that the interest being valued is in all Practice.
As has been agreed, in some cases areas are as provided respects good and marketable.
We would welcome the opportunity by the Company.
Otherwise the floor areas given are derived from to consider your solicitor's report on title and to advise whether or measurements taken on site or have been scaled from the drawings not this affects our valuation.
supplied and checked by sample measurements on site.
We do not examine the title documents and, therefore, assume that apart from any matters mentioned in our report, the interest is not Valuation Procedure and Assumptions Property subject to any onerous restrictions, to the payment of any unusual Surveys and enquiries upon which all of our valuations are based are outgoings or to any charges, easements or rights of way.
We assume carried out by general practice surveyors making appropriate investithat any outstanding requirements of repairing covenants will be met.
gations having regard to the purpose of the valuation.
Our reports and valuations are prepared in accordance with the current edition of Planning and highway enquiries the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Manual the new Red Book.
The We make only oral enquiries of the local planning and highway valuers responsible for the work are qualified asset valuers as authorities and the information obtained is assumed to be correct.
Our work is on the basis set out below, No formal searches are instigated.
Except where stated to the unless specifically varied by our report: contrary, we are informed that there are no local authority planning or highway proposals that might involve the use of compulsory purCondition and pollution hazards chase powers or otherwise directly affect the property.
Unless specifically instructed to carry out a structural survey, test of service installations, site investigation or environmental survey, our Floor areas valuations assume: All measurements are in accordance with the Royal Institution of iThat no materials have been used in the construction of the Chartered Surveyors Code of Measuring Practice.
The floor areas buildings which are deleterious, hazardous or likely to give rise to given are derived from measurements taken on site or have been structural defects.
scaled from the drawings supplied and checked by sample measii That all relevant statutory requirements have been complied with.
iii That the site is physically capable of development or redevelopment, when appropriate, and that no special or unusual Tenant status costs will be incurred in providing foundations and infrastructure.
Although we reflect our general understanding of a tenant's status in iv That the property is not adversely affected by any form of pollution.
our valuation, we make no enquiries about the financial status of v That there are no archeological remains on or under the land tenants, and rely upon you to advise us if tenants are in default of which could adversely impact on value.
rental payments, or where there appear grounds for concern.
We vi That any building services which incorporate electronic devices assume that appropriate enquiries were made when leases were necessary for their proper functioning, and the software which originally exchanged, or when consent was granted to tenants to operates such devices, are Millennium compliant, or can be renassign or underlet.
dered so compliant at no significant cost.
We do however reflect the general condition of the premises Plant and machinery evident from our inspection and any defects of which we are made We include in our valuations those items of plant and machinery aware as summarised in our report.
normally considered to be part of the building service installations and which would pass with the property on a sale or letting.
We exclude all items of process plant and machinery and equipment, together with their special foundations and supports, furniture and furnishings, vehicles, stock and loose tools, and tenants fixtures and fittings.
The British Land Company PLC Valuation Certificate
