Directors and Officers Directors and Officers The British Land Company PLC City Universitys Development Board and Chairman of the London Institutes Estates Committee.
John Ritblat FRICS Chairman and Managing Director John Ritblat became Managing Director of Union Property Holdings London Robert E. Bowden BSc, FRICS Ltd in August 1969, and became Chairman and Managing Director of The Robert Bowden, a former senior partner of Conrad Ritblat & Co. joined The 47 British Land Company PLC in 1971 following its merger with Union.
He is also British Land Company PLC in April, 1992 as head of property investment and a Member of the British Library Board, a Member of the Council of The Royal acquisitions.
He was appointed an executive Director in June 1997.
He is Institution, a Member of the Board of Governors and Hon.
Fellow of the Chairman of British Land Properties Limited.
London Business School and the Hon.
President of The British Ski and Snowboard Federation.
Robert Swannell FCA Robert Swannell became a non-executive Director of The British Land Derek A. Higgs BA, FCA Deputy Chairman Company PLC in August 1999.
He is Co-Chairman of Citigroups European Derek Higgs joined The British Land Company PLC as a non-executive Investment Bank.
He is a member of the Regulatory Decisions Committee of Director in July 2000, became Deputy Chairman in March 2001 and is also the Financial Services Authority and a member of the Industrial Development Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is a Senior Adviser in the UK Advisory Board of the Department of Trade and Industry.
to UBS Warburg and Chairman of Business in the Environment and Partnerships UK plc.
His other appointments include membership of the The Lord Burns GCB, BA Econ.
Financial Reporting Council and non-executive directorships of Egg plc, Terry Burns became a non-executive Director of The British Land Company Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. and Allied Irish Banks, p. l. c. He is also a ProPLC in July 2000, and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is Chairman Chancellor of the University of Bristol and amongst his charitable interests of Abbey National PLC and of Glas Cymru Cyfyngedig Welsh Water.
He is has been a Trustee of The Textile Conservation Centre for nearly 25 years.
also a non-executive director of Pearson plc.
He was Permanent Secretary of Aged 59 years.
He is Chairman of the Governing Board of the Royal Academy of Music, and Chairman of the Trustees of the Cyril Metliss FCA Monteverdi Choir and Orchestra.
Cyril Metliss was appointed an executive Director of The British Land Company PLC in July 1971 after gaining wide experience in manufacturing, Graham Roberts BA, FCA financial services and property development.
He was a senior partner in Stoy Graham Roberts joined The British Land Company PLC in January 2002 as Hayward & Co. chartered accountants, before becoming a Director of the an executive director and was appointed Finance Director in March 2002.
He is Executive Vice-Chairman of The British Land Corporation is Chairman of British Land Financing Limited.
He was previously senior real Limited.
John H. Weston Smith MA, FCIS Dr Christopher S Gibson-Smith BSc, PhD, MS John Weston Smith joined The British Land Company PLC as Secretary in Chris Gibson-Smith joined The British Land Company PLC as a nonJuly 1971 from N. M. Rothschild & Sons Limited and was appointed an executive Director in January 2003.
He is the Senior Independent Nonexecutive Director in January 1973.
He is Chief Operating Officer.
Previously Executive Director and Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Formerly he he was Joint General Manager of the Abbey National Building Society.
He was a Group Managing Director of BP plc.
He is Chairman of National Air is Managing Director of The British Land Corporation Limited and Chairman Traffic Services Limited and a non-executive director of Lloyds TSB Group of British Land Developments Limited and Broadgate Estates Limited.
He is a Director of the London Stock Exchange and will be appointed its He is Chairman of Governors at St. Christophers School, Hampstead.
He is also a Trustee of the Institute of Public Policy Aged 71 years.
Research and of Arts and Business.
Nicholas Ritblat MA David Michels Nicholas Ritblat joined The British Land Company PLC in September 1987 David Michels was appointed a non-executive Director of The British Land and was appointed an executive Director in September 1991.
He previously Company PLC in January 2003.
He is Chief Executive of Hilton Group plc, and worked for S. G. Warburg & Co. Ltds corporate and international finance also a non-executive director of Hilton Hotels Corporation and was previously divisions.
He is Deputy Chairman of British Land Financing Limited.
He sits a non-executive director of Arcadia Group plc.
He is also President of the on the Management Committee of the Investment Property Forum and the Hilton foundation, a Member and past Chairman of the British Hospitality IPD Index Consultative Group.
Association Council and a Trustee of the Anne Frank Trust.
Michael Cassidy BA, MBA Secretary Michael Cassidy was appointed a non-executive Director of The British Land Anthony Braine LLB, FCIS.
He is a practising solicitor and was formerly Chairman of the Policy and Resources Committee of the Corporation of Member of the Remuneration Committee London.
He is also Deputy Chairman of the Barbican Arts Centre, Chairman Member of the Audit Committee of Adapt Trust promoting disabled access to Arts premises, Chairman of Member of the Nomination Committee The British Land Company PLC
