Directors Report The directors have pleasure in presenting shares are in the Directors Remuneration their annual report and accounts for the year report on pages 27 to 34. ended 31 December 2003.
The Articles of Association require each director to retire and offer himself for rePrincipal activities and business review election by shareholders at least every three The Company is the holding company of a years and also require a minimum of one Group which is engaged in the processing third of the directors to retire by rotation of polymers to provide a range of products each year.
offering the specific engineered properties The directors required to retire under the required by its customers in the foam, plastics three year rule are Mr Cotterill and Mr van and nonwovens markets.
They are both recommended by sidiary undertakings and Associates are the Board for re-election, and Resolutions 3 listed on pages 58 to 59 of this report and and 4 will be proposed at the forthcoming accounts.
Annual General Meeting for their re-election.
The Chairmans Statement, the Operating The resignation of Mr Libeert has satisfied the and Financial Review and the CSR report rotation rule.
on pages 2 to 18 report on the Groups activDr K G G Hopkins was appointed as a nonities during the year, changes thereto, and executive director on 1 August 2003.
Under other likely future developments.
the Articles of Association, Dr Hopkins is required to retire at the Annual General Post balance sheet event Meeting and seek re-election by shareholdThe Group sold its remaining investment in ers.
Resolution 5 will be proposed for his reSpartech on 28 January 2004 for $24 per election, which is recommended by the share, receiving approximately $123m 68m Board.
Remuneration report The dividend for shareholders The Directors Remuneration Report RegulatThe directors are recommending a final divions 2002 require that the Directors Remuneridend of 6.0 pence for each Ordinary share ation report must be put before shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2003, makfor an advisory vote at each Annual General ing a total for the year of 11.75 pence.
Accordingly, Resolution 7 will be Subject to shareholders approving this recproposed for the approval by shareholders ommendation at the Annual General Meetof the Directors Remuneration report.
ing, the final dividend will be paid on 3 May 2004 to shareholders on the register at the Share capital close of business on 12 March 2004.
At the end of the year 194,425,443 Ordinary shares were in issue.
During the year, a total The business for the Annual General Meeting of 1,194,322 Ordinary shares were allotted on Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the exercise of options granted under the the 2004 Annual General Meeting are set out Group's savings related share option scheme in the notice calling the meeting on pages and executive share option scheme.
Share buy-back authority The directors At the Annual General Meeting held in 2003 The names of the present directors and their shareholders approved a Special Resolution biographical details are given on page 19. granting restricted authority for the CompDetails of directors' interests in the Company's any to make market purchases of its own 20 For more information on British Vita visit www.
total of 9,602,856 Ordinary shares were outDuring the year the Company purchased standing and not exercised.
That number of a total of 16,076,000 25p Ordinary shares Ordinary shares represents 4.94 per cent of representing 7.68% of the issued share the Companys issued Ordinary share capital capital under the authority at an average at that date if the proposed new authority to price of 255p per share totalling 40.9m in purchase the Company's own shares had accordance with its publicly announced been exercised in full at that date.
The shares purchased have subsequently been cancelled.
Allotment authority The existing authority expires at the close The directors maintain a margin of authorised of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting but unissued share capital, which they may and Resolution 9 will be proposed as a allot pursuant to an authority granted by Special Resolution to renew for a further shareholders.
Whilst there is no current intentperiod of one year, the authority for the ion to make any such allotment, the directors Company to purchase its own shares.
believe that it is in the best interests of the The Board is proposing that the Company Company to renew this authority.
should be authorised to purchase a maximAccordingly Resolution 8 will be proposed as um of 19,443,338 Ordinary shares representan Ordinary Resolution at the forthcoming ing approximately 10 per cent of the issued Annual General Meeting to renew the direcOrdinary share capital as at 1 March 2004 tors authority to allot Ordinary shares for the at a price per share of not more than 5 per period up to the conclusion of the next cent above the average of the middle markAnnual General Meeting or, if earlier, 21 July et quotations for the Companys shares 2005 with the intention thereafter of renewderived from the London Stock Exchange ing it at future annual general meetings.
This Daily Official List for the five business days authority would permit the directors to allot prior to making any such purchase and not shares up to an aggregate nominal value of less than 25p the nominal value of each 16,040,753 which represents approximately Ordinary share.
33% of the issued Ordinary share capital of The authority will expire on the earlier of the Company at 1 March 2004. the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and 21 July 2005.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights Purchases will only be made on the London The Companies Act 1985 requires that any Stock Exchange.
This should not be taken to equity securities to be issued wholly for cash imply that shares will be purchased at any must first be offered to existing shareholders particular price or at all.
The Board believes in proportion to their existing holdings, that it is in the best interests of shareholders although this requirement may be disapplied that the Company should have the flexibility by resolution of the shareholders.
Such a disto make market purchases of its own shares application is necessary so as to overcome to continue the share buy-back programme.
the practical difficulties relating to fractional Any shares repurchased would be cancellentitlements and offering of shares to certain ed.
The effect of any such purchase would overseas shareholders that arise on a rights be to reduce the number of shares in issue issue.
It would also permit the issue of a small and, accordingly, the Board would only number of shares for cash otherwise than by make such purchases after consideration of way of rights.
the effect on earnings per share and the Accordingly, Resolution 10 will be proposed, benefits for longer term shareholders.
as a Special Resolution at the Annual GenAs at 31 December 2003, options over a eral Meeting, to renew the authority of the Annual Report 2003 21 Directors Report continued directors to allot equity securities for cash as to be, and be seen to be, open and if the pre-emption rights provided by the accountable.
Companies Act 1985 did not apply.
In the case of allotments other than for rights issues, Approach to technology development the authority is limited to the allotment of The Group is committed to use innovative, Ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal cost-effective and practical solutions for value of 2,430,417 representing 5% of the providing high quality products.
It also contissued Ordinary share capital of the inues to make full use of the wide-ranging Company as at 1 March 2004. expertise, abilities and facilities within the Group.
It recognises the importance of ensurPeople - key contributors ing that it properly focuses its investment in to corporate success the development of technology, that it has The Groups employees are key to deliverthe right skills to apply technology to achieve ing the business strategy and to enhancing sustainable competitive advantage, and shareholder value.
Utilising our employees that it continues to be alert to emerging skills in a safe and healthy environment is an technological opportunities.
indispensable part of the Group's commitment to high standards in every aspect of its busiSubstantial shareholdings in the Company ness.
Shareholders attention is drawn particOn 1 March 2004, the Company had been ularly to the CSR report on pages 14 to 18. notified of declarable interests in its issued Owning shares in the Company is an impOrdinary share capital by Henderson Global ortant way of strengthening employees Investors Limited 9.87%, Aviva plc 4.01%, involvement in the development of the busiLegal & General Investment Management ness and of bringing together their and Limited 3.96% and Barclays PLC 3.07%.
The Group encourages and helps employees to participate in Creditor payment policy and practice its share schemes and it accepts its responThe Group does not follow any specific extsibility to provide financial education to ernal code or standard on payment practice.
employees and, in particular, to make Its policy is normally to pay suppliers accordemployees aware of the risk involved in ing to terms of business agreed with them on building up a large stake in a single stock.
entering into binding contracts and to keep to the payment terms providing the relevant Fulfilling social and goods or services have been supplied in environmental responsibilities accordance with the contracts.
The Group As described in the CSR report, the Group had approximately 59 days 60 days of credseeks to manage its total impact on society itors outstanding at the end of the financial as a responsible corporate citizen.
The Company had no trade creditors.
report is an important part of the Companys integrated approach to reporting on the The auditors Groups overall performance together with The directors will propose a resolution at the the rest of the annual report and the CompAnnual General Meeting re-appointing anys website.
 LLP as auditors to Charitable donations by the Group in the the Company.
The Group does not make any contributions to By order of the Board political purposes.
It manages its interests in M. R. STIRZAKER public policy in the knowledge that it needs Secretary 1 March 2004 22 For more information on British Vita visit www.
