PAGE 16 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 To develop a profitable independent book publishing group Books through being the publisher of choice for authors, illustrators and photographers around the world.
Thai Food has now sold over 23,500 copies.
The book has won the prestigious Glenddich Food Award 2003, the Andr Simon Memorial Fund Silver Book Award 2002 and The Best Foreign Cookbook in the World at the Gourmand World Cookbook Awards 2002. www.
com PAGE 17 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Trade Contract Childrens The trade division comprises five imprints The contract division focuses on developing Childrens publishing is split between covering lifestyle, crafts & hobbies, mind, content for partners on a contracted basis.
ction, non-ction, preschool and body & spirit, popular history and sport.
The division aims to exploit the rich and educational products.
A greater focus Best sellers include Thai Food, The Food valuable back list as well as the in-house is being placed on contracted publishing, Doctor series, The Royal Yacht Britannia: image library.
Best sellers include the as the division moves towards developing The Ofcial History.
Illustrated Directories, Pocket Guides series content for partners.
Best sellers include and the Then and Now series.
On the Little Mole, Bedtime Stories and Richard Promotional Then and Now series, we have produced & Judys Winning Stories.
The promotional division is a leader books on 27 cities and have printed in in the area of European publishing excess of 1 million copies to date.
services: it houses over 3000 remainder titles in a warehouse facility in Leeds from where it exports to 75 countries.
The restructuring that took place at Chrysalis Books Group has brought about a much more structured approach to publishing.
We have limited the number of new books published, concentrating more effort on each title and generating more co-edition activity, thereby offsetting as much risk as possible.
There has also been an increased emphasis on creating value through the introduction of series based titles.
