PAGE 14 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 To take full advantage of the opportunities that exist in the Music rapidly changing world of the music industry by building on our position as a leading international publishing company and UK record label, in order to become an all round independent music company of choice to artists and writers alike.
Chrysalis Musics US ofce secured significant synchronisations with Paul Ankas My Way being used in advertising campaigns by both eBay and AXA during the year.
Feeder have now sold over 1 million albums, with the two latest, Comfort in Sound and Echo Park reaching Platinum status in 2003.
Chrysalis Music has performed strongly given the difficult trading environment that the music industry continues to face: The Echo label has had the most successful year in the companys history and our music publishing division grew its Net Publishers Share by 9.4%.
com PAGE 15 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Chrysalis Music Publishing The Echo Label Lasgo Chrysalis Chrysalis Music is one the few remaining The Echo Label is an independent Lasgo Chrysalis is one of the UKs independent music publishers.
Chrysalis creatively driven record company, leading wholesale distributors of Music ensures the maximum use of our committed to signing and developing CDs, DVDs and books.
The company, 55,000 copyrights through record sales, artists from a broad musical spectrum.
in its 25th year of trading, is currently concerts, commercials, computer games, Echo artists have achieved UK and benefiting from the expanding DVD lm, television and now the Internet and international success, producing hit market and the consolidation within ring tone market.
The catalogue spans singles and platinum selling albums.
6 decades, representing writers from Paul The roster includes platinum selling Anka, David Bowie and Blondie through dance innovators Moloko and top to the contemporary OutKast and David UK rock band Feeder, who have now Gray.
The divisions global footprint is now had three consecutive top ten albums complete, with ofces in US, UK and all including the most recent release key European territories.
Comfort in Sound which reached Platinum status in 2003.
Lasgo Chrysalis, our distribution arm, saw profits double in 2003, with sales of DVD product almost trebling over the course of the year.
OutKasts latest album Speakerboxxx The Love Below Album entered US Billboard charts at No 1, selling over 2 million albums in the first 8 weeks post release and has been nominated for 6 Grammy Awards.
