Report of the Directors The Business of the Group The principal business of the Group is the investment in, and development of, freehold and leasehold properties.
A review of the development of the Groups business during the year, its position at the year end and its prospects is set out in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Portfolio Review and the Financial Review on pages 6 to 27.
Results and Dividends for the year The Group profit and loss account is set out on page 52 and shows a loss for the year attributable to shareholders of 20.5 million.
An interim dividend of 3.42p per share was paid on 6 January 2003 amounting to 6.9 million and the directors propose a final dividend of 6.83p per share amounting to 13.9 million, making total distributions for the year of 20.8 million.
Directors Paul Gittens retired as a director on 17 July 2002, Toby Courtauld was appointed a director on 8 April 2002, Robert Noel was appointed a director on 1 August 2002 and Kathleen ODonovan was appointed a director on 1 April 2003.
The other directors whose names appear on page 36 served as directors of the Company throughout the year to 31 March 2003.
John Edgcumbe and David Godwin are the directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves up for re-election.
Mr Noel and Miss ODonovan will retire pursuant to Article 96 and, being eligible, will offer themselves for reappointment.
Mr Noel has a service contract with the Company which is terminable on twelve months notice: as non-executive directors, Mr Edgcumbe, Mr Godwin and Miss ODonovan do not have service contracts.
Details of directors interests are given in note 31 to the financial statements.
Directors Shareholdings At 31 March At 31 March 2003 2002 Number of Number of Shares Shares Richard Peskin and family beneficial 5,260,000 3,310,000 trustee 1,385,000 1,382,000 Toby Courtauld 25,000 Robert Noel 37,000 37,000 John Whiteley and family 31,000 31,000 David Godwin 11,200 11,200 Howard Perlin 2,000 2,000 Anthony Graham 17,200 17,200 John Edgcumbe and family 46,000 16,000 or at date of appointment.
All directors shareholdings are in ordinary shares and are beneficial, unless otherwise stated.
There have been no changes in the shareholdings of any director between 1 April 2003 and 3 June 2003.
No director had any interest in the Companys debenture stock, convertible bonds or loan notes, nor in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking during the year.
Significant Shareholdings As at 23 May 2003, the Company had been notified of the following beneficial or discretionary interests amounting to 3 per cent.
or more of the issued share capital: Number of shares % Liberty International PLC 51,855,660 25.53 Prudential plc 9,537,187 4.70 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 7,441,544 3.66 HBOS plc 6,870,897 3.38 Freehold and Leasehold Properties A valuation of the Groups investment property portfolio was carried out by CB Hillier Parker on the basis of Open Market Value at 31 March 2003 which amounted to 780.0 million.
No account has been taken of any additional value which may be attributed to the portfolio if it were to be grouped judiciously prior to sale.
38 Annual Report 2003 Report of the Directors Annual General Meeting The Notice of Meeting on pages 69 and 70 sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Resolutions 1 to 8 comprise ordinary business and resolutions 9 to 12 special business.
Resolution 9 will amend the Articles of Association to allow non-executive director fees of up to 400,000 in aggregate.
Resolution 10 will renew the authority for the directors to allot up to 67,630,140 ordinary shares, representing 33.3 per cent.
of the existing issued share capital of the Company at 3 June 2003.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority, if granted.
Resolution 11 will authorise the directors to allot equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,077,337 representing 5 per cent.
of the existing issued share capital of the Company at 3 June 2003 in respect of rights and other pre-emptive issues, in each case as if the pre-emption requirements of Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply.
Resolution 12 will renew the authority enabling the Company to purchase its own shares in respect of 30,443,717 shares, representing 14.99 per cent.
of the issued share capital of the Company.
The directors intend to exercise this authority if to do so would, in their opinion, enhance shareholder value.
The authorities granted under Resolutions 10 and 11 will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or on 14 October 2004, whichever is the earlier.
Corporate Social Responsibility The Board is keenly aware of the importance of social, environmental and ethical issues and is determined to apply high standards in respect of these in all areas in which the Group operates.
The Board receives regular reports from the Health & Safety Executive Committee and the Environmental Executive Committee, the workings of which are reported on in more detail below, and in February 2003, the Company formed a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee chaired by the Chief Executive, Toby Courtauld.
The Community The Company recognises that local initiatives are important in enhancing various aspects which serve to further improve and promote central London and supports a number of groups including The Westminster Property Owners Association, London First and the New West End Company in their work to address issues such as planning, transport and security.
By working with Westminster Council, the Company has sponsored the rejuvenation of the area surrounding Market Place, W1, and looks to exceed requirements under planning consents for contributions to local infrastructure and facilities, where appropriate.
The Company has continued with its tradition of supporting staff involved in charitable activities, and charities involved in medical research, the homeless and the community, and, where practicable, allows temporarily vacant buildings to be occupied, at no cost, by charities seeking premises.
Staff and Business Ethics The Company is committed to equal opportunities for staff and encourages them to undertake training and development to improve their skills.
Meetings involving all staff are held on a quarterly basis to keep them informed of matters affecting the Group and to act as a forum for the executive directors to answer questions.
During the year a number of the Groups policies were formalised, including business ethics and tendering procedures, to form part of the Groups Policies and Procedures Manual.
The approval of policy relating to social, environmental and health and safety matters is the responsibility of the Board.
The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good UK index.
Health and Safety Great Portland Estates is committed to managing health and safety to a consistently high standard.
All employees are given specific training, where appropriate, and the Group employs a Safety, Health and Environmental Manager, who reports directly to the Property Director, Robert Noel, to manage and review health and safety compliance.
A Health and Safety Management System is maintained for all properties managed by the Group, and includes on-site inspections, reviews of risk Report of the Directors Annual Report 2003 39 assessments and a regular update of procedures.
A Health and Safety Executive Committee meets on a quarterly basis, chaired by the Property Director, and reports to the Board of Directors annually.
The Committee monitors performance, the achievement of key objectives, the results of safety audits and inspections, changes in legislation, the development of new procedures and the allocation of resources to Health & Safety.
As one of the significant risks to the business is the control of contractors, a contractor and consultant selection scheme is in place under which all contractors and consultants are vetted for their health and safety performance and procedures.
All accidents and incidents occurring in areas managed by the Group are reported and recorded and any appropriate action taken.
A formal investigation of any serious accidents is conducted by the Safety, Health and Environmental Manager.
During the year ended 31 March 2003, there were no serious accidents arising from the Groups undertakings.
Environment The Company is committed to effective environmental management, and regards regulatory compliance as a minimum standard.
An Environmental Policy Statement has been produced and is reviewed annually by the Board of Directors.
This may be viewed on the Companys website, www.
Our Environmental Management System is controlled and administered by the Safety, Health and Environmental Manager, and audited by external consultants on a regular basis.
The management system consists of detailed checklists based upon legislation requirements and best practice measures, in addition to the monitoring of energy and water consumption.
In order to monitor our contractors compliance with environmental legislation and to ensure the energy efficiency of our plant and equipment, maintenance contractors are required to confirm that agreed environmental protection checks have been carried out.
An Environmental Executive Committee meets on a quarterly basis, chaired by the Property Director, and reports to the Board annually.
The Committee monitors the Groups compliance with legislation and best practice across the portfolio, and agrees procedures in place for key environmental issues.
The Groups environmental objectives and targets, along with clearly allocated responsibilities, have been developed in line with the Groups key aspects and impacts identified through our Environmental Management System.
An environmental guidance note explaining the Groups environmental procedures is distributed to all tenants on an annual basis to encourage tenants to adopt similar standards.
A refurbishment policy is distributed to all contractors and consultants who are required to comply with its contents during refurbishment and development work.
Environmental guidance and a purchasing policy are provided to employees through the Groups Policies and Procedures Manual.
All new acquisitions are subject to an environmental audit and new developments are subject to BREEAM.
Environmental training is included in employees induction training.
Employees are also given training on environmental issues pertinent to their work, including sustainability in construction, general environmental awareness and training on the Environmental Management System.
Paper and cardboard used at our head office is recycled.
Toner and printer cartridges and obsolete mobile phones are recycled to help Marie Curie Cancer Care.
Wherever possible, recycling schemes are implemented at properties where waste collection facilities are provided.
Great Portland Estates participates in the Business in the Environment and the FTSE4Good UK index surveys annually.
Charitable and Other Donations During the year the Company made donations for charitable purposes amounting to 76,562: no contributions for political purposes were made.
By order of the Board Desna Martin Secretary 3 June 2003 40 Annual Report 2003 Report of the Directors
