32 Directors Report The directors have pleasure in submitting their report together with the audited financial statements of the group for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Dividends An interim dividend of 8.36p per ordinary share 2002 - 7.60p was paid in December 2003.
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 19.8p per ordinary share 2002 - 18.0p payable on 2 July 2004 to ordinary shareholders on the register as at 4 June 2004, making a total ordinary dividend for the year of 28.16p 2002 - 25.60p.
It is proposed that the retained loss of 13.1m be transferred to the profit and loss reserve.
Principal activities and business review Cobhams principal activities are: the design, manufacture, sale and support of uid and air distribution components and systems, countermeasures, air refuelling equipment, aviation auxiliary mission equipment and life support equipment for the aerospace and defence markets: the design and supply of antennas, aircraft communication and navigation equipment, microwave sub-systems, radomes and composite structures for the aerospace, defence, homeland security, search and rescue and communication markets: the operation, modication and maintenance of aircraft in the aerospace and defence markets for military training, outsourced special mission ight operations, freight and passenger services.
A review of the business, together with an indication of likely future developments, is included in the chairmans statement on pages 6 and 7, the chief executives review on pages 8 and 9, the business review on pages 10 to 21 and the financial review on pages 24 to 27.
Board of directors The current directors are listed with short biographical notes on pages 29 to 31.
They held ofce throughout the year with the exceptions of Warren Tucker, Andy Stevens and Marcus Beresford who were appointed on 28 July 2003, 10 November 2003 and 1 March 2004 respectively.
In addition, Giles Irwin and Robin Clark were directors until 27 July 2003 and 15 August 2003 respectively.
The directors retiring by rotation at the annual general meeting are Allan Cook and Geoff Cooper who, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-appointment.
They have service contracts with Cobham plc and Chelton Limited respectively both of which are terminable by either party giving twelve months notice at any time.
Warren Tucker, Andy Stevens and Marcus Beresford will retire at the annual general meeting in accordance with article 111 and will offer themselves for re-appointment.
Warren Tucker has a service contract with Cobham plc which is terminable by the company giving 24 months notice if given on or before 1 May 2004 and thereafter by the company giving twelve months notice at any time.
Andy Stevens has a service contract with the company which is terminable by the company giving 24 months notice if given on or before 10 November 2004 and thereafter by the company giving twelve months notice at any time.
Both Warren Tucker and Andy Stevens are required to give six months notice of termination to the company.
Marcus Beresford does not have a service contract with the company.
Directors interests None of the directors is or was materially interested in any significant contract during or at the end of the financial year particulars of which are required to be disclosed by the Companies Act 1985 or the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
Details of directors share interests and of their rights to subscribe for shares are shown in the directors remuneration report on pages 36 to 44.
Corporate governance This statement describes how the company has applied the principles of good governance set out in section 1 of the combined code on corporate governance annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Code : it also contains a statement regarding compliance with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code.
The Code has been superseded and replaced by the revised combined code on corporate governance published in July 2003 which takes effect for the company from 1 January 2004.
Directors: The Cobham board currently comprises a non-executive chairman, the chief executive, four other executive directors and four other non-executive directors of whom Mike Smith is recognised as the senior member.
All the non-executive directors, with the exception of the chairman, are considered to be independent.
Board members have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and, if required, independent external advice at the companys expense in connection with the furtherance of their duties as directors.
No external advice was sought during the year.
COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 33 The board as a whole meets regularly during the year to make and review major business decisions and to monitor and test the operational performance of the group in accordance with the schedule of matters reserved by the board for its decision.
There is regular contact between meetings to progress the groups business.
To assist in the discharge of its duties and responsibilities, the board has established a number of committees, the most significant of which are the audit, remuneration, nomination and executive committees.
Each committee has its own terms of reference and these are reviewed from time to time.
Meetings take place on a regular basis throughout the year save in the case of the nomination committee, the meetings of which take place as required.
The respective roles and responsibilities of the chairman and chief executive are clearly understood and the boards policy is that these two positions should normally be held by different people.
In addition to his other duties, the chairman is responsible for carrying out a formal review of the boards effectiveness on an annual basis.
The board and its committees receive relevant and appropriate information relating to the business to be transacted in sufficient time to enable it to be fully considered.
Additional information is made available to all directors if requested and reports in respect of the groups activities and performance for those months during which a meeting of the board is not scheduled to take place are routinely circulated to all directors.
The nomination committee is responsible for recommending new directors, both executive and non-executive, to the board.
In appropriate cases recruitment consultants are used to assist in the process and normally no offer of a directorship is made before all board members have had a reasonable opportunity to meet the prospective director concerned.
Advice was received during the year from Egon Zehnder International and Sciteb in connection with the recruitment of Warren Tucker and Marcus Beresford respectively.
The membership of the committee consists of Gordon Page chairman, Allan Cook, Mike Smith, Jeff Edington, Peter Hooley and Marcus Beresford appointed 1 March 2004.
The executive committee, among other things, develops the groups strategy for board approval, makes recommendations as to acquisitions and divestments, reviews operational activities and manages the significant risks faced by the group.
Membership of the committee comprises all the executive directors and the chief executive is the committees chairman.
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for three years and, under the articles of association, all directors are required to retire at least every three years.
Directors who have reached the age of 70 are required to retire, and not to seek re-appointment, at the annual general meeting following their seventieth birthday.
Directors remuneration: Information on the companys policy with regard to executive directors remuneration, the role and function of the remuneration committee, and details of the remuneration of each director are contained in the directors remuneration report on pages 36 to 44.
A committee of the board is responsible for determining the fees of the non-executive directors within the limits contained in the articles of association.
Relations with shareholders: The company welcomes discussions with shareholders where practicable.
During the year the company made presentations to fund managers both in the UK and overseas and received a number of visits.
Presentations to analysts and others were also made following the announcements of the full and half years results and at other times during the year.
Shareholders have the opportunity to question the chairmen of the board and of the principal board committees at the companys annual general meeting and also to receive at that meeting the chairmans statement as to any significant developments during the year to date.
Information relating to the level of proxies lodged at the 2003 annual general meeting was formally announced to shareholders after each resolution had been dealt with on a show of hands and was subsequently reported on the companys website.
Accountability and audit: The chairmans statement, the chief executives review, the business review and the financial review on pages 6 to 27 contain information relevant to an assessment of the companys position and prospects.
Statements regarding the directors responsibilities for preparing the companys financial statements and the auditors responsibilities for reporting on them are set out on pages 45 to 47.
The directors going concern statement is set out on page 27.
The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control the aim of which is to manage risks that are significant to the fullment of the groups business objectives and to contribute to the safeguarding of shareholders investment and the companys assets.
It is also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the system.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
34 Directors Report continued Corporate governance continued The board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements and accords with the guidance for directors on internal control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
The process comprises, among other things, an assurance programme based around significant risks and key procedures control processes.
Integral to the process are the Group Finance Manual and the Corporate Framework which contain comprehensive policies of a financial and non financial nature.
During the year the group executive committee undertook a top-level review of significant risks and risk management has been embedded into the groups management process through the adoption of a requirement for subsidiaries to carry out formal risk management assessments as part of the annual five-year planning exercise.
In addition, the audit committee monitors the adequacy of internal financial controls and compliance with group standards through a self-assessment process involving all subsidiaries, supplemented by risk-based assurance visits and reviews.
The board receives reports on a regular basis from the executive and audit committees in relation to the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control and has accordingly reviewed the groups system of internal control in respect of 2003.
The audit committee comprises Peter Hooley chairman, Mike Smith, Jeff Edington and Marcus Beresford appointed 1 March 2004.
The committee normally meets on three occasions during the year and the auditors attend meetings twice yearly.
The group financial director attends meetings as required but he is not present throughout.
The audit committee reviews the groups financial statements, internal financial controls and risk management.
It also approves the selection of the auditors, approves their fees and reviews their performance, independence and objectivity.
Compliance statement: Throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 the company has complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code except that, with regard to Code provision B.
1.7, the company did not for part of the year have as an objective the reduction of Robin Clarks notice period to one year or less.
However, he left the company as a result of the reorganisation of the groups structure on 15 August 2003.
The auditors have, as mentioned in their report on page 46, reviewed whether or not this statement reects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Code specified for their review by the Financial Services Authority.
Share capital Details of movements in the share capital of the company during the year are given in note 23 to the financial statements.
Research and development The group continues to invest in the important area of research and development.
During the year the group expended 40.4m 2002 - 31.6m on non customer funded research and development.
The management of each of the groups businesses is responsible for identifying and carrying out research and development programmes which are suitable having regard to particular market and product needs.
Further information on research and development appears on page 21.
Major interests in shares Major interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the company appearing in the register maintained in accordance with Section 211 of the Companies Act 1985 as at 18 March 2004 were as follows: Percentage at Number of Date of Shares Notication AVIVA plc 5,371,368 4.83% Sir Michael Cobham 4,998,200 4.49% Legal and General Investment Management Limited 3,974,292 3.57% Aegon Investment Management 3,578,854 3.22% Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Limited 3,341,046 3.00% Other than the above interests the directors are not aware of any notiable interest in the issued ordinary share capital of the company of 3% or more.
COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 35 Employment The groups employment policies include a commitment to equal opportunities regardless of sex, race, colour, nationality or ethnic origin, disability, and other forms of discrimination.
With regard to employees who become disabled, the policy is to take all reasonable steps, including retraining, to ensure that they can remain in employment wherever practicable.
The importance of employee development and training is recognised and group businesses are required to encourage employees to take advantage of available and relevant training programmes and opportunities for advancement.
The group encourages employee participation and consultation at all levels and also the sharing of relevant business information.
Such an approach facilitates the development of new ideas and practices that add value to the business, promotes team member commitment and helps to focus company and employee expectations.
In-house newsletters, intranet and internet communications, company announcements and team meetings all play a part in this process.
UK employees are given the opportunity to become shareholders in the company through the Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
This scheme will, subject to shareholder approval, be replaced by a similar scheme at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Selected UK and overseas employees may become shareholders through participation in the Cobham Executive Share Option Scheme: this will also, subject to shareholder approval, be replaced at the annual general meeting.
Further information relating to these new schemes is contained in the circular sent to shareholders separately with this annual report.
Further information relating to employment matters is contained in the section on corporate social responsibility on pages 22 and 23.
Environment The group has adopted an environmental policy under which it is committed to meeting legislative requirements, to the prevention of pollution and to the continuous improvement of its environmental performance.
The chief executive has been appointed as the main board member with overall environmental responsibility whilst, at the operating company level, the responsibility for ensuring compliance with the environmental policy lies with the appropriate subsidiary board.
Further information relating to environmental matters is contained in the section on corporate social responsibility on page 22.
Creditor payment policy Payment is generally made by group companies to their creditors in accordance with agreed terms of business provided that those terms have been met.
It is the policy of the parent company that all invoices are paid within 30 days following the end of the month in which the invoices are approved.
The total amount of the parent companys trade creditors falling due within one year at 31 December 2003 represents 35 days 2002 - 36 days worth as a proportion of the total amount invoiced by suppliers during the year ended on that date.
Political and charitable gifts 2003 2002 Charitable 36,304 36,396 No contributions were made to political organisations.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Annual General Meeting The companys annual general meeting will be held at 12 noon on Wednesday, 16 June 2004 at Painters Hall, 9 Little Trinity Lane, London EC4V 2AD.
A circular containing the notice convening this meeting, together with an explanation of the business to be conducted, is sent to shareholders separately with this annual report.
By order of the board John Pope Secretary 18 March 2004
