28 Acquisitions Acquisition summary for the 12 month period ended 31 December 2003 Name Business description Consideration Date acquired Country Group division Harrison division of Design and manufacture of high pressure uid US$10m Nov-03 USA Aerospace Systems Sierracin Corporation connectors for military and commercial aircraft as well as tooling for aircraft manufacturers and providers.
ERA Technology Ltd Provision of specialist high value added, technology- 32m plus Oct-03 UK Avionics based services including design and development, contingent expenses and testing, assessment and expert advice.
deferred consideration of up to 6m Nauticast AG Supply of maritime automatic identication systems.
c3m Oct-03 Austria Avionics Trade and assets of Provision of a 727-based freighter service.
Aus$25m Oct-03 Australia Flight Operations TransAustralian Air Sea Tel Inc Design and manufacture of commercial shipboard US$27m Sep-03 USA Avionics stabilised antenna platforms for satellite data plus deferred communications, television and weather data and contingent in the world.
consideration of up to US$8m Litton Life Support Design and manufacture of air separation systems for US$76m Aug-03 USA Aerospace Systems unit of Northrop military and commercial aircraft, medical and industrial Grumman Corp applications.
Thales Antennas Ltd Design and manufacture of tactical antennas and 6m Jul-03 UK Avionics masts for HF, VHF and UHF applications.
In addition it produces a range of telescopic sectional support masts and ancillaries.
Novatech Designs Ltd Design and manufacture of specialised radio beacons C$1m Jun-03 Canada Avionics and zenon ashers.
Drger Aerospace Production of a range of oxygen components and c25m plus c3m Jun-03 Germany Aerospace Systems GmbH systems for civil and military aircraft.
deferred consideration Atlas Composites Ltd Manufacturer of complex composite components.
2m May-03 UK Avionics dB Systems Inc Design and manufacture of aviation audio equipment.
US$4m plus US$2m May-03 USA Avionics deferred consideration Xybion Sensor Design and manufacture of positioning systems for use US$1m Jan-03 USA Avionics Positioning Systems with optical and radio frequency antenna sensors.
division of Xybion Corporation Orion Electronics Ltd Design and manufacture of GPS tracking equipment.
