30 Board of Directors G F Page CBE, MA, FRAeS, DSc Non-executive Chairman Appointed to the board in 1990, Gordon Page, aged 60, joined the group as managing director of Flight Refuelling Limited having previously been commercial director military engines of Rolls-Royce plc.
He was appointed deputy chief executive in 1991, chief executive in 1992 and chairman in November 2001.
He is a member of the Department of Trade and Industrys Industrial Development Advisory Board, president of the Chartered Management Institute and chairman of the Wessex branch of the Institute of Directors.
He is also a director, and immediate past president, of The Society of British Aerospace Companies Ltd.
He is chairman of the nomination committee.
A E Cook BSc, CEng, FRAeS Chief Executive Appointed to the board in 2001, Allan Cook, aged 54, joined the group from BAE SYSTEMS where he was group managing director of programmes and managing director Euroghter.
He was formerly group managing director of GEC-Marconi Avionics and chief executive of Hughes Aircraft Europe.
He is also a director of The Society of British Aerospace Companies Ltd.
He is chairman of the executive committee.
W G Tucker BSc, ACA, MBA Group Financial Director Appointed to the board in 2003, Warren Tucker, aged 41, joined the group as group financial director.
Prior to joining, he qualied as a chartered accountant, worked at Lazard, held senior finance positions at British Airways and was deputy group financial director of Cable and Wireless plc.
G C Cooper OBE, CPhys, FRAeS, MInstP Managing Director, Avionics Group Appointed to the board in 1995, Geoff Cooper, aged 58, joined the group as managing director of Chelton Limited on the acquisition of that company in 1989.
He is responsible to the board for the performance of the Avionics group.
A J Hannam Managing Director, Flight Operations & Services Group Appointed to the board in 2002, Alex Hannam, aged 57, joined the group as managing director of FR Aviation Group Limited in that year.
Prior to joining, he was managing director of Alenia Marconis radar systems division, a position he had held since 1995.
He is responsible to the board for the performance of the Flight Operations & Services group.
A J Stevens BSc, CEng, FIEE, FRAeS Managing Director, Aerospace Systems Group Appointed to the board in 2003, Andy Stevens, aged 47, joined the group as managing director of the Aerospace Systems group.
Prior to joining he was managing director, defence aerospace, at Rolls-Royce plc.
He is responsible to the board for the performance of the Aerospace Systems group.
COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 31 J D M Smith BSc Non-executive Director Appointed to the board as a non-executive director in 1996, Mike Smith, aged 64, is a non-executive director of P Z Cussons plc, and a former director of BTR plc.
He is chairman of the remuneration committee and senior independent director.
J W Edington PhD, DSc, FIM, FREng Non-executive Director Appointed to the board as a non-executive director in 1996, Jeff Edington, aged 64, was, until his retirement, executive director, technology with Corus Group plc formerly British Steel plc where he had responsibility for product and process technology, the environment and information technology.
Prior to joining British Steel in 1992, he was vice-president, research and technology at Alcan Aluminium Limited based in Montreal.
He is also a non-executive director of AstroPower Inc. P Hooley FCA, MSc Non-executive Director Appointed to the board as a non-executive director in 2002, Peter Hooley, aged 57, is group finance director of Smith & Nephew plc, a position he has held since 1991.
He was a non-executive director of Powell Duffryn plc from 1997 to 2000.
He is chairman of the audit committee.
M Beresford CBE, MAMechSc, FIEE Non-executive Director Appointed to the board as a non-executive director in 2004, Marcus Beresford, aged 61, is chairman of Ricardo plc, a non-executive director of Spirent PLC and a member of The Engineering and Technology Board.
He was an executive director of GKN plc from 1992-2002 and chief executive from 2001-2002.
Left to right J M Pope J D M Smith, M Beresford, P Hooley, W G Tucker, G F Page, A E Cook, Company Secretary G C Cooper, A J Hannam, A J Stevens, J W Edington
