Total property outsourcing providing accommodation solutions BBC buildings do not create a welcoming environment for either our employees or our customers.
We wanted to change that and needed a property partner to help manage our property portfolio and to deliver new and exciting accommodation, accessible by all.
Land Securities Trillium is such a partner Greg Dyke, BBC Director General BBC White City current 4th quarter 2003.
The main and as at 2001 current phase, comprising 2 inset 50,400m of office and The development of a technical space, will house major new facility for the the biggest studio in Europe BBC at White City is and be occupied by some currently ahead of schedule, 3,000 BBC employees.
and set for completion in LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 24 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Total property outsourcing Our partnership with the BBC demonstrates how we can add value to a business.
The BBC can focus on what it does best making great television, while we focus on what we do best managing, servicing and developing property Realising value from Telereal Working with the client Jim D'Sylva transferred to Land at the DWP Securities Trillium last year Sandra Cable manages six when we acquired the BT inner-city Birmingham DWP portfolio in our joint venture buildings.
She has recently with Telereal.
He and his team been responsible for resolving are responsible for disposing of local security issues and has properties that are surplus to worked closely with the client BT's requirements.
A successful year for Land Securities Trillium Department for Work and Pensions In the light of this growth in its requirements, In operational terms, the platform for delivery saw important progress on all our existing the DWP did not wish to use any of its annual contracts.
Financially, we performed ahead of of services under the PRIME contract for the entitlement to vacate a proportion of its expectations, with income growing by 62.1% DWP is now well established.
However, in the latter part of the year, to 658.3m and operating profit by 76.6m to organisational changes within DWP created DWP gave notice of its intention to vacate a 2 139.7m, reflecting a full years contribution new revenue-generating activity for us with number of small buildings totalling 3,600m the creation of three new DWP businesses, from Telereal.
We supported the DWP through over the next 12 months as it seeks to a period of significant business change, and namely Job Centre Plus, The Pensions Service consolidate its accommodation following its the Partnership with the BBC completed an and The Debt Management Service.
This vacation is we have been extremely active over the last impressive first full year of operation both in achieved by utilising some of the flexibility terms of development activity and service year in estate management and the delivery of which was requested by DWP at the capital projects.
To support these new DWP delivery.
The BT contract, operating through commencement of the contract, and which Telereal, had a strong first year delivering businesses we received enquiries from the was priced accordingly by Land Securities 2 strategic asset management and facilities client for some 250,000m of additional Trillium.
Responsibility for seeking tenants or 2 accommodation, some 50,000m of which was service management across BTs estate, and, in sub-tenants for any vacant floor space in the the process, we successfully realised enhanced taken on during the year.
In the same period portfolio rests with Land Securities Trillium, our Capital Projects business undertook asset values, generating financial benefits for and the amount of space currently vacant Telereal and BT.
around 95m of work for DWP, creating 80 across the portfolio stands at its lowest level 2 new Job Centre Plus offices and 50 pensions since the contract began at 12,370m, as processing centres, together with other compared to an annual average of around 2 refurbishment work across the estate.
LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 25 Total property outsourcing Sale of Telereal properties Mobilising the BBC White This year Telereal has sold City development 49 properties at a value of Caroline Finegan is responsible 296m.
This included the for the handover, mobilisation sale of six sale and leaseback and occupation of the BBC properties to Rotch while White City development the remainder were surplus which will complete six to BTs requirements.
All the months earlier than scheduled parties have benefited from the cash generated by these sales.
Telereal In terms of the delivery of our day-to-day Land Securities Development is planning to facilities management services to over complete later this year the first phase of the The BT contract was secured in November 2 2001 by Telereal, our joint venture with The 100,000 DWP occupants, we continue to new 50,000m development for the BBC on enhance and improve our offering throughout the White City site.
One element of this William Pears Group, with a total equity a period of substantial business change for our scheme is some six months ahead of schedule, contribution by each partner of 146m.
During the year under review, Telereal made a client.
The annual customer satisfaction which will provide operational benefits for the survey saw an improved score for the second BBC and improved financial returns for the 27.2m contribution to Group pre-tax profits, successive year, with an exceptional customer Group.
Other proposed developments across largely due to our focus on working with BT to satisfaction rating of 90% being achieved.
This the UK are currently at various stages of maximise asset values.
Since acquiring the BT reflects well on the efforts of all our people discussion as we work with the BBC to plan portfolio, Telereal has sold a total of 49 properties for some 296m, including the sale, working on this contract, and is a testament to and deliver its vision of providing the strength of the relationship between us accommodation capable of attracting the best in August 2002, of six properties to the Rotch and our long-term service partners.
BBC As we announced shortly after securing the During the year, we delivered over 100m of capital projects for our BT customers, and we The first full year of the BBC Property BBC contract, we recognised that the contract Partnership has delivered a series of successes.
would run at a loss prior to completion of continued to work with BT to identify the The 300 facilities management and projects the new White City development.
Upon potential for broadening the scope of our operation by transferring to Telereal further staff who joined us from the BBC at the end of completion of the building in the autumn of 2001 are now integrated into our business, 2003, income from the contract will increase facilities management activities.
delivering services to some 25,000 BBC staff by approximately 30m on an annualised across the UK, and managing capital projects basis, and the contract will move to a Telereal is responsible for managing the valued at some 40m during the year.
Through stabilised position, with a positive contribution vacation and subsequent subletting of vacated leasehold space on behalf of BT.
BT has their efforts and those of our service partners to Group profits in the following financial year.
the customer surveys undertaken at the end of announced that it will be vacating parts of its leasehold office portfolio through restructuring our first year of operation reveal the biggest year-on-year increase in satisfaction levels and relocating certain activities.
recorded by the BBC staff.
LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 26 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Total property outsourcing Sheffield rationalisation existing operations from a We worked closely with the number of unsuitable buildings DWP to determine an located around Sheffield to affordable property solution Hartshead Square pictured capable of meeting their which is a centrally located existing and future service modern office building, and delivery initiatives.
It the adjoining Churchill House resulted in the relocation of which provides a customer facility.
2 This is across the country but the majority New business of the 800,000m former Employment relates to its London property strategy.
Although no new total property outsourcing Services estate.
In addition, a number of contracts were completed in the market No liability will pass to Telereal, save on attractive opportunities are being pursued in 2 2,360m in two buildings in Leeds which were during the year, our new business pipeline has the private sector, where current economic greater depth than at any time since Land anticipated at the time of the BT transaction conditions are reinforcing the need for and priced accordingly.
Securities Trillium started operating in 1998. organisations to focus on their core business.
In recognition of the success of the PRIME In total, we are in active discussions with contract and in the anticipation of synergies In addition, Telereal continues to discuss with regard to potential new property outsourcing 2 O UK the potential for growing the with the PRIME estate, the DWP has entered contracts entailing some 2.3 million m of 2 relationship between the two parties through exclusive negotiations with us, subject to accommodation.
Telereal extending its existing 18 months being able to agree terms, for the outsourcing corporate real estate advisory contract.
Total property outsourcing In 2002, a report on corporate ownership of property by Roger Bootle As market leader in property outsourcing, we have developed the for the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors highlighted the fact capabilities to enable us to deliver a first class solution for customers, that UK corporations own commercial property worth about 400bn, from the development of long-term strategic solutions to the delivery which represents about 34% of their total business assets.
This figure of service through our customer service centres and our network of excludes commercial property worth some 100bn held in Government service providers.
We are targeting all of these markets through Land Securities Trillium by providing a method for public and We work closely with our clients to identify their requirements and then private organisations to procure accommodation in buildings in the to provide the solution.
The range of services we offer combines the same way that they purchase other goods and services.
ownership and maintenance of property, together with the management of services provided by service partners in the areas of This enables organisations to focus on their core activities while leaving catering, cleaning and security.
We are also able to harness extensive the delivery of accommodation and associated services in our hands.
development expertise from within the Land Securities Group to design The need for greater flexibility to meet changing accommodation and build accommodation where our customers require new facilities.
needs, as well as the desire for certainty of costs, make this a viable alternative for businesses that are seeking alternative and more effective ways of fulfilling and managing their property requirements.
