Development creating dynamic spaces By its very nature development in a heritage city is sensitive and we wanted to work with a development partner who understood these sensitivities.
We also needed a partner who could share our vision to regenerate the Whitefriars site in a way that is more appropriate to its historic setting within the medieval walls of Canterbury.
In Land Securities we found that partner.
Alex Perkins, Leader of Canterbury City Council LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 20 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Development Our long-term relationship with Canterbury City Council ensured that we shared their vision for the city centre and understood the complexities of delivering urban regeneration in an historic location.
We have now successfully completed the initial phases of the development, which included the creation of a new department store for Fenwick and are progressing well with the main phase of development Cardinal Place, Victoria.
The Bristol Alliance We commenced demolition obtained a resolution to grant at Cardinal Place, Victoria outline planning consent where we will be delivering in December 2002 for a 2 2 in two phases, 62,000m of 155,000m redevelopment of office accommodation and Bristol Broadmead which aims 2 9,000m new retail space.
to create a major new retail The main phase will be destination in the south-west.
We have made significant progress towards Seven projects with a valuation of 114.4m, A development pipeline schedule is set out on our objective of establishing the platform which were completed and let during the pages 74 to 75.
Including our share of joint for delivering a range of major development 12-month period, were transferred out of the ventures, this equates to approximately 2 schemes.
We continue to evaluate projects development programme.
These were the 708,800m of new development, of which 2 2 in respect of occupier demand, and will Designer Outlet Shopping Centre, Livingston: 119,000m is completed, 250,600m in 2 2 reprogramme schemes if we believe that Neptune Point, Cardiff: Centrapark, Welwyn progress, 22,200m authorised and 317,000m market conditions do not support the Garden City: Cheetham Hill Road, Manchester: proposed.
However, we Almondvale Retail Park Phase I, Livingston: will progress certain aspects of development, Lakeside Retail Park Phase II, Thurrock: and part The development pipeline schedule lists both such as planning and site assembly, so that we of a property at Markham Road, Chesterfield.
schemes in the development programme and are in a position to implement schemes quickly The aggregate surplus on these schemes over proposed developments.
It is only properties in as markets improve or pre-lettings are secured.
their full development period was 24.3m.
the development programme which we refer to We have added to the development programme as development properties in the notes to the 2 During the year we completed 81,500m of the industrial schemes in Kidlington, Oxford and accounts and elsewhere in this report.
2 development programme, started 95,500m of Fareham, together with a small retail new schemes, received planning consent or warehouse extension in Bexhill.
We have Our development programme includes: 2 resolutions to grant consent for 212,500m, removed from the development pipeline a small 2 applied for planning permission for 129,000m high street shopping redevelopment scheme in developments which are completed but less 2 and achieved 52,000m of new lettings.
In Plymouth, and an office scheme at 40 50 than 95% let: addition, we secured outline planning consent Eastbourne Terrace, W2, which is commented developments on site: 2 at Ebbsfleet, Kent Thameside for 395,000m of upon in more detail below, together with the committed developments being projects mixed use space representing our 50% share in second phase of our scheme in Hemel which are approved and the building the project.
Hempstead, where we have sold the site.
contract let : and LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 21 Development Eastern Quarry, Kent Thameside In January 2003 we submitted for Eastern Quarry forms part of our holdings at planning permission a masterplan for Kent Thameside which also includes 360 the 310-hectare site at Eastern Quarry hectares of land at Crossways, Swanscombe in Kent, adjacent to the Bluewater Shopping Peninsula and Ebbsfleet.
The masterplan, developed by Eric frame we have the potential to deliver up to 2 Kuhne, has the potential to create 7,250 houses 10,000 new houses and 700,000m of 2 as well as up to 280,000m of commercial, commercial space demonstrating how we can retail and leisure buildings.
The scheme centres use our competitive advantage of scale and on the creation of five villages each of which development skills to realise value for our will include homes, a school, community shareholders over the short, medium and facilities and open spaces.
At the centre of the long-term.
Governments regeneration proposals for the south-east, Eastern Quarry is located close to the site for the planned new Channel Tunnel Rail Link international and domestic station at Ebbsfleet, which when completed will result in a 17-minute journey time into Central London.
authorised developments those projects Over the last year, we have taken a number of intend to commence construction until preapproved by the Land Securities Board decisions which impact upon the timing of our lettings have been obtained, which has always for which the building contract has not yet development pipeline.
At New Fetter Lane, EC4, been our policy for this site.
we extended leases on the existing buildings from June 2003 to late 2004, while we seek We have two major development schemes due Projects in the development programme are planning consent for an alternative scheme for completion during 2003.
Empress State in 2 sufficiently firm to ensure that reporting offering a range of building sizes which will Earls Court 43,000m is due for completion from period to period provides a good basis widen our marketing options.
At 40-50 in June of this year and 30 Gresham Street in 2 for performance comparison and they are Eastbourne Terrace in Paddington, we have the City 37,000m will be completed in separately analysed in the relevant notes to deferred development from 2003 to around December.
We have recently started to market the accounts.
2010 to tie in with the lease expiry on our Empress State, which is being offered in small adjoining holding at 10-30 Eastbourne Terrace.
to medium sized units through our Landflex Proposed developments are now excluded from This decision partially reflects current levels leasing product.
Our marketing programme for the development programme as experience has of occupier demand and also the results of 30 Gresham Street is well advanced, and we are shown that these schemes can be subject to analysis we have undertaken which shows that, encouraged by the active discussions we are revision.
However, we give an indication of the by master planning the two sites together, having with interested parties.
likely size and timing of these schemes and we can maximise the developable floor area.
their potential impact on cash flow when At both New Fetter Lane and 40-50 Eastbourne Shopping centres and shops discussing our development pipeline, which Terrace, we are successfully extending income We have shopping centre development combines both the development programme flows from the existing buildings.
projects under construction in Birmingham and proposed schemes.
and Canterbury and, during the year, made At Cardinal Place formerly known as Stag considerable progress in advancing town Central London Place in Victoria, we awarded the building planning and other issues on schemes in Bristol, The current market environment for office contract in autumn 2002 and the main phase Cardiff and Exeter.
development in London is challenging.
of the scheme is due for completion in 2005, However, relative to the size of our portfolio, when we anticipate improved market conditions The Bull Ring in Birmingham, being developed we have only a small amount of unlet space in in the West End.
At Bankside 1,2, 3 formerly by the Birmingham Alliance Partnership, schemes which have already been completed, known as St Christopher House, which is will open ahead of schedule on 4 September 2 totalling 14,300m in three buildings.
adjacent to Tate Modern on the South Bank, 2003 and is now 88% let or under offer.
we have started demolition works but do not We are delighted with the progress on both LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 22 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Development The Bull Ring Caxtongate in Birmingham is a As well as its involvement 2 110,000m retail in the Birmingham Alliance, development which will Land Securities is also making open in September this year good progress at Caxtongate and is 88% let or under offer.
in Birmingham where it has This is the second retail now pre-let the entire development to be commercial element of the successfully undertaken by third phase of its the Birmingham Alliance development.
At Whitefriars in At Dundee we completed Phase II of the We completed 41,200m at schemes in 2 Canterbury, Fenwick opened their new scheme comprising 9,800m with pre-lets to Basildon, Guildford, Hemel Hempstead and department store in February of this year, at the MFI, Carpetright, Currys and PC World and we Welwyn Garden City and started on site on 2 2 same time as we launched our initial marketing plan to construct the final phase of 8,640m 35,500m at Basildon, Croydon and Oxford.
A strong response from retailers has later this year.
This will create a regional A further 11,600m is planned for construction 2 resulted in our agreeing terms on a further shopping park of 28,775m adjoining the in the forthcoming year in Fareham.
2 three stores and we will continue marketing 10,200m Tesco Extra store which is now until the schemes opening date in 2005. under construction.
Of our completed industrial developments, 55% is let with total annual rental income of At both Bristol and Exeter, we submitted Despite restrictive planning policies, we have 3.14m secured.
2 planning applications during the period under 18,020m of consents or minded to grant review and obtained resolutions to grant consents across the retail warehouse portfolio, At Hemel Hempstead we took advantage of consent.
The scheme in Bristol is being which we shall implement once we have a strong land market and sold 2.9 hectares of 2 undertaken in partnership with Hammerson, pre-let sufficient space.
This includes 9,400m surplus land purchased in 2001 for 4.9m for Henderson Global Investors and Morley Fund at Livingston.
In Cardiff, we are working in partnership with Capital Shopping Centres Leisure Kent Thameside and submitted an outline planning application Our City Centre leisure scheme The Gate in We have made significant progress on our in Autumn last year for a development of Newcastle upon Tyne opened in November of larger land holdings at Kent Thameside over 2 approximately 70,000m of retail last year and is trading well, with 84% by the last year.
At Ebbsfleet, in which we have accommodation together with hotel and income either let or in solicitors hands.
a half share, we successfully obtained a flexible residential space.
In York, we are still awaiting outline planning consent for approximately 2 2 the planning decision on our 27,500m retail South-east industrial 790,000m of mixed use space including up to 2 2 development proposal following the Public We continue to expand our industrial 455,000m of offices, 168,500m of other Inquiry in the summer of 2002. portfolio in the south-east principally through commercial space and supporting uses and the acquisition of development land in 3,300 residential units.
In January of this Retail warehouses strategic locations with limited land supply.
year, we also submitted an outline planning We completed the construction of We successfully acquired two sites, each of application for 7,250 residential units and 2 2 approximately 33,000m of new retail 2.5 hectares, in Oxford and Fareham for up to 150,000m of commercial space and 2 warehouse space, 94% of which is let and speculative development which will add 130,000m of retail, leisure and community 2 the remainder in solicitors hands.
