Sir Winfried Bischoff 61 Executive director Executive director Non-executive director Joined the Group in 1971.
Appointed to the Board Joined the Board in November 2002.
An original Appointed to the Board in 1999.
Chairman of in 1987 and chief executive in December 1997. member of the management team which set up Citigroup Europe, deputy chairman of Cable and Immediate Past President of the British Property Trillium.
Previously chief executive of the Wireless plc and a director of the McGraw-Hill Federation, Vice-Chairman of the Board of investment management division of Insignia Companies, USA, Eli Lilly & Company, USA, Management of Central and Cecil Housing Trust Richard Ellis.
Chief executive of the Groups Land Ifil-Finanziaria di Partecipazioni SpA Italy and and Chairman of the New West End Company.
Peter G Freeman 47 Executive director Executive director Non-executive director Joined the Board as Group finance director in Appointed to the Board in November 2002 after Joined the Board as a non-executive director in October 2001.
Formerly partner in Ernst & Young joining the Group in May 2002.
Non-executive director of the and, prior to joining Land Securities, Chief Managing Director at GE Capital Real Estate.
Chief Argent Group PLC and chairman of Freeman Financial Officer of Bass subsequently Six executive of the Groups Portfolio Management Business Information plc.
Continents Hotels and Resorts division.
executive director of Invensys PLC.
Peter G Birch CBE 65 Non-executive director 3.
Francis W Salway 45 Non-executive director Joined the Board as a non-executive director in Executive director Appointed a director in 1997 and chairman in July April 2002.
Group Director Investments of Legal Joined the Group in October 2000.
Chief executive of Abbey National plc until and General Group PLC until December 2001. investment director at Standard Life Investments.
Chairman of Kensington Group plc.
A Director of Mithras Investment Trust plc, BBA Group He is chief executive of the Groups Development Director of NM Rothschild & Sons Limited, Dah PLC, EMAP Group PLC and Xstrata Group PLC.
business unit and was appointed to the Board in Sing Financial Holdings Limited and Travellers April 2001.
Appointed chief operating officer in Exchange Corporation Ltd. 10.
Non-executive director Joined the Board as a non-executive director in May 2003.
Previously chief executive of Arcadia Group until December 2002.
Chief executive of Booker PLC from 1998 until 2000.
