Portfolio management managing property creatively We needed to change the way in which we traded at three locations in Land Securities shopping centres.
From the very beginning they were extremely co-operative and we are delighted with the solution they have provided.
They really set the standard for the way in which a retailer and its landlord should work together.
Michael Ziff, Chief Executive, Stylo PLC LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 16 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Portfolio management The transactions with Stylo demonstrate that if you build strong relationships with retailers, based on mutual trust, both parties can benefit.
Each transaction had to be negotiated separately but Stylo are now trading more profitably and we have been able to generate additional income from new lettings.
London Hilton Clive House In August 2002 we entered Last May we agreed a lease into a venture with London extension and refurbishment and Regional Properties of Clive House, the former which allowed us to release Passport Office for the Lord 154.1m of equity from the Chancellors Department, London Hilton and transfer pending this Departments management of the move to our building at property to the venture.
During the year to 31 March 2003, the resilient Rent reviews and lease renewals have been 12 months, have been kept to this low level performance of the investment properties settled at an average of 7.3 % above our as a result of the management activities in difficult market conditions demonstrated valuers assessment of estimated rental value.
This figure clearly the benefits of a diversified portfolio Excluding properties in development, voids rises to 2.1% if all properties under and active asset management programme.
across the investment portfolio are 1.6%, refurbishment are included and to 2.3% Excluding the development programme, which although slightly higher than the prior with predevelopment voids.
investment properties showed a modest decrease of 0.3%.
The increase in value of our Investment properties impact of development Capital valuation surplus deficit year to 31 March 2003 retail and retail warehouse properties, which Investment properties Investment excluding developments portfolio Difference together now represent approximately 50% of %%% our assets, offset the decline in value of our Offices 8.9 9.9 1.0 central London office properties.
For full details of the investment portfolio valuation, refer to Shopping centres and shops 7.1 7.8 0.7 pages 68 to 83.
Retail warehouse 9.4 10.0 0.6 The high level of management activity is shown Industrial 1.4 1.9 0.5 by the 617 transactions rent reviews, lease Hotels, leisure, residential and other 2.9 3.1 0.2 renewals and lettings carried out by Portfolio Total 0.3 0.6 0.3 Management.
As a direct result of this activity, annual rents payable grew by 3.4% over the The above table illustrates how our retail and industrial properties in our development programme have contributed past 12 months on a like-for-like basis.
positively to performance, but our office development programme has impacted negatively.
LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 17 Portfolio management Going Places at Lakeside Cobbett Park, Guilford Customer research has shown Last August we completed a 2 that high street and shopping ten unit, 11,500m industrial centre retailers can add value park in Guildford.
Good to the consumers experience quality industrial space is still in out-of-town locations.
As a in high demand in the southresult we completed lettings east and as a result we were to Marks & Spencer, Borders able to secure record rents for Books, My Travel and Next at pre-lettings on the park.
Lakeside Retail Park, West Current tenants include Big Thurrock.
Yellow Self Storage, BOC and Colbornes.
Investment activity the London Hilton on Park Lane, W1, we entered portfolio management team has been working Investment activity over the last 12 months into a venture in association with London and hard to renegotiate and extend leases in remained modest.
We purchased 122.0m Regional Properties in relation to the freehold developments where we have rescheduled the of assets, which included entering into a interest of this asset.
This transaction returned future timing for redevelopment.
Examples of forward funding agreement with Centros Miller 154.1m of equity to the Group.
this are New Fetter Lane, where we have agreed 2 for a 32,500m shopping centre in Maidstone terms on 22 out of 31 tenancies for occupiers which is due for completion in 2005 and is We sold a further 21 investment properties for to stay beyond their original planned already 70% pre-let.
The average yield termination date, and Eastbourne Terrace, on the properties sold and the equity release where we have agreed a short lease extension Of the 122.0m invested, the most significant was 7.0%.
The FRS3 profit was 26.5m 6.7% with the existing office occupier and are in acquisitions included the purchase of the above book value.
negotiation for new leases with some of the superior interest in the Bon Accord Centre, sub-tenants who have expressed an interest in Aberdeen for 13.3m, and the acquisition of Central London continuing occupation.
Newspaper House, which forms part of our The value of our central London office portfolio New Fetter Lane, London EC4, holdings for declined by 9.0%, reflecting the continued The submarkets in central London have 19.8m.
Just prior to the year-end we acquired deterioration of market conditions and the performed very differently with a more marked a small portfolio of properties on the South nature of this portfolio, where we have a deterioration in the City where we have 12% of Bank in London from Sainsburys for 39.9m.
proportion of properties with shorter than our assets compared with the West End where This acquisition, comprising four properties the average leases but which have medium to longwe have 19% of our assets and where values largest two of which are leased back to term development potential.
A more detailed have held up much better.
Sainsburys, continues our strategy of investing review of our lease expiry profile is contained in properties that are income producing but on page 71.
Landflex which offer medium-term development We are just beginning to market our new opportunities.
We continue to manage our central London Landflex product which we have developed to assets actively, having concluded 75 rent offer office occupiers a more flexible The average yield on these purchases reviews, 23 renewals and agreed 48 leases in approach to planning their accommodation including the cost of stamp duty and the period under review.
The refurbishment of 7 Soho acquisition fees was 7.4%.
leases terminate in our portfolio, investment Square, W1, is now complete, and 43% of this voids, excluding properties under refurbishment, building is now in solicitors hands.
Empress To benefit from the strong central London hotel have increased marginally, but remain at a State, SW6, is on target for completion by investment market and to effect a release of manageable 1.8% excluding 0.2% of property June 2003.
We are currently in negotiation the equity generated during our ownership of under refurbishment.
The central London with a number of occupiers in respect of LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 18 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Portfolio management Warner Bros, Livingston Scott Parsons In Scotland the strength and Gary Sherwin of our retail offer was During the year we identified demonstrated with the the need to improve our introduction of a host of Business Development new high street retailers.
We have Warner Bros Studio stores appointed Scott Parsons to opened in our centres at head up a new unit, alongside Livingston and East Kilbride.
Gary Sherwin to ensure we maximise opportunities for site acquisitions and other transactions.
2 Landflex and, given the decline in occupier We are growing the income generated from In addition to the 18,020m of planning demand in central London, we are pleased with other activities such as car parking, advertising consents, available for implementation as the level of interest being expressed.
and telecoms which this year increased reported in the Development Review, we have 2 from 6.7m to 6.9m on a like-for-like basis.
11,200m of consents, or minded to grant One of our core objectives is to grow this consents on existing parks.
This includes Shopping centres and shops 2 The value of our shopping centre and retail income further.
5,390m at White City Retail Park, Manchester.
properties increased by 7.1% demonstrating good growth from the retailer market and Retail warehouses South-east industrial reflecting the excellent results we have had in The value of the retail warehouse investment The sector has remained stable and lettings properties increased by 9.4%, demonstrating continue to be achieved on satisfactory terms our asset management activities.
Across this portfolio we have achieved 111 new lettings, the very strong growth resulting from our with modest rental growth.
We continue to 25 renewals and 254 rent review settlements active management of the portfolio.
Occupier invest in our existing holdings and improve and investment demand for retail warehouses rental levels, as demonstrated at our and voids are at 1.2%.
We are continually seeking opportunities to reconfigure or redevelop remains robust and this market continues refurbished scheme in Coulsdon.
Our to benefit from supply-side constraints and refurbishment programme currently equates new units to meet retailer requirements and have projects underway in virtually all of our centres.
also the changing dynamics of the retail to 2.9% of the industrial portfolio, ensuring the occupier base.
sustainable long-term future of our industrial and warehouse products in an increasingly The existing strength of the portfolio and low levels of voids has required the retail team to Across the portfolio we negotiated surrenders competitive market.
The programme includes 2 work closely with occupiers to generate and relettings and have taken back or agreed to a major refurbishment of around 10,240m 2 opportunities to improve our centres and take back 27,320m of which we have relet at Heston, Heathrow, which will raise the profile 2 thereby increase rental levels.
An example of 25,520m at an average rental increase of 69%.
of our overall holdings on the estate, totalling 2 This includes small investments at Hendon and 28,710m.
this active approach is the White Rose Centre, Leeds, where, as a result of our activities, we Christchurch, which were subsequently sold at have increased rental values over the last 12 a surplus of 34% after all costs.
We are still increasing our exposure to the months by 13%.
We are pleased that our efforts south-east industrial sector, predominantly to increase our focus on the customer have At Lakeside Retail Park, West Thurrock, we have through development which is reported on agreed to take back several stores and we have in more detail in the Development Review.
already been recognised, as demonstrated by positive results received from recently completed conditionally contracted with Marks & Spencer 2 independent, customer research on our retail to provide them with a store of 5,810m, occupier base throughout the majority of our anticipated to open in 2005. shopping centres.
