board of directors 0011 0022 0033 0044 0055 an internet service provider owned by 4.
David Howell Directors biographies News International, British Telecom and Chief Financial officer United News & Media and had 5 years 1.
David was appointed Chief of strategic consultancy experience.
He Chairman Financial officer and an Executive Director was also part of the founding team of Aged 50.
Allan was appointed Chairman of the Company in July 2001.
Prior to the European auction site, QXL.
Brent of the Company in October 2000.
He this appointment he was Group Finance received the Time Magazine Digital previously served as President and Chief Director of First Choice Holidays PLC 25 Award for outstanding achievement Executive officer of Wal-Mart Europe.
He worked at Asda Group from June 1992 was Group Finance Director of Central to November 2000 and was Group Chief Transport Rental Group PLC and Group 3.
Martha Lane Fox Executive from 1996 to 2000.
Allan is also Chief Executive of GN Comtext Limited, a Non-Executive Director the Chairman of Royal Mail Group plc, subsidiary of GN Great Nordic.
Martha was Group Managing British Home Stores Limited, Cannons previously a Non-Executive Director of Director of the Company until 31 Group and Wilson Connolly Limited, Nestor Healthcare Group PLC from 1999 December 2003.
She was the co-founder Deputy Chairman of Leeds Sporting PLC until October 2003. of lastminute.
com and was an Executive and a Non-Executive Director of BSkyB Director of the Company from February 5.
Clive Jacobs PLC, Dyson Limited and George Weston 2000 and of Last Minute Network Limited Executive Vice Chairman Limited.
Clive was appointed Executive 1997 to April 1998 she was Business 2.
Brent Hoberman Vice Chairman of the Company in April Development Manager at Carlton Chief Executive officer 2003 following the acquisition of holiday Communications.
Prior to that she was an Aged 34.
Brent was the co-founder of autos.
He started his own ight company Associate at Spectrum Strategy lastminute.
com and has been the Chief at the age of 21 and then co-founded Consultants, where she specialised in pay Executive officer of the Company since holiday autos in 1987.
Since then, Clive television and managed teams both in the inception.
Previously Brent was a Senior has grown and diversied the holiday UK and Asia.
In November 2003, Martha Associate at Spectrum Strategy autos business and received various travel was voted Business Person of the Year at Consultants, held the business industry awards.
development responsibilities at Line One, 14 lastminute.
Sven Boinet Chief Operating officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Aged 37.
Ian was appointed a Director of Aged 48.
Agns was appointed as a Aged 50.
Sven was appointed as a Nonthe Company on 20 November 2003 and Non-Executive Director in May 2003.
During has been the Chief Operating officer of Based in France, she is a well respected the 15 years to January 2003, he was with the Group since August 2003.
Previously and experienced businesswoman in both the Accor Group.
During that period he Ian has held senior management positions growth and large scale businesses.
In her was a member of the Executive Board at Nokia, most recently as a Global Vice previous role she was Chairman and CEO and responsible for worldwide hotels and President.
of Vivendi Universal Publishing and has gaming.
He was also CEO of their Leisure held a number of senior executive and Division.
Bob Collier consultancy positions, principally within Director of Geodis, Frances largest road Vice Chairman media and publishing businesses, during transport company and Pierre et Vacances, Aged 63.
Bob has been Vice Chairman and her career.
Agns is currently the the largest French leisure residential a Non-Executive Director of the Company Managing Partner of Act III Consultants, company.
since February 2000, and was previously a a management consultancy rm.
Director of Last Minute Network Limited from October 1998.
Brian Collie as a Vice-Chairman of Saison Overseas Non-Executive Director BV, the former parent company of Aged 49.
Brian has been a Non-Executive Intercontinental Hotels Group, after Director of the Company since February serving as Joint Managing Director of 2000.
He has been Group Retail Director Intercontinental Hotels Group from 1994 and an Executive Director of BAA plc since to 1997.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of 1997, responsible for all commercial both Bristol Golf Club Ltd and Myhotels income at BAAs airports globally, and was Limited, and is also a Non-Executive responsible for establishing World Duty Director of Green Globe Limited, London Free, the international duty free subsidiary Wasps Holdings PLC, Daniel Thwaites Plc of BAA: he was previously Retail Director and Pegasus Solutions Inc. at Gatwick Airport.
Brian is also a NonExecutive Director of Jurys Doyle Hotel Member of the Audit Committee Group plc.
Member of the Remuneration Committee lastminute.
