10466 COMPASS FOLDOUT LOWRES 01 05 04 10:41 AM Page 1 The global foodservice and vending market is Acquisitions New acquisition spend for Growth was particularly strong in North America, With the structural changes that are taking place Welcome to Compass Group Healthcare Healthcare is one Compass Group is the worlds largest foodservice worth over 250 billion, which continues to grow the year amounted to 175 million reflecting though we also had a good year in Continental in the Japanese medical system, the market for Compass Group is the worlds of the major engines of growth as clients outsource to contract foodservice the Groups strategic focus on the organic Europe, and have taken positive action in Japan outsourced healthcare catering is growing organisation.
We specialise in providing food and leading foodservice company in our business.
Compass Group providers such as ourselves.
As the market development of its core foodservice and to position ourselves to take advantage of some rapidly, and represents a significant business vending services on clients premises often using leader we have around a 4% share.
The Group will continue in a global market which continues to build a successful very significant opportunities.
The year was opportunity for the Group.
continually monitor market trends and refine to make small infill acquisitions, whilst focusing tougher in the UK, however, where few contracts continues to grow.
presence in healthcare foodservice foodservice brands that we own or franchise.
our service offering to meet the needs and on organic growth.
In order to further strengthen our expertise in worldwide, through foodservice expectations of our clients and customers.
this area and obtain new operational know-how, The trend to outsourcing is set to continue The most significant acquisition made during companies Medirest and Morrison, We provide great service to customers who are In North America the partnership between Seiyo Food Systems acquired Mediforce and this will drive future growth.
the year was a majority stake in Onama S. p. A. Morrison and the Groups specialist healthcare Group and Eishoku Foodservice Group in supported in the USA by Crothall, choosing to eat whilst at school, in hospital, when based in Milan, Italy.
The consideration for the facilities management company, Crothall, has June 2002 and February 2003 respectively.
its specialist healthcare facilities Results 2003 was a challenging year.
As the 60% stake acquired was 87 million.
Onama again given us a distinct competitive advantage Both companies have strong positions in the travelling, at work or at leisure.
Our ambition is to be management subsidiary.
year progressed the macroeconomic backdrop provides 90 million meals annually from 600 in the market.
healthcare foodservice market and have continued to deteriorate in Continental Europe, catering facilities.
The acquisition of Onama provided us with an excellent base for a truly great company, and to be the standard by as the economies of France and Germany gives the Group a market-leading position in Large contract wins included Crothalls $7 million organic growth.
The situation in France was Continental Europes third largest contract laundry contract at Salem Health Services in further impacted by industrial action over the foodservice market.
The integration of Compass Massachusetts and Morrisons successful During the year we won a number of significant summer.
However, with our geographic and Groups existing operation in Italy into Onama $10 million contract to supply the University of contracts including those with Kagoshima sector diversity, the rapid and effective response has been completed successfully.
During the Texas Medical Branch.
Compass Canada also University Hospital and the Shimonoseki of our management teams and our continued year Onama has renewed a contract with ENI won the contract to provide foodservice for Hospital which have a combined value of focus on client retention, we are pleased to for five years, which is worth 6 million in annual the new William Osler hospital being built by more than 410 million a year for providing report that we have delivered on our goals.
Like turnover and signed a new contract with The Healthcare Infrastructure Company of 2,400 meals a day.
for like turnover growth for the year was 6% and Banca dItalia which is worth 5 million in Canada, with annual revenues of $20 million.
like for like margin growth was 30 basis points.
The hospital is due to open in 2006.
In France In the UK, Medirest has won a six-year contract Full year like for like turnover growth for the UK the business had significant sales successes with Southern Derbyshire Acute Hospitals NHS division was 5%, in the Continental Europe and Disposals In June 2002, following a strategic during 2003, including a 5 million contract Trust, worth 10 million in annual turnover, to rest of the world division 6% and in the North review, the Group announced that it was to with Medica France to provide catering to provide catering and hotel services to the America division 7%.
pursue the disposal of Little Chef and Travelodge 48 retirement homes.
Derbyshire Royal Infirmary and the Derby City as they lie outside the Groups core focus on General Hospital.
Margin growth within the UK division has foodservice and vending.
The sale, to funds benefited from the final tranche of the Granada advised by Permira, a leading international Medirest is rolling out an English Language merger synergies.
Outside the UK, we have private equity firm, was completed on training programme in partnership with UNISON continued to invest in the infrastructure we 4 February 2003 for a total cash consideration the main health trade union to help catering need to increase purchasing synergies and of 712 million.
Proceeds have been used to and cleaning staff who speak English as a labour efficiencies.
reduce borrowings and fund an on market share second language improve their communication buy back programme of 300 million.
Hospitals across London will benefit from Free cash flow from continuing activities 30 September 2003 the Group had returned the scheme.
improved by 20% to 405 million and return on 211 million in cash to shareholders.
capital employed from continuing activities rose by 40 basis points.
Shareholder Returns The recommended final dividend is 5.7 pence per share resulting in a Growth Organic growth has been fuelled total dividend for the year of 8.4 pence per share, by contract gains some of which are an increase of 18%.
This reflects the excellent highlighted below: performance in 2003 and the Groups confidence in its ability to continue to generate strong free Eurest has been awarded a ten-year contract cash flow.
worth 29 million in annual turnover to feed staff at 68 sites of the UK retailer Woolworths Management Peter Harris, CEO of ESS, our Selecta took over the vending for 150 Defence, Offshore and Remote Site facilities machines at Deutsche Bank.
In addition, management company, has joined the Groups Eurest has extended its catering with Deutsche Executive Committee.
Peters appointment Bank in 25 units throughout Germany.
reflects the continued growth of this business ESS has been awarded a ten-year contract where the Group is now the markets leading with Schlumberger oilfield services company provider of these specialist services.
The worth $26 million per annum in the first year Defence, Offshore and Remote Site sector of operation with a potential total annual value now represents 750 million of the Groups of around $60 million.
turnover, which has increased from 60 million over the last nine years.
Brands The Groups ability to develop and operate highly successful brands gives it a great results Like for like turnover unique competitive advantage, both in securing new contracts with clients, and also in its ability growth for the year of 6%.
to respond to the needs of an ever more demanding customer base.
great people The Group has continued to develop its owned brands, which include Au Bon Pain, Upper Crust, great service Harry Ramsdens, amigo, Taste, Naples 45, Cucina & Co, and also to trade with third party great results brands including Burger King, sbarro and Krispy Kreme doughnuts.
Compass Group PLC 01 02 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 11 10466 COMPASS p3 p28 LOWRES 01 05 04 10:52 AM Page 3 Ritazza, the Groups coffee brand, is one of its Outlook The rate of new business wins most successful owned brands and is now continues to be strong and 80% of the turnover trading in 30 countries.
There is a broad range needed to deliver at least 6% like for like of Ritazza formats from full specification cafs turnover growth in 2004 has already been to counter top units.
Ritazza has been extremely secured.
Furthermore the pipeline remains well received within the travel concessions very encouraging.
business, but is also increasingly demanded in the Business and Industry, Healthcare and The Group will continue to benefit from its Education sectors.
There are now 3,350 Ritazza investment to develop the infrastructure needed units in the Groups estate.
to extract cost savings from its businesses 2003 outside of the UK.
This, together with margin Turnover 11,286m Compass Group has continued the successful improvement in our newly acquired businesses, United Kingdom 3,060m roll-out of Marks & Spencer Simply Food in gives the Group confidence that it is on track to Continental Europe & rest of the world 4,664m the UK and now operates ten units in railway deliver a 2030 basis points improvement in the North America 3,562m concourses and one pilot unit at Toddington like for like margin in 2004. motorway service area.
The acquisition of Onama in December 2002 Our People Compass Group now employs completed the Groups strategy to achieve a over 400,000 people in over 90 countries.
market leading position in the major economies Our long-term success will be achieved through around the world.
Whilst the Group will continue our continuing focus on attracting, developing to make small infill acquisitions, the business and retaining great people.
During 2003 we is clearly focused on driving organic growth.
commenced a programme to ensure that all our This strategy is expected to continue to deliver people understand, share and live our values.
substantial free cash flow growth and an 2003 The Groups management teams have been increasing return on capital employed.
Total operating profit involved in unit based training sessions designed 797m before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items not only to communicate our values but also to United Kingdom 378m encourage our frontline teams to generate ideas Continental Europe & rest of the world 241m to improve business performance in terms of North America 178m team working, sales, costs and service.
Sir Francis H Mackay Over 90% of our people have been involved Chairman in these sessions.
The roll-out of our vision and values programme illustrates the creativity, commitment and energy of our management teams.
During 2003 we have developed a new employment brand to help ensure that we meet this important strategic objective.
Great people, Michael J Bailey real opportunities will be launched in March Chief Executive 2004 and has been designed to attract the best people in the foodservice and hospitality industries and to highlight the range of global opportunities that only Compass Group can offer.
We have also entered into partnership agreements with the internationally renowned Lausanne Hotel School and Johnson and Wailes, North Americas leading culinary arts school.
These agreements will give Compass Group management access to these institutions world leading programmes and will allow the Group to attract the very best graduates.
During the year we also surveyed 270,000 of our employees in 50 countries to establish how they feel about us and how well we live our values.
Improving employee retention rates is a key performance indicator for the Group and this survey will help our management teams to understand how to motivate and value our people, and encourage them to give their best performance.
