In partnership 14 The Dorchester Hotel The following pages illustrate how 16 ARD Hauptstadtstudio 18 Abbey Financial Products we worked closely with four of our 20 Conseil Gnral des Bouches-du-Rhne customers in 2003 to help them reduce their costs, improve service levels, access appropriate technical skills and lessen the burden on their For more information and additional case studies, please visit our website at www.
Computacenter plc 13 Our project managers ensure complex projects are delivered according to plan with minimum disruption to the organisation.
They hold a wide range of formal accreditations, including PRINCE II practitioner, ISEB and APM.
The customer The Dorchester first opened its doors in 1931 and has been providing hotel guests with the highest standard of service and comfort ever since.
The hotel is part of The Dorchester Group, and offers a range of services from hosting business events to providing spa treatments and exquisite dining.
14 Computacenter plc IMPROVING CUSTOMER SERVICE The challenge The solution The benefits The Dorchester needed to provide guests with The NeosTV system, which can be customised Thanks to the new solution, guests at easy-to-use, in-room technology, information and expanded as required, is supported by The Dorchester can now enjoy a range of and entertainment services.
As Luke Mellors, in-room hardware components such as PCs, entertainment and business services including Systems Manager at The Dorchester, explains: plasma screens, printers and audio systems films, music, internet, email, world radio, remote Hotel guests increasingly expect access to and a complex back-end network and server office applications and guest services from a a sophisticated entertainment system in their infrastructure.
The entire solution was tested single in-room solution.
The Dorchester is able rooms.
They also expect business services before deployment for its resilience, security to use the system to create new business such as internet access and laptop connectivity.
and ability to scale easily to meet changing opportunities and actively target corporate By providing these services we can be more business requirements.
Computacenter also guests, giving them competitive advantage in competitive by specifically targeting corporate provides ongoing support for the in-room and the luxury UK hotel market.
However, ensuring such services server hardware through its Service Centre, as our guests with the system has exceeded our are reliable, secure and can be easily upgraded well as managing customer billing and internet expectations, comments Luke.
in line with business demands can present a access for the system.
Far too many hotels implement the Services provided necessary technology without the infrastructure Technical consultancy, systems integration, to support it.
project management, systems maintenance and support, technology sourcing.
Computacenter plc 15 ACCESS TO THE RIGHT SKILLS CC CompuNet installed Windows Server 2003 across ARD Hauptstadtstudios server estate, replacing the existing storage systems.
The customer ARD Hauptstadtstudio produces political newsfeeds for the ARD network's nine national television companies and 55 radio stations.
Located in the heart of Berlin, it is one of the German capitals leading centres for political journalism.
16 Computacenter plc The challenge The solution The benefits ARD Hauptstadtstudio supplies its radio Within the scope of a server storage The consolidation and migration projects and television channels with current news.
consolidation project, CC CompuNet took place in a business-as-usual environment Its 170 employees are therefore reliant on a installed Windows Server 2003 across at the studio.
This led to a reduction in the high-performance, reliable IT infrastructure.
ARD Hauptstadtstudios server estate and number of servers.
The studio now relies on 28 Wolfgang Zlch, IT Director at ARD replaced the existing storage systems with a servers instead of the previous 36.
In addition, Hauptstadtstudio comments, Most of our Storage Area Network SAN.
The 250-strong the new SAN brings more flexibility, efficiency 36 servers were becoming obsolete.
Our PC estate was refreshed, with all systems and lower costs, whilst the network migration existing operating system was Microsoft upgraded to Windows XP.
In addition the ensures systems are highly available and stable.
Windows NT4.0, for which Microsoft was entire network and internet access facilities withdrawing support.
In addition, the were replaced and improved.
Services provided management of the IT estate needed Project management, system design and simplifying.
In order to ensure long-term integration, desktop and workstation refresh.
availability and performance, the organisation decided to embark on an extensive migration and consolidation project.
Computacenter plc 17 MORE POWER, LESS COST Using Computacenters Solutions Centre, Financial Products was able to validate its grid computing solution in a risk-free environment.
The customer Abbey is one of the UKs largest banking organisations.
Its Financial Products operation provides equity, fixed income and credit derivatives products on behalf of the company.
18 Computacenter plc The challenge The solution The benefits Creating derivative-based solutions requires By using Computacenters Solutions Centre, Financial Products is now able to manage the the processing of a huge amount of data, Financial Products was able to validate its grid distribution of processing across more than which presented Abbeys Financial Products computing solution in a risk-free environment.
50 servers at the companys London offices.
We OMahoney comments, The technology Its certainly given us competitive advantage.
have to process very complex models, which needed to mirror our production system was We have also hooked up some of our NT can involve as many as 50,000 calculations all ready for us: all we had to do was install the desktops to share processing power on a peerper trade, comments Noel OMahony, Head application and begin our tests.
Although we to-peer basis, and we hope to be expanding of IT for Financial Products.
The processing could have set up an internal proof-of-concept this capability significantly in the coming months.
overhead is extremely significant, and we lab, this would not have been a quick or costThe potential is astronomical, as by continuing needed to find a more cost-effective method effective option.
Using Computacenter we were to add idle processors to the cluster we gain than our existing approach.
able to test the performance and integration of virtually unlimited computing power.
the solution with our IT systems, but in a nonproduction environment.
Services provided Technical consultancy, proof of concept, system testing, performance benchmarking.
Computacenter plc 19 BETTER SERVICE, LIGHTER LOAD For CG13, we integrated the different areas of IT support into a single service team, accessed by the users through Computacenters Service Desk.
The customer The Conseil Gnral des Bouchesdu-Rhne, better known as CG13, is the regional government body for an area that includes the Camargue and Frances second largest city, Marseille.
CG13 looks after social services, transport, the regional economy, the environment, roads, education and culture for the dpartements 1.8 million inhabitants.
20 Computacenter plc The challenge The solution The benefits In line with Frances policy to decentralise Computacenter has integrated CG13s multiple As a result of the new support structure and activities such as schooling and social services IT support functions into a single service team, processes, CG13 has been able to continue from central to departmental governments, which users access via a Computacenter onits expansion, it has reduced the burden on CG13 is increasing its base of 3,700 IT users site Service Desk at the Htel du Dpartement.
its IT staff, and the quality of end-user service by at least 1,000 users a year.
To meet the From here, services can be provided remotely, continues to rise.
Anne Brunel, IT Director at challenges of expansion and provide a higher, or engineers booked to visit any of the CG13, comments, Computacenters Managed more measurable quality of service to its users, dpartements 138 sites.
By committing to Service Desk helped us increase systems CG13 chose Computacenter.
service level agreements, we are able to ensure availability and productivity, while freeing up a high standard of service, working closely our own staff to serve the needs of the with CG13 to define support processes in line expanded business.
Services provided Service Desk, providing incident management, request management, asset management and project services through both remotely accessed and on-site services.
