Directors report The Directors are responsible for preparing the accounts and 2002: 10.7 million being payable on 1 June 2004 to those herewith present their report and the audited accounts of the shareholders on the register as at 7 May 2004.
The Company Company for the year ended 31 December 2003. paid an interim dividend of 3.8 million on 10 October 2003.
Principal activities Directors The Company is a holding company.
The principal activities of The Directors who served during the year ended 31 December the group of subsidiary company undertakings of which it is the 2003 are detailed below.
Brief biographical details of the Directors parent, are the design, project management, implementation at the date of this Report are given on pages 22 and 23. and support of information technology systems.
Cliff Preddy and Mike Norris will retire by rotation at the Review of the business forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will A detailed review of the Groups activities, the development of offer themselves for re-election.
Philip Hulme and Peter Ogden, its business and an indication of future developments is included having served as Directors for more than nine years, will retire in the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5, the Chief and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Executives review on pages 6 to 9 and the Finance Directors Meeting.
Ghislain Lescuyer having been appointed by the review on pages 10 to 12.
Board since the last Annual General Meeting will also retire and offer himself for election.
Results and dividends The Groups activities resulted in a profit before tax of 65.2 million 2002: 55.1 million.
The Group profit for the year available to shareholders amounted to 46.3 million 2002: 37.0 million.
The Directors propose a final dividend for the year of 9.2 million Directors interest in shares The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the year are set out below.
At 31 December 2003 At 1 January 2003 or as at date of appointment Number of Number of Number of Number of ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares Beneficial Non-beneficial Beneficial Non-beneficial Executive Directors RA Sandler 75,000 75,000 MJ Norris 1,271,265 1,571,265 FA Conophy 1,762,758 1,762,758 Non-Executive Directors NJ Cosh 5,000 5,000 PW Hulme 26,577,295 12,272,707 28,990,057 12,872,707 PJ Ogden 42,402,764 1,175,000 42,162,764 15,000 CSF Preddy 5,000 5,000 There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors in the shares of Computacenter since 31 December 2003.
Major interests in shares In addition to the Directors interests set out above, in so far as is notified to the Company, as at 15 March 2004 the following persons have interests in 3% or more of the existing issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Number of Percentage of ordinary issued ordinary Shareholder shares capital Aegon UK plc 6,929,429 3.67% 32 Computacenter plc Authority to purchase own shares Employee opinion surveys are conducted every two years At the 2003 Annual General Meeting a resolution was passed in the UK by an external research company to seek giving the Company authority to purchase up to 10% of its employees views on a wide range of subjects.
Feedback is ordinary shares by market purchase.
No such purchases shared and action plans developed involving employees from were made during the year.
A resolution to renew the authority across the business.
Examples of changes made as a result will be proposed at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
of previous surveys include the development of extensive on-line learning tools, a holiday leave purchase scheme, Creditors payment policy and the launch of a new Quality-based employee reward and The Company does not hold any trade creditor balances.
However it is the policy of the Group that each of the businesses should agree appropriate terms and conditions Similar employee opinion surveys are planned for Germany with suppliers ranging from standard written terms to and France.
individually negotiated contracts and that payment should be in accordance with those terms and conditions, provided Equal opportunities that the supplier has also complied with them.
The Group is committed to equal opportunities, monitoring and regularly reviewing policies and practices to ensure that it International Accounting Standards meets the standards it sets.
No employee or potential employee Computacenter plc will be required to adopt International receives less favourable treatment or consideration on grounds Accounting Standards IAS when preparing its Group of race, national or ethnic origin, gender, age, disability, sexual accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005.
In preparation orientation, or marital status.
The Group is committed to make for this, all existing IAS have been reviewed to assess their full use of the talents and resources of all its employees and to likely impact on our reported figures and to determine how provide a healthy environment that encourages good and the necessary data will be collected.
productive working relationships within the organisation.
Progress and clarity to date have been hindered by the fact Health and safety that most of the key standards have only recently been It remains the policy of the Group that each business maintains finalised.
Consequently, while it has been possible to reach the high standards necessary to safeguard the health and safety some high level conclusions, more time is needed for a detailed of its employees, customers and the public.
This commitment understanding of how the standards will impact our reporting is formally contained in the Health and Safety Policy Statement and review by our auditors.
We expect to agree the opening signed by the Chief Executive, copies of which are available adjustments for IAS reporting before the end of 2004, enabling upon request.
The Health, Safety and Environment Department our first presentation of IAS figures for the 2005 interims.
monitors and reviews all procedures and policies, utilising the advice of external consultants where necessary.
Employee share schemes The Company operates executive share option schemes and Environmental report a performance-related share option scheme for the benefit of The Board remains committed to the improvement of the employees.
During the year, options under these schemes Groups environmental performance and to minimising any to purchase shares of the Company have been granted to adverse effects that its operations may have on the certain employees in respect of 1,908,863 ordinary shares environment.
In support of this, the Company operates a of 5p each.
At the year-end options in respect of 7,313,065 comprehensive Environmental Management System EMS, 2002: 9,768,757 ordinary shares remained outstanding under which achieved accreditation to the international standard these schemes.
During the year, options over 4,067,800 ordinary ISO 14001 in 2003.
The ISO Certificate was successfully shares were exercised.
retained in the UK after a BSI audit in December 2003.
The Computacenter EMS covers the supply, configuration, storage, In addition the Company continues to operate a Sharesave installation, recovery and disposal of information technology scheme for the benefit of employees.
At the year-end, options systems.
Information on the EMS is provided to staff and the in respect of 4,338,478 2002: 3,975,011 ordinary shares system will be monitored and reviewed by the Group Health, remained outstanding under this scheme.
Safety and Environment Department and the BSI.
Employee involvement The significant environmental aspects identified are IT waste, Computacenter is committed to the involvement of all packaging waste, office waste, transport and energy.
Progress employees in the performance and development of the Group.
on environmental performance is monitored throughout the Regular team briefing processes exist in which employees are year, and costs and benefits measured.
encouraged to discuss matters affecting day-to-day operations of the Group.
Employee Consultative Forums exist in each The Board recognises that acting in a socially responsible way country to consult staff on major issues affecting employment benefits the community, our customers and the Group alike.
A European Forum meets when there Copies of Computacenters full environmental policy are are trans-national issues to discuss.
Computacenter plc 33 Directors report continued Performance and personal development Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the The Group is committed to the development of its employees accounts through a regular performance review process.
Managers Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for are responsible for setting and reviewing personal objectives each financial period that give a true and fair view of the state of aligned to corporate and functional goals, reviewing affairs of the Company and the Group, and of the profit or loss performance against behavioural standards appropriate to of the Group for that period.
In preparing these accounts, the job level, agreeing appropriate training and development Directors are required to: interventions, and discussing career aspirations.
The Group Executive Committee has overall responsibility for monitoring select suitable accounting policies and then apply them management development and ensuring that the appropriate consistently: skills are available to meet the current and future management make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and needs of the Group.
Approximately 2.5% of the Groups prudent: salaries expense is spent each year on technical training state whether applicable accounting standards have been and skill development.
The Companys reward strategy is followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed aligned to the development of a performance-related culture.
and explained in the accounts: prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is Business ethics inappropriate to presume that the Group or Company will The Group operates an ethics policy that includes a continue in its business.
requirement for all employees to report abuses or nonconformance with the policy whistle-blowing.
This policy The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting commits Computacenter employees to the highest standards records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time of ethical behaviour in all business and personal relationships the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure whilst in the workplace or on Company business.
that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group Community relations and charity activities and hence taking reasonable steps for the prevention and The Group supports community and charitable projects as detection of fraud and other irregularities.
part of its commitment to the concept of corporate social responsibility and encourages its employees to support such Auditors projects.
Specific charities are nominated by employees to Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in receive funds raised through local and national events, which office as auditor and a resolution approving the re-appointment are then matched by the Group.
In 2003 the Group made of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor will be charitable donations amounting to 96,362. proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
European monetary union The Group has continued to monitor and consider the impact to the business of the euro.
Internal systems for our businesses AJ Pottinger within the Euro Zone have been modified as necessary to Secretary meet business requirements.
