Executive Directors Board of Directors 1 Ron Sandler Executive Chairman, aged 52 Ron has a degree in engineering from Cambridge and an MBA from Stanford University.
His early career was with the Boston Consulting Group, and as Chief Executive of Martin Bierbaum Group and Exco plc.
He was Chief Executive of Lloyd's of London from 1995 until 1999, playing a key role in Lloyd's reconstruction, then Chief Operating Officer of NatWest Group until its acquisition by Royal Bank of Scotland.
He is Chairman of Kyte Group Limited and a member of the Partnership Council of lawyers Herbert Smith.
Ron joined the Board of Computacenter in May 2000 and was appointed Chairman in May 2001.
2 Mike Norris Chief Executive, aged 42 Mike graduated with a degree in computer science and mathematics from East Anglia University in 1983.
He joined Computacenter in 1984 as a salesman in the City office.
In 1986 he was Computacenter's top national account manager.
Following appointments as Regional Manager for London operations in 1988 and General Manager of the Systems Division in 1992 with full national sales and marketing responsibilities, he became Chief Executive in December 1994 with responsibility for all day-to-day activities and reporting channels across Computacenter.
1 2 3 4 22 Computacenter plc 3 Tony Conophy 6 Ghislain Lescuyer Finance Director, aged 46 Aged 46 Tony has been a member of the Institute Ghislain has held a number of senior of Chartered Management Accountants positions, primarily with a French focus, since 1982.
He qualified with Semperit across a range of European IT based Ireland Ltd and then worked for five companies including Groupe Bull and years at Cape Industries plc.
He joined Europeatweb a private equity firm focusing Computacenter in 1987 as Financial on Internet and high technologies and Controller, rising in 1991 to General was a consultant at McKinsey & Co.
In 1996 he was He is Executive Vice President for appointed Finance and Commercial Broadband Access Products of Thomson Director of Computacenter UK Limited SA formerly Thomson Multimedia SA.
with responsibility for all financial, purchasing and vendor relations activities.
7 Peter Ogden In March 1998 he was appointed Group Aged 56 Finance and Commercial Director.
Peter founded Computacenter with Philip Hulme in 1981 and was Chairman of the Non-Executive Directors Company until 1998, when he became a Non-Executive Director.
He is Chairman 4 Nick Cosh of Dealogic Limited and a Non-Executive Aged 57 Director of Psion plc.
Prior to joining Nick, a chartered accountant, has Computacenter he was a Managing held a number of senior executive Director of Morgan Stanley and Co. finance positions across a range of UK companies.
He is currently a Non- 8 Cliff Preddy Executive Director of Bradford & Bingley Aged 56 plc, Hornby plc and ICAP plc.
Previous Cliff has worked in the IT industry for positions held include Group Finance most of his professional career, including Director of JIB Group plc and of MAI plc.
many years as an Executive Director of Logica plc.
He is Deputy Chairman 5 Philip Hulme of Charteris plc, and a Non-Executive Aged 55 Director of CODASciSys plc and Philip founded Computacenter with Acquisition Accounting Ltd. Peter Ogden in 1981 and worked for the Company on a full-time basis until stepping down as Executive Chairman in 2001.
He is a Director of Dealogic Limited and was previously a Vice President and Director of the Boston Consulting Group.
