leaders in our market 24 7 By the end of the year under review, SRH had 23 wholly and partlyowned radio services: operated six digital radio multiplexes and published 43 local weekly newspapers.
In the UK the analogue and digital radio licences are in Scotland, Northern Ireland and England plus Today FM in the Republic of Ireland.
All radio subsidiary companies are wholly-owned.
The group has a 22.5% stake in Kingdom FM Fife : 20% interest in Central FM Falkirk and Stirling and owns a number of radio-related investments.
The groups interests in local weekly newspapers are owned by SRHs wholly-owned subsidiaries, Score Press Ltd, which was created in 1995 to build a portfolio of local weekly newspapers.
Score Press owns Morton Newspapers in Northern Ireland: Kilkenny People Holdings, Leitrim Observer and Longford Leader in the Republic of Ireland: and Angus County Press, Galloway Gazette and Stornoway Gazette in Scotland.
a year of good growth with first-class results listen look Radio Publishing It is just under 30 years since the first of our Score Press was formed in 1995 specifically stations, Radio Clyde, went on air.
SRH is now to break into selected local weekly newspaper a prominent radio player in Scotland, Northern markets and that remains its focus.
We have Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, with an managed to put together a strong portfolio of increasing presence in England.
All our papers in Scotland, Northern Ireland and the stations enjoy considerable autonomy and Republic of Ireland.
Each grouping of papers are able to reflect the view of their listeners is managed locally, somewhat similarly to that their area is the main centre of interest.
our radio stations, with printing presses This belief in local programming sits well with strategically centred in each of the jurisdictions.
our consistent emphasis on the importance Of the 43 local weekly newspapers currently of local advertising sales a policy which has published there are 15 in Scotland, 23 in cushioned us against the worst effects of the Northern Ireland and five in the Republic of recession in national advertising revenue of Ireland.
With the addition of four new titles recent years.
With our own strong national last year we are pleased with the continuing sales force, we are well-positioned to take successful development of our Score Press advantage of any improvement in the national division.
2srh annual report and accounts 2003 07.00 weekdays 08.00 09.00 10.00 11.00 12.00 The annual Cash for Kids at Christmas Appeal on Radio Clyde and West Sound netted a record-breaking 900,000.
Our listeners helped around 75,000 underprivileged children enjoy a better Christmas 2002.
900,000 Car Mart continued to roar ahead, recording its 8th consecutive year of revenue growth.
Telephone lines to Cool FM were jammed when Westlife Northsound moved to its new purpose-built stars Nicky Byrne and Bryan McFadden became DJs for state-of-the-art digital studios, in one of the afternoon.
Morton Newspapers covering local sport a surprise performance at the West Sound studios Gig in the Garage!
Truly a first for SRH... West Sound played an April Fool on West FM listeners, who turned up at Radio House thinking they were entering a competition to see Busted later in the year: and lo and behold, the garage doors went up and there were Busted ready to perform to the small gathering.
When the Tyrone Times launched in 1994, the premier soccer, rugby and GAA teams were all struggling, not only onfield but also for exposure in the towns existing three newspapers.
But just short of our tenth birthday, Swifts have won the First Division, Tyrone are All-Ireland champions after 100 years and Dungannon won the All-Ireland rugby title three years ago.
Tyrone Times prides itself on providing the biggest and best reports and photographic sports coverage for the whole community, with everything from angling to road bowls.
3 13.00 14.00 15.00 16.00 17.00 18.00 The financial and readership benefits that can flow from innovative sponsorship initiatives When the Flame of Hope arrived in Northern Ireland for the have been clearly demonstrated in FarmWeek this year with a groundbreaking rural start of the Special Olympics Downtown Radio was the only development feature that has attracted lucrative sponsorship and contributed to increasing station on Bangor pier to greet the torch as it was brought the circulation.
ashore by helicopter from a Royal Navy ship.
3C Continuous Cool Country goes from strength to strength and was voted the best country station worldwide at the New York Radio Festival for the third year running!
3C is broadcast on DAB digital radio in 12 areas of the UK to a potential audience of over 10 million.
During the year, the Kilkenny People one of Irelands leading regional newspapers appointed a new editor, Mr Tom Molloy, who joined the staff of Kilkenny People from Bloomberg International News Service, previously having worked in London and in New York.
Tom is only the fourth editor of the Kilkenny People since 1892.
34.2% Kilkenny People celebrates digital radio hurling championship installation at Mounteagle in the north of Scotland With much of ntls infrastructure buried below ground level, its easy to forget that ntl:broadcasts core services are delivered from way above the ground.
The new Mounteagle antenna had to project eight metres above the top of the existing 240 metre mast.
Spare a thought for the riggers and engineers who often climb over 300 metres to install or maintain the antenna systems.
The ancient Irish game of hurling helped boost sales of the groups biggest selling newspaper in 2003.
Kilkennys progress in the All-Ireland hurling championship and eventual victory was charted in detail by the Kilkenny People, helping to secure the newspapers reputation as the dominant weekly newspaper in the county and region.
ntl: broadcast Photograph by Martin Webster 4srh annual report and accounts 2003 19.00 20.00 21.00 22.00 23.00 24.00 Radio Borders achieved a record 60% reach in the latest RAJAR which is a remarkable achievement considering it only runs on one FM service.
60% SRH Events teamed up with the Scottish Football Association to stage family roadshows Saturday is Moray Firths fun day with a fast-moving prior to the national teams Euro 2004 clashes.
With quizzes, football challenges and breakfast show, an interactive mid-morning, the Irn Bru live performances by Scottish act, the Scotland Fanfair is now a favourite fixture with Scottish Chart and massive dance tunes with CeeBees The Tartan Army!
and the Smirnoff Experience at night.
During the year CFM Radio saw its listening figures reach Wave 105 has delivered another excellent financial an all time high with a 52% reach, 15.2 average hours performance this year with turnover increasing by and a 34.2 market share making it once again the most 27% year on year and by 49% over the 2 years popular station in the area.
since the acquisition by SRH.
Moray Firths free 4-day pop party Moray Firth Radio celebrated 21 years on-air with Birthday at the Bught, its free 4-day pop party.
45,000 people passed through the gate to see artists such as Lisa Scott-Lee, Fast Food Rockers, Gary Mullen and many more.
5 01.00-06.00 07.00 08.00 weekends 09.00 10.00 11.00 SIRS London has restructured and now has a team In March 2003 the Galloway Gazette and Carrick Gazette were re-launched as full colour specifically employed to target strategic media planners.
tabloid products, having previously been published as mono broadsheet publications.
This change has been well received by readers, with overall circulation volumes increasing by around 3%, and penetration in our core markets up to over 80% of households.
During the year SRH acquired the remaining 49% of The Radio Tay Listeners Charity raised over 100,000 which Vibe Radio Services and now wholly owns Vibe FM was distributed to various individuals and organisations and Vibe 101. assisting over 11,000 children throughout Tayside and Fife.
Vibe 101 has its own Radio Academy encouraging youngsters to gain an accredited certificate in all aspects of radio.
100,000 In August 2003 the Galloway Gazette introduced a computerised advertising booking system, which has enabled us to provide a more modern and efficient customer interface.
This has also facilitated more efficient monitoring and targeting of commercial staff.
Vibe stations producing vibrant sounds Galloway Gazette blood donor campaign Our two new Vibe acquisitions are now Galloway Gazette Editor, Peter Jeal, is pictured benefiting from the SRH touch, with brand handing over car stickers to the emergency new state-of-the-art studios.
services as part of the Gazettes Have a Heart Blood Donor Campaign which aims to see 2,004 donors regularly giving blood in Galloway by April 2004.
The stickers will be displayed in all 999 vehicles locally.
6srh annual report and accounts 2003 12.00 13.00 14.00 15.00 16.00 17.00 Fifteen buses took over one thousand Radio Tay listeners Early next year will see the provision of broadband in Co to Live Loud at Hampden Park this year.
The phone lines Leitrim, thus enabling the Carrick-on-Shannon based Leitrim were red hot when we started promoting listener Travel Observer more technical opportunities, in turn providing and Ticket Offers to the pop event of the year.
further benefits for its ever increasing readership.
Over 40,000 people from the North East of Scotland turned up to Northsounds Free at the Dee, which this year included Shell and BP as sponsors.
The market leader in Scotland Scottish Radio Holdings has 55% market share of all commercial radio listening 55% SRH Events dishes up a dozen unforgettable shows On 27 July, 35,000 people flocked to Hampden Park for Scotlands national popfest, Live Loud.
Acts appearing included Blue, Girls Aloud and Liberty X and the event was later broadcast on television.
Throughout 2003, SRH Events were also busy running Up Close gigs with artists such as Craig David and Dido plus Fanfair Roadshows for the Scottish Football Association.
The Events team rounded off the year by throwing the official Busted album launch party for just 500 lucky winners.
7 18.00 19.00 20.00 21.00 22.00 23.00 Wave 105 has won over the hearts and minds Nationalist columnist Margaret Rossiter scooped the top prize at the Law Societys Justice of listeners in the south through delivering an Media Awards when she was declared overall winner, beating off competition from adult contemporary sound that targets the key national broadcasting and print media.
She won the overall national award for a series consumers across the south.
Our success and of articles in The Nationalist on sentencing policy, juvenile crime and public order offences.
overall efficiency has reached new heights with 92% of our total weekly listening now being delivered by the over 25s age group.
Moray Firth achieved an all-time high reach in 2003 of 58%.
58% Radio Forth has enjoyed continued success in the local advertising market, increasing business by a massive 11%.
The team retain a high percentage of loyal customers across a wide range of categories from Home Improvement and Leisure to Shopping Centres and Motoring and the team remain very confident about the forthcoming year.
11% specialist programming Wave 105 delivering reflecting the interests sound success of our demanding audience Wave 105 operates in the hugely competitive Radio Forth has been associated with the final southern marketplace and has continued night of the Edinburgh Festival for over 20 years its aggressive development strategy by and has played a major role in relaying the maintaining a high profile across the region superb music synchronised with the Fireworks through a combination of traditional abovedisplay via Forth one and Forth2, to the tens the-line marketing activities supported by of thousands of spectators who watch the innovative below-the-line activities and unique spectacle from vantage points around alliances.
This stimulates new listeners to tune the city and the shoreline in Fife.
in and inspires local business confidence in the station.
8srh annual report and accounts 2003 focusing on local and national media markets provides us with strength for a positive future 9
