directors report Activities Resolution 9: Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights The principal activities of the group are in radio and publishing in the Resolution 9 will be proposed to renew the directors existing authority to UK and Republic of Ireland.
A review of the development of the business allot new shares for cash other than pro rata to existing shareholdings during the financial year, and of the position at the year end together in respect of new shares having a maximum aggregate nominal value with likely future developments, is contained in the Chairmans of 166,892.60 representing 1,668,926 ordinary shares of 10 pence Statement and the Chief Executives Review.
each, equivalent to approximately 5% in nominal value of the total ordinary share capital of the company in issue as at 20 November Financial 2003.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual Details of the groups profits, taxation and dividends are set out in General Meeting, or 25 April 2005, whichever is the earlier.
the group profit and loss account on page 31 and in the notes to the financial statements.
The audited financial statements are set out on Resolution 10: Authority to buy back ordinary shares pages 31 to 54.
Resolution 10 will be proposed to renew the existing authority of the company to purchase up to a maximum of 3,334,514 ordinary shares, Dividend representing approximately 9.99% in nominal value of the total issued The directors recommend that a final dividend of 13p per share be paid share capital of the company as at 20 November 2003.
The directors on 26 January 2004 making, with the interim dividend of 6.5p per share have no present intention of using this authority and will do so only if paid on 1 July 2003, a total of 19.5p per share for the year.
This is an they are satisfied that it would be in the best interests of shareholders increase of 8% on last year.
generally and the effect on earnings per share would be taken into account.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual Share capital General Meeting, or 25 April 2005, whichever is the earlier.
Details of movements in share capital are given in Note 21 on page 49.
Summary of the amendments to Scottish Radio Holdings plc Share Post balance sheet events Option Plans Details are given in Note 28 on page 54.
The Board of Scottish Radio Holdings plc the company has made clear its commitment to developing and implementing remuneration Resolutions for 2004 Annual General Meeting policies which both provide an appropriate motivational framework There are a total of 12 items to be dealt with comprising ten items of and which more closely align the interests of the executive directors ordinary business and two items of special business.
The Notice of the and key employees with the performance of the business and the AGM can be found on page 58. interests of shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee has, with the assistance Resolution 1: Financial statements of KPMG LLP, been reviewing the composition of its existing employee Shareholders will be asked to approve the accounts of the company share plans.
As part of this exercise, the plans have been reviewed and for the year ended 30 September 2003 together with the reports of the amendments proposed which will bring the plans into line with current directors and the auditors.
Association of British Insurers guidelines in this area and ensure that the provisions of the plans are flexible.
Resolution 2: Dividend A final dividend of 13p is proposed which shareholders will be asked As part of the review, the Committee proposes to amend the to approve.
performance condition applying in respect of the future option grants under the companys executive share option plans.
Were options to Resolution 3: Remuneration Report be granted at this time the Committee would impose a performance Following the publication of the Directors Remuneration Report condition so that options over 50% of the shares would be exercisable Regulations 2002, shareholders will be asked to approve the provided the Earnings Per Share of the company EPS over the three Remuneration Report, which is set out on pages 23 to 25. year period following the grant of the option exceeds the growth in the Retail Prices Index RPI over the same period by at least 4 percentage Resolutions 4-6: Directors points compound.
Options will be exercisable fully if the EPS in the Under Article 97 of the Articles of Association, Lord Gordon, Mr Matheson period exceeds the growth in the RPI over the same period by at and Mrs Crouch retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General least 9 percentage points per annum compound.
The options will Meeting and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
be exercisable proportionately for performance between these limits.
Given the cyclical nature of advertising revenue, the Committee Resolution 7: Auditors considers it appropriate that should the performance condition not A resolution proposing the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as be met over this period it would be extended to four years.
If the auditors of the company and authorising the directors to agree their performance condition is not met over the four year period following remuneration, will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
the grant of the option the options will lapse.
The base year for EPS will be the financial year ending immediately prior to the date of grant.
Resolution 8: Authority to allot shares The Committee will continue to review the performance conditions in There may be circumstances where it would be appropriate to issue the light of the market conditions applying when the options are to new shares, for example an acquisition where it is appropriate for be granted.
the consideration to be settled in whole or in part by the issue of new In the current economic climate, the Committee believes that this shares.
Your directors therefore seek authority, under Section 80 of the performance condition is a challenging target and that the plans as Companies Act 1985, to issue new ordinary shares during the period amended will successfully align the interests of the employees and from the date of the passing of the resolution to the date of the next executive directors and other key executives with those of shareholders, Annual General Meeting, or 25 April 2005, whichever is the earlier.
whilst at the same time giving effect to the spirit of current published The maximum amount which the directors may allot in terms of institutional shareholder guidelines and the Combined Code on Resolution 8 is 487,147.30 representing 4,871,473 ordinary shares of corporate governance.
10 pence each equivalent to approximately 14.6% in nominal value of the total share capital of the company in issue as at 20 November 2003.
20 srh annual report and accounts 2003 Resolution 11: The Scottish Radio Holdings plc Company Share Staff policies Option Plan 1998 CSOP SRH has again maintained its investment in its employees, in particular The grant of options in the support, development and retention of this valuable resource.
Under the current rules of the CSOP options may not be granted to The group places considerable value on the contribution of its employees who are within two years of retirement: this is to be reduced employees and continues to encourage the development of employee to one year.
Management meets regularly with employees to discuss matters of mutual interest and to provide It is proposed that the rules will be amended to enable the Trustee opportunities for employees to contribute to the success of the business.
of the Scottish Radio Holdings plc Employee Benefit Trust the Trustee The involvement of employees in the company is also encouraged to subscribe for ordinary shares for the purposes of the CSOP: shares through the employee share scheme.
may not be subscribed at less than their nominal value.
Alternatively the Trustee may at any time acquire existing shares for the purposes of the Employee communications are a high priority and regular briefing CSOP.
If the plans were to be operated using new issue shares this could meetings together with the use of e-mail and notice boards ensures have the effect of reducing the distributable reserves of the group.
that all employees are informed about the groups trading and financial situation and other matters of concern to them.
Employees can also find Limitations on the grant of options out more information on the group through the SRH web sites a list of The rules of the CSOP contain maximum permitted limits which state the which can be found on pages 56 and 57 and through the Intranet which level of options which can be granted to an individual in aggregate has created more effective communication within the group.
The Intranet under both the CSOP and the Executive Scheme in a given period of time is a vital tool in ensuring that the group policies, which are geared to measured by reference to the value of underlying shares.
The existing supporting employees needs during their employment with SRH, are individual limit of four times earnings in ten years is to be replaced by readily accessible.
a new limit of one and a half times base salary in any one financial The groups policy is that where it is reasonable and practical within year.
In addition, in exceptional circumstances for example, to assist existing legislation, all employees, including those who are disabled, in the recruitment of a senior executive of the appropriate calibre the are treated in the same way in matters relating to employment, training, Committee may grant options over up to two and a half times base career development and promotion.
Employees who become disabled salary.
during the period of their employment will be retained wherever The rules of the CSOP contain limits on the percentage of share capital possible and encouraged to develop their careers.
Employees continue over which options to subscribe may be granted.
To align the rules of to be supported through the implementation of further group policies, the CSOP with the latest ABI guidelines, the company will amend the including the Public Interest Disclosure Policy and a Car Policy.
SRH has CSOP to remove the 3% limit on the percentage of the share capital enjoyed the satisfaction, however, of pre-empting legislation such as over which options to subscribe may be granted under the companys the Employment Equality Act through the progressive policies instigated discretionary share option plans in any three year period.
The other in previous years, introduced with the aim of preventing any form of existing limits in the rules of 5% in 10 years for the companys discrimination within the workplace.
discretionary share option plans and 10% in 10 years for all of the Throughout 2003, there has been an ongoing investment in the companys plans will remain.
Sales teams across the group have benefited from a range of training sessions: managers have attended Exercise and lapse provisions relevant one day courses and Voice Training days have been delivered The rules of the CSOP will be amended to clarify that options will only be across each of the radio stations.
exercisable if and to the extent that any performance conditions have been satisfied.
If an option holder ceases employment before an option The company operates a defined contribution pension scheme open is exercisable in full, the option will only be exercisable to the extent that to all of the groups UK employees with more than six months service.
any performance condition imposed on the date of grant has been All defined benefit schemes have now been closed to new entrants achieved.
Upon a change of control of the company options will be and membership of the new defined contribution scheme is exercisable on a pro-rata basis, taking account of the extent to which encouraged amongst all employees.
any performance condition has been satisfied or any vesting period The IT policy of the SRH group is to use its chosen IT systems to help the has elapsed.
business run more efficiently: to encourage users to use IT systems both In addition, the current rules provide that, to the extent they are innovatively and responsibly: and so to foster enjoyment in the workplace exercisable, options will expire on the latest of the first anniversary of the whilst also providing responsible guidance for the benefit of all.
The policy employee ceasing employment, 42 months following grant of the option document also details activities that are specifically prohibited: these and 42 months following the participants last option exercise.
The rules include sending or downloading content that may cause distress, sexual, will be amended to provide that options will only remain exercisable racial or other harassment or discrimination.
IT users have been made for six months following cessation of employment.
A new rule will be aware that failure to comply with the policy may result in disciplinary inserted to provide that options will lapse when a performance condition action and all employees and IT users are asked to sign to confirm that ceases to be achievable.
they have read, understood and agree to abide by this policy.
A particular risk with both press and radio is libel and or slander claims Resolution 12: The Scottish Radio Holdings plc Executive Share and although these are both insured risks, all radio and press operating Option Scheme 1998 the Executive Scheme companies have procedures in place whereby potentially contentious This resolution empowers the directors to make the same changes to the issues are checked first with external solicitors before being printed or Executive Scheme as outlined for the CSOP under Resolution 11 above.
Proceedings Political donations Following best practice and as done last year, we will, at the meeting, Consistent with its policy on this matter the group made no political be indicating the level of proxies lodged on each resolution together donations during the financial year.
with the balance for and against each resolution.
After the meeting we will be announcing the results to the London Stock Exchange, writing Charitable donations to all shareholders and posting the results on our corporate website, The group made no charitable donations during the year.
Votes cast at the meeting will also be posted on 1.64m 2002 1.25m was generated for local charitable causes this website.
by SRH group companies through organising or supporting various fund-raising events.
21 directors report continued Directors and directors shareholdings The directors during the period together with their respective shareholdings in the company are shown below.
At 30 September 2003 At 30 September 2002 Number of ordinary 10p shares Number of ordinary 10p shares Profit Profit Personal Sharing Share Personal Sharing Share holding plan Options holding plan Options Lord Gordon of Strathblane CBE 26,194 26,194 Hamish Grossart 70,700 70,700 Richard Findlay 299,345 461 105,000 268,877 929 135,000 Alan Wilson 17,548 125 16,629 17,386 287 16,117 David Goode 7,718 313 69,500 7,410 621 69,500 Sunny Crouch 2,000 2,000 Andrew Irvine MBE 4,000 4,000 John McColgan 138,190 138,190 Jamie Matheson 1,100 1,100 Sandy Orr 3,300 3,300 570,095 899 191,129 539,157 1,837 220,617 There were no changes in the directors registered interests in the shares of the company during the period from 30 September 2003 to 20 November 2003.
Further details concerning the share options shown above are given on page 25.
Substantial Shareholdings On 20 November 2003, the following interests representing 3% or more of the issued share capital of the company had been notified to the company: No of ordinary % 10p shares held Held SMG plc 9,729,361 29.15 D C Thomson & Co 3,480,000 10.43 Aviva plc 2,078,786 6.23 Framlington Investment Management 1,558,500 4.67 Total of substantial shareholdings 16,846,647 50.47 The total number of shares in issue at 30 September 2003 was: 33,378,527 The total number of shares in issue at 20 November 2003 was: 33,378,527 On behalf of the Board Jane E A Tames Company Secretary Clydebank Business Park Clydebank Glasgow G81 2RX 20 November 2003 22 srh annual report and accounts 2003
