"Summary of valuers report To the Directors of Shaftesbury PLC In accordance with your instructions, we have undertaken a valuation of the relationships between DTZ and the Company other than the valuation various commercial and residential freehold and long leasehold property instructions relate to our appointments as property asset managers at interests as at 30th September 2003 the ""date of valuation"" held by Wellington House and at 13 14 Upper St Martins Lane, where we are Shaftesbury PLC the ""Company"", as referred to in our valuation report advising on a lease renewal."
"dated 14th November 2003 ""our Report""."
"DTZ Debenham Tie Leung is a wholly owned subsidiary of DTZ Holdings All properties have been subject to external inspections between August and plc the ""Group""."
In the Groups financial year to 30 April 2003, the November 2003 and a number were subject to internal inspections.
proportion of total fees payable by the Company to the total fee income of the Group was less than 5%.
"It is not anticipated that this situation will vary The valuations have been made in accordance with the appropriate sections in terms of our financial year to 30 April 2004. of the current Practice Statements ""PS"", and United Kingdom Practice Statements ""UKPS"" contained within the RICS Appraisal and Valuation A full explanation of the Assumptions made in our valuation and details of Standards, 5th Edition the ""Manual""."
The valuation has been undertaken the sources of information are contained within our Report.
by external valuers, qualified for the purpose of the valuation.
We have measured certain of the properties, or parts of properties, either on In accordance with the provisions of Guidance Note 3 of the RICS Appraisal site or by scaling from floor plans.
The Company or its managing agents have and Valuation Standards, in undertaking our valuation, we have lotted provided us with the floor areas of the remaining properties or parts of together certain individual properties to form a separate property a properties.
"""Property"" or ""Properties"" in the manner we consider to be most likely to We have read the majority of leases and related documents provided to us in be adopted in the case of an actual sale."
We consider that lotting the respect of the commercial properties.
Where we have not read leases we properties together on the basis reflected in our valuation would allow a have relied on tenancy information provided by the Company.
purchaser to capitalise on the estate management advantages and Certain properties were subject to works of repair or refurbishment at opportunities available from such comprehensive ownership.
30th September 2003, or were subject to outstanding retentions and fees in A high proportion of the total value of the Companys properties and respect of projects already completed at that date.
In these instances, the Properties is accounted for by properties and Properties situated in adjacent Company advised us of the amount of the outstanding costs.
However, we and or adjoining locations in three specific areas of the West End of have been advised by the Company that accrual is made in its financial London: Carnaby Street and its environs, Chinatown and the adjoining area statements as at 30th September 2003, for the costs to complete these projects immediately west of Wardour Street south of its junction with Shaftesbury or settle outstanding retentions and fees.
Accordingly, we have not deducted Avenue, and the areas around Seven Dials in the western part of Covent these outstanding sums from our valuations.
The total amount of such costs is Garden.
These areas are all dominated by retail and restaurant uses.
In our 4,395,648 and details of the individual sums are included in our Report.
opinion, at the date of valuation, this particular unusual confluence of As referred to above, we have lotted together certain individual properties to ownership and use characteristics may cause some prospective purchasers form a separate Property or separate Properties.
In the case of one Property to regard parts of the portfolio when combined as having a greater value which comprises a number of individual properties, the majority of such than the aggregate of the individual values of the properties and Properties properties are held freehold but certain of them are held on long leases.
In which are included in our Report.
order to divide our valuation of this Property between the categories of As required by the provisions of the Manual, in undertaking our valuations, freehold and long leasehold, we have undertaken a notional apportionment we have valued each property or Property separately, rather than valuing the of value between the freehold elements and the long leasehold elements portfolio as a whole or in combinations of parts.
"The ""total"" valuation figure which together comprise the relevant Property."
The amounts arising from below is the aggregated value of the separate properties or Properties within this notional apportionment of value have been included in the figures the various categories of tenure referred to below.
representing the freehold and long leasehold categories below.
The amounts All valuations were on the basis of Market Value.
We have assessed Market arising from the notional apportionment do not themselves represent the Value in accordance with PS 3.2 of the Manual.
Market Value of the two elements.
We have not made any allowance for vendors sale costs nor for any tax The Company owns a number of properties on a freehold basis where it also liabilities which may arise upon the disposal of any of the properties or holds long leasehold interests within the freehold and has not merged the Properties.
We have made deductions to reflect purchasers normal interests.
For the purposes of the freehold long leasehold split below, we acquisition costs.
have included such properties within the freehold category.
In accordance with UKPS 5.4, we are required to make certain disclosures in connection with this valuation instruction and our relationship with the Company.
Sean Wordley is the signatory of the Valuation Report.
This is the first year that he has been the signatory.
DTZ Debenham Tie Leung has been carrying out this valuation instruction for the Company for a continuous period since 1996.
We also undertake valuations of certain of the Companys properties for other purposes such as secured lending and for inclusion in shareholders circulars.
Currently the only fee earning Page 32 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003
