22 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Britannia Oyster Point Points of note 1 Former brownfield site remediated for life sciences development Business Park South San Francisco, CA 2 Master-planned life sciences campus 3 Premier location adjacent to Interstate Highway 101 4 Strategic location in the heart of the San Francisco Peninsula biotech cluster Britannia Pointe Points of note 1 Cytokinetics, is a rapidly-growing biotechnology company Grand Business Park focusing on small molecule drugs targeting cancer and other South San Francisco, CA disease vectors 2 The building is a sophisticated life sciences facility incorporating state-of-the-art systems to support drug research and development 3 The Britannia Pointe Grand Business Park includes 11 life sciences facilities totalling 630,000 sq.
ft Slough Estates expertise in life sciences allows them to understand our technical needs Luis Bayol, Treasurer, Tularik Inc. 23 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 As part of its general strategy to expand and to Cytokinetics Building consolidate its life sciences portfolio in selected Britannia Pointe Grand Business Park markets, Slough acquired the 22-acre Britannia Oyster South San Francisco, CA Point site in early 2000.
In late 2000, the City of South With the launch of the life sciences strategy in 1994, San Francisco approved the masterplan comprising a Slough initially focused on the development and ownership seven building, 580,000 sq.
ft. life sciences campus set of life sciences facilities in the Bay Area and San Diego.
In in an attractive, bay-side environment.
early 1997, the acquisition of a four-building, 178,000 sq.
ft. project with 11 acres of vacant land in South San Francisco Construction commenced in 2001 and six buildings, enabled Slough to establish a significant presence in one totalling 480,000 sq.
ft. have been completed to date.
of the strongest biotechnology clusters in the US.
Over the Five of the buildings are currently occupied by Tularik Inc, next few years, Slough acquired an additional 12 acres Rigel Inc, and Raven Biotechnologies Inc.
The facilities of contiguous property and developed another seven accommodate sophisticated biotechnology companies life sciences buildings totalling 453,000 sq.
ft. and are equipped with state-of-the-art mechanical and electrical systems, chemistry and biology laboratories, The engineering and design of the new buildings continued cold rooms, gas supply and other components designed to the architectural themes of the original development, but support biotechnology research and development activities.
also emphasised efficient and functional space.
As part of the master plan for Britannia Pointe Grand, several derelict buildings on the west side of the business park were demolished and the sites redeveloped into biotech facilities.
Cytokinetics respect the understanding, experience and professionalism that Slough Estates brings to the development and management of bioscience facilities.
Dr James H Sabry, MD, PhD, President and CEO outside the Cytokinetics Dr James H Sabry, MD, PhD, building at Brittania Pointe Grand.
President and CEO, Cytokinetics 24 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Pegasus Park Points of note 1 Rezoned from industrial to office park Belgium 2 Linked to motorway, train station, bus routes and international airport 3 Repeat business from satisfied customers 4 Environment, amenities, accessibility 5 On-site management team We chose Slough Estates because they provided us with a lease in the real sense.
Like us, they believe in a flexible framework Jan Verijke, Facility Manager Deloitte & Touche, Belgium Above Building III, Pegasus Pegasus Park is a high quality Park II Pre-leased to Deloitte & Touche office park and the high levels Left In May 2003, Slough hosted an analysts visit of occupancy are testament to Brussels in order to demonstrate the success of Pegasus Park.
to this and the management teams leasing efforts Credit Suisse First Boston Pegasus Park is the premier office park in Belgium and Office parks depend for their success on quality of building amongst the finest in Continental Europe.
and environment, location and transport links and on the amenities provided.
Pegasus Park scores well on all these The tenant line-up is impressive with Cisco Systems, DHL, points.
Respected local architects such as Jaspers and fide Johnson Controls, McDonalds, KBC Bank, Deloitte & Touche Borman have designed buildings of the highest quality and Volkswagen amongst the instantly recognisable and which are complemented by an infrastructure and multinational companies who have chosen to locate their landscaping which are now complete.
Of these companies, Cisco, Deloitte & Touche, DHL and Johnson Controls have all expanded Few developments can be as well served by a choice of their operations since locating on Pegasus Park.
transport links that includes direct access to motorway, train station and several bus stops as well as being only The 18 ha park is the result of a concerted land assembly minutes away from an international airport.
over 10 years, comprising seven different land purchases.
m. of office accommodation has been Amenities on the Park have been bolstered by the four developed and a further 170,000 sq.
star NH Hotel which opened on the Park in 2001 and which provides accommodation, restaurant, bar and Slough has benefited from changes to the zoning plan as conference facilities.
Additional conference facilities the local authorities have gradually increased the density of are provided by the Regus Business Centre.
office development allowed in the Airport location.
The most recent change will permit buildings with up to eight upper floors on what had traditionally been an industrial zone.
