08 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Market overview To talk of the property market can be misleading as even in the UK there is not one market but a number of different markets, defined by both sector and region making it hard to generalise With property investments To talk of the property market can be UK property misleading as even in the UK there is not In 2003, UK commercial property has finally in the UK, Continental Europe one market but a number of different markets, lost its position at the top of the league of all and North America it is vital for defined by both sector and region, making it investment asset classes.
In the previous three Slough Estates to have a clear hard to generalise.
Further, successful property years commercial property outperformed view not only of the global investment is ultimately about finding the other asset classes, but in 2003 all property best locations within each sub-market and sub-sectors fell behind the FTSE All Share Index.
property market but also the our excellent local management initiates all Within these sub-sectors of the UK property global economic fundamentals investment selection decisions.
However, with market, retail performed the best with total that are driving these sub-markets.
this proviso the Board maintains a close view returns of some 16.2 per cent, whereas In 2003, Slough Estates has on the macro-economic environment to help industrial showed double-digit returns of 11.96 it decide on the allocation of investment funds.
per cent and offices just low single-digit retained Capital Economics CE returns see Chart B below.
to advise us on economic issues World economy and to ensure that we are basing The world economy has been split in two In what have been challenging occupational our investment decisions on in 2003 with only patchy recovery.
The US property markets, what has been interesting is sound economic forecasts.
and Japan have grown strongly whereas there that property values have held up well despite has been only marginal GDP growth across the fall in rental values.
The continuing decline the euro-zone, in particular Germany has in yields is caused by the fact that property remained weak.
The UK, Slough Estates main investors are chasing a limited supply of market, has weathered the recent economic property so driving up values.
Chart C shows slowdown quite well and although interest the IPD equivalent yields from January 2002 to rates are expected to rise CE does not expect February 2004 and illustrates clearly that yields these rises to be as fast as the market has have been falling in the office and industrial discounted.
We therefore expect the UK sectors as well as in the booming retail market.
property market to perform more strongly It seems that this strong investment market in 2004 than it has in the last two years has been driven by the fact that the yield still as business confidence increases.
exceeds the cost of funds by a considerable margin.
500 FTSE Retail Industrial All Office 20 year FTSE All share property guilts United States Euro-zone Japan All share 09 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 emergence of overseas investors in the UK Commentators have suggested that Slough to avoid deflation in Germany.
However, markets who are attracted to the UK as it is Estates might be one of the main beneficiaries many of the forward-looking business the largest and most liquid European market of a PIF structure as it has low gearing and confidence indicators in the euro-zone providing the best total returns.
In particular, mainly unsecured debt.
show signs of improvement but as yet German Open Ended Funds have been a major this has not been demonstrated.
investor in the UK in the last few years.
The CE forecast of total returns for these broad property sectors is set out below: The US In rental terms it is encouraging to see a The US economy has demonstrated strong Per cent 2004 2005 2006 bottoming out in rental value growth in the activity in 2003 and in particular in Q3 it middle of 2003 after a difficult year in 2002.
All offices 6.6 8.8 10.4 showed 8.2 per cent growth quarter on Looking at Chart D, which shows the IPD quarter annualised growth.
CE expects this All retail 8.8 7.9 10.0 all property annual and monthly rental value growth to remain strong in 2004.
All industrial 9.5 10.4 11.3 growth, it shows that rental value growth is no Subject to the aforementioned comments longer negative and the recent improvements Furthermore, it is agreed that it is seeing outlined above in respect of the performance of in overall rental value growth gives grounds strong growth as a result of the tax cuts which individual markets, we are encouraged by the for optimism for 2004 and beyond.
have led to a strong increase in consumer forecast performance of the industrial numbers.
CE believes that this strong retail The other major driver in the UK property sales growth is unsustainable as it is not The euro-zone market has been the political debate over matched by broader consumer confidence The euro-zone economies have seen some tax transparent vehicles Property Investment and it is likely that consumption will slow in pick-up and in particular Germany, Italy and Funds PIFs.
The UK Government has 2004 as the benefits of the tax cuts fade.
2004 The Netherlands are pulling out of recession indicated its interest in these vehicles which is an election year in the US and some belt so that overall euro-zone GDP growth for have been successfully introduced in the US, tightening can be expected post the election.
France, Belgium, Australia and other markets.
In the 2004 Budget the UK Government CE remains cautious about growth in the announced a consultation process to find the euro-zone in 2004 and their forecasts suggest best structure for the UK property sector and that interest rates will remain at two per cent Slough Estates will be putting forward its until 2005 as the Central Bank attempts views in this consultation process.
