14 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Your vision shared In the following pages we illustrate how Slough Estates has helped our clients to realise their own very particular vision 15 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Let us share your vision 16 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 240-252 Bath Road Points of note 1 Retaining existing occupiers and helping them to improve Slough their business 2 A flexible approach to lease surrenders 3 Improved asset value by redeveloping old, redundant buildings 4 Adding value by securing a change of use Sloughs flexible approach to lease surrenders made our decision to move to 250 Bath Road much less complicated Andrew Mullins, Communications Director LG Electronics 17 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 This is a new development of three office buildings The pre-let to LG Electronics involved the surrender of their which adjoins the West Wing of Slough Estates existing building on the Bath Road which, together with the headquarters.
adjoining office building occupied by Fiat, is earmarked for future office redevelopment.
As part of the negotiations The project involved the redevelopment of three old with LG Electronics, the company also acquired 245 industrial buildings with office frontages onto the Bath Road.
Buckingham Avenue, the largest and final unit in the One of the buildings was occupied, on a temporary basis, second phase of the Buckingham Centre redevelopment.
by Slough Estates for the storage of construction materials.
The second building had been occupied by Celltech which As part of the pre-let to Cubist the Investment Team relocated to a new facility on the Bath Road.
The third agreed to accept the surrender of their existing property building had been occupied by Xenova, which relocated on payment of a substantial premium.
to a modern building on the Trading Estate.
The speculative office building at 240 Bath Road is The redevelopment of 240 to 252 Bath Road also involved currently under offer to Fiat, another occupier on the the demolition of three old industrial buildings at 293, Slough Trading Estate.
This letting also involves the 294 and 295 Aberdeen Avenue.
293 Aberdeen Avenue surrender of their existing office building which, as had previously been occupied by Wagstaff Foundries previously mentioned, adjoins the former LG Electronics and was vacant.
294 Aberdeen Avenue was occupied by building and will provide the opportunity to develop one Water on Wheels which relocated to a modern building of the two remaining major office sites on the Bath Road.
on Bedford Avenue on the Trading Estate.
The final building, 295 Aberdeen Avenue, was occupied by Aston Green Audi on a temporary basis for car storage.
A number of design proposals were considered for the redevelopment of the site, before the interest from two existing occupiers on the Slough Trading Estate determined that the final configuration should be three buildings around a central landscaped courtyard.
The two pre-lets were agreed to LG Electronics and Cubist and were amongst a handful of pre-lets achieved in the Thames Valley market that year.
The decision was made to build the remaining office, 240 Bath Road, on a speculative basis.
This building is in fact a mirror image of the Cubist building, 252 Bath Road.
Above Reception area at 240 Bath Road.
Left Andrew Mullins LG Electronics, Colin Young Slough Estates Commercial Manager, Neil Whitehouse Slough Estates Construction Manager outside the new offices of LG Electronics, 250 Bath Road, Slough.
18 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Emerald Park East Points of note 1 Successful development of a greenfield site Bristol 2 Significant pre-lets were achieved to S J Cook, Safety Kleen, UPS and Knorr-Bremse 3 Designed by external architects working in conjunction with the Slough Estates in-house team 4 A high quality development which has been successful in attracting occupiers in a difficult market We welcome Slough Estates open and enthusiastic approach.
Slough Estates in-house planning, design and construction expertise has made a valuable contribution to the joint project which will exceed our expectations John Parr, Managing Director Knorr-Bremse Commercial Vehicles Ltd AVON RING ROAD A4174 19 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Paul Marten Architect and Stanley Marek Marketing discussing the pre-let to Knorr-Bremse.
Bristol Parkway Station Bristol Phase 100, Emerald Park East, Bristol, fully let during the year.
The site was acquired from the Co-operative Insurance is a 36,300 sq.
ft. pre-let to Knorr-Bremse which is currently Society in 1999 following the opening of the Avon Ring under construction.
During the course of 2003 the new Road which serves the Emerald Park area of Bristol and facility for UPS was handed over, on time and on budget, provides a rapid link to the M32 and M4 motorways and and work commenced on the construction of the pre-let to Bristol City Centre.
ft. of speculative warehouse and production space was let to Buck and The 15.7 acre site, which has an extensive frontage onto Hickman and Progressive Financial Services a further the Avon Ring Road, has been developed in four phases.
ft. is currently under offer.
The first phase provided 11 speculative production warehouse units and a 20,950 sq.
ft. purpose-built facility for S J Cook on part of the second phase.
The balance of Phase two included a 10,270 sq.
ft. purpose-built facility for Safety Kleen together with a speculative detached warehouse production unit.
The third phase of the development was triggered by a 23,800 sq.
ft. purpose-built facility for UPS and also included a detached industrial warehouse unit which was constructed at the same time.
The fourth and final phase M4 WESTERLEIGH ROAD M32 B4053 A432
