42 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Directors biographies Dick Kingston Lord Blackwell John Heawood Executive Director Executive Director Senior Independent Director Responsible for Group Finance.
Having obtained Responsible for the UK property portfolio.
Amongst other business interests, he is Following degrees in Estate Management and a Business Studies degree whilst with British Chairman of Smartstream Technologies Limited, Rural Planning Studies from Reading University, Petroleum, he qualified as a chartered accountant a non-executive director of Standard Life and he qualified as a Chartered Surveyor in 1977. with Whinney Murray & Co. now Ernst & Young The Corporate Services Group Plc and a senior After 6 years with Fletcher King and 11 years in London and Paris.
Following five years with adviser to KPMG Corporate Finance.
He was with DTZ Debenham Thorpe dealing with Hawker Siddeley as head of financial control appointed a non-executive Board Member of provincial industrial and office property he joined and audit, he joined Slough Estates as Group the OFT in April 2003.
After many years as a Slough Estates in November 1996.
He was appointed partner with McKinsey & Company, international a director in April 1996.
He is aged 56. management consultants, he served as Head of Marshall Lees the Prime Ministers Policy Unit from 1995-97, Executive Director Paul Orchard-Lisle CBE TD DL and was Director of Group Development at Responsible for operations in North America.
He was Non-Executive Deputy Chairman He is a graduate of the University of Western created a Life Peer in 1997 and is currently A chartered surveyor, he is Executive Chairman Ontario and York University, Toronto.
Following of the Falcon Property Trust, a non-executive Chairman of the Centre for Policy Studies.
three years with British American Tobacco, he director of Europa Capital Partners, a member of He was appointed a director in 2001. obtained an MBA at the London Business School the advisory board of IVG Holding AG, a member He is aged 51. and subsequently joined Imperial Group Plc.
He of the Estates Committee of the Wellcome Trust, joined Slough Estates in 1987 and was appointed Chairman of The Royal Artillery Museum, Deputya director in March 1998.
He is a director of Lieutenant for the County of Greater London Tipperary Corporation and Charterhouse Group and a past president of the Royal Institution International, Inc.
He is a Canadian and is aged 50. of Chartered Surveyors.
He has been a director of the company since 1980.
43 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Sir Nigel Mobbs Ian Coull Chairman Chief Executive Sir Nigel Mobbs, whose grandfather was a founder of the company, joined A Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, he joined Slough Slough Estates in 1960.
A director since 1963, he became Chairman and Estates from J Sainsbury Plc where he was the director responsible for all Real Chief Executive in 1976 and Executive Chairman from 1996-1999.
Before joining Sainsburys in 1987 he held Board and Senior Management Lord-Lieutenant for the County of Buckinghamshire.
He is non-executive positions at Ladbrokes, Texas Homecare and Cavenham Foods.
He is a nonchairman of Bovis Homes a non-executive director of Howard fide Walden executive director of House of Fraser Plc, on the London Regional Board of Estates and Chairman of Trustees of Historic Royal Palaces.
Royal & Sun Alliance and is Chairman of the London Sustainable Development Commission.
He was appointed a director in January 2003.
Stephen L Howard The Rt Hon Lord MacGregor Christopher Peacock of Pulham Market OBE Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director He began his career as an attorney in his native Non-Executive Director A chartered surveyor, he was President and United States with a focus on corporate advisory Member of Parliament for South Norfolk from Chief Executive Officer of Jones Lang LaSalle work for multinational companies.
Currently he until the beginning of 2004.
He became a Life Peer in July is Group Chief Executive of Cookson Group Plc, 2001.
He served Conservative Governments Lang Wootton in 1972 and was made a partner a London-based international engineering in several Cabinet appointments, from l985 to in 1974, he rose to being the European Chief company.
He is a non-executive director of Novar 1995, Chief Secretary to the Treasury, Agriculture, Executive in 1996 and Jones Lang Woottons Plc as well as sitting on the advisory councils of Education and Science, Leader of the House and first global Chief Executive in 1997.
In 1999 various private and non-profit organisations.
He Lord President of the Council and Secretary he became Chief Operating Officer and was appointed a director in 2001.
He is aged 50. of State for Transport.
He is currently a nonsubsequently CEO of the NYSE listed company, executive director of Associated British Foods Plc, Jones Lang LaSalle.
He was appointed a director Douglas Kramer Uniq Plc and Friends Provident, and of the in 2004.
Non-Executive Director European Supervising Board of DAF Trucks NV, A citizen of the United States, he is Chairman Netherlands.
He was appointed a director in of the Board of Draper and Kramer Incorporated, 1995.
He is aged 67. a full service real estate and mortgage banking company based in Chicago, Illinois.
Draper and Andrew Palmer Kramer were partners with Slough Estates in the Non-Executive Director USA from 1973 to 1997.
He is a director of A chartered accountant, he is currently Group Tipperary Corporation, an oil and gas production Finance Director with Legal & General Group Plc.
company of Denver, Colorado in which the Group Since joining Legal & General in 1988 he has has a 53 per cent equity interest.
He also serves held a number of financial and operational as Non-Executive Chairman of Slough Estates roles in the asset management, insurance and Member of Remuneration Committee USA Inc.
He was appointed a director in 1981. international business.
He was appointed a Member of Audit Committee He is aged 67. director in January 2004.
