20 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 The North Feltham Points of note 1 Brownfield redevelopment Trading Estate 2 Landfill site 3 Active asset management to create the redevelopment opportunities 4 In-house expertise in design and build projects and speculative development 5 Reduced traffic congestion on the Estate by the provision of greatly improved car-parking standards and reduced site cover on the new developments 6 Substantial uplifts in asset value as a result of redeveloping long-term holdings 7 Occupier retention, e. g. SpaTrans 8 Reduced financial risk of redevelopment through securing the four pre-lets 9 Undertaking a series of speculative developments in favourable marketing conditions targeted at Heathrow related industries such as distribution and aircraft support services By working in partnership with us, Slough Estates were able to meet our business aspirations and deliver a second building in this prime location.
This has enabled us to develop our business post-2002 Patrick Roberts, Managing Director, SpaTrans WELLINGTON RD RIVER GRD FAGGS RD TESCO GREEN LANE BATH RD 21 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Clem Campbell Estimator and Dan Pagella Leasing discussing the speculative development at North Feltham Trading Estate.
Heathrow Airport The North Feltham Trading Estate was acquired by buffer zone along the sites eastern and southern Slough Estates when it merged with Allnatt London boundaries and a 1.8 metre-wide footpath along the Properties in 1984. western boundary beside the River Crane.
Over the last eight years Slough Estates has carried out The site was originally occupied on a long lease, expiring a rolling redevelopment programme which, to date, has in 2064, which was subject to rent reviews every 14 years.
Of these phases, four were The original leasee had sub-let parts of the site to a number undertaken as pre-lets to Federal Express and Kamden of different companies as it did not require the whole site International Shipping with two to SpaTrans.
The long lease was re-negotiated to incorporate two break options.
These were subsequently The most recent speculative developments, Phases 800 exercised to facilitate the construction of Phase 800, which and 900, are situated on River Gardens on what is known was completed in November 2000, and Phase 900 which as the North Feltham Garage site.
This site was designated was completed in October 2003.
The original leasee as greenbelt until 1996 when, following representations remains in occupation of the balance of the property made during the preparation of the Hounslow Urban at a lower rent following the pre-determined reductions District Plan, the site was removed from the green-belt.
agreed in the event of the break options being exercised.
Following adoption of the Urban District Plan in January Three further phases of redevelopment, which will be 1998 Hounslow Council resolved to grant planning triggered by lease expiries, will complete the redevelopment permission, subject to a Section 106 Agreement which of the North Feltham Trading Estate.
made provision for environmental improvements to the adjoining greenbelt, the creation of a five-metre landscape M4 GREAT WEST RD STAINES RD SOUTH WEST RD LONDON RD SUTTON LANE THE CAUSEWAY HE PARKWAY T
