As the UKs leading news wholesaler, working with 500 publishers, WHSmith News moves more than 50 million newspapers and magazines every week to and from 22,000 retailers nationwide.
12 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 In recent months, many of the In parallel, we are closing those improvements to WHSmith News warehouses that are no longer t have taken a tangible form in the for purpose, either because they are site renewal shape of new and improved facilities.
too small or unable to accommodate For example, as part of a five-year, sufciently large delivery vehicles.
20m refurbishment and relocation In the past year we closed Oldham programme aimed at enhancing and merged Willenhall with efficiencies, we have relocated our Wolverhampton.
warehouse at Dalston to new premises in Hornsey, London.
We have also relocated our head ofce in Swindon and our accounting centre at Bradford.
A new purposebuilt warehouse will soon open in Shefeld, and our plans are well developed for improved facilities at Newcastle, Slough and the West Midlands.
13 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 According to a regular, independently For WHSmith News, this is a welcome conducted survey of our customers, and hard-won result.
Customer we are now handling products more service improvement is at the heart delivering accurately, more efficiently and with of our strategy for the business.
a markedly greater sense of clarity By delivering better results to both and purpose.
This is particularly publishers and retailers, we not only discernible in packing, invoicing full our obligations to them and on service and deliveries.
In fact, over the last their customers down the line, but two years, our customer service rating also reduce our own costs.
This, in has improved by almost one third.
turn, yields better results for WHSmith News, allowing for reinvestment to gain still further innovations that will offer new opportunities for growth.
14 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Jim Gorton joined WHSmith News Consequently, when the pressures Gloucester warehouse as a contractor on, it is not unusual for him to wade in in 2000.
After six months he applied and pack newspapers himself, or jump promoting for and became Night Manager.
in a van with customer deliveries.
Jims team is made up of four Since becoming Night Manager, managers and 40 packers and Jim has attended six courses focusing talent drivers, who sort and distribute on man management, people skills over 150,000 daily newspapers and communication: Ive learnt and 230,000 weekend newspapers an enormous amount so far during to 560 customers in a vast area my time here and I have my sights covering Gloucestershire, parts of set on moving up the organisation.
In my view it is really important that All before 6.00am.
we promote people who have had grass roots experience.
That way After graduating with a degree in you know the pressures and stresses agriculture and management, Jim at that level and you have a greater describes his learning curve in his understanding of customers and first 18 months at WHSmith News as their expectations, he says.
steep, with a number of barriers to overcome.
However, his background in farming certainly helped him in one sense equipping him with 15 WH Smith PLC the attitude to get the job done.
