Board of Directors Chairman Beverley Hodson OBE is Managing Non-Executive Directors MT Rainey joined the Board in Martin Taylor rejoined the Board Director of WHSmith UK Retail and John Barton joined the Board March 2002.
She is Chairman of in September 1999 and became joined the Board in June 1997.
He retired advertising agency Rainey Kelly Chairman on 1 November 1999. to this she was Managing Director of as Chairman of Jardine Lloyd Campbell Roalfe Y&R, a subsidiary He is also an international adviser Dolcis Limited and Cable & Co. UK Thompson Group PLC in of the WPP Group.
She is also a to Goldman Sachs and a director Limited, both subsidiary businesses December 2001, having formerly Visiting Professor at the University of RTL and Syngenta.
She was with The Boots been the Chief Executive of Jardine of Glasgow Business School, and Company PLC for 18 years during Insurance Brokers Group PLC.
a Trustee of the think tank Demos Executive Directors which time she held several senior He is Chairman of Wellington and the innovative charity Timebank.
Richard Handover joined the Board management positions, ultimately Underwriting plc, and a non-executive Aged 48. in November 1995 and was appointed as Managing Director of Childrens director of Hammerson plc and Andrew Rolfe joined the Board in Chief Executive in October 1997.
She is a non-executive director Next plc.
He is President of He has worked for companies in of Legal & General Group Plc.
Patrick Lupo joined the Board Gap Inc. s International Division and the WHSmith Group since 1964, Aged 52. in November 1994.
He is a was formerly Chairman and Chief becoming Managing Director of the non-executive director of DHL Executive of Pret A Manger and a John Warren is Group Finance Companys former subsidiary Our Director and joined the Board in Worldwide Express B. V. having director of Booker PLC.
Price Music Limited in 1989 and September 2000.
He started his formerly held the positions of Managing Director of WHSmith News career with Ernst & Young, chartered Chairman and Chief Executive Audit Committee of the Board in 1995.
He is a non-executive director officer, and Hilton Group plc.
In 1981, he joined of the Nationwide Building Society United Biscuits, becoming Group He is a member of the Bar, John Barton and Royal Mail Holdings PLC and Finance Director in 1991.
He is a State of California.
Michael Orr Chairman of the Adult Learning non-executive director of RAC plc.
Michael Orr joined the Board in Remuneration Committee Aged 50.
April 1993 and was appointed Senior Tim Hely Hutchinson is Chief of the Board Independent Director in January Executive of Hodder Headline, Michael Orr Chairman 2000.
He is a non-executive director Chairman of WHSmith News and John Barton of Granada plc and was formerly joined the Board in July 1999.
Patrick Lupo Group Finance Director of Grand He started his publishing career with MT Rainey Metropolitan PLC and Head of Macmillan Publishers in the UK and Investment Banking of Merrill Australia.
He was appointed Managing Nominations Committee Lynch Europe Ltd.
Director of Macdonald in 1982 before of the Board leaving to start Headline as Managing John Barton Chairman Director in 1986.
In 1990, he won the Patrick Lupo British Venture Capital Associations Michael Orr inaugural Venturer of the Year Award.
MT Rainey He is a non-executive director of The Publishers Association.
32 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
