At WHSmith we offer great products to help customers get more out of life a magazine for the amateur photographer, a guide book for the traveller or a journal for the aspiring writer.
6 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 At WHSmith we aim to provide We have also enhanced the way customers with inspiring and unique we merchandise these gifts by gift products like our exclusive lines displaying them on large selection gorgeous of stationery.
Over the last two years, tables, enabling customers to browse through our ofces in the UK and more easily.
The ranges are refreshed Hong Kong, we have created ten on a monthly basis to best suit the ranges of fashion stationery: perfect, changing seasons and other important gifts unique gifts exclusive to WHSmith.
For instance, in mid-September our New You, New Start theme focused on inspiring parents to get creative once their children were back at school, allowing them more time to themselves to pursue hobbies.
7 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 As the trend for home ofces grows, Similarly, customers increasingly people want to equip themselves look for products which not only with practical and stylish products satisfy their functional needs but fashion and which match their personal style are also fashionable.
We recognise this trend of fun and stylish stationery products, and source designer products, such like our range covered with bright as colourful leather Designers Guild and colourful dots, reect this.
function personal organisers and accessories.
After all, why shouldnt a notebook be vibrant as well as practical?
Of course, if its a plain, A4 pad that a customer wants we offer superb value on all the basics too.
8 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Value underpins the entire WHSmith Extending the value concept offer.
This year we launched the beyond books, we have since launched UKs biggest ever book promotion, other offers across a wide range of delivering with an offer encouraging customers merchandise.
This Christmas we have to buy one book and get a second introduced a 2 for 20 promotion on at half price.
This lure proved hundreds of selected DVDs, CDs and irresistible and resulted in improved hardback books.
We are now working Broadening our value appeal with publishers to determine how we even further, WHSmiths 3 for 2 can achieve even more attractive and offer extends to gifts, childrens successful future book promotions.
products such as Leap Pads, ction paperbacks, cards and gift wrap.
9 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 WHSmith has long understood the Recognising that the national importance of childrens education curriculum and the wide array products.
We strive to create products of available education products deepening that will supplement and enrich their can be lessons in themselves, we education, while at the same time have embarked on a training be the envy of their friends in the programme for selected store staff.
knowledge During the course of the past year, Our vast range of educational items over 150 WHSmith staff have taken from calculators and art supplies, part in training which updates them to pencil cases and study guides on changes to the national curriculum gives parents and children the and the latest ranges of education choice to nd everything needed products.
With an understanding to assist in learning and expressing of how each stage of the national their creativity.
curriculum links to different pupil ages, our trained staff can then advise If you want advice about what your customers which resources best assist children should be reading at a the pupils development.
certain age, or what resources might help them grasp tricky trigonometry, A specialised version has been you are unlikely to nd someone at developed for our stores in the local supermarket to help.
You Scotland, ensuring our staff can could, however, ask an educational meet the specic needs of our 10 WH Smith PLC adviser at WHSmith.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 In todays retail environment If shopping for a gardening consumers are confronted with enthusiast, in one visit to WHSmith, a mass of information and endless customers can pick up the latest making choices that can cause stress and book on garden design or seasonal confusion.
Through expert selection planting, a DVD of the BBCs Ground of products we strive to make shopping Force The Titchmarsh Years, that easier by offering the right range months copy of Gardeners World it easy of products balancing choice magazine and a WHSmith Gardening and selection.
Having to visit many different retailers to satisfy Christmas wish lists can equally be a hassle.
Our multi-category offer allows customers to choose from DVDs, books, music, stationery and a great range of special gifts in a single location.
11 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
