Directors Report The directors of WH Smith PLC the Company present Employees their annual report to shareholders together with the audited The Company employs approximately 30,000 people throughout consolidated accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries the United Kingdom and overseas and we are proud of our long for the year ended 31 August 2003. history of being regarded as a responsible and respected employer.
Principal activities We have an open management style, which encourages employees The principal activities and future prospects of the Company are to be really engaged in the work we do and to contribute to the set out in the Chairmans Statement on page 2, in the Chief development of the business.
Listening to employees who are Executives Review on pages 3 and 4 and in the Financial Review nearest to our customers is critical: directors regularly meet on pages 20 to 24. informally with employees and many employees take advantage of the Ask the Director link on our intranet.
Regular meetings Company results are also held with staff associations and trade unions: these The Group profit and loss account for the year ended 31 August relationships are cordial, productive and professional.
Keeping employees informed on our direction and performance Analyses of turnover and operating profit or loss by activity are is important to us and we have developed some effective and shown in Note 1 to the accounts.
well-established ways of ensuring employees are up to date with Share capital what is happening within the Company.
Employee satisfaction The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together surveys are used to gain valuable feedback, enabling employees with details of shares issued during the year, are shown in Note 22 to let us know what we are doing well and where there are to the accounts.
Major shareholders We believe in developing employees, giving them the opportunity At 16 October 2003, the Companys share register of substantial to use their skills in their work and maximising their potential.
shareholdings showed the following interests in 3 per cent or more In the last year our investment in training has increased, with of the Companys ordinary shares: new training and development programs being launched.
Career advancement opportunities are available to employees Holder Number % across the Group.
Silchester International Investors Limited 35,559,512 14.23 Employees are encouraged to be active members of their local communities and many of them do inspirational work in the FMR Corp & Fidelity areas in which they live and work.
Each year our Chief Executive International Limited 14,076,067 5.62 recognises this work through our Community Awards.
The Trustees of BT Pension Scheme 8,032,104 3.20 The Company operates a long established Inland Revenue Legal & General Group Plc 7,923,365 3.17 Approved Save-As-You-Earn share option scheme Sharesave Scheme which provides employees with the opportunity to Prudential plc 7,695,112 3.07 acquire shares in the Company.
As at 31 August 2003 some Halifax Group plc 7,549,208 3.02 4,500 employees were participating in this Scheme.
Dividends The Board remains committed to ensuring that the working The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend environment within the Company is one where differences in for the year of 13 pence per ordinary share on 30 January 2004 people are recognised and valued.
Fairness and meritocracy are to members on the Register at the close of business on the fundamental principles which determine how the Company 5 January 2004. treats its employees and this is reected in its employment policies.
The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture This final dividend, together with the interim dividend of 6 pence that is free from discrimination and harassment and will not per ordinary share paid on 26 June 2003, makes a total dividend permit or tolerate discrimination in any form.
of 19 pence per ordinary share for the year ended 31 August 2003.
The Board understands its responsibilities to encourage and assist Subsidiaries and businesses in the employment, training and personal and career development On 18 September 2003, the Company announced the sale of its of disabled people.
The Company gives proper consideration two US businesses.
Its US Airport retailing business is being sold to applications for employment when these are received from to the Hudson Group for 41m US$64m and its US Hotel disabled people and employs them whenever suitable vacancies retailing business is being sold to former management for arise.
It also continues to participate in the Scope Fast-Track 8m US$12.5m.
Further details of the disposal of the US Hotel programme, which actively promotes the recruitment of disabled retailing business can be found in the Notes to the Accounts graduates.
Should an employee become disabled when working on page 67. for the Company, efforts are made to continue their employment and retraining is provided if necessary.
33 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors Report continued Corporate responsibility John Warren, who has served as a director since September 2000, The Board recognises the importance of the social, ethical and retires by rotation pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association environmental issues facing the Companys businesses and is and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election at the Annual committed to achieving a high standard of corporate responsibility.
John Warren has a contract of service which As part of this commitment, it intends to form a Corporate may be terminated by giving one years notice.
Responsibility Committee comprising the non-executive directors Andrew Rolfe was appointed to the Board as a non-executive and senior managers with relevant expertise to develop the director on 2 September 2003 and pursuant to the Companys Companys response to these issues.
Further details can be found Articles of Association retires and, being eligible, offers himself for in the section on corporate responsibility on pages 25 to 31 and election at the Annual General Meeting.
Andrew Rolfe has been on the Companys website www.
com appointed for a xed term and does not have a contract of service.
Political and charitable donations Kate Swann will be appointed to the Board on 4 November 2003 Charitable donations during the year ended 31 August 2003 and pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association retires and, totalled 96,000 2002: 161,000. being eligible, offers herself for election at the Annual General It is the Companys policy not to make political donations and Meeting.
Kate Swanns contract of service may be terminated no political donations were made during the year 2002: nil.
by giving one years notice.
Payment policy for suppliers Annual General Meeting The Companys policy for the payment of suppliers, which The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Lincoln Centre, complies with the CBI Code of Practice for Buyers, is to agree the 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED on 29 January 2004 terms of payment in advance in line with normal trade practice at 11.30am.
and, provided a supplier performs in accordance with the The Notice of Annual General Meeting is set out on pages 76 to 80 agreement, to abide by such terms.
The Groups trade creditors and contains five items of special business.
Explanatory notes gure as at the Balance Sheet date was equivalent to 44 days relating to the special business are set out on pages 77 to 80.
2002: 44 days based on average daily amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Auditors On 1 August 2003, Deloitte & Touche, the Companys auditors Directors transferred their business to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited The names of the directors as at the date of this report, liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability together with biographical details, are set out on page 32.
The Companys consent has been given Details of the interests of the directors and their families in to treating the appointment of Deloitte & Touche as extending the share capital of the Company at 31 August 2003 are shown to Deloitte & Touche LLP with effect from 1 August 2003 under on page 44. the provisions of Section 26 5 of the Companies Act 1989.
Martin Taylor, who rejoined the Board in September 1999 A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to and became Chairman on 1 November 1999, will retire the Company and to authorise the directors to determine their on 4 November 2003. remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Richard Handover, currently Chief Executive, will succeed This Report was approved by the Board on 16 October 2003.
Martin Taylor as Chairman on 4 November 2003.
By Order of the Board Kate Swann, who is currently Managing Director of Argos and Ian Houghton a non-executive director of Lambert Howarth Plc, will succeed Company Secretary Richard Handover as Chief Executive on 4 November 2003.
16 October 2003 The Companys Articles of Association require that at least one third of the directors retire by rotation each year and that new directors appointed by the Board are required to offer themselves for election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Michael Orr, who has served as a non-executive director since April 1993, retires by rotation pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association and does not offer himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Tim Hely Hutchinson, who has served as a director since July 1999, retires by rotation pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Tim Hely Hutchinson has a contract of service which may be terminated by giving one years notice.
34 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
