Talented authors, skilful editing and strong marketing ensure Hodder Headline produces todays bestsellers and develops tomorrows.
16 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 To widen the search for promising Looking to boost export earnings, new authors, this year Hodder Hodder Headline has also opened Headline has opened an ofce an ofce in India.
Its mission is to world of in Dublin.
There, in the heart of increase sales in one of the worlds Irelands literary community, eight largest English language markets.
editorial and publicity staff are Closer to home, following the putting their local knowledge to opportunity acquisition of Robert Gibson, work, with excellent results.
Sheila the newly formed Hodder Gibson OFlanagans acclaimed Destinations opened its ofce in Paisley, was one of Hodder Headline Irelands Scotland.
It will focus on developing first successes, going straight to educational books and materials No.
specifically designed to support the Scottish curriculum.
17 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 The acquisition of John Murray Now John Murrays educational Publishers Ltd, founded in 1768, business, which has approximately signicantly increased Hodder 820 titles in print, is called Hodder heritage with Headlines market share in Murray.
The name John Murray is educational and general publishing, retained for the general publishing putting the company in second literary imprint, linking highly place in the secondary school successful contemporary authors, a future publishing category.
such as Fiona MacCarthy, Anthony Samson and Tahir Shah, with the Integration of John Murray houses earlier lists, which included is going well.
In February 2003 Byron, Jane Austen and Conan Doyle.
the two companies combined their warehousing and IT systems, and by August all of John Murrays staff had settled into Hodder Headlines Euston Road ofces.
18 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 When it comes to the consumer Other recent literary and commercial market, success in publishing is landmarks for Hodder Headline based on understanding and have included publication of Hillary editorial anticipating what the public Rodham Clintons Living History, wants to read.
The company starts Hugh  the 2004 financial year with two new The River Cottage Year and senior editors in ction and nonWendy Holdens Azur You Like It.
investment ction who are considered to be Hodder Headlines pre-Christmas leaders in their elds.
2003 launch campaign encompasses Among established authors new to something for every taste.
Among Hodder Headline, two of the most the highlights are James Pattersons exciting are novelist Penny Vincenzi The Big Bad Wolf, a biography of rugby and biographer Pamela Stephenson, great Martin Johnson, Joan Bakewells whose Bravemouth has already been autobiography The Centre of the Bed, the focus of considerable media Absolute Friends by John le Carr, attention and, at the time of Sir Ranulph Fienness biography of writing, rides high on pre-Christmas Captain Scott and the eagerly awaited bestseller lists.
fifth volume of Stephen Kings The Dark Tower series, Wolves of the Calla.
19 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
