Directors report The directors present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2003.
The report should be read in conjunction with information recorded on pages 2 to 23 and pages 27 to 36.
Activities of the Company and subsidiaries Croda International Plc is a holding company operating from its headquarters at Cowick Hall, Snaith, Goole, East Yorkshire, and providing central direction for a speciality chemical group with operations in the main market areas of the world.
Further details are given in the operating review on pages 5 to 13. Review of business activities A review of the activities of the two business sectors comprising the Group is given on pages 5 to 13.
An analysis of turnover and profits is shown in note 1 on page 45.
This report should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans statement and the operating and financial reviews, which include information about Group businesses, the financial performance during the year and likely developments.
Profit and appropriations As restated 2003 2002 m m Profit attributable to the ordinary shares of the Company after providing for taxation, the interests of minority shareholders and dividends on the preference shares 29.3 0.5 Dividends paid and proposed on ordinary shares 15.5 15.0 Amount transferred to reserves 13.8 15.5 The directors recommend a final dividend of 7.83p per share.
If approved by shareholders, dividends for the year will amount to 11.85p per share 2002: 11.5p per share.
Details of dividends are shown in note 9 on page 49.
Acquisitions and disposals The Group did not make any acquisitions or disposals during the year.
Post balance sheet event On 16 January 2004 the business of Croda Fire Fighting Chemicals including the share capital of Croda Uniser SAS was sold to Kidde Fire Protection Services Limited.
Further details are shown in note 30 on page 64.
Directors The present directors of the Company are shown on pages 22 and 23.
D M Dunn and M Humphrey retire by rotation but will be proposed for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of the directors service contracts are given in the report on the directors remuneration on pages 27 to 32.
Apart from the share option schemes and service contracts no director had any beneficial interest, other than in the ordinary course of business, in any contract to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party during the year.
A statement indicating the beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company is shown in the report on the directors remuneration on page 31.
The Companys register of directors interests, which is open to inspection at the registered office, contains full details of directors shareholdings and share options.
During the year the Company maintained insurance providing liability cover for directors and officers of the Company.
24 Community affairs Croda believes, that to be successful as a company, it must act responsibly and with integrity in all areas of its activities.
The Company is committed to ensuring that it has a positive impact on the local community wherever it operates in the world.
This policy is underpinned by the following principles: nwe will work to operate and maintain our sites so that they provide the least possible disruption to their locality and operate under conditions that are safe and environmentally sound nwe will provide a working environment based on respect and partnership that encourages and develops individual success and we will provide employment conditions that are fair and equitable nwe will ensure our business practices are ethical and encourage positive relationships with suppliers, customers and other stakeholders nwe will build positive relationships with our local communities.
We will support and encourage our employees to participate in activities that will benefit the local communities in which we work and live.
In line with these principles, we have continued to support community projects, both with donations and with practical help and advice.
Many of our employees also devote much of their own time to working with local community groups and to fundraising projects for deserving causes.
Our work with schools, colleges and other educational establishments is ongoing.
Students learn how our products are used and gain direct experience of product formulation and plant processes.
The Group provides placements for university students and post-graduates.
Work experience opportunities are provided regularly for students from local schools.
A new initiative has been launched which, in broad terms, allows paid time off for volunteers for local community involvement.
Employment policies In all Crodas operations around the world relations with employees are based on respect for the dignity and rights of the individual.
The Company upholds the principles of socially responsible business practices.
In particular, in all countries in which the Company operates, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work 1998 are met.
Namely, the Company does not participate in any form of child labour or forced compulsory labour: it maintains freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining and promotes policies and practices designed to eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
Policies on corporate ethics and whistleblowing are in force throughout the Group.
Group employment policies embrace local, national and international best practice worldwide.
In this way we ensure that all employees work in an environment which encourages fairness of treatment, respect for the individual and flexibility of approach.
The Group welcomes all employees solely on the basis of job suitability so that recruitment and career management are free from discrimination.
Diversity is encouraged and the benefits of different perspectives enhance working life.
The Company takes a positive approach to disability, considering all applications from disabled people fairly and in the context of job suitability.
Adaptations to the working environment are made where appropriate and the disabled are integrated into all areas of working life both formal and social.
Those who suffer illness or injury that has a permanent impact on their physical or mental ability are supported and every effort is made to continue employment through use of flexible working arrangements, training etc.
All employees have equal access, based on ability and motivation, to training, career development and promotion.
Employees receive training and development to ensure that personal growth and business objectives are achieved successfully.
We aim to nurture and challenge so that the talents, skills and knowledge of our employees are used positively to mutual benefit.
This relies on open and comprehensive communication activities.
All divisions provide appropriate forums for two-way communication to keep everyone informed, to consult and to seek contribution.
Formal consultation committees have operated in all UK divisions during 2003 and in particular provided valuable dialogue on pension provision.
A corporate intranet has been established and is available to approximately 80% of employees worldwide.
The company magazine, Croda Way, distributed worldwide, brings together news of the Croda family both personal and corporate.
It provides an insight into the lives of the people working for the Group as well as reporting on Company activities around the world and commenting on full and half year results.
Our reward and benefit packages are designed to recognise the contribution of employees, whilst fitting local market conditions and complying with our fair treatment policies.
The Company operates a Save As You Earn linked share scheme in the UK and a similar scheme is available overseas.
The Company introduced a Share Incentive Plan in the UK in 2003.
All employees who have completed 12 months service are eligible to join the plan.
25 Directors report Purchase of own shares At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM the Company will be seeking to renew its authority to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
Authority was previously granted at the AGM in 2003 but has not been used.
Shares will only be purchased if the Board believes that such purchases will improve earnings per share and be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any shares purchased will be held as treasury shares.
Supplier payment policy Group policy concerning the payment of suppliers is that each operating unit agrees terms of payment at the beginning of business or makes the supplier aware of the standard payment terms, and pays in accordance with those terms or other legal obligations.
At 31 December 2003 the Group had an average of 37 days 2002: 38 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
The Companys trade creditors are not material.
Charitable and political donations Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted to 34,000 2002: 40,000.
No donation was made for political purposes.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at Carlton Towers, Carlton, Goole, East Yorkshire DN14 9LZ on Thursday 22 April 2004 at 12 noon.
The notice of meeting and explanation of the special business to be considered at the AGM are contained in a separate document issued to shareholders with this Annual Report.
Independent auditors Our auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation of the audit committee, resolutions regarding their reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the AGM.
Substantial shareholders At 24 February 2004 the Company had been notified of the following substantial interests in its ordinary share capital: Shares % Deutsche Bank AG 14,831,459 10.88 Legal & General Investment Management 4,758,156 3.49 Newton ICVC Higher Income Fund 4,259,382 3.13 By order of the Board J R Ainger Secretary 24 February 2004 26
