28 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2003 Directors report The directors of Dairy Crest Group plc present their seventh directors which includes their membership of the Audit, Nomination annual report and the audited financial statements for the year and Remuneration committees is shown on page 19. ended 31 March 2003.
Share capital Principal activity The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, The principal activity of the Group is the manufacture and together with details of the shares issued during the year, are trading of milk and dairy products.
So far as the Company is aware, at 23 May 2003, the following institution held an interest Review of operations of 3% or more in the capital of the Company on behalf of The Groups operations and future developments are dealt with themselves and others.
in the Chief Executives review, Operational review and Financial Credit Suisse Asset Management Limited 7% review on pages 3 to 18.
Employee involvement Results and dividends The importance of good communication is recognised by the The consolidated profit and loss account is on page 30.
There are also well-established consultation and profit for the year, after taxation, amounted to 36.6 million negotiating arrangements with recognised trade unions.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 11.3 pence per share which, together with the Employment of disabled persons interim dividend of 5.1 pence per share paid on 30 January The Company considers applicants for posts compatible with 2003, makes a total dividend for the year of 16.4 pence per their disability.
Staff who become disabled are retained wherever share.
If approved, the dividend will be paid on 11 August 2003 practicable.
to shareholders on the register on 11 July 2003.
Charitable and political donations Fixed assets Charitable donations amounted to 0.1 million 2002 0.1 The directors are of the opinion that the current market million in the year.
Small contributions, mainly of product, were value in existing use of the Groups property interests is also made to local charities.
No contributions were made to any around 25 million above the value shown in the financial political party.
Supplier payment policy Directors Payment dates are established according to the agreed date of A list of the directors at the end of the year is set out on page 19. delivery of goods or provision of services and the receipt of a correct invoice.
The Group agrees the length of payment terms Mr W J Houliston retired from the Board on 26 July 2002. with each of its suppliers as part of the overall purchasing Mr W R Brown retired from the Board and left the Group agreement.
It is the Groups policy to abide by these agreed on 7 June 2002. terms of payment.
The number of days purchases in the Groups Mr C D Roberts retired from the Board on 31 March 2003 and creditors at 31 March 2003 was 25 days 2002 27 days.
Mr T H Jones retired from the Board on 29 May 2003.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue In accordance with Articles of Association Mr P S Lewis retires as auditors of the Company.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & by rotation and being eligible seeks re-election at this years Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Mr I C Laurie also retires by rotation forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
but will not seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting and he will leave the Group in August 2003.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Chartered Mr M Allen, Mr P Thornton and Mr H Mann were appointed to Accountants Hall, Moorgate Place, London EC2P 2BJ on the Board on 19 July 2002, 1 April 2003 and 30 May 2003 Thursday 17 July 2003 at 11.00am.
Details of the resolutions to respectively.
As they were appointed during the year they will be proposed, including an item of special business, are given in retire at this years Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Notice of Annual General Meeting and Explanatory Notes the Articles of Association and will seek election.
In addition to the directors listed on page 19 the Group has The directors believe that the resolutions are in the best announced the appointment of Mr A S N Murray to the Board interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and as Group Finance Director from September 2003. unanimously recommend that shareholders should vote in favour of all resolutions.
Details of the directors remuneration, service contracts and interests in shares are given in the Report of the Board on By order of the Board Directors remuneration on pages 21 to 27.
Non-executive directors R J Newton, Secretary do not have service agreements.
A brief biography of each of the 9 June 2003
