DMGT and Corporate A few examples of our involvement during 22 Social Responsibility the year include: DMGT and DMGTs activities are diverse, with more Associated Newspapers is a partner in than 18,000 employees worldwide.
The Corporate Social the Geoffrey Chaucer Technology School, Groups businesses include national and local Responsibility located in a socially deprived area with newspapers, radio, television, exhibitions, the Borough of Southwark, London.
The business to business information and partnership has provided new classrooms careers, each providing important channels and equipment to enable the college, of communication and media focus to previously a secondary modern school, different sections of society in different parts to develop a focus on technology skills, of the world.
to support the employment of pupils into The Group owes much of its success to the the technology industry.
entrepreneurial ability of the management Harmsworth Quays plays an active role teams leading its various media divisions.
in its community, including activities such The businesses have thrived by allowing as sponsorship of Southwark Park Gala local management to take local decisions attended this year by around 30,000 in a local context, whilst benefiting from people, support to a local school as a the global outlook as well as from the governor, and an annual charity golf day Following the death of a financial resources of the wider Group.
with around 135 players taking part child in local coastal mud, Northcliffe Newspapers This approach has delivered benefits to a that has so far raised 100,000 in aid of Western Daily Press helped wide range of stakeholders.
The success of the Demelza House Childrens Hospice.
raise enough funds to many of the Groups businesses is inextricably buy a rescue hovercraft, Northcliffe Newspapers run many linked with understanding and engaging boathouse, sonar and campaigns and fund raising initiatives on training for the crew.
with the communities that they serve, and this issues of concern to local communities.
allows them to identify needs and to campaign One such example was in March, when Harmsworth Quays annual effectively on the issues relevant to their charity golf day attracted following the death of a child in deep coastal customer base.
135 players and raised mud, several months of fundraising by the 100,000 for the Demelza The DMGT Board monitors Corporate Social Western Daily Press, 115,000 in money House Childrens Hospice.
Responsibility CSR via the Risk Committee and in-kind donations was raised for and each division now includes CSR risks arescue hovercraft, boathouse, sonar in its half-yearly risk report.
Following the equipment and training for crew.
Group wide review in 2002, a Group Health Hobsons, part of the careers division, and Safety policy was developed and supports the work of Raleigh International, communicated in February.
The management raising money and giving time for of CSR issues is handled at a divisional level, educational and community projects but overall responsibility at Board level rests in Namibia and Nicaragua.
The following disclosure provides more detail of divisional Teletext Holidays supports the Family activities focused around the following key Holiday Association through involvement stakeholder groups: on the committee and in sponsored events.
This charity focuses on providing much the community: needed holidays to families unable the environment: to afford these important breaks.
our employees: our readers and listeners.
DMG Radio Australia is extremely active in fundraising and supporting socially DMGT is developing a CSR section on its beneficial causes.
Its Star radio station in website which will provide information about Coffs Harbour ran a number of successful our community and environmental activities.
sponsorship events and raised over This is a summary of our disclosure in this area, Aus$61,000 to purchase a specially with further information on all sections reported designed vehicle for the transport of below soon to be available at www.
It is estimated that more than 500 hours of staff time were 2.
DMGT and the Community dedicated to this cause.
Community involvement is integral to our business as well as to the personal motivation 3.
DMGT and the Environment of our employees.
We donate money, time All DMGT divisions have some environmental DMG Radios Star Radio and in-kind donations such as air time and impacts, but overall these are relatively low, raised over Aus$61,000 to Teletext pages.
The use of our media channels with media being ranked as low impact, and purchase a specially designed and activities for fund raising is driven through vehicle to transport critically printing and newspaper publishing ranked as participation in the communities we serve and injured infants.
medium impact in the FTSE4Good index and the concerns and contributions of our readers as a B in the Morleys sustainability matrix and listeners.
The Group is a member of the defined as a business with low impacts and Per Cent Club and annually pays a minimum some benefits that may contribute to enabling 1 of 2% of its dividend to charity.
donations are allocated by a Charities Committee at DMGT, as well as being The following information focuses on our made on a smaller scale by divisional and printing presses.
In addition, we acknowledge local managements.
Charities involving the our responsibility in ensuring that our paper media and relevant to the communities within supplies come from paper manufacturers that which the Group operates are favoured.
manage their environmental impacts, including Daily Mail and General Trust plc the sustainable sourcing of virgin fibres.
DMGT and our employees These two elements are the focus of our DMGT is a highly decentralised group.
Each division has its own policies and established practices across a range of i.
All divisions have a policy Two DMGT divisions have printing facilities, or statement on equal opportunities and Associated Newspapers, which owns the most undertake periodic employee surveys.
Groups largest printing works, Harmsworth A variety of formal approaches to staff Quays, and Northcliffe Newspapers, which communications exist within the Group owns twelve printing facilities around the UK.
including web sites, regular communication All printing facilities have environmental events including face-to-face communications policies.
Their key environmental impacts of with management, and communications energy use, newsprint waste, ink and plate programmes related to specific key events use have cost implications for the businesses.
such as major equipment changes in the The management of these impacts is therefore printing facilities.
important, and performance is measured and Health and safety reported to Board meetings on a regular basis.
The Chief Executive signed a Group health New equipment and measures taken to and safety policy in February 2003 applicable reduce energy consumption in ongoing to the Company and its subsidiaries.
The policy energy reduction programmes has led to sets out to ensure the health, safety and welfare an improvement in energy efficiency for of its employees and all others who could be both Northcliffe and Associated Newspapers.
affected by the activities of the Group.
Whilst Absolute energy consumption for 2003 has the Chief Executive has overall responsibility fallen to approximately 115,500 MWh, a at Board level for health and safety throughout Associated Newspapers has decrease of nearly 3% from the previous the Group, responsibility for day to day health partnered with The Geoffrey year.
As a result the CO emissions also and safety matters is devolved to the managing 2 Chaucer Technology School fell by just over 2%.
There are many in London through providing examples of good practice across the Group, new classrooms and Targets for waste paper are set for each equipment in support of the in terms of health and safety management product printed.
This percentage varies employment of pupils within systems, the use of independent consultants according to certain criteria such as the the technology industry.
and initiatives focused on business specific numbers of copies required and edition health and safety risk areas.
Teletext Holidays have raised changes.
Actual waste volumes are 16,500 in support of the compared against budgeted levels, with Family Holiday Association.
DMGT and our readers and listeners the results provided for review, monthly, This funding will be put towards Editorial standards at the appropriate Board level.
Overall the purchase of a caravan, There are a number of standard setting allowing more families access newsprint production waste increased bodies that have established codes with to year round holidays, including this year by nearly 8%, to just under winter breaks.
This is primarily as a with these codes ensures that our published result of the increased use of colour in and broadcast material reaches the editorial the newspapers which requires more standards expected and agreed by the industry.
waste copies to ensure registration is The main code is established and monitored correct.
100% of the production paper by the Press Complaints Commission for the waste is recycled.
Teletext works to the Water use has increased slightly from last standards set by the Independent Television 3 year to just over 208,000m.
Commission Codes, Broadcasting Standards Commission and Channel 4s own codes.
Purchase of newsprint DMG Radio complies with the Australian DMGT is aware of the responsibility it has Broadcasting Authority Codes of Conduct.
along the supply chain, in particular for one of its largest purchases, newsprint.
The Group Responding to reader and listener needs has a central Newsprint Committee and paper Within the established editorial framework, is purchased for all the Groups newspaper editors and journalists have the freedom to operations, allowing co-ordinated review operate as appropriate.
The media industry of the environmental credentials of paper is highly competitive, and therefore remaining suppliers and the sourcing of their products.
in touch with and reflecting and championing Newsprint comprises a significant proportion the interests of the diverse groups who make of recycled paper with recycled newspaper up our communities is critical to the success making up 65.1% of the raw material for of each of DMGTs divisions.
Reader and UK newspapers in 2002.
Where virgin fibres listener satisfaction is monitored by all are used in the paper manufacture, DMGT divisions through a number of mechanisms, requires that the forests are certified either such as timely responses to complaints, by the Forest Stewardship Council, or the regular in-house programming and sales Pan European Forestry Commission, both research, readership surveys and other of which run schemes that provide credible processes actively to seek feedback guarantees that the product comes from well from customers.
DMGT sources its paper from European mills, most of which hold the environmental management standard ISO14001.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc
