Teletext made good progress in the year, The Teletext on 4 services on Freeview, Sky 14 responding strongly to challenging market and cable will follow in the next few months.
The DMG conditions following the onset of hostilities company is excited by the commercial potential in Iraq.
The conflict led to a further weakening of this arrangement and remains hopeful that it Broadcasting: of the advertising market.
As a result revenues will form a blueprint for other such agreements.
Television at Teletext were down 2% year-on-year as Teletexts mobile service is now available on the travel industry, in particular, struggled with all the major mobile networks and is delivering uncertain demand.
However, initiatives taken growth in both user base and revenues.
by management enabled the company to return In the twelve months to September almost a profit that is up 5% on last year and enabled 13 million messages were sent out to users Teletext to continue to grow its audiences of the service and, according to the mobile and considerably strengthen its distribution.
operators, Teletexts service is one of the The travel sector remains the companys three most widely used proprietary information principal source of revenue and Teletext is services on mobile.
encouraged by the success its new services In addition to these service developments, are having.
Teletext Holidays, the companys Teletext has continued to deploy the publishing interactive service on Sky, is the most used tools and infrastructure it needs to offer travel service on satellite, attracting over advertisers a uniquely cost effective means two million viewers monthly, almost 13% of reaching consumers across a diverse range of all Sky viewers.
co. uk is of electronic networks.
This remains a core consistently in the top three most visited part of Teletexts strategy and central to its travel websites, attracting almost 1.2 million commercial success.
As a result of the success of these services, more people than ever In July 2003 the Communications Act obtained Roger Gilbert before are using Teletext, on analogue Royal Assent bringing to a conclusion three Chairman television, digital television and the web, years of intensive consultation, lobbying and Mike Stewart to find great value holidays.
Whilst there was little in the Act Managing Director of significance affecting Teletext, there were The recent success of Freeview prompted significant changes relating to Independent the company to intensify its efforts to increase Television News ITN, a company in which the capacity it had at its disposal on this digital the Group retains a 20% stake.
As a result Teletext has been able almost to double the available In particular the Act removed the ownership capacity for the duration of its licence.
Whilst restriction on ITN and as a result that company the current generation of Freeview set top may now, for the first time in its history, have a boxes lack the functionality and sophistication single owner.
This is entirely appropriate given of the web, and indeed of Sky receiver devices, the decision to permit the merger of the two they will improve over time.
The additional largest ITV companies, Carlton and Granada.
capacity that has been secured will allow Moreover in the course of 2003, ITN disposed Teletext to deliver a service of the highest of a number of non-core activities and is now a quality on a platform of growing importance much healthier, more robust business, focused and in an environment where competition on building quality revenue streams.
One such is moderated by capacity constraints.
stream is the commercial exploitation of archive material and ITN has been appointed to market In recent years the Teletext service has been DMG Broadcastings unique British Pathe available to viewers by pressing the text button archive alongside ITNs other archive resources.
when watching ITV, Channel 4 or Channel 5.
This arrangement has been in place for some Whilst this was an exclusively analogue linkage, months and early indications are encouraging.
viewer behaviour is well established and there is a widespread expectation that this is how In conclusion, despite almost unprecedented it should be on the digital television platforms.
challenges in the advertising market in 2003, The company has now entered into an DMG Broadcastings television businesses have agreement with Channel 4 to provide the made good progress in attracting audiences Teletext service via the text button on all and in developing their commercial position.
Channel 4 analogue and digital television services.
The duration of this agreement is Our Teletext on 4 service, via the that of Channel 4s licence and the first such remote control text button, will service Teletext on 4 has gone live on analogue, soon be available on all Channel 4 replacing the Fourtext service in October.
Our Teletext information service to mobile phones sent 13 million teletextholidays.
co. uk attracted messages last year, making it almost 1.2 million viewers in July, one of the most widely used making it consistently in the top proprietary mobile information three most visited travel sites.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Our interactive service Teletext Holidays, through Skys satellite platform, is the most widely used travel service on satellite.
Meeting all needs and interests, it now attracts over two million viewers monthly.
