dmg world media is one of the worlds leading dmg world media organised some of its 18 international exhibition companies.
It aims to largest events ever this year.
These included dmg world media be its customers first choice, helping them do Index and the Big 5 in Dubai, Surfexpo in business together and make informed choices Orlando and the Daily Mail Ideal Home Show through its range of exhibitions and related print in London.
Indeed, dmg world media was and new media products.
dmg world media recognised by its industry: in the US, Surfexpo, organises more than 300 market-leading trade the California Gift Show and George Little exhibitions, consumer shows and fairs around Managements International Contemporary the world, supported by 65 related magazines, Furniture Fair were all named among Trade newspapers, directories, market reports and Show Week magazines 50 fastest growing industry databases.
shows: in the UK, the Antiques Trade Gazette was named Special Interest Newspaper of dmg world media had another strong year, the Year at the Newspaper Society Awards.
building upon its record year in 2002.
Adjusted operating profit was down by 18% on last year, dmg world media has also continued to invest due primarily to the absence of a number of in its core sectors and in 2003, successfully large non-annual events, including the Global launched eleven new products.
These included Petroleum Show in Calgary and Aluminium three new home shows in West Palm Beach Essen, as well as adverse foreign exchange Florida, Orlando Florida and Auckland costs and a one-off property charge.
However, New Zealand : Art Form, a sculpture show in adjusting for these items, the underlying Palm Beach Florida : a Farm Show in Indiana: operating profit grew year-on-year by 8% a monthly colour supplement to its weekly on a turnover increased by 2%.
Farm World newspaper: four new shows at its business media division: and a resort wear 2003 was a tough year for any business show in California.
For 2004, dmg world media reliant on its customers travelling for Roger Gilbert has six new shows planned and a further four Chairman face-to-face meetings.
The SARS epidemic are already planned for 2005. had an immediate adverse impact on Mike Cooke Chief Executive Officer a number of dmg world medias shows, dmg world media is looking for strong including shows held in Toronto, during the growth in its underlying annual business time it was quarantined by the World Health and the inclusion of a number of profitable Organisation.
The war in Iraq directly affected high margin non-annual shows in 2004 two of the groups Middle East Shows, held should boost profits.
The new financial year just after the war, and also affected the press has already started well with another record coverage and therefore attendance at many Index show in Dubai and the successful new of its home shows in the US.
Continued growth launch of an Autumn Ideal Home Show at has been delivered, however, thanks largely Earls Court in London, which exceeded to the commitment of staff, tight management all expectations in terms of both exhibitor and cost control and the groups strategy of space sales and visitor attendance.
investing in market-leading products, which can withstand economic downturns and difficult trading conditions.
Continued investment into market leading and core sectors saw the launch of a number of new home shows in Auckland, West Palm Beach and Orlando.
In the US, Surfexpo along with the California Gift Show and George Little Managements International Contemporary Furniture Fair were named among Trade Show Weeks 50 fastest growing shows.
In the UK, The Antiques Trade Gazette was named Special Interest Newspaper of the Year at the Newspaper Society Awards.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc In the UK, the Autumn Ideal Home Show was launched after the year end in London and carried on the success of the spring Show, with exhibitor space sales and visitor attendance exceeding expectations.
