Adjusted operating profits of Euromoney In contrast to publishing, both the events 12 Institutional Investor, the separately listed and training sides of the business have held Euromoney international publishing, conference and training up well.
Sponsored conferences and the group of which the Group holds 71%, fell Institutional Investor memberships were the Institutional by 18% to 23.8 million.
Turnover fell from best performers, emphasising the value of Investor 180million to 159 million, largely as a result the groups high quality face-to-face meeting of the fall in financial advertising, particularly businesses.
Events profits fell 1.7 million to in the US.
The results demonstrate the groups 6.7 million in 2003, although half of this was continued resilience in tough markets.
due to the absence of Vinisud, the biennial wine exhibition run by our French business Euromoney operated in a most difficult meeting subsidiary.
Of the other four key business environment during 2003.
The annual conferences run by the group, war in Iraq, a significant fall in the numbers three managed to increase revenues.
of people travelling on business, a declining US dollar, and the scare over SARS The training businesses performed well after contributed to an already unfavourable a difficult 2002.
Profits fell 10% to 4 million business climate as financial institutions cut despite suffering from the continued constraints advertising, subscriptions, sponsorship and of cuts in company training budgets, and travel training.
Throughout, Euromoney maintained fears following the unrest in the Middle East its commitment to position itself for growth, and the SARS outbreak in Asia.
Business in to remain as profitable as possible, and to Asia has picked up post-SARS and there are continue to seek acquisitions.
In August, also signs of a recovery at MIS, our Bostonit completed its first significant acquisition based audit and information security subsidiary.
for two years, paying up to 16.5 million Profits from the database and information for HedgeFund Intelligence Limited.
services businesses increased 55% to Padraic Fallon Chairman The results of the financial publishing 2.7 million.
After heavy investment in building businesses depend heavily on the advertising ISIs emerging market database in 2000 Richard Ensor Managing Director of global financial institutions, and Wall Street and 2001, the business reached breakeven investment banks in particular.
It has remained profitable suffered significant cuts over the past couple of and continued to grow throughout 2003, years.
As a result, financial advertising revenues adding new revenues of US$1.2 million fell 4.1 million to 32.8 million and profits fell nearly twice the pace it achieved in 2002 3.4 million to 10.4 million.
The Institutional improving its retention rate and significantly Investor titles, with their focus on the pensions reducing its dependence on the financial and asset management world, suffered sector.
ISI revenues have more than doubled most, with advertising revenues down 24%.
to US$16.2 million since its acquisition in Asiamoney and Latin Finance also suffered 1999.
The Dealogic capital markets database falls in advertising revenues but were able joint ventures experienced a slight fall in to compensate for this through the launch subscription revenues, but continue to of new products.
make a significant contribution despite the cuts in customer headcount.
In contrast, Euromoney magazine, with its debt and emerging markets focus, proved Two small businesses were sold for a cash more robust.
The September issue, published consideration of 0.7 million generating to coincide with the annual IMF World Bank an exceptional gain of the same amount.
meeting, achieved revenues close to Euromoney also completed a review of their highest for five years.
This excellent its past acquisitions with a view to better When Euromoney magazines performance helped the magazine achieve positioning the business for growth.
As publishing date coincides with advertising revenues for the year close to aresult, certain businesses have been a major event in the financial 2002s level.
merged and others restructured, and the calendar, spectacular results associated goodwill is no longer separately can follow.
The September Business publishing experienced contrasting issue, published alongside identifiable.
This has led to a non-cash performances across its different sectors.
the IMF World Bank meeting, goodwill impairment charge of 7.8 million Profits fell 2.5 million to 3.8 million after a achieved revenues close to in respect of acquisitions made before 1997. their highest for five years.
The travel titles, which cover the aviation, shipping, business In spite of a strong September performance, Substantial investment travel and duty-free sectors, accounted for first quarter advertising revenues may be flat or into ISIs emerging markets most of this fall and there is little sign of any slightly lower, although there are more cheerful database has enabled a recovery in this sector.
In pharmaceuticals, signs in the companys training and event leading market position to be maintained, delivering advertising revenues weakened after a businesses.
Two thirds of the groups revenues revenues of US$16.2 million.
strong first half although the profit impact was are in dollars, and continued weakness of the mitigated by continued growth in subscription US currency would affect first half revenues.
Both the energy and legal publishing general, the financial outlook has improved and businesses had excellent years, increasing we believe that the strength of the groups titles, profits and continuing to grow through the its operational gearing and strong cash flows, launch of new products.
Gulf Publishing, and its investment in new products will drive acquired in August 2001 when it was lossprofits as the business climate improves.
The strategy of growing the business through the roll-out of new products such as events and handbooks under the World Oil and Hydrocarbon Processing brands is proving successful.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc In 2003, Euromoneys energy and legal publishing businesses had excellent years, continuing to grow through the launch of new products to meet those industries growing information needs.
