29 Directors Report The Directors present their Report and Accounts for the year ended Policy on Payment of Suppliers 28th September, 2003.
The Groups policy on supplier payments varies across its subsidiaries.
These companies have no formal code or standard which deals Trading Results and Dividends specifically with the payment of suppliers.
However, their policy is to The profit after taxation of the Group amounted to 62.5 million.
After ensure that the terms of payment, as specified by, and agreed with charging minority interests of 2.1 million, the Group profit for the year the supplier at the outset, are not exceeded.
The Company had no trade creditors at the year end date.
An interim dividend of 3.15 pence per share was paid on the Ordinary The Groups average payment period, calculated on the basis of and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares, and the Directors recommend that year end trade creditors, is 56 days 2002 52 days, although this is a final dividend of 6.85 pence per share be paid on 4th February, 2004 dependent on the year end date and cannot therefore be regarded making 10.0 pence per share for the year 2002 9.2 pence.
Activities Donations The principal activities of the Group are set out on pages 4 and 5.
Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted to The analyses of turnover and operating profit for the years ended 548,000 2002 330,000.
No political donations were made by 28th September, 2003 and 29th September, 2002 are included the Group.
as Notes 1 and 2 to the Profit and Loss Account.
A review of the development of the business of the Group during the year, of its Substantial Shareholdings position at the end of the year and of likely future developments in As set out in Note 32, the Company has two classes of share capital its business is given in the Chief Executives Review of Operations Ordinary shares and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares.
On 26th November, on pages 6 to 21 and in the Financial and Treasury Review on pages 2003 the following were interested in more than 3% of the issued 24 to 27.
Ordinary shares: Rothermere Continuation Limited Directors and other parties to an agreement which Biographical details of the Directors of the Company at 26th November, comes within section 204 of the Companies Act 1985 63.1% 2003 are set out on page 28.
The Directors remained unchanged throughout the year, with the exception of Mr Balsemo who was Codan Trust Company Ltd and Rothschild Trust Bermuda Ltd appointed to the Board on 27th November, 2002. trustees of the Esmond Harmsworth 1998 Settlement 25.4% The number of shares of the Company and of securities of other Group There is no Companies Act requirement to disclose companies, in which the Directors or their families had an interest at substantial interests in the A Ordinary Non-Voting shares.
the year end, are stated in the Remuneration Report on page 40.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Messrs Hakkarainen, Auditors Lowy and Dutton retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting On 1st August, 2003, Deloitte & Touche, the Companys auditors, on 4th February, 2004.
Messrs Lowy and Dutton, each being eligible, transferred their business to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited liability offers himself for re-election.
Mr Hakkarainen, a non-executive Director partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnerships of the Company since 1990, has decided not to stand for re-election.
The Companys consent has been given to treating the Sir Patrick Sergeant, a non-executive Director of the Company since appointment of Deloitte & Touche as extending to Deloitte & Touche 1983 has also decided to stand down at the conclusion of the LLP under the provisions of section 26 5 of the Companies Act 1989. forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors would like Deloitte & Touche LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in to thank both of them for their service to the Group.
office and, in accordance with section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution proposing their reappointment will be put to the Annual Post Balance Sheet Events General Meeting.
On 31st October, 2003, DMG Radio extended its metropolitan presence in Australia, following its successful bid for the new commercial FM radio Annual General Meeting licence in Adelaide.
The cost of the winning bid was Aus$24 million The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 10 million.
4th February, 2004 at 11.00 am in the Garner Room at the Commonwealth Institute, 230 Kensington High Street, London W8.
Tangible Fixed Assets and Investments Details of resolutions to be put as special business are set out in the Changes in tangible fixed assets and investments other than associates Notice of Meeting included in the enclosed circular to shareholders.
and joint ventures during the year are set out in Notes 20, 23 and 24 to the balance sheets.
By Order of the Board Share Capital Details of allotments in share capital during the year, which arose solely from the exercise of options, are given in Note 32.
N D Jennings, FCA Employees Secretary Under the Groups general policy of decentralised management, it is 26th November, 2003 the responsibility of the management in each subsidiary to encourage the involvement and participation of employees in their company.
The methods used depend on the wide variety of the companies but the linking to performance targets of a significant portion of remuneration is one widely used means.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to suitable applications from disabled persons for employment.
If existing employees become disabled they will continue to be employed, wherever practicable, in the same job or, if this is not practicable, every effort will be made to find suitable alternative employment and to provide appropriate training.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc
