DMG Information DMGI produced excellent The company launched a new product aimed 20 results with operating profits increasing sharply.
at offering customers the tools to undertake DMG Information The business to business division had another a comprehensive analysis of their chemical outstanding year, increasing its profits by management process.
over 40%, whilst the careers division made RMSI in India achieved its target for the year.
encouraging progress on its recovery from Investments were made in establishing sales the downturn of the previous year.
organisations in the USA and in the UK, with the latter already producing positive results.
Business to Business In addition, RMSIs relationship with Landmark Risk Management Solutions increased its achieved considerable success in winning profits substantially and its operating margin a number of large UK government-related improved significantly as its insurance and geographic information contracts.
reinsurance company clients focused on their risk controls.
In addition, the substantial At Sanborn, the downward trend in demand investment in RMSs data and models paid mentioned in last years report continued dividends.
It was another busy year on the through into this year.
The principal cause product side with the launch of major upgrades was the fiscal deficits being experienced by to the core catastrophe models of US hurricane US state and local governments and, although and earthquake.
Both models incorporated opportunities are expected to arise from new mathematical and scientific approaches Homeland Security work, funding has only and, as a result, caused important changes to recently started to flow.
the risk analysis of many client portfolios.
The model releases were managed using a new Careers web-based customer relationship management At Hobsons, the restructuring carried out at system which helped to ensure a rapid and the end of 2002 in response to a sharp fall David Dutton Chairman wide adoption by the insurance industry.
in the graduate recruitment market it serves in the UK and Germany, helped to return Martin Morgan The new urban risk concentration database, Managing Director the company to profitability despite there mentioned in last years report as being in still being no upturn in the market.
This product was created jointly with DMGIs Sanborn The theme of weak graduate recruitment Map Company.
RMSs early work in terrorism markets was also felt, albeit to a lesser extent, risk assessment culminated in the launch in France, Belgium and Australia.
However of a terrorism model for the USA during in France, Editions Go had a satisfactory year, the year.
In addition to healthy sales growth as did the Good Guides Group in Australia in the USA, penetration of the Lloyds of due to their leading market positions in the London insurance market increased sharply higher educational recruitment market.
and rapid growth is being experienced in In the USA, where Hobsons is not exposed Continental European markets.
to the graduate recruitment market, the All three companies in the property information company had a record year, with the product Study Groups new purpose built group had a successful year.
In the USA, diversification efforts in the higher education college is under construction at Environmental Data Resources achieved recruitment market of earlier years paying off.
arecord profit despite the continuation of a Study Group achieved highly creditable weak commercial real estate market, although The US acquisition of Property results in a year when international student the first signs of an upturn were felt in the final & Portfolio Research, acquired travel was adversely affected by the war in October 2002, met growth quarter.
The company successfully introduced in Iraq and by the outbreak of SARS.
Once expectations despite weaker a number of new database features into its market conditions.
again the UK and Australian operations products.
Property & Portfolio Research, posted record profits and a successful which was acquired in early October 2002, operation was opened in Auckland, had an excellent year and fully met DMGIs New Zealand.
In the USA, recovery was growth expectations, despite weaker market slower than anticipated as a result of a conditions than originally expected.
Towards tightening of visa requirements and a the end of the year, encouraging progress was continuing reluctance on the part of students being made in sales of the relatively new loan from some countries to travel to the USA.
default models being marketed to lenders.
However, the cost cutting carried out in In the UK, the high revenue growth at 2002, helped to improve results there.
The new RMS US Earthquake Landmark was maintained.
Profit was Investment in the worldwide sales and model includes state-of-the-art held back by an increase of investment in marketing organisation was maintained, as building response analysis, building the organisational structure and that considers specific was the commitment to the programme of systems improvements.
In mid-September, structural characteristics and providing outstanding facilities.
For example, the company completed the acquisition of site conditions to estimate construction has started on a new purpose earthquake risk.
Sitescope which underpins expectations built college at Greenwich in London.
The for another high growth year in 2004. benefits of these investments and the breadth Dolphin Software had a flat year.
Market and geographic spread of the courses offered conditions continued to be difficult with US are becoming more visible in the market place, industry holding back on capital expenditures, with Study Group as a consequence steadily although there were signs of some upturn improving its competitive position.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc In 2003, RMS released new versions of its catastrophe models for US hurricane and earthquake risk, which are used by the insurance industry.
The new models incorporate scientific advances in modelling the physical characteristics of these natural hazards.
