Following heavy investment in its new Nova The regional stations won the competitive 16 stations, DMG Radio Australia returned listening surveys in all but one market during DMG to operational profitability as a group this the year, and saw improving economic year and established Nova in Sydney and conditions as the year progressed.
Broadcasting: Melbourne as the most listened to stations Radio The proposed joint venture in New South by people under 40.
Wales Central Coast with RG Capital, It enjoyed another eventful and successful announced in October 2002, did not proceed year.
In October 2002, DMG Radio acquired and DMG Radio will launch its 100% owned a new FM licence in the fast growing Sunshine Central Coast licence early in 2004, adding Coast region of Queensland.
The new station, another high growth regional market and branded Hot 91 began broadcasting on the sixty fourth station to its portfolio.
25th October, 2003 in one of the groups GWR Group, in which DMGT has a 29.9% most successful launches to date.
To comply interest, achieved significant progress in with broadcasting regulations, DMG Radios restructuring to concentrate on its core UK Brisbane AM station 4BH was sold at the end business.
Overseas operations have been of March, achieving a profit of Aus$5 million.
sold and debt reduced significantly.
The UK In December 2002, the Group launched operational structure has been redesigned Nova 937, the Perth FM station it won at and benefits, particularly in the local radio auction earlier in the year in a 50% joint group, are now flowing strongly.
venture with Australian Radio Network.
GWR, and in particular its chairman Nova 969 in Sydney and Nova 100 in Mr Ralph Bernard CBE, has pioneered Melbourne continued to increase revenues the development of digital radio in the UK and moved into profit, each setting station and is well positioned to benefit from the records throughout 2003.
Both are the most Roger Gilbert inevitable transfer of listening from analogue Chairman listened to stations in their respective markets to digital as the uptake of digital radios by all people in the valuable under 40 age Paul Thompson increases.
Demand for the new product Managing Director category with Nova 969 achieving the number is growing and manufacturers are now one FM position in the all important breakfast increasingly committing themselves time slot in November 2003. to production.
Novas revolutionary programming and inventory policies continued to command the attention of both listeners and advertisers.
As Sydney and Melbourne moved beyond their establishment phase, DMG Radio returned to operational profitability.
DMG Radios only metropolitan AM station, Adelaides Five AA, continued to be the highest rating commercial AM station in metropolitan Australia, while again setting another annual record in both revenue and profit.
DMG Radios regional stations won the competitive listening surveys in all but one market during the year.
Adelaides Five AA continues to be the highest rating commercial AM station in metropolitan Australia.
Hot 91 is the new FM licence for the Sunshine Coast region of Australia and is one of our most successful launches to date.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Sydneys Nova 969 has captured more listeners in the valuable under 40 age category than any other station.
