The Groups national newspaper division, At Harmsworth Quays, Press 70 and Press 10 08 Associated Newspapers, produced a solid are enhanced, back in production and running Associated performance in a year which saw the difficult well.
The press enhancement programme, advertising market continuing, strong to provide the titles with increased pagination Newspapers competitive challenges on the circulation front, and colour availability, is within budget and and significant investment for the future in the on schedule for November 2004 completion.
The Daily Mail and The Mail During the year printing of Associateds titles on Sunday once again achieved circulation started in Ireland, Derby, Marseilles and Belgium growth in overall declining markets, confirming whilst the facilities in Manchester and Madrid the long term value of investing in editorial have been discontinued.
quality and providing the reader with regular ANM achieved a 26% increase in traffic to added-value promotions.
its portfolio of sites and had its best ever The Daily Mail circulation of 2,443,000 was up year for revenue with growth of 40%.
ANM for the eleventh successive year despite intense continues to diversify its revenue streams to market competition.
The year on year increase ensure it is not over-reliant on one category.
of 6,000 copies reaffirmed its position as the It has begun to develop paid for content and second highest selling national daily newspaper.
This is London launched the first subscription The Daily Mail was voted Newspaper of the Year product in November 2002, entitled the at the 2003 British Press Awards for a record Insiders Guide.
This is Travel enjoyed its third time in the last five years.
first full year of operation and consolidated its position within its market with monthly The Mail on Sunday increased its circulation users in excess of 540,000.
This is Money by 7,000 copies to a record high of 2,367,000 was awarded Consumer Website of the Year and increased its market share to 16.6% at the AOP Awards.
despite a 10p cover price increase in March.
Lord Rothermere Chairman The newspaper and You magazine continue Ireland on Sunday has now firmly established to attract more ABC1 readers than any other itself as the number three in the Irish Sunday Murdoch Paul Dacre Sunday newspaper or supplement.
The Mail on newspaper market, commanding a market MacLennan Editor-inManaging Chief right Sunday was voted the Sunday Newspaper of share of 19.24%.
Weekly circulation averaged Director left the Year 2003 for overall publishing success.
159,600, an increase of 85% on the previous year and Joint National Readership Survey The Evening Standard sale declined by readership was 433,000 per week, compared 1.3% in the year, averaging 412,000.
With strong speed of decline has been slowed significantly circulation and readership figures, Ireland through increased investment in promoting on Sunday is well placed to build on the title.
The recruitment supplement was the achievements of the last year and take successfully re-launched as londonjobs.
co. uk advantage of the eventual upturn in the enabling the print and internet platforms advertising market.
to be brought closer together, utilising the advantages of both.
During the year the Loot had a successful year.
Advertising business was restructured to ensure it revenues were up 14.5%, reflecting the is in a better position to take advantage product improvements made during the of any upturn in its advertising market.
year, including greater colour opportunities, increased paginations and a wider range of Metro had an excellent year, recording advertising packages.
Circulation remains a national trading profit for the first time.
a challenge in an increasingly competitive Circulation grew by 3% to 861,000.
Metro market and this will be the focus in the coming Metro, our free morning continues to deliver an audience rich in year.
The revenue from the website grew commuter newspaper, achieved young ABC1 readers who are in work.
enormously, tripling the previous years profit throughout the year.
Total advertising revenues were down by performance.
Buy and Sell, Loots equivalent Loots new call centre in Wembley 1.7%, with display down 3.4% and classified in Ireland, also had a very successful year won the national award for the up 3.3%.
The Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday with increased profits and a 12.4% increase most outstanding call centre.
and the Evening Standard had difficult years in circulation.
It is firmly established as with display but Metro increased its display Irelands leading free advertisement paper.
revenues by 28% with an increased focus on The new financial year has begun well national advertising across all editions.
Ireland for Associated with circulation robust and on Sunday and Associated New Media ANM advertising trading slightly ahead of last year.
also achieved significant increases year on year.
Although it is too early to call the turn in the The Daily Mail increased its classified revenues national advertising market, with newsprint by 6.1% and The Mail on Sunday achieved prices appearing stable at current levels, 15% growth.
Loot and ANM also achieved continuing stringent control of expenditure strong growth in this category, but Evening and strong circulation and readership figures, Standard recruitment was down by 11%.
the outlook for commercial growth is good.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Adding customer value through promotions, such as free music CDs, and bold editorial ensured the Daily Mail and The Mail on Sunday delivered increased circulation figures.
