On-line advertising has also improved over 10 Circulation revenues were up 4%, the last 12 months.
Locally, over 80% of all Northcliffe advertising revenues grew by 3% and recruitment advertising appearing in print adjusted operating profits advanced by is sold on to the job channels of our local Newspapers 4%.
Most of Northcliffes publishing centres portals and Fish4 the national website.
produced year on year profit growth, with Contract printing profits fell further.
The particularly notable performances from market for printing third party weekly titles titles in Plymouth, Exeter, Torquay, Cornwall, reduced again as the other major regional Humberside and the Midlands.
Bristol publishers take advantage of more printing and Aberdeen continued to face difficult capacity by transferring work in-house.
market conditions, particularly Nevertheless, Northcliffes presses are busier in recruitment advertising.
Internal demand for pre-printed A number of daily titles raised cover prices supplements has grown as publishers following a period of sustained investment introduce more relevant content for readers, in higher paginations and added-value as well as devising new platforms for supplements.
National titles are printed at evening and three morning titles modestly seven of Northcliffes 12 printing centres.
outperformed the local and regional During 2003 the contract to print titles for newspaper industry ABC average for News International at three sites was extended January to June 2003 with circulation for a further three years.
In addition, a contract drops of 3.3% and 2.6% respectively.
In part, was signed to print copies of the Daily Star this sales decline was as a consequence in Swansea.
of the continuing drive to reduce bulk sales an objective shared by the entire regional The investment to enhance capacity at Stoke Lord Rothermere press.
Almost all of Northcliffes daily titles and Derby for Associateds national titles is Chairman now report actively purchased sales of almost complete, slightly ahead of schedule Kevin Beatty between 98% and 100%.
Its 23 weekly titles and on budget.
Copies of the Daily Mail and Managing Director delivered another strong sales performance The Mail on Sunday, previously printed at with 16 showing increases in the January Bradford, are now produced on Northcliffe to June period.
Extra colour capacity was added in Aberdeen and Swansea.
A twelve-month Stabilising circulation of the groups daily project to increase colour capacity in titles continues to be a priority.
Last year a Plymouth to meet demand from the weekly programme of further investment in editorial, titles in Cornwall and Devon and the four daily marketing and circulation was initiated.
All of Westcountry titles will start in January 2004 this remains in place and will be supplemented and will cost 6 million.
by further properly researched improvements as Northcliffe seeks to ensure that all The Hungarian business had another record publications are relevant to readers needs, year.
Adjusted operating profits grew by 18% as well as representing good value for money.
due to buoyant advertising revenues and a In addition to specific investments in individual strong performance from contract printing.
titles over the next 12 months, a general One small acquisition was made in 2003, overhaul of fundamental but essential Szuperinf, a free distribution, advertising-only circulation building blocks such as distribution, publication for the town of Sopron.
More than 80% of recruitment advertisments placed in canvassing and home delivery has begun.
Particular attention remains on staff training Northcliffe titles are now sold on to the groups successful Advertising revenue growth was driven by and development.
An extensive management local Internet portals which property and recruitment, with an especially development programme, which involves recorded more than 1 million strong performance from property, which grew managers at every level, is now in place.
Additional colour printing capacity in the Employee training and development is better September ABCe audit.
Midlands also contributed by allowing certain co-ordinated across the group as new minimum The development of a new titles to satisfy the demand from estate agents standards are introduced and best practice suite of programmes, suitable for more colour pages.
This, allied to a comprehensive series for managers at any stage of guides in Hull, Plymouth, Exeter and Torquay of benefits, over and above basic salaries, their career, serves to encourage are no longer printed on their local presses but has contributed to a further fall in staff retention and enables promotion from within increasing our in the Midlands.
All now offer every page in full turnover, which has reduced by 5% over reputation as the employer colour.
Recruitment advertising bounced back the last two years.
with growth of 4% following a decline of 3% in The new financial year has started well.
Motors and Retail advertising Advertising revenues are up 6%, giving cause each declined by 1%.
for cautious optimism as Northcliffe focuses Over the last two years, Northcliffe has on what it does best providing readers added further resources to its national with relevant, essential and entertaining advertising operation to enable better local information and, equally importantly, representation at agency and client level connecting advertisers with their customers.
and to improve customer service.
National revenues generated by this sales team increased by 9% with many new clients being added to the existing client base.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc More colour in our weekly property guides, responding to the needs of estate agents, has helped drive property advertising revenue up by 13%.
