fide La Rue 2003 fide La Rue delivers cutting-edge expertise, founded on relevant experience, to help governments, banks and commercial organisations around the world create a more secure environment in which to operate when managing transactions of value.
With 6,600 people working in over 30 countries, we provide an unmatched spread of services.
Our focus is in three primary areas: nSecuring monetary value.
We provide over 150 national currencies and other tokens of value such as travellers cheques and vouchers, making life easier for our customers and more difficult for the counterfeiter.
nEnabling the efficiency and security of the money cycle.
Providing cash handling solutions enabling efficient processes and authentication.
nSecuring the identity of the individual.
More than ever, the worlds governments need total security for their citizens.
fide La Rue has pioneered new technologies in the design, implementation and operation of high security national identity, drivers licence and passport issuing schemes.
This enables both speed of movement and security for their citizens.
fide La Rue is a unique business: the driving force behind many of the worlds transactions and security solutions.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 1 Our Business in 2002 2003 Divisions Security Paper and Print Products and Solutions: Sales Breakdowns Currency by Business Stream fide La Rue is the worlds leading commercial producer of banknotes and aims to be the preferred partner of central banks for banknotes and banknote paper worldwide.
We invest significantly to deliver the most appropriate and advanced security features, tailored to meet our customers individual needs.
The business offers banknotes, banknote paper, coins, currency management, anti-counterfeit consultancy and design and origination service.
Currency Security Products Provides a range of secure printed products, services and solutions to assist governments, banks and commercial organisations worldwide in their ongoing fight against organised counterfeit and fraud.
Products include bonds and bearer securities, certificates of origin, cheques and drafts, holograms on cards, motor vehicle documentation, postage, revenue and fiscal stamps, secure substrates, security labels, signature panels, tax discs, travellers cheques, vital records and vouchers.
Banknote Printing 75% Cash Systems Banknote Paper 25% fide La Rue is a world leader in the provision of cash handling equipment, offering solutions to manage and support cash and other value transactions.
The division offers a full set of solutions which incorporate hardware, application software and systems integration capabilities as well as services such as maintenance, facilities management and consultancy.
Financial Institutions Offers self-service automation solutions, teller-assisted dispense and deposit systems, banknote and coin processing equipment, software for the back office and branch automation consultancy.
Cash Systems Retail Payment Solutions Offers total solutions for managing cash, cheques, coupons and other payment media: from change dispensing and security at the point of sale, through to cash preparation and payment management in the cash office.
Currency Systems Provides automated banknote handling, facilities management, cash handling consultancy, cash management application software and integrated cash management solutions and networking.
OEM Provides note handling mechanisms predominantly to automated teller machine ATM manufacturers.
Financial Institutions 60% OEM 15% The division is also supported by a Customer Service business which provides a consistent level of high quality service Currency Systems 15% and support to our customers through our direct service operation and through indirect service.
Retail Payment Solutions 10% The Customer Service business which services all business units represents c. 30% of divisional sales Global Services Focuses on the markets of Identity Systems, Voting Systems and Brand Protection and brings together fide La Rues secure technologies expertise in print, high-security paper, holographics and tapes.
Identity Systems Provides drivers licences and issuing systems, national identity cards and issuing systems, secure passports and issuing systems and visas.
Global Services Sequoia Voting Systems With over 25,000 touch-screen and electronic voting machines in use across North America, Sequoia is one of the USAs leading suppliers of voting equipment, software, ballot printing and election services.
Holographics Continues to supply security holograms to the manufacturers of euro banknotes.
Its key markets are: holograms for high security banknotes, financial transaction cards, fiscal stamps and luxury brands.
Brand Protection Provides anti-counterfeit and authentication, anti-tamper, brand enhancement, secure supply chain anti-diversion, security shrink sleeves, speciality tear tapes and tamper evident holographic labels.
Sequoia Voting Systems 42% Identity Systems 27% Holographics 20% Brand Protection 11% 2 fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 Global Locations Countries in which fide La Rue has manufacturing or office locations Security Paper and Print Currency Headquarters: Overton, UK.
Key Locations: Nairobi, Kenya: Zejtun, Malta: Malawana, Sri Lanka: Debden, UK: Gateshead, UK: Overton, UK.
Security Products Headquarters: Basingstoke, UK.
Key Locations: Nairobi, Kenya: Lisburn, Northern Ireland: Bray, Republic of Ireland: Bathford, UK: Byfleet, UK: Dunstable, UK: High Wycombe, UK: Peterborough, UK: Westhoughton, UK: Dulles, USA.
Cash Systems Headquarters: Basingstoke, UK.
Key Manufacturing Hubs: Lisbon, Portugal: Flen, Sweden: Portsmouth, UK: Dallas, USA: Watertown, USA.
Key Sales & Service Centres: Sao Paulo, Brazil: Laval, Canada: Hong Kong, China: Paris, France: Frankfurt, Germany: Vianen, Netherlands: Madrid, Spain: Bern, Switzerland: Knutsford, UK: Chicago, USA: Dallas, USA.
Also 40 local sales and service offices worldwide.
Global Services Headquarters: Basingstoke, UK.
Key Locations: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia: Mexico City, Mexico: Basingstoke, UK: Albany, USA: Oakland, USA.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 3
