Review Secure transactions for a changing world 4 fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 We live and work in a changing world.
A global marketplace, always open for business in which technology is transforming our lives: from the work we do and the organisations we work for: to the way we communicate with each other and access goods and services.
fide La Rue brings security to this marketplace, ensuring that individuals can have complete confidence in the tokens of monetary value they use to pay for goods and services, and in the documents that validate their personal identity.
We provide the technology that enables banks to deliver the choice their customers demand from 24-hour automated banking solutions to personal, face-to-face transactions in a secure environment.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 5 Review continued Secure currency for a world that never stops At the mall, online or over the telephone leading-edge technology and the exibility more people spend more money on a wider needed to react to market trends.
range of goods and services than ever before.
The banknote remains their preferred Governments and central banks partner method of payment, accounting for over 50 with fide La Rue for many reasons: we per cent of the worlds transactions.
understand our market and possess a wealth of technical expertise: we deliver fide La Rue helps keep this world moving.
solutions that work for them now and in As the worlds largest commercial security the long term: we add value at every stage printer, we produce currency solutions for of the working relationship.
over 150 countries across all five continents.
Our design and production facilities are They trust our record in the development impressive.
Our market reputation is second of anti-counterfeit measures.
At a time when to none: founded on strong relationships, sophisticated colour copier, scanner and 6 fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 Investment in foiling equipment allows fide La Rue to offer high security holographic stripes on banknote paper.
printer technologies are widely available to would-be counterfeiters, fide La Rue continues to invest in the latest anti-counterfeit features, from visible security features such as custom made watermarked papers, wide threads, uorescing inks and holograms to covert and machine readable components detectable only by special equipment.
The objective is always the same to stay several steps ahead of the counterfeiter.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 7 Review continued fide La Rue branded ATM systems make it possible for consumers to decide where, when and how they access cash and other related services.
Our teller automation solutions provide the security and reliability banks need for open-plan banking.
8 fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 Customer-friendly cash systems for a world that never sleeps Predictions that e-commerce would erode fide La Rue makes this multi-channel Automation and branch-based services are the use of cash and replace traditional approach a reality offering clients an not incompatible.
Far from it: they give branch banking were exaggerated.
unmatched range of cash handling consumers greater choice to decide where, Consumers still prefer to use cash, but solutions.
Our point-of-sale teller solutions when and how they access cash and other demand greater choice in the way they are currently being used by retail banks to related services.
As a market leader in access and spend it.
Without effective support dialogue banking a concept that point-of-sale solutions, a significant player management, however, cash is an removes traditional barriers to communication in self-service banking, and the only cash expensive commodity for many such as windows or grilles and brings systems business that works across the organisations to process and authenticate.
customer and bank representative closer whole cash cycle, we have a major role to Retail banks in particular recognise that together.
At the same time, fide La Rues play in extending that choice.
a multi-channel approach offers the best self-service branch banking facilities now chance to earn customer loyalty and build make it possible for customers to complete market share.
a wide range of transactions in the lobby, 24-hours a day.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 9 Review continued State-of-the-art identity solutions for a world on the move The events of 9 11 and the subsequent a vital role in preventing the loss of scal war against terrorism have pushed security revenue from imported and exported up the agenda and into the public eye.
goods through counterfeiting or smuggling.
At the same time, with greater volumes of In this eld, our record in the development of goods and services on the move around anti-counterfeit measures is second to none.
the world than ever before, authentication The same innovation drives the development is also a pressing issue.
of voucher, cheque and travellers cheque solutions for many of the worlds leading For governments, fide La Rue delivers retailers and financial institutions.
a wide range of identity solutions from secure passports to products such as excise and scal stamps, each playing 10 fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 fide La Rues high security excise stamps bearing holographic and both overt and covert security features play a pivotal role in reducing counterfeiting and the movement of contraband goods.
We are leaders in national identity systems, including drivers licences and entitlement cards.
A trusted partner on more than 50 national identity schemes, we advise governments on all aspects of the process by which individuals apply for, receive and then use materials that verify their personal identity in order to obtain goods and services.
This end-to-end service is vital as any weak links in the identity cycle can invalidate the whole process.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 11
