Board of Directors 1 2 3 Board Committees: a Audit Committee r Remuneration Committee n Nomination Committee 4 5 6 7 8 a, r, n 1.
Nigel Walmsley, 61 Chief Executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed Chief Executive on Appointed a Director in June 1997, he Appointed as an independent 1 September 2003.
He was previously became Group Chief Executive in February Non-executive Director in May 2001.
Managing Director of Travel Inn, a division 2000.
He stepped down from this role on He is Chairman of the Audit Committee of Whitbread Hotel Company.
Prior to that 1 September 2003 and remained a Director and a member of the Remuneration and he held several positions within Whitbread until 13 October 2003, when he retired Nomination Committees.
He has also worked for Forte Plc and having completed forty years of service Deputy Chief Executive of Carlton Nomura International Plc.
Communications Plc and prior to that was Managing Director of Capital Radio Plc.
Alan Jackson, 60 a, r, n Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Director 8.
Deborah Hewitt, 40 Appointed a Director in 1984.
He first Appointed as an independent Non-executive Director joined the Company in 1977 and became Non-executive Director in 1993 and senior Appointed as an independent NonChief Executive in February 1997.
He is executive Director in May 2002.
She chairs the sale of Pubs & Restaurants he was Chairman of the Nomination Committee the Remuneration Committee and is a appointed Non-executive Chairman.
He is and a member of the Audit and member of the Audit and Nomination Chairman of Aintree Racecourse Company Remuneration Committees.
She is the Managing Director Limited, Executive Chairman of Highland Chairman of City Centre Restaurants Plc of RAC Roadside Services and sits on the Gold Mining Limited and was formerly a and Chairman of Living Ventures Plc.
He Office of Government Commerce Board.
Non-Executive Director of First Leisure Plc.
was formerly the Chairman and Chief Executive of Inn Business Group Plc.
Roger Stubbs, FCA, 52 Group Finance Director 6.
Steven Morgan, OBE, 50 Appointed Group Finance Director in Non-executive Director December 1999.
He joined the Company Appointed as a Non-executive Director in in 1979 as Financial Controller of the Off March 2000.
He is the former Chairman Licence Division subsequently becoming and founder of Redrow Group Plc and its Finance Director.
In 1991 he became St Davids Hotels Limited prior to its Finance Director of Premier House and in acquisition by fide Vere Group Plc.
1997 was appointed Finance Director of He is also a Director of several privately the Hotels & Leisure Division.
He is a fellow owned businesses.
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and a member of the British Association of Hotel Accountants.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 13
