Report of the Directors The Directors have pleasure in submitting % Employment report their Report and the Accounts for the year fide Vere Hotels, Village Hotels & Leisure ended 28 September 2003.
Bridgemere Investments Ltd 13.67 Clubs and G&J Greenall continue to be accredited Investors in People and it is the Guinness Peat Group 9.92 Trading results Groups objective to maintain accreditation An analysis of the operating profit by class as the award evolves to take account of ISIS Asset Management 7.47 of business is shown in Note 1 to the changes in best practice.
Taube Hodson & Stonex Partners Ltd 6.24 Accounts on page 32.
The Group considers it imperative to Legal & General Investment Dividends encourage people to develop and utilise Management 3.65 The Board is recommending a final dividend their knowledge and skills to improve of 7.7 pence per Ordinary share to be paid corporate performance.
There is an on 27 February 2004 to shareholders understanding that exceptional employee Mr S P Morgan, a Non-executive Director of registered in the register of members of the the Company, is the controlling shareholder performance should be recognised and a Company at the close of business on of Bridgemere Investments Limited.
reward system has been further developed 30 January 2004.
The final dividend, to share benefits with employees that attain together with the interim dividend of 4.0 In addition to the substantial interests this level of performance.
The Group realises pence per Ordinary share, and subject to referred to above, Lord Daresbury, Nonthat employee enjoyment is critical to good shareholders approval, makes a total for executive Chairman, has beneficial interests performance and has extended the the year ended 28 September 2003 of in the Ordinary shares of the Company, Employee Opinion Survey which measures 11.7 pence, compared with 11.3 pence together with other members of his family, key indicators including communications, per Ordinary share for the year ended amounting to 4.87%.
management style, working conditions, 29 September 2002. salary and benefits.
The overall satisfaction Directors scores continue to improve year-on-year and Activities of the Group On 1 September 2003 Mr P B Dermody are reported to be in excess of sector norms.
The main activities of the Group are stated relinquished his role as Chief Executive but in the Operating Review on pages 6 to 10. remained a Director of the Group until The Group is a strong supporter of Equal 13 October 2003 when he completed forty Opportunities in all aspects of employment, Review of the year and future years service with the Group.
Mr C A Leaver including recruitment, encouraging prospects was appointed Chief Executive and joined employees to develop their full potential The review of the Groups trading the Board on 1 September 2003. regardless of gender, marital status, social operations during the year and an class, age, colour, national or ethnic origin, indication of likely future developments are The names and brief biographical details religious belief, sexual orientation or set out on pages 2 to 12. of the Directors who have held office are disability.
The Group is nearing completion set out on page 13.
Mr R G Stubbs and of a Diversity Project aimed at promoting Share capital Mr N N Walmsley retire by rotation and, the benefits of a diverse workforce, thus Details of changes in share capital during being eligible, offer themselves for remaximising our ability to recruit, support the year are given in Note 19 on pages 51 election.
In line with best practice, and retain colleagues from all sectors of the and 52.
Since the year-end 121,595 Mr A M Jackson, who has been a Noncommunity.
2 Ordinary shares of 22 pence each have 9 executive Director for over nine years, also been issued under the Executive Share offers himself for re-election as a Director Communication plays a key part in the Option Scheme and the Sharesave Scheme.
Mr C A Leaver, who Groups employee relationship as it is the was appointed a Director during the year, simplest means of recognising an The Company did not purchase any of its offers himself for election.
individuals contribution to the Company.
Ordinary shares during the year.
The Team briefings, staff forums and suggestion existing authority granted by shareholders The interests of the Directors in the schemes provide regular and effective for the Company to purchase its own Ordinary shares of the Company, details of methods of keeping our people up to date shares remains in force until the AGM on the Directors service contracts and other with corporate successes and business 20 February 2004. details of their remuneration are set out in strategy, as well as capturing views, ideas the Report on Directors Remuneration on and feedback across all levels of the Substantial interests as at pages 19 to 23. organisation.
3 December 2003 The Company has been notified of the following interests pursuant to section 198 of the Companies Act 1985: 14 fide VERE GROUP PLC REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Within each business unit People Plans appropriate training is provided and can be activities, 35 hotels & fitness clubs are initiated and aligned with business evaluated in terms of results and a participate in a glass recycling scheme objectives.
The plans are prioritised to reduction in accident claims.
which has resulted in over 1000 tonnes of have the maximum impact on profit glass being collected last year.
Performance management All procedures are formally encompassed in of this scheme has been extended to and reward systems have been tailored a new safety manual, which has been include the collection of cardboard, which to the plans.
developed and is being rolled out to all is now baled on site.
The Group continues to invest in Active absence management has generated risk prevention and control measures and is At unit level The fide Vere Belfry has been significant cost savings in the last year.
in the process of developing a website to participating in the Committed to Green In addition, the streamlining of the report on future health & safety matters.
initiative, which is a long-term European company car arrangements has further Environmental Management Programme reduced operating costs.
Environmental report designed to mitigate the impact of our The Company has recently been approved activities on the environment.
Some of the In 2003 we have made significant progress for entry into the Kempen SNS Smaller achievements to date include: in developing and implementing core Europe SRI Index, whose membership is management skills.
The Excellerate only available to those companies with the i building special bridges to divert crowds Induction Programme was launched and very highest standards and practice in the away from nesting swans during a has already delivered a 25% increase in three areas of business ethics, human major golf tournament.
staff retention figures for the first ninety resources and the environment.
The Group days of service.
is working hard to be a responsible citizen ii the creation of over 22 hectares of in the communities in which it operates conservation area to protect flora, fauna Employees are invited to share in the and this is further evidenced by our and rare species of wildlife.
Companys success by participating in the inclusion in the Footsie4good index.
During the year 445 iii a tree replacement programme that employees applied for options over 333,238 One of the main areas we are seeking to planted a native oak tree every 10 shares at a price of 269 pence per share.
improve is our use of energy and water.
metres around the perimeter of the Our policy is to minimise the consumption Brabazon course.
The offer of stakeholder pension of these resources and benchmark our use arrangements has also been successfully of gas, electricity and water in order to iv an invitation to local schools for pond introduced, with over 1,000 staff signing apply best practise and consolidate energy dipping sessions to enhance local up in the last twelve months.
savings across all our units.
designs, maintenance and refurbishment Health & safety programmes have energy conservation Future initiatives to improve the environment The health & safety of all fide Veres guests, built in as a key factor.
For example, our include replacing petrol golf buggies with employees and site visitors is a fundamental new timeshare lodges incorporate a electric versions as they reach their life priority of all managers within the Group.
Swedish timber frame design that is three expectancy, the development of a staff car To this end, a monthly risk report is times more energy efficient and are also share scheme and a staff travel plan.
prepared and is reviewed by Senior triple glazed to help reduce the impact on Management and the Board.
As part of its responsibility to the environment, the Group also encourages External audits are also undertaken to Energy reduction targets of 5% have been employees to participate in local underpin the risk review process.
In agreed with 19 sites exceeding these community activities.
addition, operating procedures are parameters within the first twelve months.
continuously improved to take account of An Actionenergy survey programme Supplier payment policy changes in regulations and expert sponsored by the DOE has been carried The Group negotiates payment recommendations.
out, creating a database of energy saving arrangements and other terms and ideas to be shared by hotels, accelerating conditions with all of its principal suppliers.
The Group continues to work with local the implementation of best practice in Payments to suppliers, other than in the and national environmental agencies to environmental issues.
case of a dispute, are made in accordance improve risk management activities and with negotiated arrangements, which are lower the exposures to common risks in the Water savings averaging 2% have been set out in contracts where appropriate.
In conjunction with achieved by hotels reducing water usage The number of days purchases outstanding our employment policy, health & safety through the implementation of cistern flush at 28 September 2003 was 46 2002: 57 training requirements are incorporated into reductions, water recycling systems on golf for the Group and 56 2002: 52 for the People Plans.
These are monitored by unit course maintenance and the use of efficient Company.
management to ensure that the showerheads.
In addition to energy saving REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 15 Report of the Directors continued Charitable and political donations Auditors and social responsibilities Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their Charitable donations totalled 77,100 willingness to continue in office in 2002: 98,700 during the year and no accordance with section 385 of the donation was made to any political party.
A resolution re-appointing them as auditors for the The Group and its employees have ensuing year will be proposed at the participated in many local community Companys Annual General Meeting.
activities and it is our policy to continue these links with local communities.
Special business of Annual Relationships have been forged with General Meeting schools to provide work experience for year The Annual General Meeting is to be held 10 students via learning and education at 11.30am on 20 February 2004 at partnerships in different parts of the fide Vere Belton Woods, near Grantham, country.
In some instances additional Lincolnshire NG32 2LN.
The Notice of resources have been made available for Meeting, Agenda and Explanations of any children with special needs or teacher Special Business of the Annual General training packs to promote links between Meeting are sent to shareholders separately.
industry and specific community needs.
Examples can be seen in support of the Welsh Air Ambulance service, St John By Order of the Board, Ambulance Breakfast Club and the D C Edwards Beaconsfield School mentoring programme.
Company Secretary 3 December 2003 Hotels are encouraged to nominate two local charities to support in terms of donations or employee time with some hotels allowing staff a number of paid days to take part in defined community activities.
Many units participate in local sporting events and sponsor youth teams to encourage children to actively take part in healthy pastimes.
This year many of our employees have actively participated in local community events, which have raised amounts ranging from 2,000 to 22,000.
Our staff perform a variety of roles and activities, including governors and secretaries of schools, supporting families of children suffering from leukaemia and running various marathons to raise funds for Macmillan appeals and local scout troops.
16 fide VERE GROUP PLC REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
