board of directors and executives Directors Jeremy John Ord 46 Malcolm Thomas Rutherford 42 Executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer Jeremy Ord was appointed as Chairman of Dimension Data Malcolm Rutherford was appointed to the Board of Dimension Holdings plc at the time of its listing in London and Data Holdings plc as Chief Financial Officer at the time of its Johannesburg in 2000.
Prior to that appointment he served as listing in London and Johannesburg in 2000.
Prior to that Chairman of Dimension Data Holdings Ltd from 1987. appointment he served as Financial Director of Dimension Data He previously served as the Groups Managing Director and in Holdings Ltd from 1994, after joining the Group in 1991.
He other senior positions since the Groups 1983 inception.
Mr previously worked for UAL Merchant Bank in South Africa, in Ord is a Council member and member of the Board of their corporate finance and investment divisions, and before Governors of the South African Foundation.
He is also a that, was an audit manager with Deloitte & Touche in their member of the Board of Governors of the University of the London office.
He graduated from the University of the Witwatersrand Foundation.
Witwatersrand and is a Chartered Accountant SA.
He is a nonexecutive director of Coronation Investments and Trading Ltd. 12 DIMENSION DATA Stephen Michael Joubert 45 Patrick Keith Quarmby 49 Group Director Global Solutions Groups Director: Corporate Finance Stephen Joubert was appointed to the Board of Dimension Patrick Quarmby was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc at the time of its listing in London and Data Holdings plc at the time of its listing in London and Johannesburg in 2000.
Prior to that appointment he served as Johannesburg in 2000.
Prior to that appointment he served on a director of Dimension Data Holdings Ltd from 1998. the Board of Dimension Data Holdings Ltd from 1996.
He joined the Company in 1996 as a Group Financial Director Previously he worked as a tax partner at Ernst & Young South in Network Services.
Before that, he was a partner at Africa and was a director of Standard Bank in London.
He was  for a number of years.
He graduated appointed as Chairman of Datacraft Asia in July 2002.
He from the University of the Witwatersrand and is a Chartered graduated from the University of Cape Town and is a Accountant SA.
He is a non-executive director of Unitrans Ltd.
ANNUAL REPORT 2003 13 board of directors and executives Non-Executive Directors David Andrew Frankel 32 Robert Cecil Mansfield, AO 52 Roderick Rory Michael Scott 44 David Frankel was appointed to the Board Robert Mansfield was appointed to the Rory Scott was appointed to the Board of of Dimension Data Holdings plc at the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc at Dimension Data Holdings plc as a nontime of its listing in London and the time of its listing in London and executive director at the time of its listing Johannesburg in 2000, as a non-executive Johannesburg in 2000.
He was formerly in London and Johannesburg in 2000.
Prior to that appointment he chief executive officer of Optus had previously served as a non-executive served as an executive director on the Communications Pty Ltd, and has been director on the Board of Dimension Data Board of Dimension Data Holdings Ltd non-executive chairman of Telstra Holdings Ltd, and before that served as from 1998.
He was previously managing Corporation Ltd since January 2000.
In the Group Financial Director from 1987 to director of Internet Solutions.
He holds an January 2000 he was awarded the Order 1991.
He is presently managing director of honours degree in electrical engineering of Australia AO medal for his the Scottish Knitwear Group SA Pty Ltd. from the University of the Witwatersrand, contribution to Australian business and to He is a qualified Chartered Accountant and an MBA with distinction from the the telecommunications industry.
He also SA and serves as chairman of the Audit Harvard Business School.
In 1999 he was served as a non-executive director on the and Remuneration Committees.
Given the voted South African Technology Achiever board of the Groups Asian subsidiary, length of time that has elapsed since his of the Century.
Mr Frankel has nine years Datacraft Asia Ltd until August 2003.
He service as an executive director, the experience in the Internet and was a member of the Audit, Nomination Company considers him to be fully e-commerce industry.
Mansfield resigned with effect from 17 Josua Dillie Malherbe 47 November 2003.
Gordon Herbert Waddell 66 Josua Malherbe was appointed to the Gordon Waddell was appointed to the Board on 17 November 2003.
He is the Moses Modidima Moss Ngoasheng Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc as Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive 46 a non-executive director at the time of its Officer of VenFin Ltd.
He also serves on Moss Ngoasheng was appointed to the listing in London and Johannesburg in the board of Vodacom Group Pty Ltd, Board in September 2002.
Mr Waddell is the non-executive GenuOne Incorporated and MidiTV Pty as a non-executive director on the board chairman of Mersey Docks and Harbour Ltd e-tv.
He graduated from the of Dimension Data South Africa.
He serves as a non-executive Universities of Stellenbosch and Cape executive chairman of investment director on the Groups regional board for Town and is a Chartered Accountant SA.
company Safika Holdings Pty Ltd, and Europe and the United Kingdom.
He was was previously economic advisor to South appointed senior non-executive director African President Thabo Mbeki.
He also and chairman of the Nomination serves as a non-executive director of The Committee in September 2002 and is a Industrial Development Corporation, New member of the Audit Committee.
Mr Africa Investment Ltd and New Africa Waddell graduated from Cambridge Capital Ltd. Mr Ngoasheng graduated University and has an MBA from Stanford from the University of South Africa and University.
has an MPhil from Sussex University.
14 DIMENSION DATA Executive Committee Peter Dorian Dorian Wharton-Hood Group Operations 64 Brett Dawson Group Chief Operating Officer Dorian Wharton-Hood was appointed to Chairman of the Executive Committee the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc as a non-executive director at the time of Regional CEOs its listing in London and Johannesburg in Russell Bolan CEO UK 2000.
He previously served as a nonBob Cagnazzi CEO USA executive director of Dimension Data Bill Padfield CEO Asia Holdings Ltd from 1998.
He was viceAllan Cawood CEO Africa chairman of Liberty Life for eight years.
Steve Nola CEO Australia He was chairman of the Life Offices Donovan Smyth CEO Europe Association of SA on three occasions and president of the Insurance Institute of SA.
Functional Heads He was also a member of the Council of Adam Craker Group Executive Sales and Marketing the SA Foundation and a director of Denis Hocking CEO Global Services Business Against Crime.
In 1998 he was Steve Joubert Group Executive Global Solutions Groups chairman of the Governing Body of Bruce Watson Group Executive Cisco Alliance Business SA and he is now a trustee.
He Marilyn Chaplin Group Executive Human Resources is a member of the Remuneration and Ettienne Reinecke Chief Technology Officer Nomination Committees.
He also sits on Alan Burgess Chief Information Officer the Treasury Committee.
He graduated Scott Gibson Group Executive Finance from Stellenbosch University.
David Sherriffs Group Executive Operations ANNUAL REPORT 2003 15
