directors report The Directors of Dimension Data present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2003.
Principal Activities Dividends telephony, video, data sources and Dimension Data Holdings plc and its The Board has reviewed and maintains its applications.
We have invested in subsidiaries is a global technology policy that available cash generated by assessment services that create a clientservices Group.
The Group has expertise the Group will be utilised to fund working specific road map and a business plan in networking, application integration and capital requirements and to continue the producing a measured return on a global managed services enabling clients rollout of strategy.
They accordingly will convergence investment.
to plan, build and support IT Infrastructure not declare a dividend for the current based on Dimension Datas proprietary financial period, but will continue to review Dimension Data has invested in services Application Network framework.
The this policy on an annual basis, or as that assist our clients in assessing the solutions Dimension Data creates enable necessary.
impact that networking, messaging and businesses to operate seamlessly and the related regulations will have on flexibly by connecting devices, information, Research and Development storage, data centres and Microsoft applications, business processes, people Dimension Data has continued to invest in services.
We have proven that and organisations.
services and market offerings that are convergence will allow clients to consistent with our Application Network consolidate platforms and facilities, The Directors Report should be read in vision.
Continued engagement with key thereby driving a lower operational cost.
conjunction with the Chairmans partners and clients has resulted in Statement, the Operational Review and Dimension Data investing in a number of Acquisitions the Financial Review, which provide consultative and advisory services.
These Details of acquisitions completed during information about the Groups businesses, services assist Dimension Data in the year are given in Note 25 to the their financial performance during the year, implementing solutions for clients that annual financial statements on page 82. and likely future developments.
We have also invested in ongoing services that Directors Results support and continually refine our clients The current Directors are listed on pages For the year ended 30 September 2003, solutions and infrastructure.
These 12 to 15. total turnover including associates was services combine to underpin the value US$2,100 million, compared with provided to clients, which is to plan, build During the period under review the Board US$2,187 million for the previous year, and support IT infrastructure that solves consisted of four executive and six nonrepresenting a decrease of 4%.
Total their particular business problem.
executive directors, including the operating loss before goodwill Chairman, Jeremy Ord.
The executives amortisation, impairment and exceptional In line with our focus on services and are Jeremy Ord, Stephen Joubert, Patrick items was US$9 million compared with a solutions, the Global Strategic Quarmby and Malcolm Rutherford, and profit of US$45 million for the previous Development Group has been disbanded, the non-executives are David Frankel, year.
Basic loss per share before goodwill and its component parts now fall under Moss Ngoasheng, Robert Mansfield, Rory amortisation, impairment and exceptional the respective services or solution group.
Scott, Gordon Waddell and Dorian items amounted to 2.7 US cents 2002: Convergence continues to fuel our Wharton-Hood.
Robert Mansfield resigned Earnings 2.3 US cents.
Application Network vision and in the last as a non-executive director and Josua 12 months we have worked with Malherbe has been appointed to the enterprise clients and service providers to Board as a non-executive director with create solutions that integrate networking, effect from 17 November 2003.
ANNUAL REPORT 2003 31 directors report At the forthcoming Annual General contains details of communication and the deferred shares after repayment of the Meeting, Stephen Joubert, Patrick consultation with employees.
capital paid up on the ordinary shares Quarmby and Dorian Wharton-Hood retire plus the payment of US$10 million per by rotation and offer themselves for reDimension Data operates a share option ordinary share.
election in accordance with the Articles of scheme and offers performance-related Association.
The Companys Articles of bonus payments in order to encourage the Issued Share Capital Association provide that every director participation of employees in the success As at 30 September 2003, the Companys appointed to the Board during the year of the Group.
Details of this scheme issued share capital was 50,000 deferred shall automatically retire and seek election appear in the Remuneration Report and shares of 1 each and 1,341,992,267 at the next general meeting following the outstanding options appear in Note ordinary shares of 1 US cent each.
Accordingly, shareholders 22 to the annual financial statements on will be asked to elect Josua Malherbe as a pages 78 to 80.
Details of interests of 3% or more in the non-executive director.
issued ordinary share capital of the The Group has a policy that all employees Company are shown in Shareholder Biographical details of those directors are entitled to equal opportunities within Information on page 55. seeking re-election and election are set its companies globally.
Disabled persons out on pages 13 to 15. applying for employment are given fair Reduction in Share Capital consideration.
Employees who become The reduction of share capital detailed in Directors memberships of Board disabled whilst employed will be retrained the 2002 Annual Report and the Notice of Committees are set out in the Corporate wherever possible so that they can remain Annual General Meeting became effective Governance Report.
Details of Directors employed within the Group.
The Financial Review service contracts and remuneration are average number of employees are contains details of the effect thereof in the set out in the Remuneration Report.
contained in Note 6 to the annual financial current year.
Details of the Directors' interests in any statements on page 67.
Group company can also be found in the Creditor Payment Policy Remuneration Report.
Authorised Share Capital Dimension Data Holdings plc is a holding The authorised share capital of the company and, as such, has no trade Corporate Governance Company is made up of 50,000, divided creditors at the year end.
It is therefore A report on Corporate Governance and into 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each, not applicable to provide statistics for the compliance with the Combined Code is and US$30 million, divided into 3 billion Company as required by the Companies set out on pages 34 to 37. ordinary shares of 1 US cent each.
Group operating companies have no fixed payment policies but agree in Employee Involvement The holders of the deferred shares have advance the best possible terms with their The Dimension Data Group seeks to no right to receive notice of any general suppliers and the Group is committed to engage all employees in a shared meeting of the Company, nor the right to honouring those terms.
commitment to the success of its attend, speak or vote at such general business, and keeps them informed meeting.
The deferred shares have no Going Concern regarding the business environment and rights to dividends and on a return of After making due enquiry, the Directors matters of concern to them.
The assets in a winding-up, entitle the holder consider that, as at the date of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report to the repayment of the amounts paid on approval of the financial statements, the 32 DIMENSION DATA Group has adequate resources to Company Secretary continue to operate for the foreseeable The UK company secretary is Mrs JM future.
For this reason, they continue to Duck and the South African company adopt the going concern basis in secretary is Mrs ML Taylor details on preparing their financial statements.
Corporate Responsibility Annual General Meeting Dimension Datas position on the The notice convening the Annual General environment and on charitable donations Meeting, together with the proxy form and is detailed in the Corporate Social notes explaining the various resolutions, Responsibility Report.
No direct charitable will be mailed to shareholders in due donations were made to UK residents or course.
Donations to overseas charities are detailed in the Corporate Social By Order of the Board Responsibility Report.
The Company Mrs JM Duck made no political donations in the year Secretary under review 2002: nil.
17 November 2003 Auditors On 1 August 2003, Deloitte and Touche, the Companys auditors transferred their business to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2000.
The Companys consent has been given to treating the appointment of Deloitte & Touche as extending to Deloitte and Touche LLP with effect from 1 August 2003 under the provisions of section 26 5 of the Companies Act 1989.
A resolution to appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Groups auditors and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
