1 1 Sales assistant, Andrew Hedley, offers expert advice.
2 Assistant sales manager, Norton Goffe, discusses a clients business needs in the Business Centre at Tunbridge Wells, one of 126 across the UK.
3 More than 630 software titles are available at PC World stores.
4 Everything you need to improve your PC at the Component Centre.
2 4 PC World sells more than 2,000 PCs every day 3 Ink for I. T. PC Worlds Ink for I. T. scheme encourages inkjet recycling and benets schools.
Since its launch the 1,500 schools active in the scheme have shared 173,250 in vouchers for PC equipment.
com improved in store efficiency, freeing up customer PC World total sales including PC World facing staff.
Business grew by 15 per cent to 1,466 million 1,278 million with like for like sales ahead Sixteen new PC World superstores were opened or by 2 per cent.
resited during the year, taking the total to 126, with a similar number of stores expected to open this PC World had a good year, gaining market share financial year.
across all major categories despite a difficult trading environment.
New in-store Component Centres PC World Business increased sales by 11 per cent performed particularly well, together with digital to 191 million 172 million with strong public imaging products and related accessories.
Government Catalogue for IT GCat PC Worlds popular Healthchecks also continued sales continue to perform well with PC World to grow.
Improved purchasing and supply chain Business achieving 14 per cent of all GCat sales management delivered better product availability.
More effective management of clearance and aged The Group also strengthened its business to business stock and efficiencies in advertising and branch communications proposition with the acquisition, overheads offset cost ination in rent and rates.
in May 2002, of Genesis Communications which has The introduction of centralised branch call handling integrated well into the Group.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 15
