FOODSERVICE GROUP Paul Dermody Helen Mahy Peter Tom Pam Sissons Anthony Wilson John Lovering B, A, N, R B, A, N, R B B, A, N, R Deputy company OBE B, A, N, R Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director secretary Non-executive director independent independent non-independent senior independent independent Pam Sissons age 41 director Helen Mahy age 43 Peter Tom age 63 Tony Wilson age 59 joined the Group as Paul Dermody age 58 joined the board in joined the board in joined the Group in John Lovering age 54 insurance manager in joined the board in March 2003.
Peter is 1974 and was the group joined the board in 1999 and her role was March 2004.
Paul is a group company secretary chief executive of chief executive from March 2003 and chairs extended to include non-executive director of and general counsel of Aggregate Industries plc.
1997 until the sale of the audit and risk company secretarial Majestic Wine PLC and a National Grid Transco plc During that time, Peter the pipe systems committee.
John is duties in January 2003. member of the NHS NGT and a member of has helped to develop it operations to Etex in chairman of Debenhams She is a Fellow of the Estates Better Hospital its executive committee.
He is a nonplc, Fitness First Ltd and Chartered Insurance Food Panel.
He was Previously she was group quarry products executive director of Laurel Pub Co Ltd.
He Institute and a business formerly chief executive general counsel and business.
He is chairman Brintons Fine Carpets has extensive experience management graduate.
of fide Vere Group Plc, company secretary at of Leicester Football Ltd. Tony will leave the in retailing, operational having spent his career Babcock International Club plc.
board in May 2004. and financial roles with its predecessor Group PLC.
She is a notably with Sears plc Greenalls.
He is a barrister and an Associate and Tarmac plc.
chartered management of the Chartered Insurance accountant.
DIRECTORS AND SECRETARY Stephen Rennie William McGrath Vic Cocker CBE Judy George Shaun Smith B B, N B, N B B Chief operating officer Chief executive Chairman US retail director Group finance director independent & company secretary Stephen Rennie age 50 William McGrath age 45 Judy George age 63 was appointed to the was appointed chief Vic Cocker age 63 was appointed to the Shaun Smith age 43 board in November executive in March joined the board in July board as US retail was appointed to the 2000.
William joined the 2000 and became director in July 2003. board as group finance the Group in 1979 from Group as finance director chairman in February Judy founded Domain in director in March 2001.
Calor Gas and worked in in October 1997 from 2004.
Vic was chief 1986, a business Shaun joined the Group sales and marketing Aggregate Industries plc executive of Severn Trent acquired by the Group in from Marks and Spencer roles before becoming a where he had become plc between 1995 and March 2002.
She is plc in 1989 and worked divisional director finance director in 1992.
He chairs WRAP, currently chief executive in treasury becoming the responsible for the He had previously worked the government funded of Domain.
Judy has group treasurer in 1999.
Groups consumer and in the investment company established to written and spoken widely His role was extended to foodservice operations banking and construction develop markets for on home fashions and include that of company in 1998. sectors.
He is a qualified recycled materials and women in business.
secretary in January accountant and a history Wateraid, an 2003.
international NGO treasurer and economics dedicated to water graduate.
14 B Board member A Audit and risk committee member N Nomination committee member R Remuneration committee member Committee chairman
