Group Overview Packaging Corrugated and Paper Produces 1.1 billion square metres per annum of corrugated packaging at 25 factories in the UK and 13 factories in continental Europe, located in France, Italy, Poland, the Czech Republic, Turkey and the Ukraine.
Manufactures 1.2 million tonnes of paper per annum at six mills in the UK, two mills in France and one in Turkey: 75% is corrugated case materials CCM used for manufacturing corrugated board: 90% is made from recycled recovered paper.
Managed through three divisions: DS Smith Packaging UK corrugated packaging : Kaysersberg Packaging continental European corrugated packaging and paper : St Regis Paper Company UK paper, including Severnside Recycling which collects 0.8 million tonnes of recovered materials per annum.
Plastic Packaging Manufactures products for liquid packaging and dispensing, and industrial returnable transit packaging RTP at 18 locations in the UK, France, Belgium, Germany, Spain, Poland, USA, Dominican Republic, Australia and New Zealand.
Liquid packaging and dispensing incorporates bag-in-box systems and injection moulded taps and dispensers.
Industrial RTP includes reusable container and pallet systems, extruded solid and multi-wall corrugated plastic sheets and injection moulded bottle crates.
Office Products Wholesaling Spicers is a wholesaler of office products through a network of distribution centres in the UK, Ireland, France, Germany and Spain.
Its product range of between 8,000 and 18,000 items dependent upon country includes traditional stationery lines, electronic office supplies, office furniture, janitorial supplies and office catering and vending provisions.
Spicers produces printed catalogues and uses electronic systems to communicate its product range to its customer base of office product dealers.
Orders are generally fulfilled through a next-day delivery service.
Manufacturing John Dickinson manufactures envelopes, books and pads at three UK factories.
Its product range features leading brands including Basildon Bond, Black n Red, Challenge, New Guardian and Plus Fabric.
It also supplies own label products and bespoke stationery.
2 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003 More information can be found www.
net on our divisions at: www.
com Key figures Market positions Products Developing our strong regional European Corrugated packaging is increasingly used positions: as both the transit and display packaging 747.0m turnover for consumer goods.
Number 1 UK collector and merchant of recovered paper Number 1 UK producer of corrugated 51% case material of Group turnover A leading European supplier of corrugated packaging 10.6% Number 3 UK supplier return on capital employed Major position in France Growing in Italy and Eastern Europe Growing our major positions in our two Bag-in-box packaging is a flexible, hygienic focused markets: and economic option for beverages, liquid 195.0m turnover food products, edible oils and chemicals.
Number 2 globally in liquid packaging and dispensing A leading European supplier of 13% industrial returnable transit packaging of Group turnover 11.
5% return on capital employed Building our positions in continental Spicers supplies its extensive range of Europe based on our strong established traditional stationery products alongside its 495.6m businesses in the UK and France: growing range of electronic office supplies.
turnover Number 1 European office products wholesaler 33% Number 1 wholesaler in UK of Group turnover Number 1 wholesaler in France Developing in Germany and Spain 12.7% return on capital employed Maximising returns from our leading UK Demand for Black n Red branded products market positions: is increasing internationally.
59.7m turnover Number 1 in envelopes Number 1 in pads and personal stationery Number 1 in casebound books 3% of Group turnover 23.1% return on capital employed 3 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003
