Directors and Company Secretary 1 2 3 4 56 7 8 6 1 Antony Hichens 3 Gavin Morris 6 Richard Marton Chairman Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board on 13 March 2000 as Appointed to the Board on 29 June 1999 Appointed to the Board on 5 November 2002 a non-Executive Director.
He was previously as a non-Executive Director and became as Group Finance Director.
He was previously Chief Executive and then non-Executive Chairman of the Board on 8 September Chief Financial Officer of Citex Group and Director of Britax International plc.
1999 and is Chairman of the Nomination prior to that held Chief Financial Officer Committee.
He is a Member of the Takeover positions at Philips Lighting Holding BV, 7 Daniel Piette Panel, Deputy Chairman of Candover Ionica Group plc, Alfred McAlpine Plc and Appointed to the Board on 1 October 1993 Investments PLC, a Director of WaterRower Norcros Plc.
Age 49. as a non-Executive Director and is the Senior UK Limited and is also a non-Executive Independent Director.
He is Group Executive Director of The JP Morgan Fleming Income 4 Bob Beeston Vice-President and a member of the Executive and Capital Investment Trust plc.
Previously, Appointed to the Board on 5 December 2000 Committee of LVMH Corporation, Chairman he held the positions of a Managing Director as a non-Executive Director and is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of LV Capital and Chief Financial Officer of Consolidated of the Remuneration Committee.
He is and President of L Capital.
Gold Fields, Chairman of Caradon plc and Chairman of Cookson Group plc and was Chairman of Lasmo plc.
Age 66. previously Chief Executive of FKI plc.
8 Carolyn Cattermole Company Secretary 2 Tony Thorne 5 Peter Johnson Appointed Company Secretary on Group Chief Executive Appointed to the Board on 8 December 1999 20 November 2000.
She was previously Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2001 as a non-Executive Director and is Chairman Company Secretary of Courtaulds Textiles as Chief Operating Officer and became of the Audit Committee.
He is Chief Executive plc and prior to that was a senior legal Group Chief Executive on 5 December 2001. of George Wimpey Plc and a Member of the adviser with Courtaulds plc having qualified He was previously President of SCA Council for Industry and Higher Education as a solicitor with Norton Rose.
and was previously Chief Executive of The Non-Executive Director He has also held senior management Rugby Group PLC.
Member of General Purposes Committee positions in Shell.
Member of Nomination Committee Member of Remuneration Committee Member of Audit Committee 25 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003
