Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report Ordinary Directors shares held and the audited financial statements for the The biographies of the present Directors financial year ended 30 April 2003.
All the present Directors served throughout the year except as follows: Henderson Global Principal activities Mr J P Williams resigned as both Deputy Investors Ltd 32,084,140 9.98% and business review Chairman and as a Director and a member Standard Life The Company acts as the holding company of the Nomination and General Purposes of a group, which, during 2002 03, was Investments 16,784,338 5.21% Committees on 3 September 2002. engaged in the production of corrugated Mr D F Buttfield resigned as Finance Fidelity and plastic packaging and of paper, primarily Director on 5 November 2002 and as an International Ltd 13,043,744 4.05% from recycled waste, and the distribution of Executive Director and a member of the Legal & General office products.
A full review of the activities General Purposes Committee on 31 January Investment during the financial year ended 30 April 2003 2003.
Mr G M Morris was appointed as Management Ltd 10,783,004 3.34% and future developments is given in the Finance Director on 5 November 2002.
Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Other than as previously disclosed in this Review and in the Operating and Financial Acquisitions and disposals Report and in respect of existing service Reviews on pages 4 to 21.
The principal On 15 July 2002, the Group acquired agreements, no Director, either during subsidiary undertakings are listed in note 32 Zewathener GmbH, one of Europes leading or at the end of the financial year, has on page 63. manufacturers of bag-in-box packaging been materially interested in any significant located in Schwetzingen, Germany.
The contract or arrangement in relation to the Results for the year business was acquired for a total consideration Groups business.
The financial results are shown on pages 38 of 17.5 million, including acquired debt, to 63. which resulted in goodwill arising of Re-election of Directors 13.6 million.
A further 3.2 million of The Articles of Association require that all Dividends consideration was paid for other small Directors who are subject to retirement by An interim dividend of 2.8p net per ordinary acquisitions in the year.
In line with the rotation retire every three years, but they are share was paid on 11 March 2003 and the Groups ongoing strategy of streamlining its eligible to submit themselves for re-election Directors recommend a final dividend of portfolio, three small peripheral businesses by the shareholders.
The Directors retiring 6.0p net per ordinary share, making a total were sold in January and February 2003 by rotation at the Annual General Meeting dividend for the year of 8.8p 2002: 8.8p net for an aggregate consideration of 4.5 million.
on 3 September 2003 are Mr P M Johnson, per ordinary share.
Subject to approval of The businesses concerned were Western Mr R E C Marton and Mr D R Piette but, shareholders at the Annual General Meeting Board, a manufacturer and converter of being eligible, they offer themselves for to be held on 3 September 2003, the final fibreboard: Spicer Hallfield, a manufacturer re-election at the Meeting.
Mr G M Morris, dividend will be paid on 16 September 2003 of photographic stationery: and Sorepa, a having been appointed to the Board since to shareholders on the register at the close waste collection business in France in which the last Annual General Meeting and in of business on 15 August 2003. the Group held a 60% share.
The exceptional accordance with the Articles, retires from loss on sale of these businesses totalled office at the Meeting and, being eligible, Share capital 8.5 million, principally due to the write-back offers himself for election.
Mr Morris has Pursuant to the Companys employee share through the profit and loss account of a service contract with the Company which option schemes, 246,487 ordinary shares of 7.4 million of goodwill relating to Western can be terminated by the Company on giving 10p each were issued during the year.
401,427 Board which was originally written off to 12 months notice.
shares pursuant to the Companys employee reserves on acquisition in 1985. share option schemes were issued between Directors interests in shares 30 April 2003 and 25 June 2003 inclusive.
Research and development The interests of the Directors and their The Company has not utilised its authority The Group recognises the importance immediate families in the ordinary shares to make market purchases of shares granted of continuing to invest in research and of 10p each of the Company, including to it at the 2002 Annual General Meeting but development.
It is Group policy to develop options granted but not yet exercised under will be seeking to renew such authority at this new product specifications commensurate the Executive Share Option Schemes and years meeting.
with environmental needs and packaging the International Sharesave Scheme, were solutions required by customers.
Research is as shown in the tables on pages 32 and 33.
Substantial shareholders also conducted into ways to improve product There were no changes in the interests of At 25 June 2003, the Company has been quality and to find more cost efficient methods the Directors or their immediate families informed of the following notifiable interests of production and distribution.
Research and in the issued ordinary share capital of the in its issued ordinary share capital: development is conducted within divisional Company between 30 April 2003 and operations and expenditure is not significant.
35 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003 Directors Report continued Employee involvement and Health and safety Directors responsibilities for communications The Group recognises its responsibilities and preparation of financial statements The Group is committed to effective continues to promote all aspects of health As required by Company law, the Directors employee communications to promote the and safety in the interests of its employees are responsible for the preparation of understanding and involvement of all its and members of the public.
A Health and financial statements for each financial year employees in the Groups business objectives Safety Policy Statement has been approved which give a true and fair view of the state and performance.
Communications and by the Board.
The Group provides financial of affairs of the Company and the Group personnel policies have been developed support to the British Occupational Health and of the profit or loss for that period.
to reflect the philosophy of operating Research Foundation, an organisation which In preparing those financial statements, management.
Information is regularly deploys funds for research into the problems the Directors are required to: communicated by briefings and newsletters.
The Group operates a European Works select suitable accounting policies and Council, with representatives drawn from Payment to suppliers then apply them consistently: across the entire workforce in the EU Although the Company does not follow countries in which the Group operates.
any formal code or standard on payment make judgements and estimates that Meetings are held to provide an exchange practice, the Company agrees terms and are reasonable and prudent: of transnational information and conditions in the UK with each supplier, consultation with employees.
At each which include terms of payment.
The state whether applicable accounting meeting, presentations are made on the Company pays each supplier accordingly, standards have been followed, subject to Groups business strategy, financial results subject to all the terms and conditions of any material departures disclosed and and health and safety performance.
Business the order being satisfied by such supplier.
explained in the financial statements: and decisions concerning capital investment, The aggregate amount owed by the employment and training take into account Company to trade creditors at 30 April 2003 prepare the financial statements on the Groups public and local responsibilities.
was equivalent to 21 days of purchases the going concern basis unless it is The Group is a member of Business in the invoiced by suppliers during the year.
inappropriate to presume that the Community and supports the involvement of Group will continue in business.
its operations in local community activities.
Charitable and political donations The Group contributed 112,000 2002: The Directors are responsible for keeping Equal opportunities 87,000 to charities in the UK.
No payments proper accounting records which disclose The Group wholeheartedly supports were made to political parties.
Donations with reasonable accuracy at any time the the principle and achievement of equal were made by operating divisions to support financial position of the Company and opportunities in employment and its policies their local communities and industries.
The enable them to ensure that the financial are designed to provide such equality Group also supported a number of other statements comply with the Companies irrespective of sex, religion, race, marital charities across a range of causes.
They have general responsibility status, nationality or age.
Every possible step for taking such steps as are reasonably will be taken to ensure that individuals are Annual General Meeting open to them to safeguard the assets of treated equally and fairly.
Depending upon The notice of the Annual General Meeting the Group and to prevent and detect their skills and abilities, the Group applies the of the Company to be held on 3 September fraud and other irregularities.
same criteria to disabled persons as it does to 2003, together with explanations of the other employees and, if necessary, retraining Resolutions to be proposed, appears at the is offered to any of its employees who develop back of this Annual Report.
Auditor Pension fund Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc The investment of the Groups pension fund as auditor of the Company and to authorise assets is managed on a discretionary basis by the Directors to determine their remuneration Deutsche Asset Management Limited and will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Schroder Investment Management Limited, such assets being held independently from the By Order of the Board Group.
The professional advisors to the fund are independent of the Group.
The Trustee of Carolyn Cattermole the pension scheme sends an Annual Report Secretary to members of the scheme.
During the year 25 June 2003 an Investment Sub-Committee of the Trustee Company was set up in line with guidelines from the Myners Report.
36 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003
