Directors Report Results and Dividends The profit for the financial year after taxation was 27.3 million 2002 35.0 million.
An interim dividend of 2.20 pence per ordinary share was paid on 21 November 2003 and the Directors now recommend a final dividend of 3.45 pence per ordinary share payable on 21 May 2004, making a total for the year of 5.65 pence per ordinary share 2002 5.55 pence.
The total cost of these dividends amounts to 15.1 million 2002 14.9 million.
The balance of the retained profit for the financial year of 12.2 million 2002 20.1 million has been transferred to reserves.
Post Balance Sheet Events Note 26 to the accounts describes an event subsequent to 31 December 2003 and amounts that will be charged to the Profit and Loss Account in 2004 as exceptional items.
Share Capital Details of the changes in issued share capital during the year are shown in Note 19 to the Accounts.
Principal Activities The principal activities of the Group, significant changes in those activities and an indication of likely future developments are described in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 12 to 17.
Principal subsidiary undertakings are listed in Note 24 to the Accounts.
Going Concern The Directors, having made all the relevant enquiries, consider that the Group and the Company have adequate resources at their disposal to continue their operations for the foreseeable future, and that it is therefore appropriate to prepare the accounts on a going concern basis.
Directors The Directors of the Company and their biographical details are set out on pages 22 and 23.
Mr R C Soames was appointed on 1 July 2003 and is obliged to retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
Mr G P Walker and Mr H J Molenaar retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of appointment and the details of their terms are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 36.
No other contract with the Company, or any subsidiary undertaking of the Company, in which any Director was materially interested subsisted during or at the end of the financial year.
A statement of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company at the end of the financial year is given on pages 39 and 40.
Donations During the year the Group contributed 37,596 2002 53,269 in terms of cash, employees time and other services to a range of charitable, community and arts organisations.
Of this total 20,428 2002 27,920 was donated to registered UK charities.
No political donations were made during the year 2002 Nil.
24 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Employees The Group continues to operate team briefings throughout its business to keep employees informed of developments and plans, both in their own operations and in the Group as a whole.
Employees have access to the Aggreko Resource Centre, an Intranet based system, which provides them with a wide range of information on the activities of the Group around the world.
The annual and interim results are publicised extensively throughout the business and are made available to all employees.
The Aggreko Savings-related Share Option Scheme Sharesave was launched in 1998 and currently more than a third of employees with over six months service participate in this scheme.
A substantial number of employees have share-holding interests built up through Sharesave and other schemes.
The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career development and promotion of employees are based on the suitability of the individual and give those who are disabled equal treatment with the able bodied.
Where appropriate, employees disabled after joining the Group are given suitable training for alternative employment with the Group or elsewhere.
Supplier Payment Policy It is the Groups policy to settle the terms and conditions of payment with suppliers when agreeing each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made aware of these terms and, in practice, providing the supplier meets its contractual obligations, to abide by them.
In overall terms, the Group had approximately 27 days credit outstanding as at the balance sheet date.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday 28 April 2004 at the Hilton Hotel, 1 William Street, Glasgow and the notice of this meeting is set out on pages 64 to 66.
Special Business Rules of the Long-term Incentive Arrangements Resolutions 8 and 9 at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting will, if passed, adopt by resolution of the Company the Long-term Incentive arrangements that are described in summary in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 and 33 and in more detail in the explanatory notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Employee Benefit Trust Resolution 10 proposes the establishment of an employee benefit trust.
The main features of the Aggreko plc Employee Benefit Trust which, it is proposed, will be established and be operated in conjunction with the proposed Long-term Incentive Arrangements, are summarised in the explanatory notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting and the resolution for its approval is set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with normal practice, the trustee will be independent of the Company and the number of Shares that the trustee may purchase on the open market in any ten-year period will be restricted to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Directors voting Resolution 11 relaxes the provisions in the Articles of Association of the Company, which would prevent a Director from voting on any resolution of the Board in which he or she has an interest.
This is required in order to allow the Executive Directors of the Company to vote and be counted in a quorum at any meeting of the Directors connected with the adoption and operation of the proposed Aggreko Performance Share Plan, the Aggreko Co-investment Plan and the Aggreko employee benefit trust including the grant of awards and the establishment of similar plans and trusts, but excluding matters connected with their own participation in such plans and trusts.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 25 Directors Report continued Changes to the Companys Articles of Association Resolution 12 proposes as a special resolution to adopt new Articles of the Company.
The proposed new Articles of Association differ from the current Articles by changes designed to facilitate electronic communication between the Company, its Shareholders and Directors.
In particular, these changes: i authorise the Company to serve any notice or document on a member by sending it using electronic communications to an address for the time being notified by the member concerned to the Company, or by publication on a website in accordance with the provisions as amended from time to time of the Companies Acts: ii authorise the Board to permit the appointment, delivery and cancellation of proxies by way of electronic communications including provision for electronic signatures : iii authorise members to intimate an electronic address to the Company for various purposes: iv authorise the Company to serve notice of Board meetings by way of electronic communications and permit the appointment and removal of an alternate director by way of electronic communications: and v make various consequential provisions regarding the giving and authentication of electronic notices, proxies and other documents, and regarding the delivery receipt of electronic communications.
A copy of the proposed new Articles of Association, marked to show the detailed changes, will be on display at the Registered Office of the Company up to the date of the Annual General Meeting, and at that Meeting.
Allotment for Cash Resolution 13 proposes as a special resolution to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights of shareholders on allotment of equity securities for cash up to a limit of a total of shares with a nominal value of 2,678,000, being approximately 5% of the current issued share capital.
The resolution also disapplies these rights to the extent necessary to facilitate rights issues.
The authority under this resolution would expire on the date of the Annual General Meeting in 2005 or on 27 July 2005, whichever is the earlier.
This resolution is on the same basis as approved last year and the Directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Purchase of Own Shares The final item of special business is the Directors recommendation that shareholders renew the authority of the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares as permitted under Article 7 of its Articles of Association.
Accordingly, Resolution 14 will be proposed as a special resolution seeking authority to make such purchases in the market.
The Directors will only use such authority when they consider it to be in the best interests of shareholders generally and an improvement in earnings per share would result.
The Board is taking the power to hold shares in treasury: accordingly, any ordinary shares purchased under this authority will either be cancelled and the number of ordinary shares on issue reduced or held in treasury.
Resolution 14 specifies the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased representing approximately 10% of the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital and the minimum and maximum prices at which they may be bought, reflecting the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and of the Financial Services Authority, as set out in the Listing Rules.
The Directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
26 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Treasury Shares Amendments to the Companies Act which came into force on 1 December 2003 allow companies acquiring their own shares to hold these shares in treasury for re-sale.
Resolutions 13 and 14 would provide the Directors with the authority they need to use treasury shares to give the Company more flexibility in managing its share capital.
The Directors have no immediate intention of using such authority and would do so only when they consider it to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
The Directors intend that any buy back of shares into treasury and re-sale of shares from treasury will operate within the following limits: No more than 10% of the Companys issued shares will be held in treasury at any time: and Treasury shares will not be sold at a discount of more than 10% to the middle market price of shares at time of sale.
Notifiable Interests As at 16 February 2004 the Company had received notifications of the following share holdings in excess of 3% of the issued ordinary share capital: Name of Shareholder Number of Shares % Deutsche Bank AG, Frankfurt 43,929,407 16.40 A E H Salvesen 14,553,159 5.43 Wellington Management Company, LLP 9,249,604 3.45 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 9,117,876 3.40 Including direct and indirect subsidiary company interests.
Including immediate family and trustee interests.
The Directors are not aware of any other material interests amounting to 3% or more in the share capital of the Company.
Auditors A resolution re-appointing  LLP as the Companys auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board A Paul Allen Secretary 1 March 2004 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 27
