Aggrekos market-place The market Examples of lower-value, frequent events on Customers come to Aggreko when they need which we might work are: power, temperature control or oil-free air.
They might need it very quickly, for example when An oil refinery needs additional cooling during a power transformer fails in the local electricity the summer to maintain production efficiency grid.
Or they might need it for such a short period of time that it is not economic to purchase a A glass manufacturer suffers a breakdown permanent installation, for example, a major in its plant, and needs power and oil-free-air sporting event might need additional power compressors whilst its own equipment is and cooling for a few days.
repaired The nature of Aggrekos business means it is A rock festival needs additional power to event-driven our customers turn to us when support broadcast and lighting something unusual happens.
Events range from the very large and infrequent for instance, Demand is created by events which differ in value and in 1999 and 2000 there was a large increase frequency illustrative in demand as businesses feared power problems associated with the millennium to the small Value per occurrence and recurrent, such as local power failures.
1,000s Construction Factory breakdown maintenance Examples of high-value, infrequent events or Utility breakdown maintenance 10,000s situations we have worked on include: Entertainment Telecoms roll-out Post-war reconstruction Bosnia, Afghanistan, 100,000s Storms Iraq Utility augmentation Olympics 1,000,000s Hydro power shortage Sri Lanka, Venezuela, War Ghana Power crisis 10,000,000s Y2k Olympic Games Salt Lake City Winter Occurrences per year 1 10s 100s 1,000s 10,000s 100,000s Olympics 6 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 We estimate that the market for the short-term Our international power projects business rental of power, temperature control and oil-free concentrates on very large contracts, some air is worth about 1.1 billion worldwide, and of which can be worth over 10 million: most will grow at an estimated 2% above GDP.
So if contracts in this business are worth over GDP grows at 3% on average, our market should 1 million.
The biggest customers are power grow at 5%, and be worth 1.4 billion by 2008. utilities: we also serve armed forces, oil companies and mines.
We use standardised The total market is worth 1.1 billion in 2003, growing equipment: 1 megawatt containerised units by an average of 5% built in our own assembly facility in Scotland, which are designed specifically to be easily 2003 1,055 transportable, reliable and rugged.
Because these 2008 1,366 power projects can arise anywhere in the world, and the required response time is days or weeks rather than hours, we concentrate our fleet in CAGR 5% five hubs - in South America, Africa, Europe, Source: Aggreko, Bain projections the Middle East and Asia.
From each hub large Local power Temperature control amounts of equipment can be shipped or flown Oil-free air Power projects rapidly to wherever it is needed.
In 2003, our international power projects business generated Our two different business models revenues of 74 million, or 22% of Aggrekos There are two types of business within our total turnover.
One deals with small events which can occur regularly, and the other with large-scale Who are our customers?
These two Revenue by customer segment % businesses require different skills, equipment and logistics.
Accordingly, Aggreko has developed 1 Manufacturing 22.4 2 Utilities 18.8 7 two different business models.
1 3 Services 14.8 4 Construction 10.7 6 5 Oil & Gas 8.8 Our local business focuses on the smaller, more 6 Entertainment 7.2 5 frequently occurring, events.
Although most 2 7 Other 17.3 of this business has a leadtime of more than 4 3 12 hours, about 25% of its revenues come from responding to emergencies, so it is essential Source: Aggreko internal reports to have the capability to get equipment and technicians deployed to the customers site within a matter of hours.
This business operates from over 100 service centres in North America, South America, Europe, the Middle East, Singapore and Australia.
These service centres look after customers who are typically within a radius of 150 miles, and they offer the complete range of our products and services.
This local business accounted for 78% of our revenues in 2003, amounting to some 258 million.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 7 Aggrekos market-place continued Our market share We estimate that overall, in 2003, our worldwide share of the market for rental power, temperature control and oil-free air was approximately 23%, comprising 24% in the local business, and 20% in international power projects.
In the local business, Aggreko is the market leader in the European Union, North America, the Middle East and Australia.
What is driving market growth?
Growth in Aggrekos local business in driven by four These factors also impact our power projects main factors.
However, two factors in particular are driving the growth in the power utilities market: Area or sector GDP growth as production grows, so does demand for energy.
GDP growth in excess of grid capacity: in many developing countries around the world, Propensity to rent how inclined people are to rent the economies are growing faster than the rather than buy.
This is driven by issues such as tax power utilities can bring extra capacity on line.
treatment of capital assets, and the growing Furthermore, growing affluence in some of these acceptance of outsourcing.
countries means that people are becoming ever-more dependent on power, and increasingly Price this is linked to the first two, but is also intolerant of power failures.
dependent on rental equipment availability: if there is a surplus, prices will decline.
Events: high-value low-frequency events change the size of a market, although only temporarily.
For example, the Californian power crisis in 2001-2 led to dramatic growth in the market in the US, which then fell back once the crisis was over.
8 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
