Strategy Review Our local business and the international power logistics points from which equipment can be projects business face different challenges, and, quickly delivered to a customers site.
In the new therefore, need different approaches.
model, most administrative functions are carried out in central locations.
The local business There have been two objectives behind our UK: 13 depots become 4 hubs and 9 spokes managed in 4 areas review of the local business structure.
The first relates to service levels.
Aggreko has always provided very high customer service, but we want to improve our customer service still further.
We believe that by doing this, we can increase our market share, and, in consequence, Aberdeen our revenues.
The second objective relates to the profitability of our local business which has been declining in recent years.
This is in part because Dumbarton of over-supply in the North America market, as well as investment in the European business, and partly because of the way we have historically Washington organised this part of the business.
This has been based on a philosophy of making each local service centre an almost completely self-contained unit, with its own administration, Doncaster Warrington management and infrastructure: each depot collects its own debts, makes its own local Yarmouth purchase agreements, and consequently Leicester Birmingham carries a heavy overhead burden.
Port Talbot London Accordingly, as part of our Strategy Review, Bristol we have devised a new operating model for out Fareham local businesses in Europe and North America.
Plymouth Called hub-and-spoke, this model has two types of service centres: hubs hold our larger items of equipment, and provide service and Hub Spoke repair facilities.
Spokes are smaller, and act as Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 9 Strategy Review continued This new model will have a number of benefits.
North America: 59 depots become 21 hubs and 25 spokes managed in 7 areas For our customers, it will mean higher and more consistent levels of response and service.
For the business, it will mean an operating business model which can allow us to increase revenues more cost-effectively in other words, develop a more Northeast Great scalable business model.
Lakes West A further benefit of the new model will be that Central profit and capital employed can be measured at Southeast the same point in the organisation.
Historically, because of the size of our service centres and Gulf the frequency with which rental equipment had South Texas to move between them, capital employed was not measured at the same level as profitability.
Hub In our view, return on capital employed is the Spoke key metric in any business as capital intensive as ours, and a guiding principle of our organisation The international power projects business should be to devolve responsibility and authority This business has grown rapidly over the last to the lowest point that we can measure return five years, building an enviable reputation in on capital employed.
delivering large power packages, often into remote locations around the world.
However, An integral part of the strategy for the local the bulk of our business is concentrated in business is the implementation of our new Africa and the Middle East.
Our research has IT platform, which will provide a single, global determined that these two regions account system for managing our business.
Many of for less than 30% of the world market, and our our service centres are currently running on strategy in this business is to expand our coverage incompatible or inadequate software packages, rapidly to address a greater proportion of the and their wholesale replacement will greatly market.
Of particular interest are power utilities improve the efficiency of our business.
which have a high degree of reliance on hydro power.
Whilst this can be a very cost-effective Continental Europe: 26 depots become 6 hubs and form of energy, it is dependent on rainfall, 21 spokes managed in 6 areas which can vary in any year, leading to potential Amsterdam Hamburg Moerdjik short-term shortages of power.
Hannover Antwerp Berlin Lille Leipzig Le Havre Muelheim Paris North Frankfurt Nantes Munich Paris South Stuttgart Strasbourg Bordeaux Milan Bibao Lyon Toulouse Marseille Madrid Barcelona Hub Spoke 10 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Our strategy in international power projects business, therefore is to drive expansion into new territories, and, specifically, into Asia and South America.
This policy will allow us to increase the revenues of the business, and also reduce the volatility, as we will be able to address a greater proportion of the opportunities which arise each year.
Summary The objective of our strategy is to develop Aggreko We will achieve this by: into a business which is growing revenues and earnings, and producing healthy returns on capital: Re-structuring our local business into a new positioned in growing markets: with a number of hub-and-spoke model, delivering best-in-class strategic options for further development.
Driving the expansion of our international power projects business into new territories, and thereby making it a larger and less volatile business.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 11
