24 Electrocomponents plc Board of Directors 1 2 46 35 7 1.
J L Hewitt MA FCA MBA, Deputy Chairman and Group Finance Director Bob Lawson, 58, joined as Group Managing Director in April 1991 and Jeff Hewitt, 55, joined as Group Finance Director in November 1996 was the Group Chief Executive from April 1992 until his retirement in from Unitech plc where he was Finance Director.
He joined Unitech in July 2001 when he was appointed Chairman Designate.
He held this 1991 from Coats Viyella plc where he was Group Strategy Director and position until his appointment as part-time Chairman in November a Divisional Chairman.
He has worked for The Boston Consulting Group 2001.
He is a qualified engineer with a business degree and has and Arthur Andersen & Co.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of worked in several United Kingdom and continental groups.
He was The Roxboro Group plc.
Sales Director of RS Components Limited from 1979 to 1987 and Chairman of the Treasury Committee b c then spent five years as Managing Director of Vitec Group plc.
He is part-time Chairman of Hays plc.
R B Butler FCIS, Chief Process Officer Chairman of the Nomination Committee a Richard Butler, 43, joined the Group as Company Secretary in August 1987 from Bowthorpe Holdings plc, now Spirent plc.
I Mason MBA, Group Chief Executive to the Board in July 2000 and is responsible for the Group Operational Ian Mason, 41, joined the Group in February 1995 as Director of Processes.
b c Business Development, and was responsible for the establishment of RS Japan and e-Commerce.
He was appointed to the Board of Directors 5.
F D Lennertz Dr. -Ing, Non-Executive Director in July 2000 as Chief Operating Officer and had responsibility for all Dieter Lennertz, 66, joined as a Non-Executive Director in August 1995.
RS trading activities and e-Commerce.
He was appointed Group Chief He is a telecommunications engineer who spent three years in the Executive in July 2001.
Previously he worked as a Management Netherlands and 14 in France working for the European Space Agency.
Consultant for The Boston Consulting Group.
He joined Telenorma GmbH Bosch Group in 1983 and until 1995 was Chairman of the Group Executive Directors Committee b c Chief Executive of this telecom company.
He is currently Chairman or member of various supervisory or advisory boards.
He is a lecturer at the European Business School in Germany.
a d Electrocomponents plc 25 8 10 The operational management of the Group is delegated by the Board to theGroup Executive Directors Committee.
The day-to-day operations of the Group are managed by the Group Executive Management Team which consists of the Executive Directors and the Regional and Process heads.
It meets each month and in full each quarter.
911 a member of the Nomination Committee b member of the Treasury Committee c member of the Group Executive Directors Committee d member of the Remuneration Committee e member of the Audit Committee 6.
D S Winterbottom FCA FCT FRSA, Senior Non-Executive Director 9.
L Atkinson MA D. Phil, Non-Executive Director David Winterbottom, 66, joined as a Non-Executive Director in Dr Leslie Atkinson, 59, joined as a Non-Executive Director in July 2000, November 1990.
He was Chief Executive of Evode Group plc and having spent most of his career with BP where he became Chairman is Chairman of Hill & Smith Holdings plc, CPL Industries Ltd and of BP Asia Pacific.
He has also been a member of the UK Governments Wightlink Shipping Ltd. Central Policy Review Staff, Vice President of the Chamber of Shipping Chairman of the Audit Committee a d e and served on the Board of the Securities and Futures Authority.
His other Non-Executive Directorships include AEA Technology plc and 7.
K Hamill BA FCA, Non-Executive Director Foreign and Colonial Pacific Investment Trust plc.
Keith Hamill, 50, joined as a Non-Executive Director in July 1999.
He Chairman of the Remuneration Committee a d e has held several senior finance positions, including Finance Director of WH Smith, Forte, and United Distillers.
He is Chairman of Luminar plc, Collins Timothy Barker, 63, joined as a Non-Executive Director in July 2000.
Stewart PLC and Travelodge Little Chef Limited.
He is also Treasurer From 1998 until his retirement in 2000, he was a Vice-Chairman of of Nottingham University.
a d e Dresdner Kleinwort Benson and from 1993 of Kleinwort Benson Group plc.
In the mid-1980s he was Director General of the City Panel 8.
N J Temple, Non-Executive Director on Takeovers and Mergers.
Currently he is Chairman of Kleinwort Nick Temple, 55, joined as a Non-Executive Director in September 1996.
Benson Private Bank and Robert Walters plc.
a d e He is a Non-Executive Director of Datatec Inc, Fox IT Ltd and Auxinet Group plc and is Chairman of Blick plc, Tax Computer Systems Ltd and 11.
C Carfora FCIS, Company Secretary Retail Business Solutions Ltd.
He was Chairman and CEO of IBM UK Ltd Carmelina Carfora, 39, joined the Company in 1989 from BTR plc.
and Vice-President of Sales and Marketing in IBM Europe, Middle East She was appointed Company Secretary in September 1996. b and Africa.
