Finance Directors review continued In relation to the investment of surplus cash, and where we may have potential credit exposure on financial instruments due to counterparty default, we set and maintain stringent credit rating requirements for all such counterparties and we spread such risk across our counterparties to manage the risk of any unseen single points of credit failure, or default.
The Treasury Committee oversees, monitors and approves the Groups treasury policies.
This Committee meets a minimum of three times a year to review adherence to policies as well as all material treasury matters.
In addition, the Groups internal business review conducts an annual review of treasury systems controls including the segregation of responsibilities and adherence to best practice.
Post Balance Sheet Events On 2 April 2003 the Group announced the proposed acquisition of Excelsior Publications SA in France for 90m 62m.
The assets to be acquired are a portfolio of consumer magazines in the science and knowledge, womens and mens lifestyle markets.
This transaction currently awaits competition authority clearance in France.
Going Concern It is worth noting within this section that the Group remains profitable and cash generative, and has the resources available to it to continue to develop for the foreseeable future.
On this basis, the application of the going concern concept in the preparation of these financial statements is appropriate.
Summary and Conclusions I believe that our financial strength was fairly evident last year with our balanced revenues, strong operating cash ows and industry-leading margins helping to deliver a year of significant out-performance along with a bit of blood, sweat and tears.
Add to this our funding repower and we are well positioned to continue the progress made over the last 12 months.
From a personal perspective it feels good to be playing on a winning team again more of the same next year please!
GARY HUGHES Group Finance Director 28 emap Corporate social responsibility review and by pursuing sound environmental practices in The Board is responsible for collaboration with trade associations and other business setting the Groups strategy, organisations.
With these points in mind, the Group actively supports a number of industry initiatives.
values and standards, including those covering social, environmental One key initiative is the increased application of forest certification schemes.
As timber is the primary raw and ethical issues.
It delegates material for paper manufacture, it is important that it the responsibility of implementing comes from a well managed source that is measurable to a recognised standard.
Furnished with this information, strategy and instilling values and the Group will be able to monitor and control how much standards throughout the Groups certified timber is used in its paper.
businesses to the Executive Board.
Another important initiative supported by the Group Although management of the Groups corporate is the continued development of the Environmental responsibilities forms part and parcel of the everyday Product Declaration for paper.
This Declaration is being activities of Emaps businesses, the Executive Board developed by the Confederation of European Paper and the Divisional Boards are all now additionally tasked Industries and will enable consideration of environmental with including social, environmental and ethical issues in information when selecting paper products.
their formal risk assessment processes.
This enables the Board to ensure any significant risks in these areas are With regard to printing, Emap is supporting the being identied, and that effective systems for managing development, through the UK Periodical Publishers such risks are in place.
Association PPA and the British Printing Industries Federation BPIF, of an environmental assessment Environment scheme for printers which will provide environmental Emap is generally recognised as having a relatively ratings for each printer.
low impact on the environment and is included in the FTSE4Good Index where it is categorised as a low Emap has also actively supported, again through the impact company.
Having no manufacturing base, PPA, the Mass Flow Analysis of the magazine sector.
Emaps principal environmental impact revolves around This analysis quanties all physical ows of material, from raw material extractions, through production processes, consumption, recycling and release of materials into the environment.
The purpose of this study is to inform planning and decision making with regard to environmental sustainability.
The Group works closely with its key printers to monitor and improve process waste performance.
Pre-press technological advancement, such as computer to plate, has allowed reductions in make-ready waste and improving press technology is expected to drive further reductions in process waste.
The Group continues to full its recovery and recycling its purchase of paper approx.
163,000 metric tonnes obligations, as required under the Producer Responsibility per annum, the contracting out of both printing and Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations 1997, in the process waste and its general energy consumption.
UK through the national compliance scheme run by Valpak Ltd. Emap is committed to reducing its environmental impact by encouraging the Groups paper and print suppliers Unsold magazines are collected, by long-standing to adopt a responsible approach to the environment: arrangements with major magazine wholesalers, and by reducing waste throughout the production process: converted into recycled bre for newspaper production.
emap 29 Corporate social responsibility review continued In terms of energy consumption, accurate gures are seven of the major radio businesses and Emap currently unavailable due to the high number and devolved Advertising.
Emap Advertising was also recently awarded nature of the Groups ofce activities, although there is a a Government grant to investigate the possibilities of move to more central purchasing of the main utility supplies increased working exibility to improve work life balance.
and it is anticipated that data collection will improve in this Following consultation with staff, six pilot schemes were area.
Most of Emaps ofces already run recycling schemes introduced in May 2003 and will be monitored over for both paper and toner cartridges and this will be further a six-month period.
The results will help shape future encouraged throughout the remainder of the businesses.
working policies and practices in Emap Advertising.
Ethics b Staff share schemes Emap believes integrity in its relationships with customers, The Group has always been an enthusiastic supporter suppliers, staff, shareholders, regulatory agencies and the of wider share ownership amongst its people with community in general delivers confidence in its products the aim of ensuring they are able to share in the value and services and gains the respect of all its stakeholders.
they have helped to create.
Accordingly, the Group operates share plans in the UK, France and Australia.
The Group has a formal Statement of Business Practices documenting its expectations concerning relationships Staff take-up of those plans as a percentage of eligible with its main stakeholders and expects all its people staff is 94% in the UK Share Plan: 23% in the UK SAYE to be aware of, and contribute to, the high standards share option plan: and 83% of all UK, French and required in all its business practices.
Australian staff have an interest in Emap shares.
The Statement of Business Practices sets out Emaps In the UK, through the Emap Share Plan, Emap has commitment to its people through share ownership this year again offered free shares to the value of 800 initiatives: an equal opportunities commitment: and 2002 800 to qualifying staff.
A parallel scheme, an absolute prohibition on harassment.
In turn, Emap Sharemap, is part of Lifemap, Emaps exible benets requires its people to comply with all laws and regulations plan and allows staff to save up to 1,500 a year and not to use condential information for personal gain.
The Group will then match the The Group also prohibits conicts of interest and requires cumulative investment in shares on a one to one basis.
a high standard of probity in business practices.
Emaps The Emap SAYE share option plan has now run in the Statement of Business Practices includes commitments to UK for 18 consecutive years.
its local communities, customers, suppliers and competitors.
c Staff communication Employees and the Workplace The Directors attach great importance to keeping staff a Recruitment and retention fully informed of the Groups progress and to involving Emap strives to be a socially them as much as possible in the activities of the Group.
responsible employer with Face to face dialogue between managers and staff takes fair employment terms for its place regularly and information is disseminated through people.
Standard employment the Groups intranet, Planetemap, and through divisional handbooks set out formal newsletters and updates.
Annual Talkback surveys seeking policies for key issues such as staff views on communications and benefits are also equal opportunities, disciplinary conducted in most parts of the Group.
and grievance procedures, and sexual and racial harassment.
In addition, Emap runs regular staff benets roadshows in the UK, promoting share plans, the pension plan, Emap is currently recruiting a Director of Human Flexiplan, and Emaps exible benets programme, Resources who will provide further impetus to raising Lifemap.
Emaps UK share plans and pension plan employment standards and implementing best practice have won a number of industry awards.
employment policies consistently throughout the Group.
In 1997 the Group established the Emap European Emap aspires to attract and retain the best people and Forum, which meets once a year.
Staff representatives a majority of its UK companies have obtained Investors in discuss the performance and prospects of the Group People accreditation, including all of Emap Communications, in a European context and particularly those issues which 30 emap may have an impact in more than one country.
There are Rock FM Magic a maximum of 11 staff representatives, eight from the 999s Help A Local UK and three from France.
Child 270,000 : Hallam FM Magic Health and Safety AMs Help A Hallam The Groups objective is to do all that is reasonably Child 135,000 : practicable to ensure the health, safety and welfare of its Key 103 Magic people, and others who may be affected by its activities.
1152s Manchester The Group also aims to ensure responsibilities for health Kids 129,000 : and safety are properly assigned, accepted and fullled Metro Radio Magic by all levels of staff.
To this end, all Group companies are 1152s Just For required to have documented General Policy Statements: Kids 124,000 : clear Organisation of Responsibilities structures: and all Radio City Magic staff are issued with, or have access to, a detailed health 1548s Give A and safety booklet.
Child A Chance 91,000 : The Board is ultimately responsible for health and safety TFM Magic 1170s Make A Child Smile 75,000 : issues around the Group with Managing Directors of each and Viking FM Magic 1161s Help A Local Child operating company charged with day-to-day responsibility.
The proceeds from these activities have A network of staff, trained in safety to the Chartered Institute been used for the benefit of a variety of local community of Environmental Health or Institution of Occupational Safety organisations and individuals including, for example, and Health certicated standards, assist the Managing the provision of a mini-bus for a respite centre, childrens Directors in fullling their responsibilities and all companies outdoor equipment at a cancer centre and a range of have access to a professional external health and safety specialist equipment for ill or disabled children: donations consultant.
An indication of the standards achieved around to summer camp organisations for underprivileged children: the Group is that both national and European health and and support of a womens refuge centre.
safety week recognition awards have been given to Metro Radio, and Emap Communications health and safety Although perhaps not as public in their work, our other standards for exhibitions have been adopted nationally divisions also support their own local communities in by the Association of Exhibition Organisers.
In Emap Communications there are a number of activities at local company and product During the year ended 31 March 2003, there were level.
These range from dress down days for children in no fatalities, only three UK injuries resulting in absence need: rafes for local hospitals: providing free advertising: over three days and one major injury requiring reporting running charity events: and providing editorial support under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous which helps raise the prole of many worthy causes such Occurrences Regulations 1995.
No enforcement notices as car seat safety campaigns and first-aid knowledge were issued to any of the UK companies by the Health for babies.
Emap Consumer Media similarly supports and Safety Executive.
charitable work directly with local and national charities through the giving of donations CDs, fashion and Community beauty products, books as well as general fundraising The Groups diverse subsidiary companies operate their events where staff give their time and expertise to help own community programmes with Emap Performance, organisations directly.
Many magazines also provide editorial through its radio stations, providing perhaps the most support for campaigns close to their readers interests.
public illustration of the type of activity undertaken.
Local radio is by its nature at the heart of the communities Most of the Groups companies also run a matching it serves and Emap stations integrate their community scheme whereby the companies match the fundraising and charity work into the fabric of their businesses.
Over of staff up to 500 for causes in which they are the past year, Emaps radio stations have helped directly personally involved.
to raise in excess of 860,000 for a whole variety of charities.
Stations generally run their own charity funds with staff volunteering their time for fundraising activities.
Some of the notable successes this past year include emap 31 Directors and senior management Directors, senior management and advisers Emap plc Board Emap Executive Board 1 6 1 Adam Broadbent Emaps Executive Board brings together Emap plcs Chairman 66 two Executive Directors Tom Moloney and Gary Hughes Joined Board in November 1997.
Appointed Chairman and the Chief Executives of the four operating divisions.
Previously a director of Schroders plc where The Executive Board meets every two weeks to provide he was latterly Group Managing Director Investment a forum for Group planning and rapid decision making.
3 8 Banking based in New York.
Currently a non-executive director of Capital One Bank Europe plc, Carclo plc 7 Tim Schoonmaker BA MBA and REL Consultancy Group Limited.
Chairman of the Chief Executive, Emap Performance 45 4 9 Nomination Committee.
In 1991 founded Emap Radio, which was built into the UKs most profitable radio company.
In 5 10 2 Tom Moloney 1999 founded Emap Performance, which has developed Group Chief Executive 44 the UKs most exciting portfolio of cross-media brands.
Appointed Group Managing A founding director of the Radio Advertising Bureau and Key to Committees Director of Emap Metro and Elan in 1989.
Appointed the Digital Radio Development Bureau.
Member of the as Chief Executive, Consumer Magazines UK and joined Audit Committee Board in 1995.
Joined Emap USA in April 1999 as 8 Derek Carter R. Member of the Chief Operating Officer and appointed President and Chief Executive, Emap Communications 53 Remuneration Chief Executive officer in October 1999.
Appointed as Joined Emap in 1978.
In 1989 became Managing Committee Group Chief Operating officer in May 2001 and promoted Director of Emap Maclaren and in 1997 was appointed N. Member of to Group Chief Executive on 23 January 2003.
T. Chief Executive of Emap Communications, which brings the Nomination together the Groups business magazines, trade exhibitions, Committee 3 Gary Hughes BA FCA conferences and information products.
Chairman of the T. Member of Group Finance Director 41 Periodical Publishers Association PPA 2001-2 and the Treasury Joined Emap as Group Finance Director in October 2000. currently Deputy Chairman.
Committee Before this he was Group Finance Director of SMG plc, Deputy Finance Director of Forte plc, and held a number 9 Paul Keenan Advisers of senior management positions at Guinness plc, including Chief Executive, Emap Consumer Media 39 Corporate Brokers Head of Mergers and Acquisitions.
He has considerable After five years at Emap Communications joined the Hoare Govett Limited international experience, in particular in the US, South Consumer Division in 1997 as Acting Managing Director Citigroup America and Continental Europe.
T. of Emap Elan and in 1998 moved across to Emap Metro as Managing Director.
Appointed Chief Executive of Emap Auditors 4 Andrew Harrison BA MBA Digital in April 2000.
In September 2001, appointed Chief Pricewaterhouse Non-Executive Director 46 Executive of Emap Consumer Media.
Also currently a Board Coopers LLP Joined Board in March 2002.
Currently he is Chief Executive Member of the Periodical Publishers Association PPA.
of RAC PLC, which provides motoring and business Investment solutions to private and corporate customers.
Prior 10 Arnaud fide Puyfontaine ESCP MBA Bankers to this he was a Director of Courtaulds Textiles plc.
Prsident Directeur Gnral 39 Citigroup Chairman of the Audit and Treasury Committees.
A. R. N. T. Joined Emap France in 1995 as publishing director of Lazard Bros. & Co Tl Poche and Studio Magazine.
Was involved in the 5 Karen Jones BA acquisition of Tl Star and then became Managing Solicitors Non-Executive Director 46 Director of Emap Star, the company created after the Slaughter and May Joined Board in 1997.
CEO of The Spirit Group Limited, acquisition.
Appointed Directeur Gnral in 1998 a pub company with brands such as Big Steak Pubs and and became Prsident Directeur Gnral a year later.
Co-founded the Pelican Group of restaurants, which she then sold to Whitbread, staying on as Managing Company Secretary Director for a further two years.
Board member of Royal Nick Folland Solicitor National Theatre Enterprises Limited.
A. R. N. Company Secretary and Group Legal Director 37 Joined Emap in 2001.
Previously he was Head of Legal 6 David Rough BSc FCII and Company Secretary at 365 Corporation plc and prior Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 52 to that a Senior Legal Adviser of Cable & Wireless plc.
Previously a Director of Qualied with Linklaters and Paines in 1993 and worked Legal & General Group plc and Group Trust plc.
Currently with them in London, Singapore and Hong Kong.
he is a non-executive director of Mithras Investment Trust plc, BBA Group plc, Land Securities plc and Xstrata plc.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
A. R. N. T. emap 33 Directors report and corporate governance The Directors of Emap plc present their Annual Report and the Senior Management Incentive Scheme is payable in cash, audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2003. the balance in shares.
The Board believes the inclusion of the cash element of the annual bonus in pensionable salary is valid Principal activities and future developments because Flexiplan is a dened contribution and not a dened The Company and its subsidiary undertakings, which operate benefit pension plan.
The Company contributes to this plan principally in the UK and France, have market leading positions at the rate of 10.5% for Executive Directors.
As the maximum in consumer and trade magazines, exhibitions, commercial radio, bonus payable to those Directors is 50% of salary and only half music TV and interactive media offering information, entertainment of this is payable in cash, the maximum additional contribution and communication services across a wide range of media through Flexiplan can only ever be 10.5% of 25% or 2.6% platforms.
A review of the businesses activities during the of the relevant Directors salary.
year and future prospects are set out in the Chairmans and Bonuses paid under the Groups other incentive plans, the Chief Executives reviews, the Operating review and the Finance Equity Investment Plan EIP, the Executive Share Option Directors review on pages 1 to 28.
The Directors expect continued Plan ESOP and the Long-Term Share Plan LTSP, are not growth of the Group through both the organic development pensionable as they are all paid in shares.
of its businesses and strategic acquisitions.
b The Board Results and dividends i Changes to the Board and reappointments The Groups profit before taxation amounted to 140m.
After The current Directors of the Company together with their deducting taxation and minority interests of 54m, the profit biographical details are shown on page 33.
Brendan ONeill for the financial year amounted to 86m which, after dividends and Henry Staunton both resigned from the Board on 11 July 2002. of 55m, leaves a profit for the year of 31m which has been Robin Miller resigned as Group Chief Executive and stood down transferred to reserves.
as a Director of the Company on 23 January 2003.
On that same day, Tom Moloney was appointed as Group Chief Executive.
The final dividend recommended by the Directors is 14.6p per share which, together with the interim dividend of 7p, Under the Companys Articles, one third of the Board excluding makes a total dividend for the year of 21.6p per share.
new appointments since the last Annual General Meeting AGM are required to retire by rotation.
The Articles also require that any Subject to shareholders approval, the final dividend will be paid Director not otherwise covered by this requirement must retire at on 1 August 2003 to members on the register on 4 July 2003. the AGM three years after his or her appointment or reappointment.
Share capital At the AGM to be held on 10 July 2003, Adam Broadbent Details of all changes to the Companys share capital are shown and Karen Jones will retire by rotation under Articles 83 in Note 24 on page 67. and 84 and will both offer themselves for reappointment.
Karen Jones has now served as a Director for two terms.
Post balance sheet events At the request of the Board, she has agreed to offer herself Details of post balance sheet events are given in Note 32 on for reappointment for a final period to ensure continuity is page 70. maintained on the Board.
The Board believes her re-election is in the best interests of shareholders given the recent Corporate governance appointment of a new Group Chief Executive and the a Compliance with the Combined Code relatively recent appointment of Non-Executive Directors The Company fully endorses the Principles of Good Governance Andrew Harrison and David Rough.
and Code of Best Practice encompassed in The Combined Code of the Financial Services Authority the Code.
The ways ii Non-Executive and Executive Directors in which the Company applies and complies with the principles At the date of this report, the Board is made up of a majority are described below.
of Non-Executive Directors and consists of a Chairman, two Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
The Higgs Review of the Role and Effectiveness of Non-Executive The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors contribute Directors and the Smith Report on Audit Committees published external expertise and experience in areas of importance to the in January 2003 have been reviewed by the Company.
When the Group such as marketing, corporate finance, general finance revised Code is issued, the Company will conduct a further review and corporate governance.
They also contribute independence and take whatever decisions it thinks are in the best interests of judgement on all strategic and policy matters.
of shareholders with regard to corporate governance.
It is the Boards opinion that all current Non-Executive Directors The Company can confirm that, throughout the period under were, and continue to be, independent as dened by the Code.
review, it has complied with the provisions recommended in Section 1 of the Code except in the following two areas: iii Board meetings The Board meets each month, except in August, with other Code A.
2.1: The Board has not during the year identified meetings being held as and when appropriate to consider specic a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director to whom proposals.
Board papers are normally circulated to the Directors shareholder concerns can be conveyed.
On 22 May 2003, at least six days before their regular meetings.
The Board normally however, David Rough was appointed as the Companys Senior holds a two-day strategy meeting once a year, at which it Independent Non-Executive Director bringing it into line with considers the future direction of the Groups activities in detail.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Schedule A to the Code recommends that, in general, neither Boards decision, which includes approval of interim and annual bonuses nor benets in kind should be pensionable.
annual results, the dividend policy, approval of all circulars Under the Groups pension scheme, Flexiplan, pensionable and listing particulars, matters relating to share capital, salary is dened as basic salary plus all cash bonuses.
Half approval of the annual budget, and approval of major capital of the bonus payable to Executive Directors under the annual projects, investments and commitments.
34 emap iv Other matters iv Treasury Committee All Directors have access to the advice of the Company The Board delegates various operational matters relating Secretary and a procedure exists for Directors, if necessary to banking and treasury issues to the Treasury Committee, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional which is comprised of two Executive and two Non-Executive advice at the Groups expense, although no such advice Directors.
These operational matters are clearly dened in the was sought during the year.
Groups treasury policies, which are regularly reviewed by the Board.
Matters delegated include, but are not limited to, debt c Board committees funding, investment, hedging and banking arrangements.
The four principal committees of the Board are the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee d Directors interests and the Treasury Committee, which was formerly a sub-committee A statement of Directors interests in the ordinary share capital of the of the Audit Committee.
The Board sets the terms of reference Company appears in the Remuneration Report on pages 43 and 44. for all committees which are formally documented and The Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to regularly updated.
inspection at the Companys registered ofce, contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for shares.
i Nomination Committee In the year, no Director had any interest in any other share capital The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating, of the Company or any other Group company, nor did any Director with the approval of the Board, candidates for appointment have a material interest in any contract of signicance to the Group.
e Directors responsibilities for the preparation Adam Broadbent Chairman and Karen Jones were of financial statements members of the Nomination Committee throughout the year.
The Directors are required by law to prepare financial statements Brendan ONeill and Henry Staunton were members of the for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state Nomination Committee until their resignations from the Board of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the on 11 July 2002.
Robin Miller resigned from the Committee financial year and of the profit or loss, total recognised gains on 10 July 2002.
Andrew Harrison and David Rough were or losses and cash ows of the Group for that period.
appointed to the Committee on 18 April 2002.
The Directors confirm that appropriate accounting policies The Committee also formally reviews the contribution of have been used and applied consistently, and reasonable Directors who are offering themselves for reappointment and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in and makes recommendations to the Board as to whether the preparation of the financial statements for the year ended such Directors should be put forward for reappointment 31 March 2003.
The Directors also confirm that the financial by shareholders.
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, and all applicable accounting standards ii Remuneration Committee have been followed.
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee the authority to determine independently the basic remuneration The Directors are responsible for maintaining adequate accounting of Executive Directors and their performance-related awards records, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group under the Groups incentive plans within the framework set and the investment of shareholders, and for taking reasonable steps out in the Remuneration Report on page 37.
Full details of the to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Committee and its membership are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 37. f Going concern basis The Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group iii Audit Committee have adequate resources to continue in operational existence The Audit Committee is comprised solely of Non-Executive for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt Directors.
Adam Broadbent and Karen Jones were members the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
of the Committee throughout the year.
Henry Staunton and Brendan ONeill were members of the Committee until their g Internal control resignations from the Board on 11 July 2002.
Andrew Harrison The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system was appointed to the Committee on 18 April 2002 and of internal control and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
replaced Henry Staunton as Chairman of the Committee The control system is intended to manage rather than eliminate on 11 July 2002.
David Rough was also appointed to the the risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives and Committee on 11 July 2002. any such system can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Committee ensures that sound financial policies and internal controls are in place.
It reviews the scope and results During the financial year ended on 31 March 2003, all Divisional of the external audit.
The Committee also monitors the Companys Boards, the Executive Board, the Audit Committee and the Board safeguards against compromising the Companys external have reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system, auditors objectivity and independence, which require that including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk all significant consulting projects, other than those relating management in accordance with provision D. 2.1 of the Code.
to tax consultancy, are put out to tender.
The Company does, however, receive tax advice from consultants other than There is a continuous process of identifying, evaluating and .
Fees incurred for significant projects managing the significant risks the Group faces which has been are also benchmarked externally at each major milestone as in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval they develop.
The Committee has advised the Board that, in its of the Annual Report and Accounts.
view, the current level and nature of non-audit services provided by the auditors to the Company which are fully disclosed in The process, which complies with the requirements of the Note 4 on page 55 are not such as to affect their independence Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on The Code, includes and objectivity.
