to reduce cost and improve efficiency, while at the same confident that the Emap strategy of local audiences and time strengthening Emaps position in an existing market.
national revenues, is the right one and the revenue recovery seen in the second half of the year supports that view.
The benefits of the Emap strategy are plain to see Tim Schoonmaker and his team are stretching brands such throughout this report.
The four great media businesses as Smash!
and Kiss across a range of that make up Emap Consumer Media, Communications, platforms and taking advantage of new technologies such Performance and France have all made progress despite as Freeview.
The Hits music TV channel is already popular the most challenging external environment for over a with audiences on this new free-to-air digital platform and decade.
B2B has been particularly hard hit, but Derek our radio services are leading the way in the digital world.
Carter and his team have once again managed to grow underlying revenue.
The Emap Communications EC In France the economic and political situation remains team have focused on big markets such as the public uncertain.
Under the leadership of Arnaud fide Puyfontaine, sector, construction, and retail, building market leading however, Emap France has increased profits despite positions with paid for weeklies such as Health Service limited opportunities to grow revenue.
The successful Journal, and powerful trade exhibitions such as The integration of Emap Nature, previously a joint venture, Spring Fair.
These businesses have outperformed the helped grow absolute revenue and profit.
The acquisition B2B sector and once again maintained industry leading of Excelsior, one of the outstanding independent publishers margins.
This year EC has also completed the Agor in France, will make Emap the number two consumer acquisition which further extends Emap into Europe.
magazine publisher there, growing faster than our competitors and operating on industry leading margins.
The launch of Closer and the continuing growth of heat have helped Emap Consumer Media ECM defy those Its a simple strategy: focus on growing the core: launch commentators who still consider consumer magazines new products: seek out bolt-on acquisitions: but it works a mature sector with limited growth opportunities.
The and you can expect more of the same in the year ahead.
evidence would suggest nothing could be further from the truth.
Businesses in mature markets rarely demonstrate 6% underlying growth and the whole portfolio grew by 2% despite the loss of Red and Elle following the break-up of the Hachette Emap joint venture.
Paul Keenan and his team have certainly delivered on their goal of innovative launches and daring re-inventions with stalwarts such as FHM, Max Power, Angling Times and Motor Cycle News demonstrating solid growth.
Emap Performance EP is, at its heart, a radio business TOM MOLONEY and it has been a tough year for radio.
However, we remain Chief Executive emap 5 Operating review GETTING CLOSER Breakdown by market Emap Consumer Media ECM 14% International FHM US comprises the majority of Emaps 9% Entertainment consumer magazines portfolio in the 7% Youth UK and overseas, with the exception 24% Automotive of France and the UK music portfolio.
17% Active 15% Womens ECM publishes over 60 titles in the UK with some of the strongest 14% Mens brands in the marketplace, serving the automotive, special interest, womens, mens, entertainment and young womens market and Breakdown by revenue source delivering to a core 16-34 audience.
Internationally, ECM publishes 42% Advertising FHM in a total of 17 countries, including the UK, Australia and the US, and has focused wholly owned operations in Australia and South East Asia.
FHMs most recent launch was in Thailand in April 2003.
Circulation Growth Magazine circulation is measured in the UK by the Audit Bureau of Circulation ABC, which releases audited gures twice a year.
58% Circulation Emaps UK magazine portfolio has performed strongly this year, increasing its market share of Retail Sales Value average circulation x frequency x cover price from 15% to 16% in the July to December 2002 ABCs.
Overall Emaps Retail Sales Value increased by 8% year-on-year, signicantly outperforming a market which was up 4%.
6 emap market knowledge Emap and the UK Consumer Emap vs Competitors Magazine Marketplace Source: ABC July-December 2002 Emap Retail Sales Value It is sometimes claimed that the consumer magazine marketplace is mature.
In fact, it couldnt be more dynamic 25% of all Retail 22% Sales Value RSV comes from magazines that were launched in the last seven years.
16% The ability to launch new product is key and Emap has a strong track record with eight new titles launched successfully in the last 9% 8% 10 years, including Bliss, Digital Photo, 6% Model Rail, Revs and Ride.
AOL Time Warner Emap Bauer BBC Nat Mags In fact, consumer magazines in the UK are not one market but many.
Angling Times Brand Market Positions does not compete with Bliss: MCN has little ECM Brand Sector Market Position in common with Top Sant.
Emap Consumer FHM Mens Number 1 Media competes in 29 different magazine Max Power Automotive car tuning Number 1 markets, all with their own dynamics, and Empire Entertainment Number 1 has leading positions in 19 of them.
Angling Times Special Interest shing Number 1 In the UK, Emap distributes the majority MCN Automotive bikes Number 1 of its magazines through Frontline, a joint Todays Golfer Special Interest golf Number 1 venture between Emap, the BBC and Haymarket Publishing.
Magazines More Young womens Number 2 are available at grocers, on the High Street, in supermarkets, travel Bike Automotive bikes Number 2 points and in local corner shops and Frontline has taken a lead in Heat Celebrity Number 3 working with retailers to ensure that magazines are properly racked and displayed to maximise sales from available oor space.
This process helps Bliss Young womens Number 3 to limit the number of unsold copies and reduce costs.
Although there are over 3,000 different magazines published in the UK Source: brad 2001, retailers and advertisers are increasingly focusing on the top two or three in each market and the top 250 titles overall.
Emaps strong market positions are therefore a key asset, as are its 42 titles in the top 250 indeed new launch Closer is expected to go into the top 20 with its first ABC in August 2003. emap 7 magazine advertising in the UK Advertising in Emaps specialist magazines year, up 6% on last year.
Heat was a key Emaps 42 out of Top 250 such as golng, shing and automotive contributor to this, with Max Power, New magazines in the UK titles is sold direct to advertisers by sales Woman, Todays Golfer, Angling Times, by Retail Sales Value teams who specialise in each market.
Your Horse and Improve Your Coarse heat Non-specialist advertising is sold to Fishing among the many titles also FHM national advertisers and agencies by performing well.
MCN Emap Advertising EA, which was created Max Power in April 2000 to represent Emaps consumer EAs investment in consumer and media More magazines, radio stations, television insight, measurement of effectiveness, New Woman stations, events, SMS and online.
creativity and customer service was Kerrang!
EA accounts for around 70% of Emaps rewarded last year when it was named Smash!
Hits overall UK consumer advertising revenue the Most Dynamic Media Company Bliss and employs 260 people, 225 of them at the Campaign Media Awards 2002.
Yours Empire EAs aim is to deliver ground-breaking Sneak media solutions for national advertisers Angling Times and their agencies.
EAs ability to reach J17 large numbers of lucrative audiences Match via a portfolio of the UKs strongest media Bike brands is an attractive one for a growing Todays Golfer number of advertisers.
By linking our Top Sant media brands together with creative and Car innovative advertising ideas, EA can offer Garden News single or multimedia solutions and delivers Practical Classics great results for many of the UKs leading Emap winner of the Most Dynamic Media Parkers Car Price Guide blue-chip companies.
Mojo Ride Underlying advertising growth across Nintendo Magazine Emaps portfolio has been strong this Mixmag Slimming UK Magazine Share of Advertising Expenditure Improve Your Coarse Fishing Source: Advertising Association Mother & Baby Performance Bikes 6.8% 6.8% 6.7% 6.7% 6.6% 6.6% 6.6% Period Living 6.5% 6.5% Your Horse Practical Photography Land Rover Owner 5.2% Golf World Rail Digital Photo Classic Cars Sea Angler 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Garden Answers Pregnancy & Birth Source: 8 emap ABC July-December 2002
