Interactive creating online communities, informing them minute-by-minute and providing content and text messaging to mobile phones Events working side by side with the music industry, running over 600 music events the essential emap Emap is the home of great brands.
Our strong portfolio of over 400 products, many with market leading positions, is larger than that of almost any other media company.
Behind our brands and market leading positions are our people.
Our managers are driven by challenging performance targets to make the best products that will generate the best profit easy to talk about but hard to do.
Our teams have deep knowledge of the markets in which they operate and are empowered to use it.
Their creativity, competitiveness and energy enables us to respond quickly to changing market conditions.
Supporting our people is our infrastructure.
Through providing and investing in services such as finance, IT, and paper buying centrally, we free up our people to focus on what they do best creating quality brands and content.
emap 3 Chief Executives review DELIVERING ON A CLEAR STRATEGY Diversified revenue streams Emaps strategy over the last 7% B2B Exhibitions two years has been simple and 5% B2B Recruitment 4% B2B Display clear: diligent management of 3% B2B Circulation 9% Radio Airtime the core business to grow key 1% TV Airtime 21% UK Consumer Mag Circulation brands and stretch product 4% Other 15% UK Consumer Mag Advertising 17% France Consumer Mag Circulation life cycles through focused 9% France Consumer Mag Advertising 5% International Consumer Mag investment: exciting, innovative launches: and bolt-on acquisitions to strengthen our market positions brands that makes Emap resilient in tough times and capable of accelerated growth as market conditions and accelerate growth.
As a business we are not over-reliant on one type of revenue or sector, and our managers have The results for the year ended March 2003 demonstrate that become masters at nding new revenue streams to Emap has a management team capable of delivering on this enhance the growth of our core brands.
strategy, despite difficult economic and market conditions.
A strong core business provides an ideal platform for the Turnover from continuing operations increased by 3% launch of new products.
Emap has an outstanding record to 967 million.
Profit before tax, on a normalised in the creation of intellectual property and even though basis, was up 16% at 175 million.
Inclusive of goodwill launching is not without risk, it is the best way of creating amortisation amounting to 48 million, and exceptional long-term value.
Creating new businesses also helps to items amounting to a net gain of 13 million, pre-tax profit maintain a dynamic and innovative culture which attracts the was 140 million.
Normalised earnings per share were most talented people, giving Emap a formidable competitive up 20% at 49.0 pence.
The Board has proposed a full advantage that is not easily replicated.
year dividend of 21.6 pence a share, an 11% year-on-year increase, to be paid to shareholders on 1 August 2003.
Bolt-on acquisitions are the next building block in the strategy.
Our denition of a bolt-on acquisition is a The emphasis of our strategy is on managing and growing business with strong brands and often some nurturing the core business.
It is the range of established good people that can benefit from our infrastructure 4 emap
