Awards heat voted best consumer Dana Fields voted Publisher fhm.
com winner of Interactive magazine in Britain 2003 of the Year, FHM US, 2003 Consumer Magazine of the by the PPA by the Delaney Report year 2003 PPA a results business Launches in the UK and US Launching new magazines is central to ECMs growth.
this years ABC gains Closer, a new womens weekly magazine which combines celebrity news with real life stories, was successfully launched in the UK in FHM increased sales September 2002 by the publishing team behind heat.
The target to 620,226, up 7% period-oncirculation of 300,000 was reached after 23 issues, beating Closers period and 9% year-on-year, outselling the number two business plan by several months.
and three magazines in this market combined Together, heat and Closer sell nearly a million copies each week and enjoy a 35% share of the celebrity magazine market.
heat rise in sales to 554,644 up 16% period-on-period and The launch of FHM in the US in 1999 was 56% year-on-year it now Emaps biggest ever.
The title is storming sells more than 25 million ahead with a rate base of 1.1 million copies a year copies per month and advertising revenues up 50% year-on-year.
Last year it was the Bliss relaunched last summer fastest growing mens magazine on the US with a new A5 format and newsstand and is on course to break even more baby glossy content, in 2003 04. sales have increased to 260,102, up 4% period-onperiod and 2% year-on-year Well Executed Reinventions For magazines to continue to succeed they Empire up 2% period-onmust continually change and develop along period and 3% year-on-year at with their readers, and ECMs portfolio 164,550 reinforcing the titles responds well to this.
dominant market position In the past year, ECM has relaunched FHM in the UK up 9%, Angling Max Power the 10 year Times up 12%, Match up 6%, Digital Photo up 34% and Bliss old title achieved a record up 2% Source: ABC July-December 2002.
Their year-on-year circulation gure of 237,584, circulation gains have contributed to the strong growth of Emaps up 10% both period-on-period overall portfolio.
and year-on-year and enjoying a reach of 15-24 year old males second only to FHM Hachette Emap Joint Venture Last year saw the dissolution of Emaps UK joint venture with Lagardre Source: in October 2002.
Under the terms of the agreement Emap gained 100% ABC July-December 2002 control of New Woman and Top Sant, while Elle and Red were sold to Lagardre in a deal which valued Red launched in 1998 at 34 million.
In its internal awards this year New Woman was crowned one of ECMs Magazines of the Year in 2002.
More detailed data can be found on www.
emap 9 Operating review THE FOCAL POINT OF BUSINESS COMMUNITIES Revenue by market Emap Communications EC has over 240 9% Media 12% Public sector products centred on B2B magazines, trade 16% Healthcare exhibitions, conferences and information products, primarily in the UK.
By bringing these products together Emap has created a unique business 28% Retail which manages by the markets in which it operates retail, construction, 18% Construction 17% International healthcare, the public sector, media and international rather than by Other media channel, opening up broader opportunities for developing content Breakdown by revenue source and advertising.
22% Circulation The UKs Biggest Shows 18% Display adv EC runs four out of the UKs five largest trade exhibitions.
The largest, the Spring Fair, now in its 28th year, sold out the entire NEC in Birmingham in February with giftware and related goods for trade buyers.
This year 35% Events & 2 its sister show, the Autumn Fair, lled 53,000m of the NEC and grew Exhibitions its revenues by 5%.
The Garden and Leisure Equipment Exhibition GLEE 25% Recruitment adv 2 in September grew its meterage by 12% to 50,000m and revenues by 9%.
10 emap market leadership Serving Business Communities Market Share of UK Publishing Revenues Many of ECs titles are up to 120 years Source: Emap Estimates old, forming part of their readers lives and career paths.
These magazines have 9% strong market positions and are at the heart of the communities they serve.
Health Service Journal is the only 5% independent weekly magazine about health policy and management and as 3% such it can command Tony Blair to its awards ceremony.
This year it has been Reed Emap UBM well placed to participate in the NHS reorganisation of Primary Care Trusts.
Market Share of UK B2B Exhibition Revenues As chairman of the Interchange Source: Emap Estimates conference Advisory Board the UKs only integrated transport and infrastructure 8% conference, run by Emap, New Civil Engineers Editor has been appointed to advise the Government on key transport issues.
co. uk, the internet arm of the Emap Construction 3% Network, the largest information supplier to the UK construction industry, comprises 10 inter-linked websites, which together attract over 80,000 unique users per month.
Emap UBM Reed Conferences ECs successful conference business has had a good year, achieving its target of delivering over 100 conferences during the year.
Its success is down to ECs strong magazine brands with editors who know the hot topics and the best speakers, readers who are potential delegates and advertising sales teams who can deliver sponsorship.
emap 11 extending brands the Retail Week story Since launching in Market Positions 1988 Retail Week of EC Publishing has become the Position leading magazine UK Construction 1 for senior retail Construction News executives.
The Architects Journal New Civil Engineer By building on its high-level UK Retail 1 relationships Retail Week across the industry, UK Healthcare 1 Retail Week is now a true brand that can Nursing Times operate at many different levels.
UK Public Sector Management 1 In 1991, Retail Week developed an annual Success is ensured Health Service Journal two-day conference, attracting top retail by a powerful Local Government Chronicle speakers.
Today, it is one of Europes committee of judges UK Media 1 largest retail events with over 600 senior retail chief Broadcast delegates.
It has also become a news executives chaired event in its own right, attracting coverage by Sir Geoff Mulcahy from national newspapers.
Close to 1,700 people attend the gala dinner in London and the awards are now seen as the Oscars of the retail industry.
From this knowledge base, the Retail Week team has been able to build a growing Retail Week journalists establish themes portfolio of events including one-day and vet speakers, ensuring a seamless conferences through to exclusive clubs mix with the editorial positioning of the title.
These exclusive Chaired by Michael Buerk, only the best meetings have attracted speakers such as are asked to speak: this year, the Sir Eddie George, Greg Dyke, Digby Jones programme included major names such and Peter Mandelson.
as Philip Green Bhs and Arcadia, Charles Dunstone Carphone Warehouse, The final element to the brand is Retail Martha Lane Fox lastminute.
com and Weeks Retail Knowledge Bank, the Sir Peter Davis Sainsburys.
Robert Clark, one of the most inuential retail analysts, The Retail Week brand has also ensured leads a team that produces up to 2,000 that its annual awards are now one of the pages of in-depth and high-value reports biggest business awards events in the UK.
