Board of Directors Executive Directors Eric Nicoli 52 Martin Bandier 61 Chairman Chairman and Chief Executive Officer EMI Music Publishing Eric Nicoli was appointed to the Board in 1993 as a Non-executive Director, becoming executive Chairman Martin Bandier was appointed to the Board in April 1998. in July 1999.
Until 30 April 1999, he was Group Chief He joined EMI Music Publishing as its Vice Chairman in Executive of United Biscuits Holdings plc UB, which 1989 upon the acquisition of SBK Entertainment World he joined from Rowntree Mackintosh in 1980.
He was Inc. SBK, in which he was a founding partner.
He was appointed to the UB Board in 1989 as Chief Executive, appointed CEO of EMI Music Publishing in 1991 European Operations and became Chief Executive becoming, in addition, Chairman in 1998. of UB in 1991.
Mr Bandier entered the music publishing business in Mr Nicoli is non-executive Chairman of HMV Group plc 1975 as a founding partner of the Entertainment Music and The Tussauds Group Ltd, Chairman of The PerCent Company and the Entertainment Television Company Club and The EMI Group Archive Trust, a Deputy and, together with his partners, created SBK in 1986.
Chairman of Business in the Community and a Director of Caldicott Trust Ltd, Charity Projects and Comic Mr Bandier is a Director of the National Music Relief Ltd. Publishers Association, the BMI Foundation, the Songwriters Hall of Fame, the Rock and Roll Hall of Alain Levy 56 Fame and the Syracuse University Board of Trustees.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer He is also a member of the Friars Foundation and the EMI Recorded Music National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences.
Alain Levy joined EMI and was appointed to the Board Roger Faxon 54 on 15 October 2001.
Chief Financial Officer CFO Mr Levy joined CBS International now Sony Music in Roger Faxon was appointed CFO and joined the EMI 1972 and, after 12 years, moved to PolyGram, where he Board on 5 February 2002.
He joined EMI in 1994, became President and CEO in 1991.
In both companies initially as Senior Vice President, Business Development he held various posts involving manufacturing, logistics, & Strategy, EMI Music and, from April 1999, as Executive marketing and management.
Mr Levy remained with Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, EMI Music PolyGram until it was sold to Seagram in 1998.
Mr Levy is a Director of David Linley & Co. Ltd and Prior to 1994, Mr Faxon held finance, operations and Ilchester Investments Ltd.
He also sits on the advisory general management positions.
These posts included board of Schroders Ventures in the US and on the five years with Sothebys, latterly as Managing Director, European advisory board of Wharton Business School.
Sothebys Europe and, previously, Chief Operating Officer, Sothebys North and South America.
This followed 10 years in the motion picture industry with LUCASFILM Ltd, The Mount Company and, finally, Columbia Pictures Entertainment.
Earlier, Mr Faxon spent six years on the staff of the US Congress.
37 Non-executive Directors Sir Dominic Cadbury 63 Peter Georgescu 64 Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Peter Georgescu joined the Board on 1 September Non-executive Director 2002.
Sir Dominic joined the Board in 1998, becoming Deputy Mr Georgescu is Chairman Emeritus of Young & Chairman and Senior Independent Non-executive Rubicam Inc. a network of commercial communications Director in July 1999.
He is Chairman of the companies, having served as the companys Chairman Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
and CEO from 1994 until January 2000.
His career spans 38 years, with top management experience both in the Sir Dominic retired as Chairman of Cadbury Schweppes US and Europe.
Mr Georgescu emigrated to the US plc on 12 May 2000 after seven years in that post, having from Romania in 1954.
He was educated at Exeter joined the company in 1964 after graduation from Academy, received his BA with cum laude honours Stanford University.
He joined the Board of Cadbury from Princeton and has an MBA from the Stanford Schweppes in 1974 as Managing Director of its Foods Business School.
Division and subsequently held a number of Board positions.
Mr Georgescu is a Director of Levi Strauss & Co. International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. and Toys R Us, Sir Dominic is Chairman of The Economist Group and Inc.
He is also Vice Chairman of the Directors of New The Wellcome Trust.
He is also a Director of the Teaching York Presbyterian Hospital, serves on the Board Awards Trust, Transense Technologies plc, Misys plc of Directors of the New York Philharmonic and and The Thirty Club of London Ltd, and was installed WNET Channel 13, and is a member of the Council as Chancellor of Birmingham University on on Foreign Relations.
David Londoner 66 Dr Harald Einsmann 69 David Londoner joined the Board on 13 May 2003.
Harald Einsmann joined the Board in 1992.
He retired as Executive Vice President and a member of Procter & Mr Londoner is the General Partner of The North River Gambles Main Board and Executive Committee in 1999.
Company, L. P. a family investment partnership.
He has been in the securities business his entire professional Dr Einsmann is a Director of Tesco plc, British American life and spent most of his career at Schroder & Co. Inc. Tobacco plc and European Mediaxchange Ltd.
He is joining a predecessor firm, Wertheim & Co. in 1972 also a member of the Board of Stora-Enso OY of Finland and leaving when it was sold in 2000. and he is the Executive Chairman of Findus A.
B. of Sweden: both companies are members of the Swedish Mr Londoner is a director of Meredith Corp. and the Wallenberg Group.
He is also a Trustee of the American Museum of the Moving Image.
Kathleen ODonovan 46 Kathleen ODonovan joined the Board in 1997 and has chaired the Audit Committee since 1999.
Ms ODonovan was, until December 2002, Finance Director of Invensys plc, the global engineering services company formed by the combination of BTR and Siebe in 1999.
She is also a member of the Court of the Bank of England, and a Director of Prudential plc and Great Portland Estates PLC.
38 Board Committees Audit Committee Finance Committee Chaired by Kathleen ODonovan Usually chaired by the Chairman Membership: All Non-executive Membership: The Chairman and the Directors Chief Financial Officer The Chief Financial Officer, the The Senior Vice President, Tax and Vice President, Internal Audit, and Treasury, may be invited to attend representatives of the Companys meetings.
external auditor attend meetings by invitation.
Capex Committee Chaired by the senior Director Remuneration Committee present Chaired by the Deputy Chairman Membership: The Chairman and the Membership: All Non-executive Chief Financial Officer Directors Other Directors, senior Company The Chairman and the Groups executives and external advisers Human Resources Director normally may be invited to attend meetings.
Nomination Committee Chaired by the Deputy Chairman Membership: All Non-executive Directors and the Chairman Executive Committee Chaired by the Chairman Membership: All Executive Directors Senior Company executives attend.
