Directors Report The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended 30 September 2003.
Accounts and dividends The Group profit for the year, after taxation, amounted to 124.5m 2002 64.1m and is dealt with as shown in the profit and loss account.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 11.4 pence 2002 9.4 pence per ordinary share of 10 pence each to be paid on 26 January 2004 to members on the register on 30 December 2003.
When added to the interim dividend of 5.7 pence 2002 4.7 pence, this produces a total dividend for the year of 17.1 pence 2002 14.1 pence per ordinary share.
Principal activities and review of the business The principal activities of the Group continued to be the sale of beers and cider and the collection of rents from its estate of licensed premises.
A review of the years activities is given in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and the Finance Directors Report on pages 3 to 11.
Taken together these are intended to constitute an Operating and Financial Review.
On 23 September 2003 the assets and liabilities of Enterprise Pubs Seven Limited were hived up into Enterprise Inns plc.
Employment policies The Group is committed to equal opportunities and the creation of an entirely non-discriminatory working environment.
The aim of the policy is to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment regardless of, amongst other matters, gender, marital status, race, age or disability.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career development and promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
Employee involvement The Group believes that effective training is essential to the maintenance and improvement of the Groups success and individual performance.
The Group is committed to providing all employees with relevant training to meet the business needs of the Group and to improve individual employee skills.
During the year, employee attitudes have been researched through a survey and the management seek to respond positively to the needs of the employees.
Also during the year, the policy of providing employees with information about the Group has been continued through the newsletter The Innsider.
Regular meetings are held between local management and employees to allow a free flow of information and ideas.
Employees are encouraged to invest in the Group through participation in savings-related share options schemes.
Directors and their interests The directors at the date of this report are listed on page 2.
All directors served throughout the year other than Mr D A Harding who was appointed on 6 November 2003.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, Mr M F Garner and Mr W S Townsend retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting by rotation and offer themselves for re-election.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company, other than with respect to options to acquire ordinary shares which are detailed in the directors remuneration report, were as follows: Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2003 12 Directors Report 30 September 30 September Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each 2003 2002 H V Reid Beneficial 61,250 61,250 G E Tuppen Beneficial 460,000 590,000 as Trustee 88,400 90,976 D C George Beneficial 426,000 426,000 as Trustee 57,000 63,000 G W Harrison Beneficial 269,402 120,747 W S Townsend Beneficial 19,028 3,062 M F Garner Beneficial 16,373 16,373 A J Stewart Beneficial 7,000 3,500 The executive directors, along with other employees, have been granted options over the shares of the Company.
Details of these interests are disclosed in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
There have been no changes in the interests of directors between the balance sheet date and the date of approval of the accounts.
Notifiable interests in shares As at 25 November 2003 the Company had been notified of the following material holdings of 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital: Number of Percentage Ordinary of Issued Shares Share Capital Barclays PLC18,522,26410.9 FMR Corp Fidelity International Limited 10,579,273 6.2 Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Limited 6,336,298 3.7 Prudential plc 5,294,410 3.1 Legal & General Group plc 5,138,973 3.0 Creditors payment policy and practice The Company agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers.
Payment is then made in accordance with these terms, subject to the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
At the year end the Company had an average of 25 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Environment Enterprise Inns recognises its responsibility to achieve good environmental practice and to continue to strive for improvement in its environmental impact.
Our approach is to work towards continuous improvement through education, communication and direct action where applicable.
At pub level, we work closely with licensees, suppliers and contractors to promote the efficient and effective use of resources, and seek to provide business solutions which enable a responsible approach to the environment.
The Company promotes a utilities management service to licensees, which includes the option to purchase renewable, or green, electricity, and provides advice in the efficient usage of energy.
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2003 13 Directors Report The Company is an active supporter of the Public Places Charter on smoking in public places, a voluntary code established by the Department of Health and the leisure industry.
We are committed, through an advisory programme, to encouraging our retail partners to provide appropriate solutions and signage to allow pub customers to make informed decisions as to their preferred choice of venue.
The Company proactively promotes the inclusion of appropriate ventilation facilities within all pub developments.
Enterprise Inns also operates a no smoking policy within its head office.
Amongst employees, the Company actively encourages home working amongst its staff, and is developing a transport policy for head office staff which seeks to promote employee behaviour which is complementary with local planning, transport and environmental guidelines.
All Executive Directors are responsible for the promotion of good practice in environmental matters, and report to the Board accordingly.
In Health and Safety matters, the Company has reporting systems and procedures in place to ensure that all health and safety risks are properly addressed.
A cross-functional risk management group meets regularly to develop policy, share best practice and raise awareness throughout the organisation and its customer base.
The group reports to the Company Secretary, who is responsible for regular reporting to the Board.
Social responsibility Enterprise Inns believes that the interests of responsible, entrepreneurial pub businesses are substantially aligned with the interests of local communities and consumers, whether pub-goers or not.
In this regard, the Company seeks to ensure that its pubs provide a friendly, safe and controlled environment, and that its business support activities promote the positive contributions that pubs make to their local communities.
The Company is an associate member of the Portman Group, the industry-funded body established to promote sensible drinking, help prevent misuse of alcohol, encourage responsible marketing and foster a balanced understanding of alcohol-related issues.
The Company is a signatory to the Portman Groups Code of Practice, and works proactively with drinks suppliers to ensure that they adhere to a responsible advertising, pricing, packaging and promotions regime.
The Company also participates in a number of partnerships with local authorities to develop and implement local policies and strategies which are designed to address the potential consequences of alcohol misuse whilst not penalising the majority of responsible licensees and their customers.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the development and application of the Companys approach to social responsibility matters.
Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The directors confirm that the accounts comply with the above requirements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2003 14 Directors Report any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Recent developments The Company will be seeking shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 22 January 2004, amongst other matters, for: The subdivision of each ordinary share of 10 pence each issued and unissued into two ordinary shares of 5 pence.
If approved, the share split is expected to become effective on 23 January 2004.
The adoption of New Articles of Association to ensure that the Companys constitutional documents comply with recent developments in company law.
The authority to sell for cash any shares purchased in the market and subsequently held by the Company in treasury subject to the limitations under investor protection guidelines.
Further details can be found in the Notice of Meeting and Explanatory notes on pages 53 to 58.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups auditor will be put to the members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
On behalf of the Board D C George Secretary 25 November 2003 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2003 15
