Performance continued Europe, Middle East and Africa business growing by 50% per secured during 2003 including Contract logistics annum over the last three years contracts with Carrefour and At constant exchange rates, with todays annualised turnover Habitat in France.
Exels undercontract logistics activities in exceeding 250m.
At the performing operations in Europe, Middle East and Africa forefront of new technology, France and Belgium remain increased turnover by 12.5% Exel began the trial of the latest disappointing.
Radio Frequency Identification performed well with improved Organic growth was 10.4%.
RFID technology for Selfridges contributions from operations Operating profit improved 26.2% and House of Fraser, two of the in The Netherlands and new to 41.4m 2002: 32.8m UKs leading department stores.
business gains with Bayer and with margins improving to Consumer business remained Edwards Lifesciences in Europe.
The strong steady, with Exels shared-user In the UK, Exel opened its third performance reflected the activities maintaining a good level facility on its Cherwell site near Our European business modest progress made in of performance.
New business Banbury to provide extra overall has delivered Europe, where improvements wins were secured with Burtons capacity for its expanding good growth in both in both turnover and operating Foods, Heinz, Scotts UK and Sia pharmaceutical business.
efficiencies led to increased amongst others.
Power Europes Automotive operations in turnover and profit.
We margins and profitability and the UK operations, acquired in Europe performed well, with have made solid progress consistent growth and improved 2003, opened a new automated operating margins improving with our underperforming operational performance in UK facility for Unilever in Doncaster on steady revenues driven by operations in Spain and activities.
During 2003, Exel and secured another major turnarounds at underperforming expect improvements in successfully consolidated a new facility from the leading facilities.
In particular, Spain number of large business wins, consumer products company.
and Sweden made steady France and Belgium this including operations with Tradeteam continued to progress after a challenging year.
Our ability to create Interbrew and Marks & Spencer.
Profitability of Exels further value for our These have already led to distribution operation into its technology activities was strong, customers will help us significant turnover growth established network, although with improved performances in maintain the momentum and should deliver profit growth the increased demand during nearly all countries offsetting in future years.
the hot summer led to some the year-on-year impact of lost into 2004. inefficiencies and delays business and volume reductions.
Ian Smith Exel made good progress to the integration plans.
Exels Chief Executive, Europe, developing its position as the special products activities in Freight management Middle East and Africa leading retail logistics business the UK, which specialise in the At constant exchange rates, in the UK, securing major new transportation and handling turnover from freight business with House of Fraser of bulk materials, secured major management activities and Marks & Spencer amongst new business with Rank Hovis increased by 6.4% to 787m others.
In particular the complex and Morrisons.
Whilst operating integration of six Marks & Spencer consumer and retail activities profits declined by 11.8% facilities into Exels activities was improved modestly during 2003 to 14.2m 2002: 16.1m completed ahead of schedule in with the performance of specific on the same basis, performance September.
The overall progress loss-making contracts making in the second half of the year developing Exels non-food retail some progress.
A number of improved strongly with turnover operations has resulted in the new business gains have been advancing 11.4% and profit #2 airfreight forwarder in the world Europe, Middle East and Africa Exel plc Annual Report 2003 16
