Strategy Strategy for growth building The review confirmed that the The delivery of operational The objective of this section on strong foundations Groups strategy, which it had excellence requires Exel to of the Annual Report is to The primary objective of the been pursuing for the last three provide a set of consistent provide an insight into how review last year was to test Exels years, was indeed both relevant processes that offer marketExels strategy directs the strategy against the backdrop and sufficient and that the leading service, productivity Groups decision-making of recent market developments competitive advantage that and efficiency.
and to ascertain whether or not it had created in 2000 was and helps secure long-term it was sufficient in scope and as strong today as it was then.
Exel aims to be an employer competitive advantage.
detail to address emerging trends.
of choice in the industry, Together with the key elements attracting and retaining high During 2003, the Group Over the last four years, Exels of the strategy presented quality skilled people, further completed a review of customer-focused strategy in last years report, the review enhancing the Companys and combined capabilities have emphasised four additional supply chain expertise to its strategy and continued resulted in successful business complementary characteristics meet customers challenges.
to invest in its key development throughout that are increasingly important elements through capital a period of economic weakness.
to all of Exels stakeholders.
Our customers remain at the and revenue investment, Recognition of the quality heart of it all.
Exel strives to acquisitions and organic of Exels services and capabilities Alongside developing Exels cultivate strategic partnerships, remains high.
Most pleasingly global coverage, investing in the working closely with customers growth.
The outcome this is evidenced in record new local strength of management to create cost-effective solutions of the review, the benefits business wins and recognition and their capabilities ensures that add genuine value to their of these investments in third-party surveys of Exels the delivery of service excellence, businesses.
This focus pulls and their initial impact position as one of the most highly wherever our customers together the four cornerstones are outlined in this report.
regarded companies in its peer need to be.
of the strategy to ensure that group.
Indeed, the Financial our day-to-day activities, how Times  Exels ability to provide customers we invest to achieve growth Worlds Most Respected with solutions that they need to and how we plan for the future, Companies Survey 2003 ranked solve their supply chain problems are built around the needs of our Exel second in its sector, which depends on combining customers and the long-term included FedEx, UPS, its breadth of services with development of the supply Deutsche Post and Singapore its integrated capability.
2003 was a good year of solid progress in developing and implementing Exel s strategy.
We have confirmed that our strategy continues to provide competitive advantage, helping us to provide our customers with the expertise and solutions to address their needs.
We will continue to invest and develop our business to strengthen this advantage.
John Allan Chief Executive Strategy for growth Exel plc Annual Report 2003 02
