110m 12% investment in acquisitions increase in value of new during 2003 business wins secured The acquisitions of Cappelletti and Pharma Logistics will provide us with opportunities to accelerate our growth in Italy and the surrounding region.
Led by experienced management teams, with good customer-focused business strategies, we are confident that they will become a strong part of the Exel family.
Ian Smith Chief Executive, Europe, Middle East and Africa Investing in Exels strategy Exel plc Annual Report 2003 06 #1 European contract logistics provider Acquisitions asset-light model similar to that A number of complementary used by Exel in different parts acquisitions have strengthened of the world.
Italy represents Exels global coverage and at the an attractive market for contract same time provided important logistics that Exel has not to date new local strengths and service developed and Cappelletti capabilities.
In the first half of the will provide an ideal platform for year Exel acquired Transbeynak, the development of our business a small Turkish healthcare logistics in the country.
In July, Exel acquired Unidocks, a leading Brazilian Finally, at the end of the year, provider of logistics services Exel acquired Pharma Logistics, to pharmaceutical companies.
a European healthcare supply Investing in Exels strategy Market demand for effective chain services business Exel is continuously investing healthcare services in Brazil with operations in Italy and in its strategy.
In 2003, the is growing quickly and the safe Belgium.
Complementing Group spent over 110m and effective delivery of medical the acquisitions of Unidocks on bolt-on acquisitions and products is an important service and Transbeynak, made earlier invested in its teams skills in the region.
in the year, Pharma Logistics and capabilities through training will enable Exel to accelerate its and development expenditure.
In December, Exel acquired growth in the healthcare sector In addition, Exel developed Cappelletti, a well positioned in Continental Europe.
new IT solutions and capabilities consumer goods and retail supply to support emerging customer chain management business needs and invested in property, based in Milan and Rome.
transportation assets and IT A leading service provider to systems through capital and consumer products companies, lease commitments, much of Cappelletti has established a which directly supported new, strong reputation for high quality or existing, business activities.
logistics solutions using a flexible Exel is strengthening its involvement in global retail and manufacturing supply chains where its global integrated capability provides competitive advantage for both parties.
This has been helped by our investments in acquisitions and innovative technologies, and the development of new solutions that ensure our supply chain expertise is effectively deployed.
John Coghlan Deputy Chief Executive and Group Finance Director 01 Strategy Investing in Exels strategy Exel plc Annual Report 2003 07
