Performance continued Despite export airweight from investment in developing the the work done on their supply the Americas decreasing by strength of Exels supply chain chain in Australia.
4% year-on-year, international management expertise in the 9.5% operations made progress in region, operating profits on the Freight management increase in turnover improving profitability.
Canadian same basis grew by 6.9% to At constant exchange of Asia Pacific freight operations benefitted from the 3.1m 2002: 2.9m.
Operating rates, turnover from freight management operations start-up of a new integrated margins reduced slightly to 3.0% management activities in Asia logistics and freight management 2002: 3.2%.
Development Pacific increased by 9.5% to facility in Toronto.
Latin American opportunities in the region 645m 2002: 590m, or 8.9% operations also performed well.
for contract logistics activities on an organic basis.
Operating Disappointing domestic freight remain good and the ongoing profit increased by 11.3% volumes reflected falling investment in Exels contract using constant exchange rates demand and the impact of some logistics team will help ensure to 34.4m 2002: 30.9m.
switching to expedited ground continued high standards of Margins remained strong transportation services.
During service in implementation and at 5.3% 2002: 5.2%, 17.1% the first half, and in much of the operational management.
supported by effective cost increase in turnover second half, an increased management across the region, of Asia Pacific contract number of smaller shipments led During 2003, Exel secured new notwithstanding the impact of logistics operations to higher ground and business wins in the region with capacity reductions on certain transaction costs.
As a result major automotive, consumer, routes and the modest impact operating margins were sharply healthcare, industrial, retail of managing the implications weaker.
business had a difficult year in These included Gillette, Infineon, mixed trading conditions.
Novartis, Pfizer, Schwarzkopf, Exel grew airweight by 6% Seafreight operations in the Texas Instruments and Unilever.
compared to 2002, reflecting Americas performed well.
Unilever contracts were gained good new business gains in by Exels new operation in several sectors.
As expected, At the beginning of 2004 Exel Indonesia, as well as in China overall airfreight pricing rose reorganised its US activities, and India.
Despite the impact of during the year in a market providing a greater integration SARS on the overall business impacted by capacity reductions of management and customer environment in many economies resulting in a slightly reduced development teams.
These in the region, Exels operations margin per kilo, which is reflected actions should help deliver maintained anuninterrupted in the different turnover and improved performance in 2004, performance.
As part of the profit growth rates.
This was particularly if there is some preventative actions taken, mainly caused by the impact recovery in volumes.
the Group established business of reduced passenger schedules, contingency plans for all its both into and within the region, Asia Pacific customers in the region to ensure related to the SARS outbreak Contract logistics that potential disruptions would in the first half, and strong At constant exchange rates, be effectively managed.
underlying customer demand Exels contract logistics operations As reported in the interim for airfreight services.
Exel also in Asia Pacific increased turnover statement, Exel was named managed to provide some by 17.1% to 105m 2002: as a General Motors Supplier mitigation through efficiencies 90m.
Notwithstanding further of the Year in recognition of in cargo consolidation and more Our teams in Asia Pacific excelled during a challenging year, with the outbreak of SARS and the impact of the Iraq conflict during the first half.
Freight volumes and the demand for supply chain services continue to grow and Exel, as the leading logistics provider in the region, is well positioned to benefit.
CK Lee Chief Executive, Asia Pacific Asia Pacific Exel plc Annual Report 2003 18
