Board and committees Nomination Committee Board of Directors Details of the Board and committee Nigel Rich Chairman functions can be found in the corporate John Allan governance report on pages 23 to 27.
Sir William Wells Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Dennis Millard Chairman Sir William Wells Chairman John McDonough Jean-Claude Guez Fritz Ternofsky John Loudon Nigel Rich Non-executive Directors September 2003, he was a part- 01 time Senior Management Advisor Nigel Rich CBE, Chairman for Accenture formerly Andersen Appointed non-executive Consulting, which he joined in Chairman of Exel plc in October 1966.
He served as a consultant 2002 and to the Board of Ocean for 33 years and was a Partner Group plc in 1997, Nigel Rich has from 1979 to 1999 and became spent 20 years in several key roles Managing Director of the Travel in Hong Kong and the Far East, and Transportation Industry in with previous appointments Europe in 1991.
He is also a including Managing Director Partner in Rocket Ventures, a of Jardine Matheson Holdings group of information technology Limited and Group Chief venture capital funds in Silicon Executive of Trafalgar House plc.
Valley, and a non-executive He is currently a non-executive Director of Eurostar Group Director of Matheson & Co Limited and Invensys plc.
Limited, CP Ships Limited, Pacific French citizen.
Assets Trust plc, non-executive Chairman of Hamptons Group 04 Limited and Co-Chairman of John Loudon the Philippine British Business Appointed to the Board Council.
He was a non-executive of Ocean Group plc in 1992, Director of Granada plc until John Loudons background is in February 2004.
Age 58. investment banking following an international career notably 02 with Lazard Brothers and Sir William Wells, Senior N M Rothschild & Sons Ltd.
Independent Director He is Chairman of Caneminster Appointed to the Board of former Limited, non-executive Chairman Exel plc in February 1996 and of XL London Market Limited, as Senior Independent Director non-executive Director of in October 2002, Sir William is Derby Trust plc, XL Winterthur President and former Chairman International, XL Capital Limited of Chesterton International plc, Bermuda and Simon Murray a non-executive Director of & Co Limited Hong Kong.
A. M. P NPI Holdings Limited, John Loudon has chosen not to Pearl Group Limited, Pearl stand for re-election at the AGM Assurance plc, National Provident this year.
Life Limited, HHG plc, London Life Holdings Limited and Chairman 05 of the NHS Appointments Dennis Millard Commission.
Appointed to the Board of Exel plc 01 10 and Chairman of the Audit 02 06 11 03 07 03 Committee on 25 September 04 12 Jean-Claude Guez 2003, Dennis Millard has been 05 08 Jean-Claude Guez was appointed Group Finance Director of 09 13 to the Board of Ocean Group Cookson Group plc, a materials plc in February 2000.
Board of Directors Exel plc Annual Report 2003 20 Executive Board Company Secretary Tony Isaac resigned from the Board John Allan, Mick Fountain, John Loudon John Allan Chairman and Corporate Legal Director on 29 September 2003.
Dennis Millard and Ian Smith retire from the Board by John Coghlan Doug Evans was appointed Director and Chairman rotation under provisions of the Articles Bruce Edwards of the Audit Committee on 25 September of Association and, being eligible, Graham Fish Exel plc was formed following the merger 2003.
John McDonough was appointed John Allan, Mick Fountain and Ian Smith Mick Fountain in May 2000 of Ocean Group plc now Director on 1 February 2004. offer themselves for re-election.
C K Lee Exel plc and former Exel plc previously Stewart Oades NFC plc.
Dennis Millard and John McDonough, John Loudon, who served as Director Ian Smith having been appointed since the last during the year, will not seek re-election.
Chris Stephens AGM, retire from the Board under Nigel Underwood provisions of the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Previous appointments include Executive Directors 10 and the International Air Cargo non-executive Director and 08 Bruce Edwards, Chief Association.
He is a non-executive Chairman of the Audit Committee John Allan, Chief Executive Executive, Americas Director of Safety Kleen Inc. for ARC International plc and Appointed Chief Executive of Joined former Exel plc in Age 50.
Finance Director of Medeva plc.
Ocean Group plc in September 1986 and was appointed US citizen.
1994 and has been instrumental Chief Executive Officer for Exel 12 in the creation of the global leader Logistics Americas in 1995.
He David Riddle, Chief Executive, 06 in supply chain management was appointed Board member of Cory Environmental Fritz Ternofsky following the merger.
John Allan the former Exel plc in November Joined Ocean Group plc Appointed to the Board of was a Board Director at BET plc 1999 and has overseen the in 1971 and was appointed to former Exel plc in October between 1987 and 1994 with Companys expansion into the Board in 1994.
He previously 1998, Fritz Ternofskys key responsibilities for Business Canada and Latin America and held a number of positions at background is in the field Services Europe and as Group rapidly moved the Company Ocean Group plc including of commercial operations.
He was towards becoming the leading Group Strategic Planner, Director, He was executive Director at a non-executive Director of supply chain provider in the Marine Division and Managing Compass Group plc responsible Wolseley plc until March 2004.
Before joining Exel, Director, Cory Towage Limited for UK and Scandinavia and a He is a non-executive Director of he spent eight years at Space before joining Cory Environmental Board Director from 1993 to PHS Group plc and a member of Center Inc, a US-based logistics in 1990.
He is currently a member the CBIs Presidents Committee, company, and he is currently Chairman of Environmental of the Supervisory Board of the International Advisory a Member of the Council of Services Association Limited, Compass Germany and Austria Committee of the Singapore Logistics Management and the the waste management trade and non-executive Director of Economic Development Board, Warehousing Education and association.
Care UK plc, Dolphin Nurseries the University of Edinburgh Research Council.
Limited, Kew Green Hotel Campaign Board and President Age 48.
13 Limited and UK Explorer Limited of the Freight Transport Ian Smith, Chief Executive, and Senior Independent Association.
11 Europe, Middle East Director of Punch Taverns plc.
Mick Fountain, Chief and Africa Austrian citizen.
09 Executive, Global Freight Joined Ocean Group plc John Coghlan, Deputy Management in May 1998 as Group Commercial 07 Chief Executive and Group Appointed a Director in March Director and was appointed John McDonough Finance Director 2001, Mick Fountain has spent to the Board in March 2001.
Appointed to the Board and John Coghlan joined Ocean his career in the logistics field He previously worked for Royal member of the Audit Committee Group plc as Finance Director including the last 18 years with Dutch Shell Group and was on 1 February 2004, John in October 1995 and became Exel following the acquisition Managing Director of Monitor McDonough is an experienced Deputy Chief Executive on of Jardine Air Cargo in 1986.
Company Europe, a consulting international businessman and completion of the merger in He heads Exels global freight firm providing strategic advice is currently Group Chief Executive 2000 and Group Finance management group which to a number of key global of Carillion plc.
He was formerly Director in July 2001.
He spent develops the global aspects of customers, and today has Vice President, Integrated Facilities eight years at Arthur Andersen the air and seafreight network responsibility for Exels entire Management, Europe, Middle & Company and then joined and is also a Director of operations across Europe.
He is East and Africa of Johnson Tomkins plc for a further eight the industry-related bodies, also a non-executive Director of Controls Inc and is also a member years where he became Director Cargo 2000, Cargo Network MFI Furniture Group plc.
Age 50. of the CBIs Public Services Financial Services.
Appointed Services and RosettaNet, Strategy Board.
Age 52. non-executive Director of Yell and member of the Council Group plc in June 2002.
Age 45. of Logistics Management 03 Governance Board of Directors Exel plc Annual Report 2003 21
