On an made a significant contribution and profits by focusing on organic basis, turnover for the to the strong performance, operational efficiencies and cost year increased by 4.9% and together with improved management as well as securing 28% operating profit declined by performances at several chemical important contract renewals increase in contract 16.1%.
Steady results from the and technology operations.
and some additional new logistics revenues UK and Ireland throughout the business with HP, Infineon and in the Americas year were complemented by a Exels consumer, healthcare and Texas Instruments.
Growth in strong second half performance retail activities in the Americas Exels industrial and chemical in Continental Europe which showed very strong growth operations was good with the partially offset a weak first six throughout the year, built business benefiting fromnew months.
Good turnover growth around a number of major startcontracts with Dal-Tile, DuPont, overall reflected improved ups completed in the second ExxonMobil, GE, International freight pricing and margins, half of 2002.
These included Paper and Noveon.
driven by a better buying Freight in South Africa, major new facilities environment and improved completed early in 2003 and for Coors, Johnson & Johnson, Freight management operational efficiencies within improved import activities in Kelloggs and Procter & Gamble, At constant exchange rates, Exels network.
As reported in the amongst others.
Power Logistics, and on an organic basis, turnover airfreight pricing, turnover interim statement the Iraq conflict acquired in September 2002 from freight management growth was achieved despite had only a minimal impact on has been integrated into Exels activities in the Americas a reduction in airweight of 3% performance during the year.
Exels consumer and retail activities decreased by 3.3% to 804m during the year.
international courier business also and has already proved a strong 2002: 831m.
On the same performed strongly, helped by source of growth.
New business basis, operating profit declined The UK and Ireland benefited new solutions for clinical trials has been secured with The by 83.8% to 2.6m 2002: from a mix of activities that saw in the healthcare sector.
Home Depot, with whom Exel 16.0m.
Operating margins margins and profits improve has built a good relationship.
Americas Exels home delivery services As in the first half of the year, the Within Continental European Contract logistics continued to develop business competitive nature of the US operations, several countries At constant exchange rates, with consumer and retail domestic market, together with recorded strong performances.
turnover from contract logistics customers including new weak overall levels of activity, Italy and Hungary both delivered activities in the Americas was up operations for Maytag and reduced revenues and margins.
good results, led by new business 28.0% at 827m 2002: 646m Sears.
Automotive activities Domestic freight management gains with several major with operating profit on the in the US performed well.
in the Americas remains Exels customers and the region same basis up 42.6% to 44.5m Exel started several new projects principal underperforming further benefited from the 2002: 31.2m.
On an organic for The Goodyear Tire & Rubber operation and actions have gateway development at basis, turnover was ahead Company, as part of its ongoing been taken to provide a stronger Schiphol in The Netherlands.
16.4% and profit increased role as the lead logistics partner regional focus to integrate Exels German activities 25.6%.
Margin improved to to the tyre manufacturer and, activities and maximise performed more strongly in the 5.4% 2002: 4.8% reflecting a towards the end of the year, operational synergies between second half of the year despite solid performance from all sectors Exel secured a leading position the business units.
As a result, the weak underlying economic across the region.
The successful with Continental to provide whilst 2004 is expected to be environment.
Exels African start-up of new operations for a comprehensive range of another challenging year, some operations were strengthened a wide range of automotive, services.
Technology operations  by the acquisition of Eagle consumer and retail customers made steady progress in turnover are expected.
We have been delighted with the success of our contract logistics business in the Americas.
The contract gains and implementations in 2002 created a solid platform for growth and we have continued the momentum, gaining new business in all sectors in 2003.
Our position in South America has been further strengthened by acquisitions and new operations in Brazil, Argentina and Chile.
After a disappointing performance from freight management in 2003, we have improved integration across the business which should enable progress in 2004.
Bruce Edwards Chief Executive, Americas 02 Performance Americas Exel plc Annual Report 2003 17
