1 Board of Directors Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee 3 Member of the Nomination Committee 4 Member of the Safety Committee 5 Member of the Executive Committee Martin Gilbert LLD MA LLB CA Moir Lockhead OBE Robbie Duncan BCom CA 4,5 Chairman Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Business Change Director 1,3 3,4, 5 Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Safety Committee Retired from the Group on 31 March 2003.
He One of the founding directors and Chief Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman since was Acting President of FirstGroup America with Executive of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, the Groups formation in 1995 having led the UK responsibilities for Change Management, he was appointed to the Board of GRT Bus successful employee buy-out of GRT Bus Group Property and Environment.
He was previously Group PLC at the time of the employee buy-out.
He has been a Non-Executive Director Director UK Bus since April 1997, having been He is a director of a number of investment trusts of ASCO PLC since 1997.
In 1996, he was Group Managing Director of GRT Bus Group and is a non-executive director of Lombard awarded the OBE for services to the bus PLC, which he joined as Finance Director in International Assurance SA, Primary Health industry and he is a past President of the 1986.
He is a Chartered Accountant having Properties PLC and Scottish Medicine PLC.
Age 58. qualied with Coopers & Lybrand in Glasgow.
Iain M Lanaghan MA CA Mike Mitchell MA MBA PhD MCIT MILT David Dunn CA 4,5 4,5 Finance Director Chief Operating officer UK Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 1,2, 3 Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed to the Board in 2000 as Finance Appointed Chief Operating officer in April 2001 Director.
He joined from Atlantic Power Group with responsibility for all UK Bus and Rail Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive in Aberdeen where he was Finance Director.
After senior management roles within Director in December 1999.
He is a Chartered Previously he was Finance Director of PowerGen the UK Bus division he was seconded to First Accountant and is Non-Executive Chairman of International.
He is a Chartered Accountant, North Western and then transferred to First Brammer plc.
He is also a Non-Executive having qualied with KPMG in London and Great Western as Managing Director.
He was Director of Croda International plc and 4imprint Europe.
Age 47. subsequently appointed Managing Director, Rail Group plc.
Division in January 1999, joining the plc Board as Director, UK Rail in November 1999.
Jim Forbes CBE MSc BSc CEng MIEE John Sievwright MA CA Martyn Williams 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Employee Director 1,2, 3 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed to the Board in May 2002.
A Appointed to the Board as Employee Director in Former Chief Executive of Scottish and Southern Chartered Accountant, he has held various January 2003.
He is employed as a customer Energy plc.
His career began with the South of positions in banking.
Most recently he was services supervisor in Swansea and has worked Scotland Electricity Board and he has since held President and Chief Operating officer, Merrill for the Group for 25 years.
Age 48. various senior posts in the electricity industry.
Lynch Japan Securities in Tokyo.
2001 and now resides in the United States.
He is a member of the North American Board of the Michael Smurt Business School, Dublin.
