14 FKI plc Annual report 2003 01 02 Turnover from continuing operations in line with the acquisition plan and, including Energy Technology Energy Technology declined 17% to synergy benefits across the group, is on Despite the downturn in 332.9 million 2002: 400.0 million with course to be at break even by the end of a 27% trading downturn being partially the year.
The new D8, a 2MW turbine the US energy market, offset by 41.0 million of turnover from launched during the year, is targeted at the the outlook for global DeWind, the wind turbine business growing demand for multi megawatt acquired on 28 June 2002.
Order intake machines from the larger wind power electricity demand remains was 335.8 million but during the second development projects across Europe, strong.
Our entry into the half of the year 40.5 million of orders which currently account for more than in the opening order book 249.6 million 80% of the global wind market.
wind turbine market were cancelled, leaving, after exchange rate During the year the closure of Hawker underpins our energy adjustments, a closing order book of Siddeley Power Transformer HSPT 222.4 million.
Operating profit declined to technology strategy was announced and The Bedford Pump 24.8 million 2002: 72.6 million, after Company was sold.
The market for HSPTs and long-term growth charging 3.0 million of redundancy and specialist high voltage transformers has reorganisation costs and a 4.2 million objectives.
changed considerably over recent years trading loss at DeWind.
The profit reduction and become increasingly unattractive.
reflected the weaker marketplace for After detailed analysis, the business was turbogenerators, measurement systems determined to be non-viable and its and transformers, particularly in the US, closure was announced in February 2003. following the collapse of Enron and the Closure costs are expected to amount difficulties this created for many customers to 9.3 million of which 3.4 million are operating in the US energy market.
cash costs that will be spent in the first In addition to the trading loss of DeWind 01 03 half of 2003 04.
The payback period there was an exceptional redundancy Brush HMA DG185ZL Reg Gott, Managing on the closure costs will be approximately and reorganisation cost of 2.4 million, 4-pole turbogenerator Director, Energy two years, excluding any potential which is additional to the 3.0 million for GE Oil & Gas Technology.
benefit from the sale of property.
supplied to referred to above.
04 These businesses contributed 10.2 million Petrovietnam.
A packaged switchgear The acquisition of the DeWind wind turbine 2002: 15.9 million of sales and 3.5 million 02 and transformer set business was a significant step in of losses 2002: 2.4 million loss and have The DeWind D8, a 2MW used in a Cummins addressing key energy technologies for been classified as discontinued.
variable speed, variable portable containerised the growing world demand for electricity pitch wind turbine with power supply package Before acquisitions, headcount in Energy lightweight carbon in Saudi Arabia.
in general and for distributed power Technology reduced by 468 9.0% in the fibre blades under generation and renewable energies in year as a result of the disposal, closure and construction raising particular.
The transfer of manufacturing the rotor to new other actions to consolidate and downsize operations from third parties to the heights.
businesses to match market conditions.
groups extensive Brush turbogenerator manufacturing facilities is ahead of schedule Brush turbogenerator operations were and has been substantially completed.
particularly hard hit by the greater than The first wind turbines manufactured by expected cascading impact of the Enron Brush for DeWind were delivered in collapse, which resulted in many US energy December 2002. companies cancelling or rescheduling power generation projects.
This, combined Following the acquisition, DeWind has with weaker than anticipated recovery in secured business in new markets including Far Eastern power markets, resulted in the UK, China, Japan, Belgium and Austria.
turbogenerator sales for the year some Performance since acquisition has been in 60% lower than last years record levels.
15 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Energy Technology 03 04 However, management took swift action The rail transport industry is a significant Energy Technology continued to maintain a to realign capacity to load across the consumer of power and power technology full programme of product development three turbogenerator operations, ensuring products.
Brush Traction provides power and, of particular note, new products were that they remained profitable even after engineering products and services to the delivered as a result of projects within incurring substantial restructuring and industry and produced excellent results in wind power, turbogenerators, low voltage redundancy costs.
an environment of significant uncertainty generators, power converters, switchgear regarding ongoing rail infrastructure funding.
The group has In December 2002 a co-operation A 50 million order was received for the first strong technical positions and clear market agreement was signed with Voith Siemens phase of repowering and upgrading the opportunities to develop its businesses.
Hydro, the global market leader in hydro existing fleet of Eurotunnel locomotives from power, to supply them with hydro turbine The immediate general outlook for Energy 5.6 MW to 7.0 MW, which is deliverable generators manufactured at the Brush Technology markets continues to be over the next six years.
Further deliveries SEM facility in the Czech Republic, further unsettled and short-term business plans of new Eurotunnel locomotives, the extending the range and mix of the groups have been structured accordingly.
repowering of Virgin Trains passenger turbogenerator products.
Actions taken in recent years to reduce locomotives and increased freight fixed costs and reposition the business will The oil and gas market, particularly in the locomotive overhaul activities, helped stand the group in good stead through the Brush Traction exceed expectations.
Middle East, remained strong throughout short-term uncertainty.
the year and provided good demand for Switchgear activities benefited from smaller turbogenerators manufactured at Looking ahead, the growth in demand for increased demand and the new Eclipse Brush HMA in the Netherlands for oilfield electricity over the next decade will be and Horizon ranges were deployed power generation applications, as well as an characterised by the increasing importance into utility, mobile power and building increased demand for large high voltage of distributed power generation.
New product motors, manufactured by Laurence, medium-sized gas turbine generators will introductions are in place to meet the Scott & Electromotors in the UK.
The oil continue to enjoy a significant share of this increasing market demand for upgrading and gas instrumentation, measurement market but there is expected to be a trackside power systems.
and automation activities of Bristol Babcock rapid growth of power generation from also benefited from increased exploration The Froude power test equipment business renewable sources, especially wind power.
and extraction investment, most notably in had mixed fortunes during the year.
Sales to Efficiency and environmental impacts will be Mexico, China, Russia and the Middle the gas turbine testing sector held up well increasingly important considerations in the East which went some way to offset as did the UK and US automotive power provision of electrical power throughout the the reduction in demand from the US test markets, but the German operation world and will create significant energy market.
suffered from a significant drop in opportunities for new small scale investment activity in the market.
embedded power generation, networking Although conditions in the general industrial and management technologies.
markets of Europe and North America have Amid increasingly difficult market conditions, been difficult, export sales of Marelli low operations have continued to focus upon voltage motor and generator products have reducing the cost of purchased materials increased with notable growth in South and the strategic procurement team Africa, Asia Pacific and Germany, where made good progress in expanding the activities have been expanded.
In response supplier base in eastern Europe and Asia.
to increased price competition from the Capital expenditure and working capital suppliers of low voltage motors remained tightly controlled during the year, manufactured in low-cost economies, the although investment in plant and machinery group has increased the proportion of its continued where it formed part of the higher volume small frame size low voltage core group strategy, where there was a motors manufactured in eastern Europe.
compelling economic justification or where the expenditure was required to maintain the groups high standards of safety and Reg Gott environmental protection.
