32 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Directors report The directors submit their report and the audited financial Employment policies statements of FKI plc for the year ended 31 March 2003.
Companies within the Group have developed a wide range of voluntary practices and procedures for employee involvement Principal activities appropriate to their own circumstances and needs.
The Group The principal activities and the development of the Group are given encourages this approach to providing information and consultation in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the and believes that this promotes a better understanding of the Operating review on pages 6 to 15.
The financial statements for the issues facing the individual business in which the employee works.
year ended 31 March 2003, including other information about the It is the policy of the Group to give full and fair consideration to Groups financial position, are set out on pages 45 to 73. applications made by disabled persons for job vacancies, where Dividends particular job requirements are within their ability and, where The directors recommend a final dividend on ordinary shares in possible, arrangements are made for the continuing employment respect of the year ended 31 March 2003 of 0.3p per share, of employees who have become disabled.
payable on 31 October 2003 to shareholders on the register Further details of employment and health and safety policies on 3 October 2003, which, with the interim dividend paid on are included in the Corporate social responsibility report on 28 February 2003, absorbs a total of 26.1 million.
Directors Environmental policy The names of the directors as at the date of this report are listed The Group is committed to adopting a responsible approach to on page 29, together with brief biographical notes.
The Groups overall policy forms the basis of was appointed to the Board on 8 April 2002, Mr P Heiden was detailed guidelines that are appropriate to the individual businesses.
appointed to the Board on 2 January 2003, and Mr R G Beeston retired from the Board on 5 February 2003.
Management seeks to minimise any adverse impact on the environment of all aspects of the Groups operations by means At the forthcoming annual general meeting and in accordance of environmentally sound disciplines, which take practical steps with the companys Articles of Association, Mr P Heiden, having to control effectively or eliminate any known pollution risks.
been appointed since the last annual general meeting, and being Specifically, capital expenditure is directed towards the replacement eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Messrs K Orrell-Jones, of hazardous materials with environmentally friendly alternatives and C R N Clark, R P Edey, M S Hodgkinson and J S Rodewig retire methods of minimising the costs of disposal of toxic waste, the by rotation, and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
recycling of wood, the reuse of cardboard and paper products, and No contract or arrangement has been entered into at any time the reduction of energy consumption.
during the year in which any director had a material interest, which was significant in relation to the Groups business.
Further details of the Groups environmental policies are included in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 16 to 23.
Directors interests The interests of the directors including their family interests, all Payments to suppliers of which are beneficial, in the share capital, share options and Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms and the Long-Term Incentive Plan of the company appear in the conditions of their transactions with suppliers.
Remuneration report on pages 41 to 43.
Payment is made on those terms subject to the terms and Political and charitable donations conditions being met by the supplier.
FKI plc, as a holding During the year ended 31 March 2003 the Group contributed company, did not have any amounts owing to trade creditors at 0.1 million 2002: 0.1 million in the UK for charitable purposes.
There were no political donations during the year 2002: nil.
Share capital Research and development The movement in the share capital during the year is detailed in Product development and innovation is a continuing process.
note 26 to the financial statements.
The Groups businesses commit resources to research and Significant shareholdings development to assist them in securing their competitive positions As at 11 June 2003, the following major interests of 3% or more in in their chosen markets.
the ordinary shares in issue had been notified to the company by: Number of Holding ordinary shares % Barclays PLC 23,294,173 4.00 Janus Capital Management LLC 34,988,957 6.02 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 17,463,341 3.00 33 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Directors report Corporate governance A review of the companys application of the principles and provisions of The Combined Code appears on pages 30 and 31.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP were appointed as the Groups auditors at the annual general meeting on 24 July 2002.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups auditors will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
Annual general meeting The annual general meeting of the company will be held at 12 noon on 23 July 2003 at Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL.
A notice of meeting appears in the enclosed circular and for those members wishing to attend, a location map has been included within the circular.
The Special Business to be considered at the meeting relates to the following matters: Description Resolution number General authority to allot equity securities 12 Limited authority to allot equity securities for cash excluding pre-emption rights 13 Authority to purchase shares 14 Directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors are also responsible for maintaining proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and Group, and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and Group and for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern After making appropriate enquiries, the directors are confident that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the Groups financial statements.
By order of the Board Michael Porter Secretary 11 June 2003
