10 FKI plc Annual report 2003 01 02 Turnover in Lifting Products and Services Major contract successes for the wire and Lifting Products was 408.7 million 2002: 435.2 million wire rope companies included a further and Services and operating profit amounted to 32.5 order from BP under their long-term million 2002: 34.9 million.
Turnover was agreement for the Thunder Horse project The groups operations down 4.2% in volume terms and in addition worth 7.3 million for delivery in 2003 04. continued to lead the way there was an adverse 8.3 million currency Amongst other work, a notable win was a in the development of translation impact.
Underlying operating contract for 1.5 million for supplying wire profit declined by 1.1 million 3.2% and ropes to the new Wembley Stadium project.
innovative products in there was an adverse 1.3 million currency The group is also developing Equatorial liaison with some of the translation impact.
This profit is stated after Guinea as a service centre for the rapidly charging 2.7 million of redundancy and worlds leading original expanding offshore oil industry in West reorganisation costs.
Possibilities for further expansion equipment manufacturers.
The results held up well despite the global exist not only in Equatorial Guinea but the economic downturn which led to sharply adjacent countries and the centre will reduced industrial capital expenditure, provide opportunity for increased trading particularly in North America, impacting with Angola and South Africa.
many of the groups markets.
In the oil and Despite the quality and reliability of the gas sector, despite relatively high oil prices, products and the unrivalled breadth of the there were weak sales of products used for product range, performance in the chain maintenance in mature markets, such and wire rope fittings businesses fell below as the North Sea and Gulf of Mexico.
last years levels as a result of the economic Many construction projects in the US were environment.
However, these businesses deferred as a consequence of weak are constantly seeking out new markets and economic conditions and lack of availability opportunities and developing new products.
of insurance cover for major projects.
During the year, for example, a new range In Western Europe an increasingly of heavy duty hoists was launched in the recessionary environment has developed US, extending the product range from which has weakened the performance of 25 tonnes to 100 tonnes lifting capacity.
The UK Parsons Chain operation continued The wire and wire rope companies, with to lead the way in the development of manufacturing operations in the US, UK, innovative mining conveyor chain.
In liaison Germany, Indonesia and New Zealand with one of the worlds largest mining and service led operations in many equipment manufacturers they have other countries, produced a creditable developed Broadband Chain.
This new performance following a difficult period concept enables coal mines to operate last year.
longer conveyors and in some cases exploit thinner seams resulting in increased production and improved productivity and profitability.
11 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Lifting Products and Services 03 04 01 03 Strengthening ferrous and non-ferrous Structural roof supports Closing a large rope scrap prices helped performance to are to be supplied to at Bridon-American improve at Harris Waste Management.
the new Wembley Corporation, the Ferrous scrap prices in the US are now over Stadium, by Bridon groups US wire and International Ltd, the rope manufacturing $100 per tonne compared to $72 per tonne groups UK wire and company.
one year ago as a result of US steel import rope manufacturing tariffs and a weakening in the US dollar, 04 company.
Neil Bamford, Managing which has led to an increase in the amount 02 Director, Lifting of scrap steel exported.
Harris sales Broadband mining Products and Services.
increased by 15% and order intake by 32% conveyor chain, as a consequence of these improved scrap recently developed at Parsons Chain, UK.
The Kosan LPG business, which makes products and systems for the filling, maintenance and testing of liquefied petroleum gas cylinders, had another good year with increased sales and profit.
Lifting Products and Services produced another year of outstandingly good operating cash flow, which was greater than last year and amounted to 175% of operating profit.
This excellent performance is a result of continuing management focus on reducing working capital.
Management continues to focus on cost and inventory reduction.
The group recently announced that it is proposing to cease making certain products at its Retford facility, which will be closed resulting in an exceptional cost in 2003 04 of about 3.6 million.
