08 FKI plc Annual report 2003 01 02 The turnover of FKI Logistex in the year was In North America, Logistex faced FKI Logistex 439.3 million 2002: 454.7 million with challenging market conditions in its FKI Logistex is a major order intake of 435.8 million.
The closing retail and distribution, manufacturing and order book of 231.7 million is similar to freight and parcel markets.
The recovery global supplier of the opening order book of 233.9 million.
in orders and sales anticipated at the start automated material Operating profit for the year amounted of the financial year failed to materialise.
handling systems with a to 15.7 million 2002: 29.5 million However, it is important to note that the representing a margin of 3.6% compared market position of Logistex was maintained market leading range with 6.5% last year.
The reduction in with continuing success at customers such of products and services.
reported turnover arose mainly because of as Target, Wal-Mart, Kohls, PepsiCo and a 15.9 million adverse currency translation Marmaxx.
Despite the downturn in the effect, partially offset by a 2.1 million economy, Alvey, which supplies market contribution from the acquisition of leading high and low-speed palletisers to Dexion Materials Handling Limited in the manufacturing sector, improved its December 2002.
The operating profit operating profit and margin.
reduction included a 1.9 million adverse The North American airport baggage currency translation effect and 1.1 million handling market experienced a strong of redundancy and reorganisation costs.
and growing level of demand, with orders At the trading level, profits were impacted trebling, largely resulting from the US by 7.2 million as a result of lower margins Government legislation requiring all hold earned on contracts involving new product baggage to be screened.
Logistexs introductions and an adverse general products and systems are combined with contract mix, and, in addition, the other manufacturers screening equipment TM expensing of 3.6 million of Crisbag to provide the necessary facilities and the development costs in the second half group benefited from this increase in of the year.
demand with significant orders being Throughout the last year and, with the received for Houston, Indianapolis, exception of the baggage handling market, Boston Logan and Tampa airports.
there have been weak conditions in most of Further growth is anticipated from the markets served by Logistex.
a slowdown in the rate of orders received In Europe and the rest of the world, the during the second half of the year to a level manufacturing and distribution and retail in line with the previous year.
As a result, sectors experienced difficult market management took a number of actions to conditions.
However, the businesses gained reduce overhead costs and during the year some notable successes including a the number of employees was reduced by 15.6 million contract for an automated 227 6.5%.
These redundancies and the distribution centre in Spain and significant restructuring of the White Systems Inc. orders from, amongst others, Pearson, operations in Kenilworth, New Jersey, where Tibbett & Britten and Newell Rubbermaid.
one factory was closed, resulted in the Logistex also had success in the freight and 1.1 million of one-off costs which were parcel market receiving a 12.3 million order charged to operating profit.
from Australia Post for three automated high-speed sorters and additional business from La Poste and Danish Post.
In the airport baggage handling sector, the 09 FKI plc Annual report 2003 FKI Logistex 03 04 01 03 highlight of the year was the award of High-speed parcel Steve Jones, Managing the baggage handling contract valued at sorting system Director, FKI Logistex.
49.3 million for Terminal 3 of Singapores designed, manufactured 04 Changi International Airport.
The contract and installed by An FKI Logistex FKI Logistex.
is due to be completed in May 2006. automated material 02 flow solution for Logistex continues to invest in A virtual view of a childrens clothing product development, including further North American airport manufacturer, VF enhancements to its market leading security solution, Playware, combines as designed by high-speed tilt-tray software products for warehouse control FKI Logistex.
sortation, conveyors systems, Alveys new low-speed 780 and sophisticated TM palletiser product, the Crisbag airport software controls.
baggage handling system and a new linear belt sorter which has generated much interest since its launch at the February ProMat show in Chicago.
Operating cash flow during the year was good and exceeded operating profit as a result of a reduction in total working capital.
On 20 December 2002 Logistex acquired Dexion Materials Handling Limited DMH, a UK supplier of conveyor systems, for 0.2 million.
DMH, renamed FKI Logistex Conveyors Limited, provides the group with a European based conveyor capability.
It is difficult to predict the markets which Logistex addresses but management is confident that the investment in market leading product solutions and customer services leaves the group well placed to benefit when market conditions improve.
