12 FKI plc Annual report 2003 01 02 Turnover in Hardware during the year Sales of Truths Maxim Window Operator, Hardware amounted to 258.5 million 2002: which was launched only two years ago, The Hardware group 281.1 million with operating profit were exceptionally strong during the year, increasing to 42.0 million 2002: particularly in the Canadian market, and maintains leading market 40.7 million.
Figures have been adjusted contributed greatly to the groups success.
positions in many of the to exclude the results of Chautauqua The Impressions line of prime door markets that it serves.
Hardware Corporation, which was closed hardware, which was introduced in the in October 2002 and is shown as a previous year, had its first full year of sales Delivery, quality, and discontinued business.
Trading levels were and continues to grow its market share.
customer service are core similar to last year with underlying turnover This represents a significant future down by 3.6 million 1.3%.
Most of the opportunity for the group in the retail prime values, supplemented by turnover drop was due to an adverse door market.
In addition, the introduction of engineering solutions that 19.0 million currency translation effect a new multipoint locking patio door product respond to the voice of the of the weaker dollar during the year.
by Truth represents a future opportunity in The operating profit of Hardware is stated another higher-end niche of the window customer and provide a after charging 0.8 million of redundancy hardware market.
distinct edge in the and reorganisation costs.
Operational Retail sales were another strong point in improvements, new products and efficiency marketplace.
the economy, particularly in the Big Box gains contributed 4.9 million 12% to profit stores.
These Do-it-Yourself operations but this excellent improvement was offset are a very significant and growing force in by 3.6 million of adverse currency the US retail hardware market and include translation effect.
The overall operating Home Depot, Lowes and Menards.
margin of Hardware improved to 16.2% Hardware is well positioned to service these compared with 14.5% last year.
and other customers through its automated Approximately 95% of Hardware turnover retail distribution centre.
Total retail sales is in the North American market so its through the groups primary retail distribution activity levels mirror the health of the US unit were up considerably from the previous economy.
The housing markets in the US year.
As with housing, the Canadian retail and Canada were strong over the last year market was also robust, sales throughout with housing starts in the US market the group being up by over 10% compared growing over 5% and in Canada by over with the previous year.
Truth Hardware and Wright Products The office furniture, home furniture, capital sell window and door hardware into these goods, computer hardware and airline markets and both businesses produced industry markets in the US were extremely strong performances, their combined sales weak, which was reflected in the accounting for 52.4% 2002: 47.6% of performances of the furniture and castor Hardware turnover.
Year-on-year turnover was 13 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Hardware 03 04 01 03 down 12.5% with the most significant The new Faultless 800 Bob Sook, President, contributing factors in these markets series castor with Hardware.
being depressed US capital spending, the swivel, rigid and total 04 migration overseas of furniture OEM brake, which locks the Truths Maxim Operator swivel and wheel manufacturing and reduced consumer with a folding handle simultaneously.
To combat the overall lower option, satisfying level of demand, the groups companies 02 customer demands The Wright Touch for larger, more leveraged their engineering and storm door latch aesthetically pleasing manufacturing expertise to provide manufactured by Wright windows.
customer value in existing or new markets, Products has a for example, the castor group introduced comfortable tactile grip and button combined more than 50 new products during the year.
This new product The ergonomic business, Weber Knapp, is targeted as an has introduced a spoilboard racking and upgrade to the transfer system to the material handling traditional push button marketplace, previously an untapped storm door latch.
A cornerstone of Hardwares performance has been the reduction of fixed costs and increased outsourcing of manufacturing both domestically and internationally.
This has helped the group to reduce total costs and has lowered the amount of capital investment required to move the business forward.
In addition, the furniture companies were consolidated into two facilities following the closure of the Chautauqua Hardware factory in Jamestown, New York, in October 2002.
This also resulted in a lower fixed cost base for the future and will improve delivery and customer service levels.
Hardware has reduced its total headcount by 483 15.4% and reduced the overhead base which puts it in a stronger position for the future.
