Regional Managing Director: Ken Niven Regional review Ken joined Securicor in 1996 following a successful earlier career within the logistics management industry where he held senior roles at Express Foods, Exel Logistics and Coca Cola.
Ken was appointed MD of the UK Cash Services operation in 1998 and to his current regional role in 2001.
UK Securicor Aviation enjoyed a good year, with a double-digit Regional Review sales uplift, the retention of the major accounts with British 2003 2002 2001 Airways, United Airlines and Highlands and Islands Airports Turnover 570m 537m 503m and the winning of new contracts with Virgin Atlantic and Cardiff International Airport.
EBITA 54.6m 54.0m 48.9m Employees 20,080 19,632 19,292 Securicor Justice Services had an excellent year, enjoying signicantly improved sales and profits.
There was a strong Securicor Cash Services experienced challenging market performance from the electronic monitoring business, whilst the conditions and significant cost pressures in the year, including a pay court and escorting services side of the business achieved its best award of 5% and a further 6% in 2003 4, and rising attack losses.
service delivery performance, despite a record number of prisoner The business responded with various cost-reduction programmes movements.
HMP & YOI Parc at Bridgend, with a population of for branch and head ofce overheads and will be seeking abovemore than 1,000, is now one of the countrys largest and most ination price increases at contract renewal negotiations.
Sales complex prisons and was named in a June 2003 National Audit revenue from cash transportation was marginally ahead of last year, Ofce report as being one of the best performing prisons in whilst growth in ATM sales slowed from the 20% rate experienced England and Wales.
A 25-year PFI contract was signed earlier in the in recent years to 6%.
A four-year outsourcing agreement, secured year under which a Securicor-led consortium will design, construct, in association with the sale of the 1,200 ATM Securicor Cash manage and finance an 80-bed secure training centre in Milton Machine estate, has now established Securicor as a leading Keynes.
This facility, due to open in June 2004, will house young provider of complete end-to-end ATM back-ofce solutions.
In July, a pilot contract commenced with Following the successful start-up of major cash processing contracts British Transport Police, enabling the company to enter the police with Alliance & Leicester, Clydesdale and Lloyds TSB, Securicor support services market.
Cash Centres has been integrated within Cash Services to facilitate Securicor International Valuables Transport delivered another the provision of a total cash solution to customers.
The integration strong performance despite the uncertain global trading environment will also lead to operational improvements and reduced and increased insurance costs.
EBITA was up almost 10%, with the administrative costs.
Johannesburg ofce generating a strong first full-year contribution Price and volume pressures in the manned guarding sector resulted and the new Frankfurt ofce trading profitably following its opening in a slight reduction in sales revenue at Securicor Security with price in May.
Further ofce openings are expected soon.
pressure being particularly acute in localised markets such as the City of London.
However, good cost discipline throughout the company enabled gross margins to be maintained at the previous years level.
New work awarded included the three-year covert security services contract at Marks & Spencer which has now been largely rolled out across the country and which, together with similar work undertaken for Boots and Safeway, has established the company as a leading provider of covert security services to the retail sector.
12 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Outlook Cardiff International Airport Market conditions are expected to stabilise in Cash Services and In April 2003 Securicor Aviation Security in 2003 4 although there will not be a marked increase in won a major new contract to demand for traditional services and, therefore, growth will be driven provide a full range of aviation primarily by operational efficiencies and through new product security services to Cardiff initiatives.
The exceptions are Justice Services and Aviation, which International Airport, in what is will benefit from the sales momentum established in 2002 3 and the only significant airport security from a number of product extension opportunities.
contract to change hands in the last two and a half years.
In return for the two-year pay award agreed in Cash Services, The three-year contract includes a we have obtained union and employee support for a number complete aviation security package of new initiatives which will help to move the cash business for the airport with hold baggage forward.
Further developments in the cash management screening, passenger screening and and ATM outsourcing sectors will also assist with growth proling, airport security and in the coming year.
Securicor Aviation will work in The custody and escorting contract and the partnership with Cardiff International Airport to continually develop the electronic monitoring contract in Justice Services airports security procedures in are currently being re-bid and we hope to response to the changing security retain a major share of this growing market.
With most of the UK markets remaining The choice of Securicor for us was relatively subdued, there will be a straightforward.
The company continuing cost reduction drive in measured up to the necessary high standards required for the provision 2003 4 particularly in the areas of of aviation security and this is head ofce and branch overheads.
something to which their reputation In addition to delivering ongoing is testament.
However, the expertise savings, this will ensure an and experience in aviation security increased focus on the areas of is married with a culture of customer operational effectiveness and service which demands equally high standards.
I am confident that customer service.
passengers flying from Cardiff International Airport will benefit from excellent security which is undertaken efficiently and with a smile.
I am equally confident that the partnership between Cardiff International Airport and Securicor will be a strong and beneficial one.
Jon Horne Managing Director Cardiff International Airport Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 13 Regional Managing Director: David Lidbetter Regional review continued David joined Securicor in 1988 as a management trainee.
He held various line management roles within the UK prior to transferring to the European region in 1996 as the Operations Director.
David was appointed Regional Managing Director for Europe and Middle East in 1999 and was appointed to his current role, which includes Africa, in October 2001.
EMEA Our operations in the Middle East had an excellent year, benefiting Regional Review from the increase in demand for security solutions following the 2003 2002 2001 Iraq war.
A number of large new contracts were won in Kuwait.
Turnover 449m 392m 284m The overall performance in Africa was satisfactory.
There were a EBITA 18.8m 24.3m 16.8m number of senior management changes in the year, including the Employees 55,620 51,174 48,643 appointment of a new regional managing director.
The company is now concentrating on those markets which it believes are key to deveAgainst a background of difficult trading conditions in Continental lopment within the continent and, consistent with this strategy, withdrew Europe, underlying profits decreased by 12% excluding effect from Angola and Equatorial Guinea towards the end of the year.
The region was affected by overcapacity in the cash services market following the introduction of Outlook the Euro in 2002, increased insurance charges, and a relatively The significant cost base realignment activity which took place in the xed overhead base within the cash services sector, particularly in second half of the year delivered a strong last quarter performance.
However, good progress was made in the The relatively at European markets are showing initial signs of second half of the period in realigning the cost base and in recovery.
The strong growth opportunities forecast in the Middle passing on some of the insurance increases to the market.
East, together with exciting pan-African contract prospects, should provide an improved year for the EMEA region.
The integrated security business in Germany remained fairly sluggish overall, but with encouraging signs that a newly-acquired consulting Sales growth will be supported by securing cash management and electronic installation capability, using sub-contractors, will opportunities in the Netherlands, Germany, Luxembourg and across produce growth in Europes most challenging market.
We intend to capitalise on the Netherlands public sector cash services business made a loss in the year but should return to outsourcing success by expanding these services into other markets profitability in the first half of 2004 following senior management with particular emphasis on electronic tagging, parking control and changes and a price increase programme.
The integrated security business in the Netherlands performed Initial success in securing contracts in the Netherlands and Germany strongly in a tightening market, supported by growth in has confirmed there is a market for integrated security.
We will outsourcing with local government, including a contract with the continue to build upon this in the coming year.
City of Rotterdam for the provision of security guards on its fleet of trams.
Geldnet, the Dutch cash services business in which Securicor The region will implement a number of major customer-driven had for many years held a 25% stake and the full acquisition of IT investments during the year, which will improve service levels, which was completed in May, produced an excellent performance, customer information ows and overall efficiency.
with significant productivity and operational improvements.
Key Businesses Cash Services Security Justice Services After the previous years strong result, the performance in Ireland Germany was disappointing, a reection of increased competition and slowing Netherlands economic growth.
There were good results from the Channel Africa Islands and Isle of Man.
Luxembourg produced a satisfactory South Africa result and opened a high security centre for handling new cash outsourcing business, much of which was secured in the final quarter Luxembourg of the year.
Hungary had a year of consolidation and investment, Ireland with the cash services network being expanded nationally.
Current Markets Target Markets 14 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Zeist Detention Centre The Netherlands The Zeist Detention Centre was conceived in 2002 after the Dutch government decided to take prompt action to combat an increase in drug trafcking.
Due to the need for the Detention Centre to be operational as quickly as possible, Securicor was asked to provide all the supervisory staff.
At the Zeist Detention Centre, Securicor provided a cost-efficient solution to accommodate the sudden demand for extra cell capacity in a limited time frame.
Now Securicor provides the supervisory personnel for a total of five detention and deportation centres in the Netherlands.
There have of course been problems, but up until now we have been able to resolve these with Securicor.
At the beginning there was a great deal of protest against the detention centres from the towns of Zeist, Soest, Roermond and Bloemendaal.
Opinion is now totally different.
It has been realised that there have been no incidents and that we are creating job opportunities, paying property tax and building fees and are good business for local shops.
Bart Kroon Sector Director of the Service for Judicial Institutions of the Ministry of Justice Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 15 Regional review continued Americas Regional Managing Director: David Beaton Regional Review David is a graduate civil engineer, who joined Securicor in 1993 as a projects director after a 2003 2002 2001 spell in management consultancy and an early Turnover 177m 210m 181m career in the British Army.
He has held senior appointments in South Africa, Europe, and the EBITA 0.6m 0.6m 2.2m Middle East and was most recently Managing Director of Securicor Justice Services.
He was Employees 11,991 12,496 12,742 appointed to his current regional role in 2001.
David is a member of the British American The Americas region continued to be affected by the macroBusiness Group in the US.
economic impact of the 9 11 attacks.
This has been reected in further consolidation in the US security and Canadian Financial In justice services, both Securicor EMS and Securicor New Institution markets, with the downturn in tourism, exacerbated Century increased their contribution, the former delivering by the SARS outbreak, impacting the Canadian and Caribbean a significant year-on-year improvement in its first full-year of businesses in particular.
Meanwhile, Securicor New Century increased the number of youth custody and treatment facilities in Florida Despite these challenges, the cash services business in Canada from three to six during the year and now has almost 900 continued to make good progress following the price increase young people in its care in the US.
strategy of the prior year and the improvements in overhead and operational efficiencies within the business.
We have recently In the Caribbean and Central America region there were strong re-tendered two significant contracts which resulted in us keeping performances from Barbados, Trinidad and the Dominican all of the Toronto Dominion Bank work and remaining primary Republic but weaker results in Costa Rica and Guyana.
Despite provider to the Royal Bank of Canada, albeit with a reduced a good start to the year in Jamaica following the acquisition of a allocation of work.
significant competitor, conditions deteriorated in the second half with the loss of a major cash transportation customer.
The new management team has continued to introduce operational, vehicle crewing and administrative efficiency Key Businesses Cash Services Security Justice Services initiatives to further improve performance in Canada.
Selective US investment in new IT systems and armoured car technology is Canada now also delivering significant cost advantages to the business.
Caribbean It has been another challenging year in the US where we have completed our exit from the aviation services sector.
Without the contribution from the passenger screening work at US airports, Current Markets Target Markets which was federalised in the post 9 11 legislation, the residual aviation services provided by the company were unprofitable, non-core businesses and were therefore discontinued.
The remaining security and transportation businesses have completed their re-branding and re-structuring programmes and have now stabilised the revenue losses of the past 12 months whilst enjoying some major national account wins.
16 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Outlook TD Bank Financial Group Our focus in the Canadian cash services market will be on exploring In July, Securicor Canada cash centre outsourcing opportunities and improving our share of announced that it had secured the retail sector to achieve a more balanced revenue mix.
Some from the Toronto Dominion Bank provincial acquisition targets have been identied which should the largest cash logistics contract provide synergy benets and assist in reinforcing our position awarded in Canadian history.
This as the primary national cash services provider in the country.
contract is worth approximately CAD$300m over a five-year period.
Within the US security business there will be a continuing emphasis Securicor Canada provides a wide on organic revenue growth and streamlining the new organisational range of financial security services structure to bring about a return to modest profitability in the to the bank, including cash-incoming year.
This will be reinforced by an increased investment in transit, ATM management and firstthe sales effort and the introduction of improved operational and line maintenance.
The new contract administrative IT systems.
Some new, niche, security markets are was implemented in November with high emphasis placed on also being explored.
communication both internal and external.
Our emphasis in the Caribbean and Central America region will be on exploring opportunities for product diversication as well as The banks management team has developing partnership initiatives with key banks on a pan-regional acknowledged that the established basis.
This will ensure that we are well placed to exploit improving relationship between the two organisations was a key factor in economic conditions and to continue to deliver strong returns in this awarding this exclusive contract traditionally attractive market for the group.
Securicors business is integral to the quality service we provide to our customers.
Their industry leadership within the Canadian market has presented us with an opportunity to further enhance our relationship.
The past couple of years have proven that Securicor continues to bring a breadth of expertise and knowledge to the partnership.
Debby Young Vice President, Branch Services TD Canada Trust Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 17 Regional Managing Director: Ted Devereux Regional review continued Ted has been actively involved in the Asian security industry since 1973.
Prior to joining Securicor he co-founded Guardforce Group, an integrated security and cash services group based in Hong Kong and which was acquired by Chubb in 1999.
Ted joined Securicor in his current role in 2001.
He is Chairman of the Security Association in Hong Kong and a member of various industry working groups Asia within the Asia region.
Thailand performed well in spite of intense competition.
This was Regional Review due in part to a business re-organisation and productivity 2003 2002 2001 improvements which have been put in place.
An alarm monitoring Turnover 81m 71m 38m acquisition in Thailand has allowed us to increase our reach in the electronic security solutions market.
Cash transportation competition EBITA 6.2m 4.1m 0.9m remains erce but will be mitigated by outsourcing opportunities Employees 13,135 13,532 and further gains in productivity.
The sustained focus on productivity and service delivery in Asia has Taiwan has seen growth in the ATM sector largely on the back of enabled our businesses to perform strongly, despite the difficult contracts with CTC Bank for 7-11 and Fubon Bank for McDonalds.
deationary environment and the impact of SARS on the region.
We have extended our branch network in the region to provide access to national customers.
The merger with Safeguards in Malaysia and the acquisition of Donar in China have contributed positively to this strong In Macau, our merger with Great Wall has provided the business performance and are increasing our presence and brand exposure with a wider product mix and greater potential for growth.
development of US-style casinos is expected to inject growth into the economy and provide further opportunities for the company.
Hong Kong saw the renovation and upgrading of our existing cash centre where the new facilities, equipped with extensive automation Despite the economic and political turmoil in Indonesia, we have and IT systems, will enable us to provide compelling outsourcing grown our business, particularly in electronic security and guarding.
solutions in addition to expanding existing services.
Cash services continue to show productivity improvements and the building of a second hub will accelerate further growth.
Competition in Hong Kong remains high but was offset by a number of significant and high prole temporary contracts as well as longerKey Businesses Cash Services Security Justice Services term contracts such as those with DHL, FedEx and PCCW Cyberport Hong Kong in the security sector, MTRC in cash services and Standard Chartered Bank in ATM managed services.
In addition, our ATM managed Malaysia services product continues to evolve with research underway into China new services that will add further value to our traditional offerings.
Indonesia Thailand In Malaysia, the integration with Safeguards is on track with the East Malaysian phase to be completed soon.
Cash outsourcing work Taiwan continues to roll out countrywide for major banking customers Macau including Maybank, Bumiputra Commerce Bank and HSBC.
Australia India We have made significant inroads into the ATM market in China, through acquisition.
Securicor Donar is the largest independent ATM maintenance service provider in China, operating in 24 cities Current Markets Target Markets with customer relationships with all the major banks.
The business is performing well and will benefit from significant projected growth in ATMs.
18 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Outlook Although the economy is only recovering slowly, there is renewed confidence across Asia and many countries expect improved growth in their economies.
We will be expanding our networks through an increase in the number of branches in Thailand, Indonesia, Taiwan and Malaysia.
We are committed to investing in staff development, technology, vehicles and premises.
This will position us well to capitalise on outsourcing opportunities and to introduce new products and solutions.
We are actively pursuing acquisition opportunities in all services in existing markets and reviewing entry into new countries such as India and Australia.
China remains a strong growth area in which to expand our services.
As part of our integrated security offering, we have entered the risk consultancy market by targeting specic opportunities arising out of the new International Ship and Port Facility Security Code.
PCCW Pacic Century CyberWorks Securicor has provided services to PCCW since the early 1980s.
Good communications and a clear understanding of PCCWs own strategy have enabled Securicor to promote and provide solutions to a constantly evolving business.
We selected Securicor from an open tender for several reasons.
One of the main reasons was the variety of value-added services which they can provide.
Price is important in any contract, but it is also important to review the additional services on offer from the various contractors, and on this basis our ultimate selection was Securicor.
Ian Dodds Manager, Operations PCCW Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 19
