Product review Securicor now operates in three core product Cash Services areas Cash Services, Security and Justice Cash Services Services.
Each of those products passes through Actual Long-term Actual % Long-term a number of development phases over time, Organic Plan Organic Margin Plan Growth Growth % Margin moving the businesses towards our goal of providing security solutions to our customers.
FY 02 9% 10% 8% 10% Various markets are at different stages of HY 03 6% 8% development and this section of the report FY 03 5% 9% will provide an outline of the different phases Market Development Phases and a view of the current status of our Immature and start-up cash services businesses are business units.
generally developed in response to customer demand, with little investment in infrastructure, low market share and low margins.
This basic provision of cash transportation in development phase one provides a solid foundation for future growth.
Global Cash Services Turnover Split As a cash business increases its market share it can begin to lead the market in terms of product development and Cash 11% innovation.
Its ability to reinvest in the business means Management that, in phase two, ATM replenishment and first-line maintenance services can be provided and the business becomes more sophisticated in terms of differentiating 89% Cash its products between the retail and financial sectors.
Transport At this stage, the business is also likely to be providing some elements of retail deposit processing.
Phase three involves a much greater understanding of the cash cycle and the provision of more integral cash management activities, operating in a more regulated environment where a central bank relationship is essential.
At this stage, high speed high volume processing capability is vital, along with the ability to provide ATM cash forecasting and second-line maintenance.
The Securicor model includes the co-location of cash transportation and cash management services in a single centre, providing efficient distribution links throughout the cash cycle.
2 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 As cash businesses move into phase four, the final phase the ability to focus on key sectors is important in the cash of development, they have a number of partnerships with services market.
Whilst retailers are experiencing cost and financial institutions and can manage a whole ATM price pressure, financial institutions are exiting back-ofce network, including the support systems and asset base.
cash management functions to focus on providing financial At this stage they are providing complete outsourced cash services to their customers.
This has led to cash services solutions to the banking and retail communities.
companies becoming more involved in the overall cash cycle.
This would include monitoring and forecasting of cash In the financial institution sector, initial cash centre demand for each ATM, cash replenishment, cash stock outsourcing opportunities are developing in the UK, Europe management, monitoring of the status of the ATM and Asia, and interest is rapidly building in outsourcing and its subsequent maintenance.
In this phase, ATM ATM availability management.
Detailed knowledge of availability management is handed over to the cash central bank strategies, of local markets, and of the services company by the financial institution and requires prevailing regulatory environment are key to success.
the cash services provider to be working totally in partnership with its customers.
Strong customer relationships through excellent account management, based on service delivery with high-quality Cash Services Market Development Phases information systems, are significant differentiators and Basic CIT CIT and Retail ATM, CIT Outsourced fundamental in providing cash solutions to our customers.
provision Deposit Processing and Cash Cash Solutions best practice Management Low margin Sector based End to end cash Completely Growth and Margins management outsourced cash Low market share Market leadership solutions The majority of our cash services global turnover comes Regulated Little investment in significant environment ATM network IT or infrastructure market share from transportation, including ATM replenishment, with management Central bank Responding to FI and Retail focus just 11% coming from cash management.
relationship FI partnerships customer demand ATM replenishment ATM cash and 1st line forecasting and 2nd maintenance This is a good indication that the majority of our businesses line maintenance Planning for change Utility processing are still in the early phases of market development and it model lowest cost demonstrates why we believe there are major opportunities for us in this product line.
Market Drivers Experience in the UK, Europe and Asia indicates that Organic growth in cash services slowed to 5% in 2002 3 mature cash transportation markets operate most efficiently from 9% the previous year, due to issues primarily in when two or three national operators are present.
This Germany and other European markets.
As we look ahead, provides sufficient scale to sustain the requisite large we are confident that growth will return as we see the first nationwide infrastructure whilst encouraging a long-term signs of improvement in our key markets.
profit margins investment strategy in a stable market.
remain close to our target of 10% plus.
Financial institutions and retailers have different cash transport and management requirements, which means that Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 3 Product review continued Market Drivers Security Our security product model is led by the Securicor brand Security which is a strong differentiator in our markets, coupled with a product range tailored to meet customer needs.
Actual Organic Long-term Actual % Long-term Growth Plan Organic Margin Plan excl.
US % Margin There is an increasing focus on risk management across FY 02 7% 3% businesses worldwide and their security demands are 5% 5% HY 03 4% 3% becoming more complex.
Industry regulation, particularly FY 03 3% 3% in the UK, will have a positive impact on the sector by raising standards and enabling quality companies to Market Development Phases further differentiate their product range.
There are four key phases in the security sector, starting with phase one, manned guarding best practice.
We build into our business the ability to demonstrate a return on investment by assessing risk prior to commencing In this phase, the product is provided on a sector basis, a contract and measuring our impact on that risk over time.
where sector leadership is also an essential factor for success.
At this point businesses provide tailored guarding services, Security Market Development Phases but are planning to incorporate further elements into the Guarding Risk Electronic Security Best Practice Management Security Solutions product mix.
Sector based Organic Partnership acquire Emphasis on sales development to gain capability and integration Market leadership or partnership of components The risk management component of the security model is a Planning for depending on change customer needs key part of extending our offer to new customers in phase two.
If risks to a business can be highlighted, then one is in a Electronic security remains a key component of our product good position to recommend solutions to reduce risk and to range, which we currently provide through sub-contractors play a lead role in providing security services for that customer.
We are also continuing to explore monitoring opportunities to build on our existing customer base.
Phase three of this model adds the technology aspects of security.
In the Securicor model we would partner or acquire on a small Growth and Margins scale to add an electronic capability to the product range and Organic growth in our security businesses is currently move into the final phase, which we call security solutions.
running at 3%, behind our target of 5% plus and the 7% achieved in 2001 2.
This is mainly due to economic In phase four, our businesses focus on risk assessment and pressures in most of our major markets.
building solutions to customer needs, whether they are manned guarding, technology or an integrated combination We have maintained our 3% profit margin achieved last of services.
Whilst we believe in the long-term viability of year and in the first half of this year in a relatively at integrated security, we also believe that customer demand market.
Excluding the US, our security profit margin is 4%.
in the short to medium-term will be in choosing elements of the product mix to suit their requirements.
4 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Phase four, the final development phase, is where the Justice Services private sector becomes a partner with the government and Justice Services provides completely outsourced justice solutions, such as the design, construct, manage and finance DCMF prison Actual Long-term Actual % Long-term Organic Plan Organic Margin Plan contracts along with tagging, monitoring, response and Growth Growth % Margin escorting services.
FY 02 13% 10% HY 03 28% 15% 9% 10% Market Drivers FY 03 23% 10% Tagging was a major growth area during the year as the number of taggees in the UK and US continued to grow, Market Development Phases with judicial systems relying on tagging as a serious In the justice market, there are four development phases.
In phase one, governments are usually under pressure due to budget constraints and capacity issues in the justice system Our experience shows that there is now a signicantly greater which provide a catalyst for public sector reform.
There is acceptance from both the government and public of private also likely to have been some non-justice government sector involvement in the Number of new UK outsourcing in areas such as IT and utilities.
The UK PFI Taggees 37,898 model is expanding into other Phase two is a major step change which usually takes place countries and electronic in a very short timescale where, in most cases, laws need to monitoring has been assessed 21,759 change in order to permit the outsourcing of justice services.
in some 15 countries 12,744 throughout the world.
We Phase three is normally a small-scale pilot.
There is a 7,096 currently monitor some 8,000 supplier purchaser relationship where the government taggees each day in the UK, is likely to request the private sector to manage facilities 01 02 02 03 US and Channel Islands.
Total UK Securicor and people within the judicial process.
There are opportunities for police outsourcing and Justice Services Market Development Phases immigration services in the UK as well as for the Demand Legislative Pilots Outsourcing Creation Change development of the technology aspects of our products to Budget constraint Often laws need Low risk outsourcing Outsourcing enable us to actively track an individuals precise location to change to allow supplier purchaser solutions: turnkey, Capacity need private sector partnering through GPS technology.
Catalyst for public provision sector reform Even if not required Non-justice often politically outsourcing Growth and Margins expedient Utilities, IT, etc Organic growth in the justice sector has been strong, due mainly to the growth in the tagging sector and globally our profit margins are on target at 10% plus.
Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 5
