THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 12 Executive Directors John Steinbrecher Martin Long Lisa Morgan Group Chief Executive Chief Executive Designate and Deputy Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Designate John Steinbrecher, aged 49, has been Group Chief Martin Long ACIS, aged 36, Lisa Morgan, aged 32, was Executive since July 1995, and was appointed to the main appointed to the main Board has over 20 years experience Board as Finance Director in as Commercial Director in in retail.
Mr Steinbrecher has 1995 and became Deputy January 2000.
She joined the decided to return with his Chief Executive and Chief Group in 1997 and was family to the United States in Financial Officer in January appointed as a subsidiary response to his familys 1999.
He joined the Group Board Director in 1998.
She educational needs, and the in August 1993 as Finance has over 10 years experience Board has agreed to release Director of the retail trading in the video games industry him at the end of the financial subsidiaries and before his and immediately prior to her year ending 31 January 2004 involvement in the video joining the Group, was a senior when he will retire from the games industry he was buyer for the Dixons Group Board.
Mr Steinbrecher will employed in the accountancy Plc.
Miss Morgan has been help to provide continuity by profession.
Mr Long has been promoted from Commercial being available as strategic appointed Chief Executive Director to Deputy Chief adviser to the Group thereafter.
Designate and will succeed Executive Designate and will Mr Steinbrecher as Chief take up the role of Deputy Executive.
Chief Executive when Mr Long becomes Chief Executive.
Non-executive Directors Peter Lewis William Slee Albert Scardino Christopher Bell Chairman Senior Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Peter Lewis, aged 62, was William Slee, aged 62, was Albert Scardino, aged 54, was Christopher Bell, aged 45, was appointed to the Board in appointed to the Board in appointed to the Board in appointed to the Board in 1995 as a Non-executive September 2001.
He has been Director and in June 1998 a number of senior investment journalist and commentator for Chief Executive of Ladbrokes he took up the role of banking roles, including British and American news Worldwide and a Director of its Non-executive Chairman.
11 years at Schroders Plc, organisations.
He is also parent company, Hilton Group He was a founder and where he was Group Managing Chairman of Blue Planet Plc, since June 2000.
Mr Bell Executive Chairman of Director.
Amongst others, he Management Limited, a media joined Ladbrokes in1991and Ashtead Group Plc from is currently Vice-Chairman of consulting and strategic was appointed Managing May 1984 to December Singulus Technologies AG, a planning firm, with particular Director in1995.
Prior to that, 2000. member of the Investment expertise in advising on he held a number of senior Committee of Algemeen entertaining and retailing positions with Allied Domecq.
He is also a Non-executive a Non-executive Director of Director of Satellite Information Charles Vogele AG.
Subsidiary Management Stephen Boyce - Property Director: Alex Croft - Buying Director: Dave Evans - New Media Director: Mark Gawthorne - Finance Director: Antony Harris - IT Director: Alan Kilby - Operations Director: Anna Macario - Marketing Director: Steve Mason - New Business Development Director: Carolyn McMenemie - HR Director: Steve O'Connell - Logistics and Supply Chain Director: Paul Prince - Sales Director South : Simon Pook - European Sales Development Director: Robert Quinn - Sales Director North : Marc Spence - Commercial Development Director Continental Europe: Pablo Crespo - General Manager Spain : Richard Lindstrom - General Manager Sweden Accounts THE GAME GROUP PLC formerly The Electronics Boutique Plc Report and Financial Statements Year Ended 31 January 2003 14 Directors and Advisers and Financial Calendar 15 Report of the Directors 20 Corporate Governance Statement 22 Directors Remuneration Report 29 Independent Auditors Report 30 Statement of Accounting Policies 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 34 Company Balance Sheet 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 36 Notes to the Financial Statements 51 Notice of AGM 53 Historic Data Table
