THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 15 Report of the Directors for the year ended 31 January 2003 The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report on the affairs of the Group, together with the audited financial statements, for the year ended 31 January 2003.
Principal activities and business review On 10 April 2002, the Companys name was changed to THE GAME GROUP PLC formerly The Electronics Boutique Plc.
The Group operates retail outlets which specialise in the retailing of computer software, video games and related products.
The Group currently operates in five European territories, with 335 stores throughout the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, 26 in Sweden, 32 in Spain and 56 stores in France, as well as operating e-commerce sites and an on-line game play service.
A more detailed review of the business for the year ended 31 January 2003 and future developments is set out in the Chairmans Report on pages 3 to 7, and the Chief Executives Review on pages 9 to 11.
Results and dividends The consolidated profit after taxation was 16.6 million 2002: 12.0 million, on turnover of 560.1 million 2002: 453.8 million.
This profit represents basic earnings per share of 4.40p 2002: 3.33p.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 0.55p 2002: 0.40p per share.
This, when taken with the interim dividend of 0.45p 2002: 0.40p per share, gives a total dividend of 1.00p 2002: 0.80p per share for the year ended 31 January 2003.
Directors The Directors of the Company during the year were as follows: P D Lewis J M Steinbrecher M Long L J Morgan W R Slee A J Scardino C Bell appointed 27 January 2003 Sir Richard Greenbury retired 25 January 2003 The Directors who retire by rotation are P D Lewis and J M Steinbrecher who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
In addition, C Bell, who was appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, retires in accordance with the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
On 28 February 2003, the Company announced that J M Steinbrecher will be returning to the USA and will accordingly be stepping down from the Board on 31 January 2004.
M Long has been promoted to Chief Executive Designate and Chief Financial Officer, and L J Morgan has been promoted to Deputy Chief Executive Designate.
Details of the Directors service contracts and beneficial interests in the share capital of the Company are given in the Directors remuneration report on pages 22 to 28.
Biographies of the Directors are set out on page 12.
THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 16 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance The Companys compliance with corporate governance is disclosed in the corporate governance statement on pages 20 and 21.
Board committees The Audit Committee comprises P D Lewis as Chairman, together with A J Scardino, W R Slee and C Bell.
The Committee reviews the interim and annual results and the annual report and financial statements prior to their submission to the Board as well as any matters raised by the external auditors.
The Remuneration Committee comprises A J Scardino as Chairman, together with P D Lewis, W R Slee and C Bell.
The Committee meets when required to consider all aspects of remuneration, for the Executive Directors and the Directors of the principal operating subsidiary.
The Nominations Committee comprises P D Lewis as Chairman, together with A J Scardino, W R Slee and C Bell.
The Committee meets when required to make recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments.
C Bell was appointed to the above Committees on 27 January 2003.
Sir Richard Greenbury resigned from the above Committees on 25 January 2003.
The Executive Committee comprises P D Lewis as Chairman, together with J M Steinbrecher and M Long.
L J Morgan was appointed to the Executive Committee on 14 May 2003.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to enter into commitments on behalf of the Company which are in accordance with established Group Policy or are in the Companys ordinary course of business provided that such matters or actions are within the limits laid down in the schedule of matters reserved for Board decision.
Going concern After reviewing the Groups budgets and medium term plans, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Creditors payment policy The Groups policy for the year to 31 January 2004, for all suppliers, is to fix terms of payment when agreeing the terms of each business transaction, to ensure the supplier is aware of those terms and to abide by the agreed terms of payment.
The Group had an average 21 days purchases included in trade creditors at the year end.
The Company had no trade creditors.
Corporate social responsibility policy The Board takes regular account of the impact of social, environmental and ethical issues on the business of the Group.
Community investment policy: Our community investment policy focuses on helping a combination of small and large organisations.
Over the past three years we have contributed through charitable and educational donations.
The Group participates actively in supporting the Entertainment Software Charity ESC, which is a charity operated by the video games and computer software industry in the UK, and which supports a variety of youth causes.
The charity has raised over 1million to date in a number of ways, including the sale of charity software discs through retail outlets.
THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 17 Environmental policies: We comply with The Environment Agency Act 1990, and are therefore committed to prevention and reduction of waste and pollution throughout our business.
Within our Distribution Centre, we recycle all our cardboard and plastic materials, and we ensure that the stores comply with local authority disposal and recycling guidelines.
We look to our suppliers to conserve, re-use and recycle any of the materials used to make products that we stock in our stores.
Employment policies: We are committed to all our employees welfare and personal and career development.
All of the following points are made fully available to all staff: Equal opportunity We are committed to ensuring equal opportunities for everyone.
All of our employment decisions, policies, and practices are made without regard to an individuals sex, race, colour, religion, creed, sexual preference, national origin, or non-job related handicap.
Disability We are dedicated to the provision of equal opportunities for all disabled persons able to discharge job duties and functions required as part of employment with the Group.
Sexual racial harassment We will not tolerate any act of sexual or racial harassment for whatever reason at any level in the organisation.
Health and safety It is our policy to do all that is reasonably practicable to ensure a safe and healthy environment.
We will provide instruction, training, supervision and information to enable all employees to perform their work safely.
Share schemes We believe our employees should share in the success of the business, and introduced an Inland Revenue approved share save scheme in October 2002, in which all employees may participate.
In addition we operate a share option scheme for all eligible employees.
Training and development We are committed to enhancing the skills of our employees through the implementation of progressive and bespoke development programmes which will ultimately support the achievement of our business plan.
Communication Our employees have access to information concerning financial and operational performance of the Group, through information bulletins and meetings.
Employees are actively encouraged to participate in the generation of new ideas that will benefit the business at all times.
THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 18 Report of the Directors continued Financial instruments The Board agrees and reviews policies and financial instruments for risk management.
The Group holds financial instruments to finance its operations and to manage the interest rate risks arising from its sources of finance.
In addition, various financial instruments such as trade debtors and trade creditors arise directly from the Groups operations.
Operations are financed by a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.
Working capital requirements are met out of floating rate overdrafts and retained profits.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments or carry out derivative transactions.
There is no significant foreign currency exposure.
In planning the maturity of debt, the Group aims to match the debt to the ability of the respective assets to generate income.
This objective has been achieved in 2002.
Unutilised committed borrowing facilities have been maintained in order to provide flexibility in the management of liquidity.
Further information on borrowings and financial instruments is contained in notes 18 and 19 to the financial statements.
Share capital During the year, the Company purchased in the market for cancellation 1,000,000 of its shares at a cost of 310,000 as part of a programme which is considered to be in shareholders best interests.
This transaction represented 0.27% of the issued share capital at 31 January 2003.
As at 31 January 2003, the Company had an unexpired authority to purchase further shares up to a maximum of 17,200,000 shares.
Since the year end a further 10,450,000 shares have been purchased in the market for cancellation at a cost of 3,924,500.
Substantial shareholdings As at 7 May 2003, the Board had been notified of, or were otherwise aware of, the following holdings of 3% or more of the Companys ordinary share capital:- Percentage Number of holdings ordinary shares % Amvescap plc and subsidiaries 73,295,196 20.08 Merrill Lynch & Co Inc 20,942,367 5.73 Legal & General Group plc 14,606,135 4.00 HBOS and subsidiaries 11,443,630 3.14 Zurich Financial Services and its Group 11,155,127 3.05 Included in the Amvescap plc and subsidiaries holding are separate notifiable interests of: INVESCO Perpetual High Income Fund 35,098,000 9.61 INVESCO Perpetual Income Fund 11,296,039 3.09 Annual General Meeting Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, inter alia, to:- renew the Directors general authority to allot the Companys ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,750,213.85.
This authority shall expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2004 or the date falling fifteen months from the passing of this Resolution.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority, which represents 31.51% of the present issued share capital: approve a limited disapplication of pre-emption rights on allotments for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 910,000, representing 4.99% of the present issued share capital: authorise the Directors to make purchases of the Companys ordinary shares in the market for cancellation when the Directors consider that it would be in the best interests of the Company to do so, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,820,000, representing 9.97% of the present issued share capital.
THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 19 Post balance sheet events On 15 May 2003, the Group completed the purchase of land at Basingstoke for 6,000,000 for the construction of a new Distribution facility and Head Office, which is expected to be completed in early 2004.
Statement of Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for the period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Financial statements are published on the Groups website in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint the Companys auditors, BDO Stoy Hayward, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board J P Gorman FCA Secretary Charter Court Third Avenue Southampton SO15 0AP 16 May 2003
