14 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Pure convenience We make over 2,000 fresh prepared foods which ones fit your lifestyle?
Opportunities for growth Geest PLC 15 Convenience means different We live in a fast-moving society a pizza with fresh toppings into things to different people with working women juggling the oven and are therefore more at different times.
In essence, careers and home life, complicated involved in the cooking process.
it is the desire to exercise choice social agendas and a lack of will about how time and energy to invest time and energy into For somebody who wants to have is spent and depends what can be perceived as a chore.
more involvement in the finishing on social, family, economic Unsurprisingly, in households where touches but less in the initial and other circumstances.
women spend over 30 hours per preparation, then a combination week at work, more is spent than of our products can provide the In 2003 we commissioned some the average on fresh ready meals.
How about research on attitudes towards Yet despite this, there is often still stirring some fresh baby spinach convenience.
The quotes on some guilt about not being involved through some hot fresh fusilli pasta page 17 illustrate some of the in the cooking or planning process.
and topping with fresh pesto pressures facing people today.
dressing and baby plum tomatoes?
As Debra Rainert, Business It looks as though youve cooked Almost without exception, Development Director, explains, completely from scratch, it contains the creation of a home-made We know that the level of fresh ingredients and yet all the main meal, prepared from scratch convenience demanded varies legwork has been taken out no and eaten together as a family not only by different consumers washing, no chopping and a hot or with friends is still the nostalgic but also by the same consumer meal in just over five minutes.
at different times of the day or in And if you want to personalise the In reality this rarely happens.
The Geest dish further you can.
Basically, our three quarters of all meals have product portfolio caters for all products do all the hard work for only one or two people present interpretations of convenience.
you and leave you with the fun bits!
and Taylor Nelson Sofrs TNS For example, a snack salad or predicts that in fifty years time wrap is perfect for somebody I believe that nowadays it is easy only one in every seven meals to eat straight away, be it at home, to cook with fresh prepared foods.
will be a main, formal meal and in the office or on the move.
At It can help alleviate the guilt factor that eating alone will be almost the other end of the convenience whilst you take the credit for a certainty.
spectrum, you may be putting something fresh.
Again, we know Basically, our products do all the hard work for you and leave you with the fun bits!
Debra Rainert, Business Development Director 16 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Pure convenience continued from research that people from convenience junkies Rise of the convenience store planning a meal for guests often to one-off emergency purchases: Based on published data we estimate use fresh prepared ingredients or from weekly menu planning that in around two years time there will be over 1,300 convenience and petrol finished products for starters and to a special meal for friends.
forecourt stores branded by our customers desserts, leaving the host or hostess and possibly even more if mainstream to concentrate on the main course.
How do they fit your lifestyle?
UK retailers are allowed to acquire further.
The following day, the very same person, having expended all that How often do people buy fresh We see these developments as an opportunity for further growth in the fresh effort, might want an Indian ready prepared foods?
meal heated in the microwave.
The number of people buying our Convenience is very subjective and products remains relatively low.
its my job to understand it and come Only one household in 14 bought up with a range of suitable products fresh pasta in an average month Projected convenience store roll out to cater for many different needs.
last year and only one in 33 a fresh by major retailers fruit salad.
We believe there 1,400 Convenience can mean any of the is the opportunity to increase 1,200 1,000 following: using the corner shop to the number of households buying 800 buy food, quick preparation, saving these products.
600 time on shopping and planning, 400 conserving energy at the end In other areas mainly in the 200 0 of a long day, juggling different larger, more established market 2000 1 2002 3 2005 6 eating requirements, the ability sectors there is already quite Years to count calories more quickly, a high number of households Source: IGD monthly updates, company websites, being able to eat straight away buying our types of products.
Geest estimates or not having to decant a product 83% of households, for example, out of its packaging.
Fresh prepared bought at least one ready meal foods can often cater for the whole in 2003 an increase of over gamut of requirements from instant 150,000 new households gratification to pseudo cooking: Lack of time Lack of Demand for Lack of knowledge inclination convenience or confidence Number of stores Opportunities for growth Geest PLC 17 The number of households buying compared to 2002.
Nonetheless, Fast paced lives fresh prepared foods ready meals were only bought, By the time I get home in the evening % of households buying these products on average, less than 1.3 times Im just too tired to think about Fresh prepared foods Annually Monthly per month.
planning, purchasing and preparing Ready meals 83 45 food from scratch.
Side convenience salads 73 32 In these more established areas, Leafy salads 69 26 Childrens extra curricular activities Pizza 59 18 the key to achieving growth is less We are both to-ing and fro-ing taking Chilled accompaniment bread 52 20 about persuading even more and collecting the kids from a to b.
Prepared vegetables 50 16 households to try these products The number of different meals at different Dips 45 23 times makes it unmanageable for us and more about encouraging Stir fry 36 6 to sit down together.
I need some ideas existing ready meal buyers to buy Pasta 27 7 for preparing quick meals.
Sauces 26 7 more often or increase the amount Soups 21 6 they spend.
In 2003, the average Its unfair Prepared fruit 19 3 Why should I be cooking when household buying ready meals Source: Taylor Nelson Sofrs, fifty two weeks ended theyre not?
spent over 4.50 more last year 4 January 2004 than in 2002 thats an average Need for DIY meals of 8 pence a week more.
This may I am sometimes still at work when the sound insignificant, but together children come home and need something to eat.
Thankfully, the older ones can with people buying more often, use the microwave.
the ready meals market grew by 107 million in 2003.
in buying behaviour have a large I dont see why I should spend time planning and washing up when its impact on the market.
Its a chore Thinking about what to buy and cook really bores me when I ask what they want they just say, oh anything.
Source: Geest consumer research Convenience continuum Ready to eat Ready to heat Ready to finish Our portfolio of e. g. snack salad, wrap, e. g. ready meal, soups e. g. pizza, fresh pasta fresh fruit salad products means that we can cater for different convenience needs.
Amount of involvement in cooking or preparation process
