62 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Our responsibilities In 2002, with the approval of the Board, business ethics, the Senior management CR responsibility we established a CR Steering Committee with the objective of reviewing the areas Business ethics Company Secretary health of the nation, food most relevant to our business and setting Health of the nation Group Corporate safety, health and safety, parameters for measuring information Development and reporting targets.
In 2003 we Director environment, responsible published our policies in key CR areas Food safety Group Technical and these are all available on our website sourcing and suppliers, Director www.
co. uk gst responsibilities customers, employees, or on request.
Health and safety Group Technical Director community involvement We believe that, over time, these policies Environment Group Technical will need to evolve to reflect customer, Director We seek to operate responsibly in all areas.
shareholder and consumer concerns Responsible Head of Purchasing However, given our devolved organisation, as well as legislative changes.
One of our sourcing suppliers we have not, historically, had an allCR Steering Committee objectives is to keep Customers CEO, All Managing encompassing formal system in place abreast of these changes and gauge Directors, Group with targets and audits to demonstrate that sentiment in current and potential areas Corporate we operate in such a way.
For example, the hot topics Development interest from our investors, customers in 2003 continued to be ethical supply Director and other parties in corporate responsibility and, more recently, the obesity debate.
CR has moved us to review the way in Employees Group Human which we approach this area, and to evolve We continue to take a pragmatic approach Resources Director accordingly.
Where appropriate and to CR given our structure and pressures Community Group Human economically sensible, we have started on resource.
Our main focus still remains involvement Resources Director, to introduce targets, measurements the UK operations as these account for Group and centralised reporting.
Hence, unless Communications otherwise stated, all information relates to Manager The Board takes regular account of the impact our UK Group operations.
We have one site of CR matters on the Company and identifies in South Africa and we report on its initiatives and considers the relevant CR risks and on page 77. opportunities.
We do not have any one Board member responsible for CR as the We continue to respond personally to Board considers that it is inherent in many individual requests on CR from customers aspects of our business and so takes and shareholders and have completed collective responsibility for this.
However, the Business in the Community Corporate consistent with the way in which we manage Responsibility Index Survey for the second all our risks, senior managers are allocated year, participated in all questionnaires with specific responsibility for main issues.
A summary appears in the box opposite.
Our responsibilities Geest PLC 63 received from EIRIS Ethical Investment The health of the nation Issues notified to us through the Food Research Service and Manifest and There has been a marked increase in Safety Agency, and other sources, relating contributed to European research on the level of media coverage of public health to concerns in the food chain affecting labour supply standards.
In October 2003, issues and of the potential roles of the food our products are rigorously investigated we were selected for membership in the industry and others e. g. consumers, to consider the impact on our businesses Kempen SNS Smallcap SRI Europe Index.
retailers, regulators and government and our customers.
During 2003 we made an effort to put as in how to resolve these.
As a major player much relevant information on our website in the fresh prepared foods market, we Control of risk is our objective and we as possible.
Feedback to date, both externally seek to maintain our awareness of these rely on the industry-standard Hazard and internally, has confirmed that this is highly issues and of the potential influence Analysis and Critical Control Point HACCP appreciated as it reduces research time.
We have commissioned approach, whereby each point in every an independent review on pages 56 to 61 process is reviewed to assess risk and the The following report reflects our which summarises the main areas of necessary controls and employee training progress in areas which are relevant concern for the public and for the food are put in place to maintain food safety to our business.
We are committed to monitoring standards.
This is combined with routine developments, complying with any and robust audits of our own business units Business ethics legislative changes and working with and our supply chain.
We have established a code of business our customers and regulators in this area.
conduct, which sets standards of conduct Key performance indicators relating to to be adopted worldwide.
Our code does Food safety food safety, hygiene and end consumer not allow bribery or political contributions All food suppliers have a responsibility complaints are reviewed and tracked each and requires employees to seek to avoid to supply safe products.
Risk assessment month to establish trends by business unit.
conflicts of interest and to disclose any that and secure provenance of raw materials Major issues are reviewed by the Safety do exist.
are important to food safety.
Our central committee see page 53 and discussed Technical team and the Technical Managers regularly at full Board meetings.
in each of our business units work closely with their purchasing and procurement colleagues and customers to ensure that the required standards are adopted throughout the supply chain.
No new ingredient material may be introduced into any of our factories without technical approval.
Food safety due diligence The Geest Central Technical Certification Body GCTCB works independently of business unit activities.
Its evaluations serve the purpose of meeting both the Companys and our customers food safety due diligence requirements.
In his capacity as Group Technical Co-ordinator, Ramesh Patel who has worked at Geest for nearly 15 years has the responsibility of Quality Assurance Manager for the GCTCB.
Ramesh and his colleagues in the GCTCB have a privileged position of power within Geest if they feel it is appropriate, they may contact and discuss food safety issues directly with our independent non-executive Directors.
The Board has put this facility in place to remove conflicts of interest and minimise any possible compromise on matters of food safety.
This commitment made by the Board is upheld in the preface Ramesh Patel, of the GCTCB Quality Management Manual.
Group Technical Co-ordinator 64 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Stewardship Towards the end of 2001, we initiated our Since May 2000 we have had in place Our Group Technical Director sits on first formally documented internal health our Safety, Health and Environment the executive Board of the Chilled Food and safety audits.
By November 2002, SHE manual, which integrates and Association CFA a body created to promote we completed baseline audits at all UK formalises standard guidelines for and maintain standards of excellence sites.
The purpose of the audit is to check all our UK business units.
In order in chilled food production and distribution.
compliance with the key topics in the Safety, to improve communication, the SHE Our Group Technical Services Manager Health and Environment SHE manual as manual is now available on-line and is an active member of the CFA working well as other initiatives.
We have assessed can be accessed by all Safety Advisors.
groups for microbiology and hygiene.
all UK sites, identified improvement Geest employees also chair the Quality measures where applicable, and we will Management Panel at the Camden & continue to monitor these.
In 2003, each Chorleywood Food Research Association business produced a health and safety Group CCFRA and the working group action plan for 2004, which will be monitored for the British Standards Institute on by the central team.
quality systems for the food industry.
Our Group Technical Director also sits In 2003 we intended to introduce a scoreable on the CCFRA council.
audit system based on data gathered.
This Safety Champions and Safety Advisors proved too complicated to implement and obtaining relevant safety qualifications % For more information on our approach so we are trialling a more user-friendly audit to food safety, please refer to page 33. aide-mmoire at Spalding, our largest site.
2003 Genetically modified organisms GMOs Each business unit appoints Safety Champions.
In this area, we ensure that we conform to Our Safety Champions sit on the executive 2002 legal requirements and specific requirements teams of each business unit.
In addition, set by our customers.
We have agreements each business unit has a Safety Advisor.
It is with all our customers that raw materials our aim for each Safety Champion to obtain 0 20406080100 are sourced from non-genetically an IOSH Institute of Occupational Safety modified sources.
and Health Managing Safely certificate Safety Champions Safety Advisors as a minimum and for each Safety Advisor Target Animal testing to obtain a NEBOSH National Examining None of our products is tested on animals.
Board of Occupational Safety and Health As far as we can reasonably establish, none certificate as a minimum.
Our progress to of our raw materials is tested on animals.
date is that 64% of Safety Champions and 92% of Safety Advisors have obtained their Health and safety respective certificates.
In addition, 19% of our During 2003, the Board and Management employees who have obtained the NEBOSH Board required business units to put certificate have also gained an advanced additional focus on health and safety, qualification, the NEBOSH diploma.
Another with the aim of achieving a 10% reduction 19% are looking to obtain the diploma in in accidents.
Each year we hold an annual health business unit executive teams downwards and safety seminar which is attended by all and we have increased dedicated health Safety Advisors and provides the opportunity and safety resource and training.
For a to share best practice.
site-specific example, please refer to the page opposite.
Production and Factory Managers at each site have specific accountabilities for health As a result, we are pleased to be able to and safety and are given health and safety report a decrease in the number of accidents objectives with measurable targets, across the Group and we intend to continue against which they are appraised.
This allows this momentum throughout 2004. each site to concentrate on its own priorities in this area.
Our responsibilities Geest PLC 65 I believe that health and safety awareness should be part Developments at our Selby site of the culture and that people should lead by example.
I have English Village Salads and Yorkshire Fresh Salads certainly had full support from the management team on this approach.
I have developed three health and safety training Ive been at Geest for five years and a Health and Safety modules and my target is for people to have been on these Advisor for the last three and a half years.
Until June 2003 courses within two weeks of joining, so that everybody is up this was always in conjunction with another role.
Now I am a to speed as soon as possible.
full-time Health and Safety Advisor for the Selby site which employs over 400 people.
The creation of this role reinforces the sites Another initiative has been the development of a traffic commitment to focus more on health and safety issues.
management system and pedestrian highway code.
This took two months to complete and its introduction has raised much My first priority was to formalise some of the systems we had in greater awareness across the site.
We had good rules but many of these were communicated verbally.
I have since carried out 370 risk assessments and It is motivating for us to have been recognised for our introduced a written safe system of work for most of the tasks that improvements but my only fear which musnt happen is that are carried out.
In some instances I have created a step-by-step we become complacent.
There is still a long way to go and we picture guide to make the processes even clearer.
My objectives must prove that our progress is sustainable.
My next aim is to are to reduce the number of accidents and develop a safer introduce more health and safety audits its a way of checking working environment for employees.
that people are adhering to the systems and, equally, that the systems are up to standard and still appropriate.
3 day reportable injuries Number 2003 2002 0 10 203040 Actual Target Selby site statistics for 2003 3 day reportable injuries reduced by 50% 35% fewer accidents 95% of weekly paid employees trained in new health and safety modules 370 risk assessments completed 10% of site expenditure spent on health and safety initiatives Ian Arundel, Dedicated Health and Safety Advisor for English Village Salads and Yorkshire Fresh Salads at Selby 66 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 In 2003, in consultation with our insurers, As we have reported previously, the majority of our accidents arise from manual handing the Health and Safety Executive HSE and slips and trips incidents.
We have focused attention in these areas in particular and the Data Protection Commissioners and, although the number of incidents is still too high, we are pleased to report over 20% office, we spent four months designing reduction in both areas this year.
and implementing a new accident and investigation procedure.
Our previous system tended to be regarded as Number of Number of Percentage decrease Type of accident incidents 2002 incidents 2003 2003 v 2002 a paperwork exercise rather than providing relevant information for understanding Manual handling 140 106 -24% the causes of accidents.
We believe the Slips and trips 122 94 -23% new system will provide us with better quality and more relevant statistics which can be used proactively.
Health and safety performance The following information is based on the HSE guidelines.
Enforcement action In 2003, the HSE inspected our factories on 27 occasions 2003: 37.
These visits Accidents in the workplace resulted in one improvement notice for maintenance procedures at one site.
Our absolute number of reportable accidents This was discharged satisfactorily.
Our reportable accident incident rate Number of Improvement Prohibition Enforcement per 1,000 employees full-time equivalents inspections by HSE notices notices notices Total fell from 52 in 2002 to 40 in 2003.
2001 33 1 0 1 2002 37 2 1 3 From now on, we intend to record accidents 2003 27 1 0 1 per million man-hours as this helps overcome the difficulty of defining a full-time equivalent employee.
In 2003, the total figure was 20.8 reportable accidents per one million manhours 2002: 27.2, 2001: 25.
We reduced the number Our accident incident rate exceeds the reported average for the food and drink of manual handling accidents industry and the majority of our injuries continue to arise from manual handling by 24% in 2003. and slips and trips, despite making progress in these areas.
The nature of our processes, often in wet environments, makes the possibility of these types of accident higher than for many other food and drink manufacturers.
We continue to work to identify ways of improving our performance in these problem areas.
Our responsibilities Geest PLC 67 As we mentioned last year, in 2001 we Work-related fatalities and illness adopted an improved flooring material By beating our Climate Number of reported incidents to help reduce slips and trips, which was Change Levy target under Work-related Reported workset as a standard specification in production the agreement, we saved fatalities related ill health areas for all new builds and replacements.
2 7,336 tonnes of CO. 1999 0 0 This is having a significant effect on the 2000 0 0 reduction of the number of slips incidents.
The results were very positive and this footwear, despite costing nearly three times Reportable accident incident rate as much as standard footwear, is being All the work-related illnesses reported per 1 million man-hours Number used in some of the higher risk areas were upper limb disorders tenosynovitis at two sites.
Another two sites are evaluating and tendonitis.
We are now monitoring 2003 the possibilities of using this footwear.
We these although they are still rare.
2002 co-operated with the HSE in its development of a new slip measurement tool, designed 2001 Stewardship to aid companies to reduce these types The HSE has set up a Safety Passport Forum, 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 of accidents, and the HSE made use of which brings together several industries.
our sites when trialling this equipment.
Our Group Safety, Health and Environment Kilowatt-hour per tonne performance The number of slips and trips reduced Manager is the Chairman of the Food and and targets Kilowatt-hour per tonne by 23% in 2003.
Drink Safety Passport Steering Group and Base year has also spoken at HSE-sponsored seminars.
We continue to work with the HSE to 2002 investigate ways to reduce accidents Environment 2002 caused by manual handling.
We are nearly Our focus on environmental issues is based 2004 through the 18-month survey which on compliance with legal and regulatory 2006 we mentioned last year and which is due requirements and specific action in 2008 to end in June 2004.
This project is specific areas which are particularly pertinent to the food and drink industry and around to our business.
2010 150 Geest employees have taken part in 0 250 500 750 1,000 1,250 1,500 1,750 questionnaires and follow-up research.
Environmental performance Target Actual performance Energy We continue to evaluate and implement In 1999, we monitored our energy ways of reducing manual handling tasks consumption and this was used by in our processes and are pleased to report the Department of Environment, Transport that manual handling accidents reduced and the Regions and the Food and Drink by 24% in 2003.
Federation as a base from which to set our target for reduction in energy as part In February 2004 we had a fire at one of the Climate Change Levy Agreement.
of our ready meal facilities.
All employees The target was set to reduce our kilowattwere evacuated safely and we are hour per tonne rate by 10% over the next ten carrying out a detailed investigation years, with five key milestone targets every to establish its cause.
Our first milestone target in September 2002 was 1,627 kilowatt-hours Health and safety prosecutions per tonne.
Our actual performance was We were not prosecuted for any health 1,498 kilowatt-hours per tonne.
Our challenge and safety offences in 2003. is to maintain this level.
Although 2003 was not a milestone year, we are on course to meet the 2004 milestone target.
68 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Solid waste We have worked closely with our customers We continue to work closely with the Ingredient waste generated from our who have chosen to eliminate Poly Vinyl Environment Agency and relevant local processes is measured at each site and Chloride PVC from their packaging water authorities in order to identify water there is an incentive to reduce this as part specifications and have complied with saving methods.
At one site we are saving 3 of each sites profit improvement plan.
50 m of water per day following the Where legally possible, food waste is recycled installation of a re-circulation system.
e. g. sent to farmers or composted.
As an Refrigerants example, five tonnes per week of salad As a fresh food group we have a high In 2003 we put in place systems to measure waste at Alresford Salads was sent to the requirement for refrigeration.
In our older cubic metres of water consumed per tonne local worm farmer in 2003.
This saved over manufacturing units we still use the R22 of product made.
The figure for 2003 3 15,000 in landfill charges and a further refrigerants in our refrigeration units, but was 1.53m tonne.
Having undertaken 9,000 in disposal charges.
these are being phased out at two levels.
this measurement for the first time we are Firstly, these older refrigeration units are all now looking at ways to reduce this and set In 2003 we started measuring waste at least one third of their way through their meaningful targets based on results.
We will in kilogrammes sent to landfill per tonne foreseeable life.
Secondly, all new factory report on progress, as planned, next year.
This figure was 83kg builds extensions use refrigerants such tonne in 2003.
Having undertaken this as ammonia and R404A which have zero Pesticides measurement for the first time we are ozone depleting potential and are more We have developed a defined code of now looking at ways to reduce this and set energy efficient.
We still have a large practice for all aspects of pesticide use with meaningful targets based on results.
We will conversion to undertake but we are confident reference to the Fresh Produce Consortium report on progress, as planned, next year.
of meeting the 2015 deadline for completely and customer guidelines and which reflects phasing out R22 refrigerants.
We have a industry best practice.
Our code covers As part of the Producer Responsibility policy to specify only the following refrigerants legislative requirements, accuracy of records Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations in new equipment: ammonia, R404A and and documentation, storage procedures, 1997, Geests UK business units are obliged R407c.
The final choice is decided at business disposal of waste, employee training for to recover and recycle a percentage of unit level and is normally dependent on handling of pesticides and residue analysis.
packaging which is used to cover or carry energy efficiency.
We continue to audit our leaf suppliers our finished products, and these targets annually for compliance with our code.
have been increased by government.
We We evaluated the possibility in 2003 fulfil these obligations through membership of measuring our refrigerants by type, We encourage actively the reduction of Valpak and we have consistently met charge and consumption.
However, given of pesticides by promoting crop rotation our obligations since we joined in 1998. our growth, and hence, natural reduction and field hygiene, crop walking and the in obsolete refrigeration units, we have use of predictive models, among others.
We consider the use of recycled plastics.
decided not to commit resource to measuring At Geest, we endorse Integrated Crop Our key concern is ensuring that our food this specifically.
is delivered to the consumer in the safest possible way and, as it is difficult to Water Stewardship guarantee the content of recycled plastic, As reported last year, in early 2003 we were We are a supporter of LEAF Linking we have not used such material in direct prosecuted at one site for breaching consent Environment and Farming, which is an contact with food.
However, in 2003, we levels for effluent discharges in 2002 and organisation dedicated to the promotion undertook a trial in Spalding with a supplier fined 34,000.
No subsequent regulatory of integrated crop management techniques.
who has invested in new technology which action was taken against us.
One of our Produce Managers is a member allows a percentage of recovered plastic of the LEAF Marque Management Group to be used safely in food packaging.
and we launched three products under the Year Number of prosecutions In addition, work continues to investigate LEAF Marque in 2003.
2000 1 suitable materials for outer case packaging.
2001 1 Our challenge is to use the most appropriate 2002 0 packaging whilst balancing food safety, 2003 1 cost, consumer acceptability and environmental concerns.
Our responsibilities Geest PLC 69 In 2003 our Technical Manager for Produce Supply chain employment policy Produce supplied to Geest must chaired the Agrifood Panel at Camden ethical supply be grown with the minimal amount & Chorleywood Food Research Association We are an integral part of the food supply of pesticide needed to achieve an Group CCFRA, has a seat on its Science chain.
In 2003, as our customers continued economic yield of the required quality and Technology Committee and is an active to formulate their policies in this area, standard.
This means firstly making member of the Pesticide Working Party.
so we reformulated and refocused our use of non-pesticide measures for the resource in specific areas to respond control of pests, diseases and weeds, Our Group Safety, Health and to the relevant pressures.
including the selection of resistant Environment Manager has been a guest varieties where possible, the use of speaker at government-sponsored The vast majority of our retail customers are beneficial insects and other organisms environmental seminars.
members of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI and the adoption of sound and and, if not, are developing their own standards sustainable rotations and sound Enforcement action in this area.
As such, our activities are a cultural and hygiene practices.
We were served with an abatement notice primary focus for our retailers in their efforts by the Local Council Environmental to manage risks and impacts associated Source: Pesticides Code of Practice for Geest Protection Office at Geest Tilbrook in respect with labour standards in the supply chain.
Produce Suppliers, April 2002 of cooking smells, which inconvenienced We are a primary focus as not only do we some local residents.
As a result we invested make products which carry their retailer 80,000 in odour abatement measures to brand a priority area for them but, in some keep odour emissions at an acceptable level.
cases, we also rank among their largest food suppliers hence another high area Responsible sourcing and of scrutiny for them.
our suppliers Early in 2003, we developed a responsible Our focus and progress can be sourcing policy which covers three key areas:- summarised as follows: Business conduct with suppliers Supply chain employment policy Getting our own house in order Environmental purchasing.
We have spent time in 2003 ensuring that our own sites comply formally with labour We established these guidelines to standards as required by our customers.
encourage the awareness, acceptance Six of our sites including Spring Valley and application of high levels of integrity in South Africa have been audited by in dealing with our suppliers.
The details of qualified auditors.
the policy can be found on the Geest website.
and those of our third party Business conduct with suppliers employment providers We have developed a declaration of interest Given the peaks and troughs in consumer statement.
This has been issued to all relevant demand and the need to supply product employees but we have not yet measured every day, we make use of third party or assessed the acceptance of this code.
In 2003, on average 3.4% of our UK workforce was contracted to agencies.
We work very closely with approved agencies to reduce the possibility of inadvertently employing illegal workers.
Ethical supply Our position in the supply chain Our customers Geest sites High risk Other suppliers and areas of focus.
retailers suppliers to Geest to Geest Employment SEDEX agencies used see page 70 by Geest 70 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 David Kennedy, One of our Divisional Human Resource Technical Produce Managers was entrusted with training Manager and all Human Resource Managers in agency Non-executive employment and immigration issues.
This Director of SEDEX objective was achieved in 2003.
Our next development is to work with immigration officers to develop a workshop to improve, for example, our understanding of documentation.
We are working on a voluntary basis SEDEX Supplier Ethical Data Exchange with the Department of Trade and Industry There has been increasing pressure on all parts of the food supply which is involving the ETI, British Retail chain to provide ethical trading information and to increase Consortium BRC and various nonthe number of audits carried out in this area.
This has resulted government organisations to help establish in demand on time and resource at a huge cost to the industry, third party accreditation for contracted labour.
the irony being that many companies are being audited or We are part of the development process researched over and over again for the same type of information and two of our sites are being used as a test leading to a large amount of duplication of time and effort.
The initial feedback for one site is that it exceeds ETI requirements in the majority In 2003, three food retailers and two food manufacturers of areas and has robust and sustainable including Geest, together with the ETI formed the advisory board processes in place.
to set up a limited company by guarantee to initiate the SEDEX Information Exchange.
This is a web-based tool designed Evaluating our own high risk suppliers to reduce this duplication of effort, speed up ways of accessing We are a major purchaser of fresh produce the required information, take cost out of the system and hence for further processing.
This is our largest free up resource to concentrate on improving labour standards purchase category and hence an area as opposed to spending time just collating information.
100% of UK leaf suppliers have completed and returned a self-assessment The premise is very simple.
If we take ourselves as an example, against the ETI Base Code and this will be all Geest sites will register their information self-assessment rolled out to our Spanish leaf suppliers in audits and details of third party audits based on the ETI Base Code early 2004. onto SEDEX.
This is then made available to companies with whom we trade.
For example, all three retailers will be able to access We have a Technical Auditor who is accredited that information independently.
We will then encourage other to audit to SA 8000 an independent social suppliers to post their information onto the site as well.
He can, if required, is a small charge for the secondary suppliers, but this is insignificant also audit to the specific retailer standards compared to the costs they have been experiencing.
In time, where these exist.
SEDEX will also be able to provide data analysis tools so that trends can be analysed more easily.
and keeping an eye on the others We are evaluating the remainder of SEDEX is planned to launch in June 2004 and we hope to roll this our suppliers on a risk-assessment basis out to non-food retailers and suppliers.
Our aim is for it to become and 20 ingredient suppliers have completed global.
Two other major food companies have since registered and returned a self-assessment against and a non-food retailer has shown interest.
This is a very exciting development and it has been great to have In addition, we are a founder member of been involved in this project from the outset and watch it evolve.
a joint venture company between leading I am a non-executive Director of the interim SEDEX Board and retailers and food companies which is hope to see its beneficial impact on the industry.
promoting SEDEX a web-based data capture tool that allows businesses to lodge self-assessment and third party audits on labour supply standards.
Our Technical Produce Manager sits on the Board of this company see box opposite.
Our responsibilities Geest PLC 71 As a reminder, in our supply chain Food safety Employees employment policy, we state our aim On the food safety side, our suppliers The Geest Group employs around 10,600 to assess our supply base against Geests continue to be audited through a mixture people, with about 9,400 of these based own employee welfare and human rights of internal, third party or self-assessment in the UK.
Owing to our high rate of growth policy which is based on the ETI code and audits, again based on a risk-assessment we have seen a 7% net increase in the we have set ourselves the target of working process.
We have a monitoring and review number of jobs in the last three years.
towards our policy compliance in respect process and will work with our suppliers The Board recognises that the availability of all suppliers by the end of 2007.
Where to help them improve.
Ultimately, however, of appropriate people is key to the continued major non-compliance is found we will work food safety cannot be compromised and success of our Company see Corporate with suppliers to improve their performance we would stop using suppliers if they failed governance on page 52 and Our people over an agreed timescale.
to meet our requirements in this area.
Given the change of priorities in this area, Customers We want to be in a position where Geest we have carried out fewer ethical audits We have few, very large customers with employees are proud to work for Geest, in our supply chain in 2003 than hoped, whom we work closely.
Customer care and our local communities are proud but we expect the development of SEDEX is one of our Company values.
Our business to have Geest in their community.
Our aim to accelerate our future progress in this is based on our ability to develop products is to become an employer of choice and, area.
We are still committed to assessing for our customers brands and, consequently, to achieve this, we recognise that we must our supply base by our deadline of 2007. we have continuous interaction often daily excel in internal management of peoplewith our customers.
We are appraised care and morale as well as improve Environmental purchasing formally by most of our customers annually.
our links with local communities.
This is In 2003 we intended to develop an necessary to retain and recruit the best environmental purchasing policy and We set ourselves a daily target of better people and to maintain and instil our values a risk evaluation model with the objective than 99% of orders to be delivered on time whilst growing our business.
Two of our of improving the environmental awareness into customer depots.
By way of reminder, sites accounting for nearly one third of our of our purchasing activities within Geest most orders are received on the morning UK employees have active local employer and throughout our supply chain.
Owing of the day of despatch, so this is not an of choice campaigns.
to a redeployment of resource we did not insignificant task.
achieve our aim of capturing data in 2003 and hence will not be reporting as planned For more information about our approach in 2004.
We will keep this under review and to customers, please refer to pages 35 to 36. report on our thinking in this area next year.
Results of the Geest employee care index Care index performance and target This index is very much in its infancy, but Score it is starting to highlight areas on which 2003 we need to focus particularly in terms of improving employee retention levels.
It has also facilitated discussion and 2002 increased our depth of understanding as to why a site has scored above or 0246810 12 below expectation, and where the areas Performance Target of best practice are.
We have set priority improvement areas for our Human Resource Gillian Haythornthwaite, Managers based on the care index results Head of Human Resources and we will continue to use this as a living tool.
72 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 We rolled out our employee satisfaction survey to an additional 1,700 employees in 2003, making a total of around 3,000, employees surveyed.
3 000 employees In 2002, we initiated a bespoke employee Employee welfare and human rights Performance against Geest values satisfaction survey.
In 2003 we rolled this In early 2003, we developed a policy on Permanent salaried employees 2003 out to over an additional 1,700 weekly-paid employee welfare and human rights.
Our Score employees in the UK, bringing the total policy envelops the criteria and standards number of employees surveyed to nearly set out by the ETI and provides guidance Customer care 3,000 over fourteen sites.
Our plan to translate on complying with and surpassing the Base the survey into other languages in 2003 Code of Labour Practice.
In 2003 all of our Can-do approach was set back by technical difficulties, but, Human Resources Managers were trained in 2004 we aim to translate it into a number in ETI requirements and six of our business Teamwork of pictorial languages, including Gujarati units were audited.
We originally planned and Urdu.
We have now benchmarked the to self audit 50% of our sites against our policy Doing it right questionnaire with help from the Corporate in 2004.
It is unlikely that we will be able to Leadership Council and have improved meet this target, but we will audit as many its format.
Our aim is to roll out the survey sites as possible and report on our progress Innovation friendly to the remaining UK sites in 2004. next year.
01 2345 The survey establishes a care index Geest values Performance Target composed of scores for four areas: The Geest values, implicit in the way we management style, communication, flexibility work, were codified in 1999 to ensure they Women in employment at Geest % of working arrangements and facilities, and maintain their importance as the Group working environment.
The values are listed below: 2003 index target is 16 and, despite increasing Customer care the base number of employees surveyed, Can-do approach 2002 we improved our score on the care index Teamwork last year see page 71.
We have set an Doing it right 2001 intermediate target care level of 12.
level, more people are answering positively 015 30 45 than negatively.
We can analyse the index For a more detailed explanation of the values, at different levels across all participating please refer to our Company website Managerial All employees sites, by division, by business unit and even www.
co. uk gst ourcompany by areas within manufacturing facilities.
Our responsibilities Geest PLC 73 New amenity block at Caledonian Produce, Boness Photographs courtesy of Paul Zanre Photography In 2003, we saw many improvements in site amenities across Ivan Clingan, General Manager, explains that the new amenity the Group, including new and improved canteens, lockers, block has boosted employee morale and also improved smoking facilities, lavatories, staff shops and even some patio communication.
This sounds a very simple idea, but we just and picnic areas.
did not have the space to do it before.
Now, whenever we have a new product trial or launch we display the information on boards At Caledonian Produce in Boness, 1 million was invested in and tables near the canteen.
Employees can see the latest 2 a brand new 900 m amenity block and canteen which opened products and packaging, the new ingredients and the launch in April.
Caledonian is now the largest employer in Boness with plans.
People have become more interested in the products around 500 employees a number which has doubled over and taken greater ownership.
But the really good thing the last five years.
The current canteen facilities were proving is that it brings all site employees together in a stylish, bright inadequate so the decision was made to start from scratch.
Its difficult to evaluate such building was designed to a high specification by a local architect an investment financially it affects the site positively in so and takes advantage of the views over the Firth of Forth through many ways: current employees, our image in the community, large glass panels in the winter and from the balcony, weather productivity and employee commitment.
There is ample space for employees to eat and to significantly the working environment for our employees.
In the amenity block, the changing rooms have underfloor heating and each employee has been allocated a full-size locker.
74 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 For management positions, all potential in December 2003 we saw an improvement Employment profile by age employees are recruited on evidence and the current measurement stands at 71%.
% split by age bracket of the Geest values and current employees Our aim is to record and report this index 60 are appraised annually on the above.
We annually against targets which will be set measure and can analyse our employees in 2004.
50-60 performance against the Geest values in order to identify strengths and weaknesses.
Employee retention The reduction in employee turnover has 40-49 We do not intend to publish this information been a management key performance regularly, but the table on page 72 is a indicator KPI for the past three years 30-39 snapshot of the performance of permanent and is one of the main non-financial employees against the Geest values performance measurements for senior 20-29 in 2003.
Relatively speaking, our weakest management bonus payments.
We are value is Doing it right and our Group pleased with our improvements to date 20 Human Resources Director, Mark Martin, but still need to increase efforts to hit talks about the training programmes our targets.
We aim to report annually we have put in place to help address this on our performance in this area.
Similar to the care index, 2003 2002 we can analyse the performance Our performance is split and measured against values by division or business between Site graded and Hay graded Employment retention against 2003 unit.
Information such as this helps to management employees.
target Site graded employees % form the building blocks for our Human Resources strategy.
For Site graded employees, our retention 2003 target is 70% which, as our performance Equality of opportunity was 68% last year, we have yet to achieve.
2002 Geest has an equality of opportunity policy, This may appear quite a low target for which relates to colour, disability, marital some industries and even other parts of 2001 status, race and ethnic or national origin, the food industry.
However, our fast-moving religion, gender, sexual orientation and processes, often in hot or cold environments, 0 20406080100 spent convictions.
This policy has been do not always make for the most comfortable reviewed in the light of anti-discrimination of workplaces.
In addition, our order Performance Target legislation introduced in 2003. fluctuations require a flexible workforce as we are in operation every day except Employment retention performance against Employment profile by age Christmas day.
We continue to focus our 2003 target Hay graded employees % Ours is a relatively young business and our efforts on making our working conditions average employee age of 37 2002: 37 better for our employees turn to page 73 2003 reflects this.
The average age of our female to see the investment Caledonian Produce employees is 38 2002: 38 and of our male has made.
We also pay considerably 2002 employees 37 2002: 36. above the minimum wage.
2001 Employment by length of service Our Hay graded employee retention target The average length of service at Geest is 90%.
We have seen a consistent retention 0 20406080100 is four years, with over 50% of employees rate of 86% over the last three years and we having been with the Company for between hope that recent initiatives e. g. leadership Performance Target one and five years.
In the middle of 2003 we started to record Disabled employees the number of permanent site graded We consider all applications for employment employees who have been with Geest by disabled persons fully and fairly in regard for over one year and we have named to the aptitudes and abilities of the applicant.
It is an important Training and career opportunities are measurement as it represents the number available to all employees and, in the event of people who continue to work for us of employees developing a disability, every following initial induction and training effort is made to ensure that their employment a critical period for new recruits.
Between within the Group continues and they receive the first measurement and the last one suitable retraining.
Our responsibilities Geest PLC 75 In 2003, 380 managers were recruited, promoted internally or moved across the Group.
Of these, around 40% were recruited externally and 60% promoted internally or transferred.
We believe this represents a healthy balance between 60%40% recruiting externally and developing our own people.
internal external Flexible working The Geest Development and Succession People development process We are reviewing our approach to flexible DAS process is used to identify and monitor Continuous coaching working to enable us to attract potential all Geest management employees across Reviewing appraisal employees such as single parents and the Group with the aim of ensuring individual others who, at present, may find it difficult career development within a particular Rewarding to apply to us given our current standard business or across Geest businesses.
Across the Group, Planning objectives, we have examples of flexible working We identify Geest employees as either being values and personal hours, mum shifts, child care vouchers, ready to move on immediately or within development plan job sharing and career breaks.
These are a determined timeframe following specific at the discretion of the General Manager coaching or training.
This identification is at each business unit.
made at formal DAS meetings held regularly at business unit, divisional and functional Appraisals, career development, training, levels and at the Management Board level.
apprenticeships and graduate recruitment We have developed many structures at Geest Our DAS process provides a structured which facilitate career development across method for ensuring appropriate development the Group.
These are based on appraisals, of our employees and allows a flow of people people career planning and training.
who understand the Geest values to move into bigger roles as the Company grows.
We take appraisals seriously at Geest and have set KPIs to encourage further all We have established Conscience Groups managers to appraise their direct reports for all our key functions, which set roles annually.
During the assessment we measure and objectives for each level of career our employees performance against progression and spread best practice accountabilities, key objectives and Geest across the functional teams.
refocused and strengthened our Technical, Development and Manufacturing teams to At the end of the appraisal, each employee help us deliver sustainable improvements has a revised set of key objectives and an in manufacturing performance.
agreed personal development plan with training and coaching requirements and timescales.
76 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 University of Lincoln and Geest Geests key skills provision received special commendation The relationship between the University of Lincoln and Geest where achievement of 100% was noted as outstanding and quoted has developed over the past seven years and a strong partnership as being one of the highest achievement rates in the country.
now exists, providing development opportunities for Geest The Holbeach Campus of the University of Lincoln has recently been employees on the Spalding and surrounding sites.
awarded Centre of Vocational Excellence CoVE status in Food In October 2003, the University and Geest jointly hosted an award Manufacturing Technology.
This status brings with it significant ceremony where 150 Geest employees received qualifications in capital funds and is awarded to specialist colleges which can areas such as basic skills, intermediate and advanced food hygiene, prove they work closely with business and industry delivering food science and manufacture.
relevant training provision of high standard.
The University was subject to an Ofsted inspection in 2003, during The Universitys relationship with Geest was the main factor in which the provision of education to Geest was a major area of focus.
our successful bid for CoVE status.
Thanks to this, the region now The inspectors were extremely complimentary about the range has an excellent resource base to support the food manufacturing of provision which they noted as excellent and about the joint sectors future growth and development.
commitment and enthusiasm to encourage more employees Val Braybrooks, Business Development and Holbeach to participate in particular in the areas of basic and key skills Campus Manager, The University of Lincoln.
and language support for employees who are foreign nationals.
Given our decentralised structure, business competence for supervisors and GeestEmployee representation units hold their own training budgets specific processes.
An advanced continuous Each Geest site has a Site Employee and training data is not reported centrally.
improvement module has recently been Forum SEF, which has elected members Nonetheless, there continue to be Group established.
To date over 1,300 training representing all employees at that site.
initiatives in training, some of which days have been run on this programme.
The purpose of the SEF is to provide a forum are recorded.
More details can be found on page 40. for employee communication and to be a vehicle for the discussion and resolution During 2003, 90% of our General Managers We recruited 28 graduates in 2003 through of individual and collective issues within and functional heads completed our our Accelerated Management Scheme the business.
Typically, each SEF meets bespoke leadership training course, which AMS, which is open to both recent 6-12 times a year.
We do not have a formal is designed to improve leadership skills and graduates and current employees, with policy of freedom of association but we personal effectiveness.
specialist courses in Finance, Produce, operate as such, except at our site in South Manufacturing, Development and Technical.
Africa Spring Valley Foods where trade In 2003 we launched our Excellence These have been developed by the relevant union membership is compulsory.
About Programme, a training course aimed departments, with the support of the half of our workforce is unionised and the at employees at supervisory level, which Human Resources team, and in SEFs work proactively with the unions on is accredited to the Institute of Leadership some instances have been recognised the relevant sites.
We estimate that over 80% and Management.
The three basic modules by external organisations.
Our retention of our worldwide workforce is covered of the programme cover people and of graduates remains high.
management skills, basic manufacturing Our current Development graduates From left to right: Abbey Chong, Davina Bonham, Alison Johnson, Marie McGarry, Peter Dow New Business Development Director, Christina Drake, Matt Casey, Alpa Patel, Hannah McKay, David Gray, Danielle Shaw Our responsibilities Geest PLC 77 In November 1999, we introduced the Geest As a result of establishing the SEF index, the winning sites.
We are sure this will provide European Forum GEF, which is composed key improvement areas were identified.
further incentive to sites to tailor their initiatives of a nominated SEF member from each of These include a need for communication to their communities and we thank the Board our sites worldwide.
The GEFs purpose is to and representation skills tailored for SEF for its generosity.
The panel of judges this provide a forum for two-way communication representatives.
We are working on year included three senior managers and and discussion across the whole Geest three training modules to help address our Chairman, Sir John Banham.
Group, including a personal question and these issues.
answer session with Gareth Voyle, our Chief We are delighted to acknowledge Executive Officer, and a financial performance Community involvement the winners publicly.
overview by Mark Pullen, our Group Finance Rather than adopting a Group wide Director.
approach, we encourage each business Overall winner Spring Valley Foods, unit to support the charities of its choice.
South Africa Following the 2003 GEF meeting, the UK The rule is that a local employee at that Joint runners up Spalding site and GEF representatives decided to inaugurate site nominates the chosen charity or event.
Alresford Salads an additional annual GEF workshop with Often the representatives of the SEF help Highly commended Bourne Salads, the objectives of improving the performance decide which charities and events are Wingland Foods and effectiveness of the SEF, raising its profile considered and how money is to be raised.
and influence within the business and sharing best practice across sites.
One of In 2003 we launched the Geest Community The judges found Spring Valley Foods many initiatives resulting from this workshop Award to encourage our sites to think more community approach exceptional and is the SEF Index, which measures the about the way in which they can impact were impressed by the pivotal role it plays performance of the SEF based on 30 positively their local communities and also in many aspects of community life.
They different key success criteria.
The current to report on their initiatives.
The prize to also believed that their projects planned collective SEF index stands at 2.8 out of be used for future investment in community for 2004 would benefit particularly from a maximum score of 4 with individual SEF activity was money won by our Investor the prize money.
Relations team for our Annual Report The target is to achieve a collective score and Accounts.
Having received the entries, of between 3 and 3.5. and been impressed by the level of activity, the Board has pledged an annual donation of 10,000 prize money to be shared across We at Spring Valley Foods care about our employees and the community in which they live.
We believe that all people are entitled to live a life to the best of their potential.
We will continue to be innovative in our approach to improve the community where our employees belong.
Quote from Spring Valley Foods Geest Community Award application.
78 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Spring Valley Foods SVF has a policy of SVF has plans to develop its own community investing directly in the community rather centre and initiate further welfare projects in than directing funds to charities.
We wish them well and hope that the has been taken as it allows the business prize money will go some way to accelerate to monitor performance of its efforts rather their plans.
than assume that the money may have gone to a good cause.
The business also Spalding is our largest site and has has strong stated objectives to become around 2,500 employees.
It is committed the leader in its community by providing to becoming an employer of choice and appropriate training and career development is highly involved in the local community.
opportunities and a commitment to be The judges were overwhelmed by the sheer ethical and non-discriminatory in all volume of activity that takes place.
Spalding aspects of its activities.
donated to over 100 different causes last year and the synopsis below does not do Depending on the season, SVF employs this justice.
Over 7,000 was donated to between 400 and 600 people.
The majority schools in 2003 and nearly 15,000 to local of employees live in a community with sports clubs including the Spalding Junior no running water, electricity or transport Fishing Club, Pinchbeck Cricket Club and infrastructure and an unemployment rate the South Lincs Competitive Swimming of 60%.
SVF encourages local people Club.
Over 20,000 was donated to 30 to seek employment by providing a free local charities and causes such as the South Pat Baxter, Matt Pilgrim and Mandy Prudden transport service to and from work.
Holland Rotary Hospice at Home 24 hour part of the Charity committee in front of care, Holbeach Hospital, the local amateur the Spalding Staff Shop.
Our congratulations Given the developing education system dramatics group, the Spalding & District go to them for their efforts in 2003. in South Africa, there is an onus on the Rotary Young Chef competition, charity employer to encourage higher education walks, toddler groups, 3rd Spalding within the workplace.
At the end of 2003, Brownies the list goes on.
A further SVF entered into a learnership agreement 7,000 was donated to national charities, with the government to house and pay 200 but distributed to local funds.
unemployed people on a programme for one year.
At the end of the period, each Numerous Spalding employees have been of the 200 people will have a certificate, involved in local school and community which will enable them to seek employment industry days and careers fairs: pupils anywhere in the food industry in South Africa.
from eight local schools have gained work experience at the site.
Other visits to the SVF has its own soccer team with players site have been organised for GCSE Applied from the local community, sponsors Science and A level Business students the sportswear and pays for transport.
and many employees are involved in the governing body of local schools.
Mandy SVF has continued its AIDS awareness Prudden, Human Resources Department programme.
HIV-positive speakers counsel Co-ordinator, is the Chairman of the South factory staff on a fortnightly basis and 250 Holland Education Business Partnership.
In 2003, seven SVF The local MP wrote two letters in 2003 employees died at a very young age.
Staff congratulating Spalding on its involvement contributed to the families and SVF agreed with local schools.
In addition, SVF paid for transportation to the funeral site.
The Geest Staff Shop at Spalding is an institution in its own right and, through SVF has adopted the local Banzani Primary its proceeds, sponsors many initiatives both School which most of its employees children for employees on site and externally.
SVF has already provided a computer it sponsored the Geest float at the Spalding centre and helped start a library.
In 2003, fruit Flower Parade for the 45th time and is the worth 2,000 was donated to the school for only local company to have entered a float the children to eat during breaks.
Our responsibilities Geest PLC 79, 107000 Total amount of charity donations in 2003. each year since the parade started.
Geest In addition, the site has invested money Wingland Foods demonstrated how much Flowers, also on the Spalding site, donated to reduce its environmental impact in the fun can be had by participating in local flowers for the display.
The Geest Family local community.
They donated their development Fun Day is a very popular event with local landscaping, delivery time changes, chef, Austin Wheeler, once again, to people as well as employees.
The entrance reduction in size of lorries, using electricity demonstrate how to cook healthy, appetising fee was waived this year and plans are under instead of diesel to run refrigeration units, meals on a budget at the Sutton Bridge Youth way for this year.
Around 25,000 is better signposting in the town, building Centre.
This was in co-operation with the donated to this local event which will be of new fences and fitting covers onto lights.
Community Development Service and was renamed Spalding Family Fun Day in 2004.
These have resulted in a reduction in noise attended by 250 children from several local and light pollution and traffic movements.
schools as well as by health agencies and All applications for staff shop funding at The team at Alresford consults regularly nurses.
Fundraising events at the site Spalding must be supported by a current with local residents on such issues.
included a cooking competition and a fancy Geest employee.
The final decisions are dress day.
Local donations were made to the made by the Charity committee run by Bourne Salads is commended for making Long Sutton Ladies Hockey Club and to local Mandy Prudden, Pat Baxter who manages a huge effort to support local charities and schools for books and hats.
The SEF plays the staff shop, Carol Gibson, Matt Pilgrim events.
Some of those which benefited from a very proactive role in fundraising and cash Treasurer and Gaenor Bailey.
Our sponsorship include: Bourne Cricket Club, raised is often matched by the business.
Total congratulations go to them for their Bourne Grammar School, Westfield School, cash donations amounted to over 3,000. efforts in 2003.
Bourne Town Football Club, Grimsthorpe Fun Run, Thurlby Fun Run, the Bourne Lions There are many other initiatives across The judges were impressed by Alresford and the band for the Bourne Beer Festival!
the Group, many of which are unrecorded Salads commitment to using local Product was donated to local schools, and therefore go unrecognised.
We hope contractors and businesses and supporting theatre clubs, community centres, pubs, to address this in the future.
5,000 was pledged to the homes for the elderly and many others.
donations amounted to 107,000 in 2003 Perins Community School to help them Employees from Bourne have spent many 32,000 in 2002. achieve specialist school status in sport hours in local schools participating in and Alresford Salads also sponsored the industry days and awarding prizes Alresford Town Football Club.
Bags of for making the most creative salad!
and watercress and salads were donated career opportunity initiatives with the local and site car parking facilities were made council.
A group of special needs children available to locals and visitors during from Willoughby School was invited the annual Village Fair.
to the site to learn about salads.
Over 5,000 was raised by the site.
