48 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Board of Directors From left to right: Gareth Voyle, Jane Scriven, Mark Pullen, Dawn Durrant, Sir John Banham, Bob Davies, David Wallis, Raymond Destin Length of service on Geest Board Executive Directors Jane Scriven 44 Managing Director, Name rounded to nearest full year Gareth Voyle 44 Chief Executive officer continental Europe and foodservice The early part of Gareths career was Having started her career as a solicitor at Executive Directors in a technical capacity, largely with Rank Norton Rose, London, Jane has spent the last Gareth Voyle 9 Hovis McDougall PLC RHM.
His belief 15 years working in industry in Asia and Mark Pullen 9 in the absolute necessity for product quality Europe.
Her career with Elders IXL and, for Jane Scriven 8 and food safety derives from this early the past 13 years, with Geest has covered experience.
Gareth became a company extensive mergers and acquisition work, Company Secretary General Manager at the age of 27 and was corporate development and, more recently, Dawn Durrant subsequently appointed Deputy Managing the running of our continental Europe and Director for R F Brooks Ltd. a significant foodservice business.
Independent non-executive Directors chilled food manufacturing subsidiary Sir John Banham 2 of RHM.
He joined Geest in 1991 to run Jane joined the Board of Geest in January Bob Davies 6 the fresh prepared foods business in 1996 and believes there is significant Raymond Destin 7 Spalding.
He was appointed to the Board opportunity for measured growth in David Wallis 4 in July 1995 and, with his team, has been continental Europe and foodservice.
responsible for developing both the culture and operating practices that form the Dawn Durrant 37 Company Secretary In accordance with Geest policy, basis of our business.
Gareth became Dawn qualied as a solicitor with Allen Bob Davies will be standing down Chief Operating officer in 1998 and & Overy, the London law rm, in 1990.
She at the Annual General Meeting Chief Executive officer in July 2002. practised company and commercial law in May 2004 following his completion there until 1994 when she decided to develop of two three-year terms.
We would Mark Pullen 53 Group Finance Director her career in industry with Geest.
Initially like to take this opportunity to thank Mark has worked in the consumer goods Dawn joined as legal advisor, providing him for his valuable contribution industry for over 30 years.
He is a qualied support and advice to the business and to the Board during this period.
accountant with a business degree and subsequently widened her responsibilities At the time of writing we are in the his career with Unilever and, subsequently, to include compliance, corporate process of recruiting his replacement.
Guinness has included production planning, governance, corporate responsibilities and From May 2004, David Wallis will industrial relations, brand marketing, IT, risk management.
Dawn was appointed become the Senior non-executive running a bottling plant and, in a number Company Secretary in December 1999.
of parts of the world, both buying and She has focused on developing and selling businesses.
improving legal and governance best practice throughout the Group.
Key to symbols Mark joined Geest and the Board in Nomination committee October 1995 as Group Finance Director.
Remuneration committee One of his priorities has been to ensure Audit committee that the performance of the business is clearly understood both within and outwith the Company, that targets are owned and learning occurs quickly.
Our responsibilities Our responsibilities Geest PLC 49 Independent non-executive Directors Bob Davies 55 years at Conagra Europe as General Sir John Banham 63 Senior non-executive Director Manager.
He is now the General Manager Non-executive Chairman Bob Davies joined the Geest Board in July of the European Food Federation.
This is John was appointed to the Board of Geest 1998.
At that time he was Chief Executive the Continent-wide association of European in August 2002 and to non-executive of East Midlands Electricity.
Raymond joined the Chairman in September 2002. the take-over of East Midlands Electricity by Geest Board as a non-executive Director PowerGen in 1998, Bob moved on to become in May 1997.
In his day-job, Raymonds top John is also the non-executive Chairman of Chief Executive of Arriva plc, the leading priority is to ensure that European consumers Whitbread PLC, ECI Ventures Ltd and Cyclacel transport services company.
Bob started his have a wide range of safe, enjoyable and Limited, the senior non-executive Director of working life at the Ford Motor Company and nutritious food products.
AMVESCAP PLC and a non-executive Director undertook a wide range of roles in the UK, of Merchants Trust PLC.
After two years as a Director David Wallis 56 of Coopers & Lybrands consulting practice, Non-executive Director Previously, John has held several leading he returned to the front line, playing a key role David is a lifelong food retailer and positions in British industry.
He was Director in the turnaround of Waterford Wedgwood entrepreneur.
After graduating in economics General of the CBI from 1987-1992, plc.
He followed this with two years at Ferranti he worked in his family food business for seven non-executive Chairman of Tarmac PLC International before joining East Midlands years before selling it to Merchant Retail Group 1994-2000 and Kingsher PLC 1996-2001, Electricity as Financial Director in 1994. plc where he subsequently became Chief Director of The National Westminster Bank Bob was also non-executive Director of T & S Executive.
Over the following nine years he and National Power both 1992-1998 and the Stores, the leading convenience store retailer, gained substantial experience in acquisitions, founding Chairman of Westcountry Television until its acquisition by Tesco in January 2003. disposals and restructuring, as well as the and Labatt Breweries of Europe.
He has also continual reinforcement of the truth that retail held important public sector appointments: Raymond Destin 63 is detail.
David joined the Geest Board in as the first Controller of the Audit Commission Non-executive Director February 2000.
David is now Chairman of 1983-1987, the first Chairman of the local Raymond has enjoyed a long career in the Speedy Hire Plc, the market leader in the tool government commission for England food industry primarily with American-owned hire sector, a non-executive Director of 1992-1995 and Chairman of the UK companies in countries across Europe.
He Robinson Healthcare, Chairman of Greeting governments Retail and Consumer Affairs initially entered the industry in marketing with Card Shop a national chain of card shops Foresight Panel 1997-2001. Colgate Palmolive.
He progressed to become and Chairman of Herbert Brown a regional General Manager of its Campbell Soup chain of jewellers.
He is an active supporter of food division.
He then had a period as Group entrepreneurship and advises private equity Director of Borden Europe, followed by seven and development capital groups.
What did we look for in our independent Bob Davies In 2003, we offered Raymond a third non-executive Directors?
We wanted someone with the skills and three-year term.
This is a departure from We thought long and hard about creating experience to give us and our shareholders our normal policy, but is important for our our balanced team of independent noncomfort in our controls, risk management continental European development.
It is not just about looking and beyond.
We found a graduate of at CVs but, as importantly, understanding the excellent Ford Financial Management David Wallis what each personality brings to our business Programme and an ex plc Finance Director.
We run a devolved business and encourage and how the team interacts.
We looked Bobs experience in consumer goods, our managers to be entrepreneurial in in particular for people with proven in operating across a number of European dealing with our retail customers.
We looked independence and an outstanding track countries and as CEO of another FTSE 250 for, and found, an experienced retailer record of creating shareholder value.
company brings an added dimension.
who had headed up his own business and then adapted his management style Sir John Banham Raymond Destin to run a publicly quoted plc.
In David we In our independent non-executive We knew we were a UK-centric business have found a straight-talking, hands-on Chairman we looked for gravitas and with ambition to grow abroad.
We found a player with strong attention to detail.
We also wanted a good Belgian who has worked in most European businessman and someone who shared countries in the consumer food industry Please contact our Company Secretary, our values.
Our Chairman has all of these and for companies which understand and Dawn Durrant, if you wish to speak attributes, the clarity of thought that practise the Anglo-Saxon equity culture.
to any of our independent non-executive McKinseys fosters and the depth of That his current job involves close contact Directors.
See page 121 for contact details.
understanding brought by two previous with almost every food manufacturer FTSE 100 chairmanships.
of scale in Europe is a bonus.
