22 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Pure pleasure Parsley, sage, rosemary and thyme... and coriander, galangal, tarragon, cinnamon, star anise, Szechuan pepper, fenugreek, black onion seeds, ajwain seeds, toasted pumpkin seeds we use over 70 different herbs and spices in our products.
Opportunities for growth Geest PLC 23 Inspired by travel and cookery A typical example of this is our Our range of Hunan meals requires programmes, our consumers are range of premium regional Chinese far less effort.
The meal for two more aware of ingredients and ready meals described below.
contains two chicken dishes including different types of cuisine.
They Zha-Jiang chicken with fried rice are becoming more adventurous Go East is an exciting new range and spicy potato accompaniments.
when it comes to trying new foods of premium Chinese meals based The traditional marinating techniques and mixing tastes and textures.
The Hunan have been used, as have the They are increasingly demanding, province is a region of South East authentic Hunan ingredients.
have high quality expectations China.
It has over 4,000 dishes in and continue to consider food its cuisine, which is characterised Nowadays, you can as a reward for a long days work by strong, fresh, hot and sour try meals you simply or to treat others.
The key to its flavours lies in the way the meat is marinated wouldnt know how Together with our retailers which was done originally as a to make yourself.
we have recognised this trend means of preservation and the Source: Geest consumer research and developed more upmarket use of chilli.
product lines in parallel with the expansion of premium retailer The recipes in the Go East range In six of our market sectors, sub-brands.
In our market sectors, have been created by Chef Peng consumers paid more per kilo products positioned as premium who owns the highly rated Hunan of product in 2003 than in 2002. grew by over 20% in 2003.
Given restaurant in Pimlico, London the high quality image of fresh the first restaurant in the UK to serve A very small prepared foods, this sector of Hunan cuisine.
Chef Peng is one selection of herbs the food market in particular is core of the last surviving chefs to be and spices used to the potential of these sub-brands trained in Imperial Chinese cuisine.
and we believe the trend of trading Traditionally, kitchens to the Emperor up where people are prepared would serve a banquet of around The Go East to pay more for a premium product 100 different dishes with 300 chefs meal for two.
will create further demand for employed for each sitting.
exotic and esoteric ingredients and products.
People are increasingly willing to pay a bit extra for premium quality products and treats.
Kathryn Parratt, Divisional Marketing Manager For bibliography for pages 12 to 23, please turn to page 120.
