02 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Pure vision Geest is one of the purest food players among the Our vision publicly listed companies.
We make fresh prepared To become the best fresh prepared foods and market fresh produce.
We neither freeze, food and produce company wherever can, nor sterilise our products.
They are all ready to eat or ready to heat with no or minimal preparation.
Whether our teams are making salads, pizza, ready meals or packing fresh tomatoes, everybody across We shall achieve this by excelling in the business understands the importance of handling service, quality, value and innovation fresh ingredients and the fast-moving timescales to the delight of our customers.
There is a cohesive culture throughout the business.
We will grow in any geographical We work with some of the best known consumer market where customer partnership brands in Europe.
We all appreciate how important it is to understand our customers strategies in order and consumer demand can to develop their business in fresh prepared foods be developed.
We must supply them with appropriate products for their individual retailer brands.
This is our focus and we have no major supported Our achievements in 2003 brands of our own.
12% total sales growth 10% dividend growth Our business streams 2003 8% earnings per share growth Sales Growth 12.9p final dividend million % UK fresh prepared foods 627 6 47m net capital expenditure Continental European fresh Over 800 products launched prepared foods 78 59 Successful acquisition in France Whole head produce 163 20 Source: Geest Opening of The Pizzeria Opening of new dips facility Fifty two weeks versus fifty two weeks Pre-exceptional Our world Geest PLC 03 Fresh prepared foods estimated market share Our major business focus is in the UK fresh prepared by manufacturer % foods market.
In the key sectors in which we operate 1 1 Northern Foods we aim to be number one or number two, or to have 2 Geest 2 a sustainable niche position.
The market in which 3 Uniq 4 Greencore Group we operate is relatively fragmented and over half 3 5 Others of the manufacturers are privately owned.
4 Source: Williams fide Bro 5 Key focus areas Average weekly share price movements 2003 % Below are our key areas of management 20 focus.
If we do not get these right they 10 will pose serious risks to our business.
0 Food safety -10 Millions of people eat our products.
It is -20 paramount that we ensure food safety.
-30 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Geest Uniq Northern Foods Greencore Group Our customers We serve few, very important customers.
Source: Data from Thompson Financial 2004 We compete directly with the above publicly quoted companies in only a limited number We make products which carry their brand of market sectors.
Nonetheless, these companies are normally quoted as our nearest peers.
The health of these relationships is vital to our business.
Our consumers Central to the success of our business has been offering a variety of innovative and attractive products which are of high quality yet convenient to a consumer who is Financial data for 2003 increasingly demanding these attributes.
Net earnings million 27.8 Our people Net assets million 184.6 To grow and deliver in the current environment P E after exceptional costs 9.7 requires good people.
We need to recruit, Dividend yield 4.6% retain and develop our people to support Market capitalisation million 341 our growth.
We also need to share the Net debt million 77.5 same values if we are to work cohesively ROIC 12% and in a common direction.
Source: Geest estimates Our investment We have grown substantially over the past few years and plan to do so in a sustainable way.
It is necessary that all of the key resources are available to allow that growth to continue and that our investments deliver targeted returns.
