18 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Pure health We launched 250 healthy products in 2003.
This sector of the fresh prepared foods market grew by 15%.
Opportunities for growth Geest PLC 19 Some of the topical health One of the advantages of fresh Health remains a dynamic issues facing the food industry prepared foods is that they can in consumer demand and one and the general public written help consumers to be in control of our focus areas.
by a nutrition expert can be of what they eat.
Retailer branded found on pages 56 to 61.
Research labelling on nutritional information Healthy and tasty suggests that most of our and weight is stringent especially Without exception, each of our consumers have a desire to eat where health claims are made.
major retail customers has invested more healthily.
Exactly which The next development is to continue in its healthy-eating brands.
The products fit this category is difficult to make this even clearer for the British Retail Consortium published to define.
What we do know is that consumer and help translate this a paper in 2003 entitled Eat Well, freshness is seen to be beneficial into recommended daily intakes.
Drink Well: retail initiatives towards and thats the business we healthier eating and their recent are in.
Over one third of our We continue to examine ways publication A Policy Framework prepared business is in leafy of researching and promoting for Salt Minimisation illustrates salads, fruit salads and vegetable healthy benefits of our products.
their members our customers mixes, which most would agree In 2003, we promoted the high focus in this area.
Approximately a nutritional value of watercress further 10% is in healthy-eating during the Not just a bit on the side Our challenge is to continue to make ranges where more focus is campaign see page 38 and we healthy food without compromising given to calories, fat and salt are working with Ulster University on taste.
It is no surprise that the to investigate more health benefits.
healthy-eating sector of our We have also developed a set market is growing above of salad-based starter recipes the rate of the rest.
following research carried out by the University of Pennsylvania which shows that eating salads as a starter can help people reduce the total calorie intake of a meal.
Healthy eating is all about balance.
No ingredient is bad for you providing its eaten in moderation.
Patrick Clifford, Chef Trainer at the Geest Culinary Academy 20 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Pure health continued Patrick Clifford, Chef Trainer at the Similarly, low fat options do not Gramme for gramme, Geest Culinary Academy, has been need to be bland.
Look at different watercress contains as much running a course called What countries and how their cuisine Vitamin C as oranges, more is healthy eating?.
Since its launch is influenced by culture, climate and calcium than milk and more iron in the middle of 2003, over 40 locally-grown ingredients.
customer and Geest employees can be a naturally balanced diet Source: www.
co. uk have been on the course.
using fruit, vegetables, pulses, spices and herbs to give extra flavour, It is not necessary for people to add texture and colour.
And think about more salt to their cooking to make healthier cooking methods grilling, The market for fresh prepared it taste better often its just habit.
We need to educate other senses different tastes, textures and We demonstrate ten recipes aroma.
Think about the rich flavours on the course covering meat, Healthy products account you can achieve by using different fish and vegetable options across for over 50% of Geests sales.
herbs and spices pepper, ginger, every eating occasion and I defy cardamom, fresh basil, for example, anyone to tell me that they dont or by using the zest of limes and taste fantastic!
Geests healthy portfolio % sales lemons.
You can easily reduce salt 1 Healthy fresh 1 by using less in combination with To try out one of the recipes from prepared foods 2 Traded produce other ingredients or by adding the course, please turn to page 43.
3 Other fresh it earlier on in the recipe.
prepared foods Source: Geest estimates 2 3 It is estimated that 13 million British females are on a diet 13m at any one time.
Opportunities for growth Geest PLC 21 New year resolutions People are becoming % Responding should eat more Around five years ago we started more aware to notice that sales of our ready In a recent Food Standards Agency meals rose in January.
After further Foods containing fat FSA research report, respondents investigation we ascertained why were asked in general terms Foods containing sugar consumers eat more ready meals what they felt people should eat at this time of year.
Some of them Salt in your food more or less of.
Around two thirds are fed up with all the extra cooking of respondents identified that they Meat at Christmas, but the majority are should consume fewer fatty foods looking for fresh, healthier alternatives Milk dairy products and sugary drinks and eat more after the festive season, so they fruit and vegetables.
Nuts beans chickpeas lentils Bread cereals pasta rice potatoes In addition, more people were Consumers are able to follow the aware of the recommended number of calories and fat content Fish number of portions of fruit and in fresh prepared foods and can Fruit vegetables to be eaten every day check on the portion sizes all 59% of respondents answered of which help if they wish to control Vegetables salads correctly at least five portions their food intake.
They often find 0 10 203040506070 80 a day compared to 52% in 2002. this more convenient than trying In the same survey, more people % Responding should eat less to monitor nutritional information claimed to look for nutritional from take-away, home-cooked information on food labels foods or restaurant meals.
Foods containing fat with over a third of respondents Foods containing sugar looking for salt.
Whilst most We also discovered that some people find it relatively easy consumers buy ready meals Salt in your food to understand information on food for the very first time at this time Meat labels, there are a high number of of year and that many of them people who are concerned about continue to buy these and other Milk dairy products the accuracy of food labelling fresh prepared foods subsequently.
and in particular the accuracy Nuts beans chickpeas lentils We shared this information with of health claims.
This remains our key customers and, now, new Bread cereals pasta rice potatoes an area of focus for the industry.
year resolutions mean that January Fish is an important time to develop and 0 promote new products to respond Fruit to consumer demand and also 0 Vegetables salads to stimulate growth.
0 10 203040506070 80 Source: Consumer Attitudes to Foods Standards Wave 4, February 2004
