08 08 Geest PLC Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Pure response We see Geest as a growth company.
We have positioned ourselves in those parts of the food market which have shown considerable growth, and we expect to continue to grow at well above the average rate for the food sector.
Opportunities for growth Opportunities for growth Geest PLC Geest PLC 09 09 fresh food with a short shelf life, typically four to ten days.
This is a process akin to a restaurant kitchen producing to each customers order.
It is most unlike the long and stable production runs of, for example, canned or frozen food producers who can build substantial stocks between production and sale.
Our skills provide a barrier to entry.
Over the past five or so years we have seen only one significant new entrant in our market place.
Gareth Voyle, Chief Executive Officer, The Annual Report and Accounts and Mark Pullen, Group Finance Director could be just a reflection on 2003.
Our focus influences our We believe that all readers, organisation and structure.
be they shareholders, suppliers, We run a devolved organisation, employees or those who may with, for example, one business become one of these, require that concentrates on the dips more.
You want non-financial as market and another that focuses well as financial information.
You on ready meals for a particular want to understand how and why retailer.
This allows focus on the we run the Company.
You want specifics of customer, consumer to understand our agenda.
and product and the aim of meeting a daily service level of better than We see Geest as a growth company.
Over the years, we have We have positioned ourselves configured our structure to match in those parts of the food market these demands, but it is not perfect.
which have shown considerable It requires more overhead than growth, and which we expect a centralised structure and the to continue to grow at well above opportunity to make mistakes is the average rate for the food sector.
It is harder work to ensure The reasons why we remain that the synergies, for example, of confident of this market growth purchasing are pursued.
However, are explained on pages 12 to 23. it does enable the nimbleness, innovation and dedication that In focusing on fresh prepared allow us to be a growth company.
foods, we have developed particular It also explains why we believe our skills which differ from the rest of vision and values must be clearly the food industry.
We respond to expressed so that our devolved daily orders to produce and deliver organisation acts cohesively.
10 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Pure response continued We continue to re-examine covers about 50% of our purchased of fruit salads.
We have tasked the actions and beliefs of our goods.
We are now using the each of our businesses with specific Company to ensure that they expertise gained centrally to buy cost recovery plans which may are still appropriate today and the remaining 50% more efficiently.
be either through price increases for tomorrow.
As it happens, the We are targeting a 7 million or a mutually agreed cost reduction paragraphs written above have improvement in 2004. initiative with the retailer.
A recovery held true for the past five years.
of a further 7 million is planned One issue that has required a Historically, our Production for 2004. step-change to our agenda over Managers prime concern the last 18 months or so is, to quote was to meet each days order Making our assets work harder a broker analyst, Can top line on time.
Our increase in scale and reducing the rate of new capital growth be converted into bottom means that we can now improve expenditure without damaging line growth?
the way in which we carry out the growth is high on our agenda.
The process, e. g. our factory schedules evolution of the market is helping The reason for the arrival of this can be set up quickly using specific us and growth is now occurring issue is the pursuit of better value software.
As run lengths have more from the rate of sale of each for money by food retailers.
This increased, so we are able to use product rather than from the number has been exacerbated in 2003 higher levels of automation as of products launched the market by significant input cost inflation we expand capacity.
Our recent is getting deeper rather than wider.
due largely to crop and foreign dips investment has, for example, This means that the average currency issues.
The retailers are reduced the line labour content size of each of our businesses is looking for better value from us, of a dips selling price substantially.
increasing, becoming more capital and rightly so, although it is worth We have stepped up the speed efficient.
We are also buying fixed recording that there is no evidence with which we share best practice assets better as we standardise, that this price activity is driving between our businesses.
We for example, floor finishes or greater growth in our market believe we can improve overall refrigeration.
Our management is productivity by 4% by the end reduce the costs of a new building focused on activities which will of 2005. by 12% from 2002 cost levels.
allow us to become more efficient, offer better value for money, Although our customers In the current environment and strengthen relationships with and consumers have become we are also working with our our customers, which will provide accustomed to stationary or customers to utilise our installed more opportunities to innovate reducing prices, we must recover capacity better.
To emphasise this alongside them.
some input cost increases as part point it is our expectation that we of our management of the business.
will spend less than depreciation Let us give you some more detail: For example, when the cost of fruit say 30-35 million in 2004. increases significantly due to foreign This is made easier by the high We have recently centralised the currency rates, both as ingredients quality and young age of our purchasing of commonly used to us and as commodities to the invested base.
This has produced retailer, it is reasonable to expect substantial benefits.
This activity us to recover more from our sale Opportunities for growth Geest PLC 11 These initiatives to improve our As the market grows, so we include efficiency must not be at the expense on our agenda new ways of meeting of our ability to grow our business.
the continuing growth in consumer There is still plenty of growth demand for food which is both potential in our market place.
convenient and of high quality.
Consumers continue to demand Some examples are: convenient products of high quality and taste.
Many of our The selective development of products are now part of peoples branding as an adjunct to retailer lifestyles.
We continue to recruit branding.
We have doubled the new consumers and we also see distribution for PizzaExpress in 2003 current consumers buying fresh and have recently launched prepared foods more frequently a premium range of oriental and more sophisticated products.
meals under the Go East brand We see no change in the three key see page 23. consumer drivers: convenience, health and pleasure see pages Expanding geographically.
We 14 to 23, which continue to have launched a range of salads stimulate market growth.
Given with Caprabo, one of the leading the progressively higher profile Spanish retailers known for the of healthy eating, we are quality of its food.
increasingly confident of the strategic positioning of our business.
Building our business in other channels.
Following the acquisition Our retail customers continue to of Crudi, we have expanded our invest in stores which facilitate the business with McDonalds into other purchase of fresh prepared foods.
continental European countries Their expansion of convenience and the UK, as it broadens stores, where sales of fresh its offer to include more fresh, prepared foods are proportionately cold-eating products.
higher than in conventional stores, demonstrates the growth potential Finally, one element of our agenda in this market.
Sales of fresh prepared that has not changed is that of foods provide retailers with higher recruiting, retaining and developing cash margins, faster stock rotations high quality people.
This is essential and competitor differentiation for the future growth of the Company.
This topic, as well as more detail on the above, is in the following pages.
We hope you enjoy reading them.
12 12 Geest PLC Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Pure opportunity On the following pages, you will Cooking from scratch is becoming Once again, you will find examples of how we have more of a leisure activity and be pleased to note responded to these trends within for many people is no longer that the UK market the business.
for fresh prepared foods In the meantime, as a reminder, The favourite meals for teenagers continues to grow and here are eight reasons why we who cook for themselves are toast, continue to focus on the fresh breakfast meals and sandwiches, that the three food mega prepared foods market.
followed by something on toast trends convenience, and microwaveable ready meals.
health and pleasure 1 Lack of inclination People are less inclined to prepare 3 Working women or, in our words, fresh, meals from scratch if they are The sector of the working fast and flavoursome cooking for themselves or only population which has increased continue to play an a small number of people.
Latest its working hours more than any figures show that: other is women with dependent important role in shaping children and yet women are and perpetuating single person households still far more likely to be in charge key consumer trends.
account for 30% and two person of domestic chores.
Something households account for 34% has to give and fresh prepared These have been well of all UK households.
foods can help alleviate a documented in past over one third of meals are eaten time-pressured existence.
alone: 78% of meals are eaten Geest Annual Reports with one or two people.
More, and are available is a decline in market demand more, more on our website: for dinner tables.
Convenience means different things to different people at different www.
co. uk 2 Lack of knowledge times.
For some it is all about timegst ourmarkets.
Despite the plethora of cookery saving and doing things as quickly books and TV celebrity chefs, the as possible: for others it is more nations cooking skills are in decline about freeing up time to pursue For past Geest PLC Annual as women spend less time cooking other activities.
People generally are Reports and Accounts, please and less time passing down skills trying to fit more pleasurable things go to the investor section and recipes to the next generation, into their lives.
Reducing the effort of the Geest website or call who are rarely taught cookery and time needed to plan, shop our Investor Relations team at school.
for ingredients, cook and wash up contact details on page 47. is a consideration for many people.
Opportunities for gr Top page header owth Geest PLC Geest PLC 13 13 The three food mega trends convenience, health and pleasure or, in our words, fresh, fast and flavoursome continue to play an important role.
74% of all meals are prepared provide high growth, rapid stock J Sainsbury and Tesco announced in 20 minutes or less.
rotation, high cash margins and two acquisitions in this area Over one third of all meals are differentiation for their brand four early in 2004. prepared in five minutes or less.
good reasons for them to continue 87% of petrol stations have a 65% of all childrens meals to expand space dedicated to fresh convenience store in the forecourt.
are made in five minutes or less.
prepared foods in their stores.
Top-up shopping accounts for Nearly half of meals for one person nearly 60% of all shopping trips.
take five minutes or less to prepare.
In 2003, the average household The average time taken spent over three times as much 8 A lifestyle choice which to prepare the main meal on fresh prepared foods as on is recession robust?
This industry has still never really experienced a recession.
It seems 5 What when is a meal?
7 Bringing convenience likely that if one were to happen at 26% of evening meals are now to a store near you a consumer level, people would cut light snacks compared to 16% Retailers continue to invest in back on products which would have a decade ago : 25% of total food convenience stores which tend a minimal impact on their chosen servings are consumed outside to be located in areas where lifestyle.
Undoubtedly we would lose the traditional meal occasion.
there is a high density of shoppers some consumers: conversely, some The increase in the number of snack e. g. the high street, railway may be gained as people decide servings correlates directly to the stations, newsagents.
Typically, to save money and stop buying decline in main meals served.
these stores have a greater take-aways and eating out.
Certainly proportion of space dedicated a deep recession with mass 15% of all European eating to fresh prepared foods and unemployment where people have occasions are on-the-go.
also cater for top-up shoppers time to cook or learn to cook could UK consumers eat on average people buying food for immediate harm our market.
the general economic downturn See page 16. over the last two years has had 6 The place to be in food little impact.
Ready meals were The fresh prepared foods sector Sales density in convenience consumed in 83% of UK households remains the most dynamic in stores is double that in the average in 2003 fresh prepared foods, the food market and is expected sized supermarket.
for many, is a lifestyle choice.
to provide average incremental Over 1,300 convenience stores sales of 2 billion over the next three branded by our customers are years.
For retailers, our products estimated to be in operation by 2006.
