24 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Pure performance Overview Dividend and share buy back the summer weather and to a strengthening 2003 has seen continued strong growth The Board is recommending a final of the euro.
In the current competitive retail in sales across our three major business dividend of 12.9 pence 2002:11.75 pence environment it is difficult to raise prices, but streams.
We have launched over 800 up 10%, giving a total dividend for the year we did achieve specic increases in selling new products in the UK, started trading of 20.9 pence 2002: 19.0 pence an prices in 2003 and have achieved further with a significant new customer and had increase of 10%.
The final dividend will increases in 2004.
Overall, the combination to deal with substantial cost ination be paid on 30 June 2004 to shareholders of input ination and selling price deation, whilst managing the demands for on the register at the close of business which accelerated through the year, cost improved volume from our customer base.
10 million, before the contribution from productivity and efficiency benets reduced Sales grew by 106 million, equivalent In addition, the Board intends to implement the net cost to about 5 million for the year.
to 12% as 16 million came from the extra a share buy back programme and take week reported in 2003.
Of the remainder, advantage of the recent changes in law Capital expenditure in the period was 23 million came from our new acquisition, to allow the purchase of treasury shares broadly in line with the prior year and Crudi, which was loss making on acquisition of up to 10% of the issued share capital.
amounted to 47.2 million net of 1.7 in April but, as expected, has already made This should retain nancing exibility, million of disposals proceeds.
A further a small profit under our management.
reduce the Groups cost of capital and, 17.2 million was spent on acquiring Crudi Much more is expected from this business thereby, enhance shareholder value.
Of the 47 million, 12 million over the next two years.
A further was spent on maintenance i. e. replacing 27 million of growth came from our whole Trading old assets and the remainder on new head produce business, following a change Two key issues identied in the business capacity and productivity.
The largest in the way in which we trade.
The largest in 2002 have largely been resolved.
Firstly, expenditure was 13 million, of a total sales growth, 40 million, stemmed from the Barton pasta and bread business made project cost of 18 million, to convert our existing fresh prepared foods business, substantial progress and moved into overall a recently purchased facility into a modern which accounts for about 80% of our sales profit in the period.
As a result, our total start pizza production plant.
The new pizzeria and over 90% of our profits and capital up losses in 2003, at about 6.5 million, will produce improved quality pizza at employed.
Most of this growth was in were about 2.5 million lower than in 2002. lower cost and began making pizza bases the UK where we saw 6% sales growth Secondly, our salads businesses delivered in October 2003 and topped pizzas in in the period.
Group operating profits higher sales growth than we had expected, February 2004, with a heart shaped pizza pre-exceptional and goodwill amortisation due to a notably warm summer.
rose 6% to 46 million for the period from 43.5 million: post-exceptional 36.1 million.
Our customers continue to seek better value Our pizza sales have grown strongly for money.
This will be met by improving our for a number of years and were given a There was an increase in net debt of scale economies in the areas of purchasing further boost by the success of PizzaExpress 29.8 million 2002: decrease of 6.3 and asset utilisation, reducing costs and branded sales.
Volumes manufactured million, the majority of which reected improving the efficiency of the supply chain.
at our original facility, Katies Kitchen, were acquisition costs of 17.5 million net of However, the nature of our business, looking likely to exceed its long term capacity.
The cash outow raised interest servicing a few large and inuential Therefore, for the last few years, we utilised costs and, consequently, profit before customers, means that this is unlikely a small business unit, the Fresh Snack Co. tax and exceptionals was 41.4 million to be achieved at a uniform rate.
Ultimately, however, 2002: 40.1 million, before 0.8 million the Fresh Snack Co. was not capable of profit on sale of assets.
The effective In 2003 we also saw, for the first time of growing to the scale necessary to offer corporation tax rate of 16%, pre-exceptional, in many years, significant cost ination.
economic supply in todays market place.
was unusually low and assisted an 8% At the outset of 2003, we were faced with As a consequence, we built a new facility growth in pre-exceptional basic earnings higher commercial insurance costs and, at our Holbeach site.
Whilst some jobs were per share of 46.8 pence 2002: 43.4 pence.
from April, higher National Insurance costs.
rendered redundant at the Fresh Snack Co. Net capital expenditure of 47 million From September onwards, we saw cost by providing a bus service, we were able to included 35 million on new capacity increases, running at about 3%, on raw relocate the remaining 235 employees to support the growth of the business.
materials, due to crop issues arising from to businesses in Holbeach and Spalding.
Operating and financial review Operating and financial review Geest PLC 25 Pure markets United Kingdom The costs of this closure and transfer We are focused on a small and Using Taylor Nelson Sofrs data, we predict have been treated as exceptional and dynamic part of the food market that over 2 billion of cash growth will be comprise primarily the write-off of fresh prepared foods.
generated by the UK food retailers over the the investment at the Fresh Snack Co. next three years in fresh prepared foods.
some redundancy costs and the extra To clarify the denition, fresh prepared costs arising from the transfer.
The foods have had sufficient preparation, total we have recorded as exceptional before being bought, for consumers either Fresh prepared foods growth continues is 6.9 million post-tax, of which to eat the products immediately or for them to outperform total food growth 2.7 million is a cash cost.
to facilitate meal preparation considerably.
Annual % growth 2003 versus 2002 All products in this sector are perishable, The second major expansion project have a short shelf life and require refrigeration Fresh prepared foods was a second facility for our dips to keep fresh.
The key sectors in which Geest business, which started production operates are worth approximately 3.3 billion Frozen prepared foods in autumn 2003 in time to provide and grew in 2003 by around 280 million.
for the peak Christmas demand.
Total non-food This facility is highly automated The total retail grocery market in the UK and the business achieved record grew by 5.1% in 2003.
Total food within this Total food throughput during Christmas.
market grew at 5.4% and total non-food at 4.4%.
Annual growth by key segment Food and non-food Market conditions and prospects is illustrated below.
01 234567 89 Our products allow todays timepressured consumers to eat high Within the food market, the growth in fresh Source: Taylor Nelson Sofrs, fty two weeks ended quality fresh meals which are prepared foods at retail sales value RSV 4 January 2004 becoming increasingly part of their at 9% was nearly twice as strong as lifestyle.
We see continued growth the growth for all retail food and frozen in demand from those consumers prepared foods.
who are buying fresh prepared foods more frequently, as well as from new consumers.
Our products are particularly attractive to people looking for healthy or premium Fresh prepared foods options and we continue to see million % market growth strong growth rates in these ranges.
Key sectors of the market in which we operate RSV 2003 v 2002 We expect to benefit from this growth Ready meals pre-packed and serve-over 1,433 8 not only through our existing activities Prepared leaf and side salads 494 14 but also through: Pizza pre-packed and serve-over 348 5 the new convenience stores Convenience salads 339 10 of our existing customers Dips 122 12 new channels of distribution Pasta 117 5 e. g. McDonalds Bread 109 14 partnerships in new geographic Soups 90 9 markets e. g. Caprabo in Spain.
Prepared fruit 83 32 Sauces 78 1 Stir fry 62 6 Source: Geest estimates, Taylor Nelson Sofrs for 2003 26 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review continued Pure performance The trading environment remains Within that overall market growth, which Salads challenging and we expect the full year is very similar to that which we have seen For the first few months of 2003, sales growth effect of inationary pressures to be higher in recent years, there are major differences of leafy or green salads was relatively than that experienced in 2003.
However, in the rate of growth between retailers.
As low following the very high growth in the we are well positioned to deliver value to our business is virtually all retailer branded, comparative period.
However, demand grew both customers and shareholders as we our growth in any one year is unlikely to rapidly from May, helped by the excellent make a step change in our performance be a mirror of consumer growth but, rather, summer.
Overall, our sales grew by through: reects the specic customer mix we serve 13%, in line with the market we have over a significant improvements in a particular market sector.
On a few occasions, in our purchased costs demand was so high that we had to source substantial improvements A feature of 2003 was a higher level of raw materials from the spot market.
in productivity business wins and losses than has historically This reduced the margin on the incremental selective price recovery been seen in the market.
We saw a similar sales, although it was still healthily positive.
value of gains as losses and this churn The extra profit from these sales broadly represented approximately 5% of turnover.
compensated for the slightly lower than The growth in our business and its relative It remains our view that retailers wish to expected rate of sales growth in our hotimmaturity mean that we are confident maintain their supply base to give suppliers eating food ranges through the summer.
of our ability to create value through these the confidence to invest to meet the focused initiatives.
We have concrete plans continued growth in the fresh prepared The market for white salads e. g. pasta to make purchasing savings of 7 million foods market place.
In addition, owing to snack salads and coleslaw grew by 10% this year, we can see the potential for the demands of our market for food safety, helped by the good summer.
Our sales productivity improvements of 4% and we quality, service and innovation, retailers were close to last years level as we saw have achieved price rises already in 2004. tend to avoid moving frequently large pieces some business losses of the more Given our earlier investment and our modern of business between suppliers.
On occasion, commoditised products such as coleslaw, plant, we expect a substantial reduction we have avoided some business intentionally, due to our unwillingness to pursue business in capital expenditure this year, to below which was either uneconomic to pursue for an uneconomic return.
This liberated the level of depreciation, as we work with on price or owing to capacity constraints.
capacity for more differentiated products our customers to improve current capacity such as snack salads.
We have a 35% utilisation without affecting our sustainable Ready meals share of this sector.
In ready meals, we expanded our customer base to include another major retailer and Pizza All these actions give us confidence in signicantly expanded our range with an Growth in our pizza business was held back the future progress of Geest and of its ability existing customer.
Our sales grew by 6%, to 1% as we brought on new capacity, which to meet our expectations and generate close to the market growth rate and our will become fully operational in spring 2004. good returns for shareholders.
In February Owing to these capacity constraints, one of 2004, we suffered a re at one of our ready our customers transferred a range of products Operating review meal facilities, which destroyed one production to a competitor at the beginning of 2003 UK fresh prepared foods unit.
Thankfully, all employees were evacuated to facilitate its heavy promotional programme The market for fresh prepared foods grew safely.
Production was not then possible, but through the year.
This amounted to an at about 9% in 2003 at retail selling prices within one week some products were being annualised reduction in turnover of some and probably 1% or 2% less than this supplied to our customers from a sister facility 7 million.
As our new facility comes on stream measured at manufacturer selling prices.
and within four weeks re-supply at some 60% this is market share we shall target.
We hold We continue to see evidence of trading up of previous levels had been achieved, 35% share in this sector.
by consumers as, for example, they move a remarkable performance.
The additional costs over time to more added value products of this we expect to recover from our insurers Although our market is predominantly e. g. from a bag of basic prepared iceberg other than the first 250,000.
Throughout retailer branded, there is evidence across lettuce to products such as rocket salad the period we received excellent support all our product sectors that, as the market with Parmesan cheese.
grows, there is an increasing role for relevant Operating and financial review Geest PLC 27 branded products.
For example, at the UK whole head produce France and Spain beginning of 2003 we supplied two major We saw strong sales growth of 20% due In April, we acquired a prepared salad retailers with PizzaExpress branded pizzas.
to the continuing growth in the market producer, Crudi, whose principal customer That number had grown to four by the end for fresh produce, the growth in the two is McDonalds.
Crudi supplies prepared of 2003 and we are in negotiation with retailers we supply and the sales supply leaf garnish for burgers, snack salads other retailers in 2004. agreement we have entered into with and fruit salads.
Crudi was loss making one of those retailers.
This agreement, which on acquisition due to an unprofitable Other UK fresh prepared foods came into full effect in 2003, made us virtually expansion into sandwiches.
This element market sectors their sole supplier of whole head salad and was divested early in our ownership and Pasta and speciality chilled bread are also moved us to a quasi-agency relationship the business was profitable in 2003.
As produced by our Barton businesses.
profits were maintained yearexpected, the net margin is currently low, part of our actions to improve profitability, on-year from our whole produce businesses following the divestment, as Crudi now has we reduced the range of chilled bread, as these changes took effect.
On acquisition which limited our bread sales growth to 2% we anticipated using this capacity for some and which will also result in a reduction We have also entered into negotiations with or all of: in sales of a little over 1 million in 2004. the same retailer to set up a new company an increased share of McDonalds Overall, the fresh pasta market in 2003 to become the sole supplier of imported business as it broadens its menu grew by 5% and our sales by 6%.
produce e. g. fruit as well as salad.
At the time across Europe to include more salad of writing, these negotiations are continuing based products Soup is a sector where there is manufacturer and we are seeking to ensure the correct an entry point into the fast growing brand activity with substantial promotional risk and return balance for the new company Spanish retail market for prepared salad funds made available.
This limited our sales and the customer.
If a satisfactory solution through Crudis facility in Spain to close to last years levels.
We make sauces can be found, then the new company is a Northern hemisphere based source in the same facilities as our soups and in this expected to be mildly profit enhancing from of supply for fresh prepared fruit to sector we saw sales growth of 13%, which its inception, which is anticipated in mid 2004. complement our South African facility helped the returns from these facilities.
increased supply chain synergies Continental European fresh for leaf Our sales of fresh prepared fruit continued prepared foods an alternative to investing in to grow strongly, up 50% in 2003. profit Our continental European business capacity at our other French business, growth was held back by the strength accounted for 10% annualised of the Cinquime Saison.
of the rand we make the products in our Groups sales and grew by 44% in local facility in South Africa.
Since the acquisition currency in 2003, helped by the first time We have started to realise benets from of Crudi we have been working on contribution of our acquisition, Crudi.
these initiatives and will continue to build establishing a second source of supply on these in 2004.
We have already seen in the Northern hemisphere and we expect The Netherlands additional sales to McDonalds in the UK to start importing fresh prepared fruit from We supply the leading fresh prepared and other continental European countries.
Crudi in 2004. foods retailer in The Netherlands, Albert We commenced supply of prepared salads Heijn, and our sales, in euros, to Albert to another new retailer, Caprabo, a quality Foodservice Heijn grew by 4% in the year.
The market Spanish food retailer, and in these products Part of our UK business supplies a limited for fresh prepared foods in The Netherlands we are their sole supplier.
number of foodservice i. e. restaurant continues to grow with, for example, ready operations.
This business continues to grow meals rising 14%.
Although sales by Albert Cinquime Saison supplies prepared leafy and sales rose by 20% in 2003.
This was Heijn were adversely affected by Dutch salads to French retailers and experienced helped by gaining McDonalds as a UK consumers reacting to the corporate substantial price competition in the period.
customer for prepared leaf late in 2003, problems of its parent company, Royal Ahold, However, it achieved significant following the acquisition of Crudi which our position as supplier strengthened improvements in operational efficiencies, supplies McDonalds in France.
as Albert Heijn increased our share of their which should benefit 2004.
We are their lead supplier of ready in France was profitable in 2003. meals and have also started supplying them with fresh fruit salad.
Vaco was profitable in the period.
28 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review continued Pure markets Continental Europe The Netherlands The Dutch consumer Average household size Markets and retailers Declining household sizes Number of people Total food sales in The Netherlands grew The number of households continues 2010 by just over 1% in 2003.
Supermarket to increase against a slowing growth rate 2003 concentration is increasing and food in population and the average household remains an important part of supermarket size is forecast to continue to reduce in size.
2000 turnover, accounting for approximately 1990 60% of sales.
One and two person households account 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 for 67% of the seven million households Fresh prepared foods market sectors in The Netherlands and 48% of households Number of households million Geest is present in five market sectors have two people who are both earning 2010 of the Dutch fresh prepared foods market dual-income households.
Buyers of fresh and the market growth rate for each sector prepared foods do not live exclusively in 2003 is indicated below.
dual-income households, but statistics show 2000 that these households account for the 1990 Dutch fresh prepared foods market sectors majority of fresh prepared foods purchased.
02468 million % market Product sector RSV growth % number of one and two Source: GfK Jaargids 2004 Ready meals 114 14 person households Pizza 17 3 2010 69 Meal times are becoming more informal Pasta 5 -2 2003 67 and, although far behind the UK see page Soups 4 2 1990 61 13, the average time taken to prepare Dips and dressings 3 11 meals 26 minutes and the time taken Source: GfK Jaargids 2004 to eat them is decreasing.
Nonetheless, it is Source: IRI Netherlands exchange rate: 1 euro 0.67 still important to have at least one hot meal How do the Dutch eat?
In 1999, 81% of households ate In total, the market sectors in which Geest Recent research carried out by Albert Heijn a hot meal daily this has now risen to operates grew by 11%, which compares and TNS Nipo shows that microwaving 86%.
Fresh ready meals account for an favourably with other segments of the is now a common way of cooking.
increasing proportion of these hot meals.
For example, fresh fruit and The Netherlands has the highest number vegetables grew by 1%, dairy market growth of microwaves per household in the whole Spontaneous shopping was static and fresh fruit juice in decline.
The use of woks for stir fries is The Dutch visit supermarkets on average also high and is influenced by the Indonesian 3.2 times per week and only 18% make a The Dutch retailers and Indies cuisines, which are prevalent list when they go shopping.
This means that 2003 has been a turbulent year in the in The Netherlands.
most people make their purchase decisions Dutch retail arena and particularly for our in store.
In addition, a quarter of Albert Heijn retail partner, Albert Heijn.
Food retailers What the Dutch use when cooking shoppers go to the supermarket by bicycle.
have been under pressure to guard their 1999 2003 If people are deciding what to eat that day market shares and the discounters had Microwave 76% 90% and have limited space to carry food home, a particularly proactive year.
Nonetheless, Wok 55% 70% there is a high chance that fresh prepared the market for fresh prepared foods has Steamer 7% 9% foods could be on the menu.
remained buoyant with time pressure for Source: AH and TNS Nipo research October 2003, consumers a more important criterion Hoe fleet Nederland?
The strength of consumer dynamics illustrated than for the cheapest ready meal.
above augurs well for the continued growth Convenience is a long term lifestyle trend of fresh prepared foods in the Dutch market.
Operating and financial review Geest PLC 29 France However, the time-saving aspect of prepared The French retail prepared leaf market leaf is becoming a more important reason Retailer brands in the In France, the only fresh prepared foods to purchase and quatrime gamme continues retail market sector in which Geest operates to take share from whole head salads, fruit prepared leaf market is prepared leaf.
This is one of the more and vegetables premire gamme.
developed fresh prepared foods market sectors in France and dates from the early This increase in share can be illustrated 1980s.
The quatrime gamme market, as by the importance of the prepared leaf and it is called in France, covers all fresh prepared vegetable category in the retailers total fruit leaf, herbs, vegetables and fruit and is and vegetable department.
Over the last estimated to be worth around 318 million seven years, the share of quatrime gamme Salads continue to dominate at retail sales value hypermarkets and within the fruit and vegetable department the quatrime gamme market supermarkets and growing at just over has nearly doubled.
Quatrime gamme 5 13% moving annual total 12 months ending provides the retailer with higher cash margins 1 1 Salads 88% 3 2 January 2004 versus January 2003. and faster stock rotations than its whole 2 Crudits 5% 4 3 Herbs 4% Prepared leaf is the largest part of this head equivalents and this must help to 4 Hot-eating 2% market and is valued at around 280 explain the increasing importance of retailer vegetables million.
Exchange rate: 1 euro 0.67 brands in this area.
5 Snack salads 1% Source: AC Nielsen, Market growth The French retailer and retailer brands October 2003 Growth is coming from new consumers Unlike the UK, where around 94% of whose first quatrime gamme purchase prepared leaf salads are sold under the Quatrime gamme sales as a is likely to be a basic single leaf salad and retailer brand, national manufacturer brands percentage of total fruit and vegetable existing buyers who are buying more in France still account for over 40% of the departmental sales % products each year.
As in the UK, existing market by value.
There has, however, been buyers tend to trade up and expand their a large increase in the importance of retailer 2003 repertoire to include more sophisticated brands over the last decade and these now 1999 leaf mixes.
Nearly 65% of French households account for around half the market.
Last bought a bag of prepared leaf salad at year, retailer brands increased in value 1996 least once in 2003. by over 15% and grew faster than economy 0246810 brands and manufacturer brands.
Consumer differences Price differential between retailer and The French continue to show their Another point of note is that the price economy brands versus manufacturer preference for soft, tender or sweet salad difference between retailer brands and brands % leaves as shown by the importance of economy brands continues to diverge butterhead lettuce, oak leaf, batavia, baby see table opposite.
Retailer brands leaf and, more recently, iceberg.
The fastest are perceived by the market to be of better Manufacturer brands growing type of leaf salads in 2003 was quality than economy brands and to provide Retailer brands oak leaf.
Baby spinach continues to be seen a good price-quality ratio to manufacturer as upmarket and a new development brands.
Moreover, retailers are starting Economy brands is the introduction of chicory endive into to increase focus on their own ranges leaf mixes.
in order to eliminate product duplication 0 20406080100 on the shelves.
Historically, very few retailers Source: Linaires, February 2004 The French tend to use salads, quite formally, have used their own ranges to differentiate as a starter and around 60% of the prepared themselves completely from either leaf market is made up of bags of single leaf, manufacturer brands or competitor offers.
Owing to this, the French are still more likely than the British to At risk of repeating ourselves, the quatrime buy whole head salads instead of prepared gamme market and within it, the retailer when the products are in season and cheaper brand sector remains one of the most as it is relatively easy to compare prices.
dynamic parts of the French food market.
