80 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors report The Directors submit their report and the Directors and their interests Substantial shareholdings audited accounts of the Company and its The Nomination committee has formally The Company has been informed that on subsidiary undertakings together the considered the balance of skills, 18 March 2004 the following shareholders Group for the fifty three weeks ended knowledge and experience of the Board held substantial holdings of the issued 3 January 2004 comparatives in this Annual and has confirmed that the composition ordinary shares of the Company: Report and Accounts are for the fifty two of the Board is satisfactory.
Shareholder Holding of Issued weeks ended 28 December 2002.
Sales ordinary shares share capital growth is quoted on a fifty two week basis.
Biographical details of the present Number % Directors are set out on page 48.
AXA Investment Principal activities and business review Managers Ltd 5,926,415 7.87 The principal activities of the Group are the David Wallis was re-appointed as an Aberforth Partners 4,913,348 6.52 preparation and marketing of fresh prepared independent non-executive Director for a Morley Fund foods and the marketing and distribution second three-year term on 1 February 2003.
Management Ltd 4,789,272 6.36 of fresh produce.
Franklin Raymond Destin was re-appointed for Resources Inc 4,632,500 6.15 The operational and financial activity of a third three-year term as an independent JP Morgan Fleming the Group in the period is discussed in more non-executive Director on 1 May 2003.
Asset Management 2,760,704 3.66 detail in the Operating and financial review Legal & General on page 24 onwards.
Bob Davies will be standing down at Investment the Annual General Meeting and we Management Ltd 2,621,867 3.48 Results and dividends are in the process of appointing a new The profit on ordinary activities before non-executive Director.
taxation and prior to exceptional costs Going concern was 41.4 million 2002: 40.9 million, Jane Scriven and Gareth Voyle retire by The Directors confirm that they are satisfied and after exceptional costs was rotation at the forthcoming Annual General that the Company and the Group have 31.5 million 2002: 40.9 million.
Meeting and, being eligible, offer adequate resources to continue in business themselves for re-election.
The Board for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, An interim dividend of 8 pence per ordinary confirms that each of these Directors has they continue to adopt the going concern share was paid on 31 December 2003. been formally appraised, and that they basis in preparing the accounts.
The Directors recommend a final dividend continue to demonstrate commitment to of 12.9 pence per share, making a total for the Board and to be an effective member.
Creditor payment policy the period of 20.9 pence 2002: 19.0 pence.
The Groups strategy is to develop mutually If approved at the forthcoming Annual Details of the Directors service contracts beneficial relationships with our key General Meeting, the final dividend will and the interests of the Directors in the suppliers.
The Groups policy, in relation be paid on 30 June 2004 to shareholders shares of the Company and in options over to all of its suppliers, is to settle the terms on the register at the close of business such shares are disclosed in the Directors of the transaction and to abide by those on 28 May 2004. pay and benefits report on pages 82 to 91. terms, provided that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or Fixed assets No Director had at any time during the services in accordance with the agreed The Directors are of the opinion that there is period, or has, a material interest in any terms and conditions.
no significant difference between the book contract or arrangement of significance value and market value of the fixed assets to which any Group undertaking was, of the Group.
The Company has effected insurance covering Directors and officers against liabilities, which they may incur in their capacity as Directors or officers.
Statutory reports Statutory reports Geest PLC 81 The average number of days purchases In preparing the accounts, the Directors 3 To approve the Directors pay and benets outstanding for payment by the Group are responsible for the adoption of suitable report set out on pages 82 to 91. was 52 days 2002: 51 days.
accounting policies as set out on pages 97 to 98, consistently applied and supported 4 To seek approval for the Company Share capital by reasonable and prudent judgements to make purchases of its own shares.
Details of shares issued during the period and estimates.
Some or all of the shares purchased following the exercise of options under may be held in treasury for subsequent share option schemes operated by the In addition, the Directors are responsible cancellation or transfer out of treasury Company are set out on page 108.
No other for maintaining proper accounting records to the extent permitted by law and in shares were issued during the period.
which disclose with reasonable accuracy accordance with the authorities granted Additional information regarding various the financial position of the Company by shareholders at the Annual General share option arrangements and options and which enable them to ensure that the Meeting.
This authority will only be outstanding is given in the Directors pay accounts comply with the Companies Act exercised if it is earnings enhancing and benefits report on pages 82 to 91.
They have general responsibility and in the best interests of shareholders.
for taking reasonable steps to safeguard Although the Company obtained authority the assets of the Group and for the 5 To seek approval for the Company from shareholders in 2003 to buy back up prevention and detection of fraud and other to use shares repurchased and held to 10% of its issued share capital, no share irregularities.
The Directors statement in treasury to satisfy entitlements under purchases were made by the Company on the Groups internal controls is set out the Companys share benefit schemes during the period.
The Directors confirm Executive Co-Investment Plan, Long Term that the above requirements have been Incentive Plan, Company Share Option Auditor complied with in the accounts.
Use A resolution concerning the re-appointment of these shares will be in accordance of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and to authorise Special Business at the Annual with the ABIs equity dilution guidelines.
the Directors to agree the level of General Meeting remuneration will be proposed at the Resolutions will be proposed at the Resolutions 1, 2 and 4, if passed, will renew forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting for until the next Annual General Meeting, the following purposes: a similar authority granted to the Directors Directors responsibilities for preparing by resolutions passed at the last Annual the accounts 1 To grant to the Directors limited authority General Meeting.
The Directors are obliged under company to exercise the powers of the Company law to prepare accounts for each financial to allot shares.
The Directors have The various resolutions are set out in period and to present them annually to no present intention to exercise this the Notice of Annual General Meeting the Companys members at the Annual authority except to issue shares to on pages 116 to 117.
employees who have exercised options under employee share schemes.
By order of the Board The accounts, of which the form and Dawn E Durrant content is prescribed by the Companies Act 2 To give the Directors a limited power to Company Secretary 1985, must give a true and fair view of the issue shares for cash and to dispose of 18 March 2004 state of affairs of the Company and the treasury shares without complying with Group at the end of the financial period, statutory pre-emption rights up to an and of the profit or loss of the Group for the aggregate nominal amount of 188,374, period, and must comply with applicable which sum represents 3,767,482 ordinary accounting standards, subject to any shares of 5 pence each, being material departures disclosed and approximately 5% of the issued share explained in the accounts.
capital of the Company at 18 March 2004.
