56 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Pure responsibility In this section we have invited Dr Michle Sadler an independent consultant to highlight the key issues facing society and the food industry today.
Geests response to the article can be found on page 61 along with comments from two industry bodies which kindly agreed to participate in the debate.
Dr Michle Sadler, Obesity Prevalence of obesity in England Food and Nutrition Consultant The prevalence of obesity and overweight % with BMI 30 has risen dramatically over the past 25 Expert view: Key issues facing the food years.
Described by the Chief Medical 2002 industry today Officer as a health time-bomb, the rising levels of obesity in society have led to a 2000 Introduction range of radical proposals that aim to curb The food industry has to respond to a vast the present trends.
Particular issues that 1998 array of challenges, the effects of which may have been raised include the advertising be felt by individual companies as well as and promotion of food to children, fiscal 1996 by the wider food industry.
Such challenges measures such as a fat tax, portion sizes may arise from consumer concerns and and the fat content of meals and the low demands, political and regulatory issues, levels of physical activity in todays society.
1994 developments in science and health and technological advances.
This article Obesity increases the risk of coronary 1986 summarises the key issues facing the food heart disease, diabetes, certain cancers, industry as we progress towards the middle osteoarthritis and hypertension.
43.4% of men and 33.7% of women aged 16 and over are overweight including 0 5 101520 25 Diet and nutrition obese.
For children aged 2-15 years, With an ageing population, high levels 16% are obese and 30% are overweight Men Women of preventable diseases and pressure including obese Health Survey for BMI Body Mass Index obesity defined as BMI 30.
4 on National Health Service budgets, there England 2002.
1 1980 data from Knight, 1984 for Great Britain : 1986 data 2 is increasing emphasis on the need to eat from Gregory et al, 1990 : 1994-2002 data from Health 3 Survey for England Trend Data.
Concern that the UK is still Promotion of food to children high up the league tables for diet-related Concerns about the level of childhood obesity diseases, despite the active promotion have prompted moves to restrict the promotion of healthy lifestyle advice, means that and advertising of foods to children, particularly food is now high on the political agenda foods that are high in fat and sugars.
The Food with meetings and seminars held daily Standards Agency FSA has concluded that in both houses of parliament.
A focal advertising does affect childrens food point for such concerns is the rising choices and behaviour, including the types prevalence of obesity.
of food that children choose.
The FSA Our responsibilities Geest PLC 57 is actively seeking suggestions for workable Energy density is thus a key determinant Comment from the Food approaches to encourage children to eat of energy intake and a crucial factor and Drink Federation FDF a healthy diet.
A range of options has been influencing weight control.
Dr Sadler gives a fair and comprehensive suggested for discussion, which include Incorporating low energy dense foods picture of the current food and health restricting the frequency of advertisements into the diet, such as fruits and vegetables, debate.
Her conclusions are particularly for less healthy foods and introducing a levy will help in avoiding excessive energy apt in placing responsibility on the on food adverts aimed at children, with the intakes.
It is recommended to eat five whole stakeholder group, including funds used to promote healthier diets.
portions of fruit and vegetables a day.
5 the individual consumer, and in stressing Prentice & Jebb, Obesity Reviews 2003, 4: 187-194. the need for the food chain to work Fiscal measures together with others involved in Fiscal measures have also been proposed, Declining physical activity levels seeking solutions.
in the form of a fat tax on fatty food.
Such An important contributory factor to the rising measures would need to be taken at the levels of obesity is the sedentary nature At the Food and Drink Federation we parliamentary level.
The Department have taken that responsibility to heart.
of Health recommends that adults should Over the last two years we have been Portion sizes have at least 30 minutes of at least moderate working to find common positions Concerns have been raised that the activity on at least five days a week.
wherever possible with the retailers, trend towards larger packets of snacks However, only 36% of men and 26% of foodservice sector and the farmers.
and confectionery, for example, and bigger women meet this target, with a fifth of men This has resulted in increasing numbers meal servings, including eat as much as and women undertaking no activity of of joint responses to government and you like offers in restaurants, is inappropriate moderate intensity at all.
other consultations and to a growing in view of the rising prevalence of overweight understanding of how our sectors and obesity.
Ways to control the portion size Reasons for the decline in physical inter-relate.
of foods and meals have been put forward activity include greater use of cars, less for debate, including removal of the financial walking, more energy saving devices, Discussions with government on salt incentive to buy larger portions and packets.
less sport in some schools and more reductions in processed foods: on the sedentary pastimes such as computer draft Food and Health Action Plan for Meals with high energy density games and the internet.
England: on the whole range of issues Scientific research has identified the energy Government studies show that the number involved in the implementation of density of food as a key determinant of trips per person on foot fell by 20% 7 the governments Farming and Food of energy or calorie intake.
Strategy and, now, on the proposed in energy density are invariably high in fat, A study by Sport England showed that White Paper on Public Health, have and the regular consumption of such foods in 1994, 36% of children did two or more given the industry real opportunities has been shown to result in the accidental hours per week PE in schools compared 5 7 to show our willingness to contribute consumption of excess energy.
Typical with 33% in 1999. to solutions.
Sectors can no longer products from fast food outlets were found Data from the National Diet and Nutrition sensibly work in isolation.
As a to have 1.7 times higher energy density than Survey: young people aged 4-18 years 8 representative of Britains largest the average British diet, with energy density Gregory et al, 2000 showed that girls 5 manufacturing sector, FDF helps ranging from 215-400 kcal per 100g.
were less active than boys and activity lead the way.
Supermarket packaged meals ranged in levels fell as age increased.
About a third energy density from 70-310 kcal per 100g, of 7-14 year old boys and over half the Sylvia Jay while supermarket healthier options ranged eldest boys failed to meet the HEA 5 from 70-190 kcal per 100g.
Hence the recommendation for young people pressure is on to reduce the fat content to participate in at least moderate intensity and increase the fruit and vegetable activity for one hour a day.
For girls, over content of high fat, energy dense meals.
half the 7-14 year old group and over two thirds of the eldest group failed to meet Energy density is the energy provided per this recommendation.
unit weight of food, e. g. calories 100g.
Individuals tend to habitually eat a similar bulk of food such that, if foods of high energy density are chosen, calorie intake is likely to be higher than if foods of lower energy density are chosen.
58 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Government White Paper As it is difficult to get consumers to change Levels of moderate intensity To address these and many other possible their behaviour, it has been proposed activity in men and women approaches to the obesity problem, the that the most effective way to modify food government is preparing a White Paper for intakes is through changes to the food mid 2004.
Clearly the causes, and indeed supply, and this has important implications % Men % Women total 801 total 857 the solutions to this problem, are highly for the food industry.
complex such that only a co-ordinated None 21 20 and integrated approach will reverse Salt 1 or 2 days a week 24 31 or even stem the current trends in obesity.
A report from the governments Scientific 4 days a week 19 23 Advisory Committee on Nutrition SACN 5 or more days a week 36 26 Provision of healthy diets published in 2003 found increasing Ruston et al, 2004.
The National Diet and Nutrition Survey data show that the British population evidence for a link between high salt 6 11 Survey: Adults aged 19 to 64 years.
is making progress towards the dietary intakes and hypertension.
Average salt recommendations, but there is still plenty intakes in the UK are 9-10g per day, of room for improvement.
Further changes compared with recommended intakes at a faster pace are needed for the nation of 6g per day.
As 75% of salt intake comes to achieve recommended salt, fruit and from processed and ready prepared foods, In a survey for the Food Standards vegetable, fish and fibre intakes, and pressure is increasing for manufacturers Agency January 2004, 88% of to achieve the recommended balance to reduce salt levels in food.
respondents thought that parents of fats in the diet.
have most responsibility for improving 1g of sodium is equivalent to 2.5g of salt.
childrens diets, 43% thought schools In response to the promotion of healthy Over a third of sodium from food 35% are second and 30% thought food eating and regular physical activity, industry is contributed by cereals and cereal manufacturers are third.
However, has developed low-fat products, healthy products, with 26% contributed by meat 85% of consumers thought there should options, and functional foods.
However, and meat products, 8% by milk and be more controls over the way fast as changes in society mean that consumers milk products and 7% by vegetables.
foods via catering establishments are eating more food out of the home, more In a recent survey of the dietary habits of are promoted to children.
ready prepared foods and that they generally 2,000 British Adults, 73% reported adding have fewer skills and knowledge around salt during cooking, while 37% of men food, pressure is growing for further action and 28% of women reported usually 10 by the industry.
adding salt to their food at the table.
Dietary trends among British adults compared with dietary recommendations % of the study group not Dietary Average intakes meeting recommendations recommendations 2000 2001 Men Women Fruit and vegetables 5 portions day 2.8 portions day 87 86 Dietary fibre 18g day 14g day 72 87 Sodium 2,400mg day Men 3,313 Women 2,302 80 34 Saturated fat 11% energy 13% energy 70 70 Total carbohydrate 50% energy 48% energy 64 58 Total fat 35% energy 35% energy 57 50 9,10 The National Dietary and Nutritional Survey: Adults aged 19-64 years.
Our responsibilities Geest PLC 59 Quality of fat Methods of production Introducing new technologies Nutritionists have proposed that changes A key issue for consumers is how food Technological developments can potentially to the type of fat present in food would have is produced and the actual methods used.
benefit consumers, industry and society.
Reductions in Industry is under continual pressure to reduce it is essential to gain consumer acceptance saturated fats would benefit, for example, chemical inputs, tighten animal welfare and ensure consumer choice.
This is diet-related risk factors for heart disease.
practices and ensure foods are ethically particularly illustrated by the example of A coherent strategy is proposed starting produced.
These issues raise the importance consumer rejection of genetically modified at the agricultural level, and involving the of consumer trust in brands, including retailer GM foods in the late 1990s.
This led to whole food chain.
development of non-GM supply chains for soya and maize products.
Health claims Sourcing supplies In the UK a voluntary code of practice for A topical example regarding supply issues New EU regulations will provide a harmonised the approval of health claims on products and production methods is that of fish.
system for tracing GM products throughout is due to be superseded by European Falling fish stocks present a major supply the supply chain and set a threshold for the regulations.
It is proposed to allow nutrition issue, particularly in the light of dietary accidental presence of GM material in food and health claims only on products with a advice to increase fish intakes.
This has led or feed at 0.9%, below which labelling desirable nutritional profile.
This is a crucial to growth in farmed fish, but the recent issue is not required.
There is also a threshold issue for industry and discussion as to how of contaminants such as dioxins in farmed 0.5% for the presence of GM material that this should be defined is already underway.
salmon demonstrates the need to ensure has not been approved in the EU, provided rigorous methods of food production.
it has a favourable safety assessment.
The Food integrity regulation will also ensure the centralised In response to consumer demands for a Risks versus benefits risk assessment of GM foods, through the cheaper, more exotic and more tantalising The issue of farmed salmon also highlights European Food Safety Authority.
food offer, ingredients and supplies are the potential for consumer confusion.
On sourced from all around the world.
Meeting the one hand oily fish is beneficial for health, However, as more GM crops are grown these consumer demands and ensuring yet on the other it poses potential risks.
In around the world, and possibly in continental integrity of the food supply presents a attempting to communicate the riskbenefit Europe or Britain, sustaining non-GM supply number of challenges for the food industry.
equation to consumers, the FSA reinforced in the long term will become an ever greater the health benefits of eating one portion of challenge for the industry.
An expert group is to examine the risk-benefit equation more thoroughly and will report later in 2004.
Types of fat in the diet ALA alpha-Linolenic acid: Three generic health claims have Total EPA Eicosapentaenoic acid: so far been approved in the UK: dietary fat DHA Docosahexaenoic acid.
A decrease in saturated fat consumption can help promote Dietary advice is to healthy blood cholesterol levels.
reduce intake of total fat, People with a healthy heart tend particularly saturated and Saturated Unsaturated trans fatty acids, and to to eat more wholegrain foods fatty acids fatty acids ensure the diet provides as part of a healthy lifestyle.
an appropriate balance The inclusion of at least 25g soya of unsaturated fatty acids.
protein per day as part of a diet low in saturated fat can help reduce Trans-fatty Polyunsaturated Monosaturated blood cholesterol.
acids fatty acids fatty acids Approved by the Joint Health Claims Initiative, Leatherhead UK.
co. uk Omega-3 Omega-6 ALA EPA DHA 60 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Local sourcing Conclusions On average consumers in the UK eat In view of concerns about the quality and The responsibility for tackling and moving one quarter of a portion of oily fish freshness of foods, industry must respond forward on these issues falls to the key 12 a week Henderson et al, 2002. to an emerging drive for more locally stakeholders across the whole food chain, Dietary recommendations are to eat sourced foods.
This issue is high on both which includes farmers and growers, two portions of fish a week, one the political agenda and consumers list manufacturers and suppliers, retailers, of which should be oily.
According to research by consumers, health professionals, Oily fish reduces the risk of dying The Institute of Grocery Distribution IGD, researchers, the government, regulators from a heart attack.
consumers views differ about the definition in the UK and EU and enforcers amongst 14 The Food Standards Agency advises of locally produced foods.
Depending on the particular issue, that the known benefits of eating one consumers view them as foods produced the solutions are likely to involve a combination portion of oily fish per week outweigh within a 30-mile radius, others view them of measures with the aim of encouraging any risks.
as produced within their home nation.
consumers to make appropriate changes The research also highlighted that for some to their lifestyles and diet and to maintain consumers, understanding and trusting consumer trust and confidence in the food the provenance of foods is more important supply.
Approaches may include legislative than the specifics of where it is produced.
changes, voluntary initiatives with the development of best practice, and Emerging opportunities evidence-based information and education In addition to the challenges discussed programmes involving a cross-section above, there are also many opportunities of health professionals.
for the food industry to build upon.
Growing According to the latest FSA consumer scientific knowledge and the drive for mass A debate is developing around the attitudes survey concerns about GM customisation presents industry with the appropriate level of government intervention, foods have reduced slightly 38% opportunity, for example, to provide suitable as there are diverse opinions regarding the of consumers expressed concern products for targeted population groups.
need for state intervention versus freedom in 2003, compared with 43% in 2000. of choice.
This debate is particularly polarised Compared with previous surveys there For example, recent moves to develop due to the seriousness of the obesity problem.
has been an increase in the number healthy products to meet the specific needs However, since surveys have shown that of consumers aware of advice to eat five of children, and to improve the offer to those consumers are willing to acknowledge their 15 portions of fruit and vegetables each day suffering from food allergies and intolerances, own responsibility for their diet, it is up from 43% in 2000 to 59% in 2003. may be followed by products specifically important that consumers are motivated There has been a rise in the number targeted at the needs of other population to make appropriate changes to their of consumers who look for the total sectors such as the elderly.
lifestyles and diet, and to ensure that salt content on the label up from 22% consumers are well informed.
Opportunities are also presented by Half of the consumers interviewed nutraceuticals, or Pharma Foods, where The whole food chain must clearly work were concerned about the amount the intrinsic properties of the food or added together on these big industry issues, of fat 53%, salt 50% and sugar ingredients offer health benefits beyond and work closely with the other stakeholders, 47% in foods.
for which mechanisms are already in place.
Over six out of ten respondents claimed In dealing with consumer confusion, to enjoy cooking but only two fifths cook In the future, research into the effects exemplified by diet fads and fashions, it is meals from raw or fresh ingredients of foods on appetite and satiety may have important to distinguish between short term once a day.
important implications for the current issues that affect the market today, and trends in overweight and obesity.
Through longer term issues that may ultimately 13 FSA, Consumer Attitudes Survey, 2004. developments in nutrition research, impact on public health.
The need remains more detailed knowledge of our optimal to meet consumer expectations for requirements for micronutrients may price, taste and convenience, otherwise present new opportunities for improving improvements in the critical end-points public health.
Our responsibilities Geest PLC 61 Comment from the Chilled Food Comment from Geest Our retail customers have invested Association CFA It is a truism that food is central to, and significantly in their brands an The UKs chilled food industry leads the vital for, life.
It is, therefore, unsurprising investment that has earned the trust world in standards and systems applied that food is high on the social agenda.
This trust allows them from farm to fork to produce chilled fresh We asked Dr Sadler to describe her to purchase, for example, financial prepared foods to the highest standards expert view on the key issues around services or utilities from their chosen of safety and quality.
Investment in these food today.
We did this as they have retailer, not just food.
Given this wide standards and their highly developed important influences on our market.
coverage of their brand, they and their self-regulation systems over the last 15 suppliers cannot afford the reputational years underpins the success of this sector Certainly we agree with Dr Sadler that risk of their brand being associated with in the UK.
At the CFA a body whose key these issues will involve all elements food concerns.
The speed with which area of activity is to promote best practice of the industry including its consumers we and they moved to ensure our food guidance across the industry we believe and regulators.
One obvious issue for was non-GM is a salient example.
But, that there are a number of major regulatory a producer such as ourselves is to what as Dr Sadler indicates, we cannot be developments likely to impact the chilled extent should we offer a product that complacent for, even on that example, food sector further: diet and health, people should eat or one that they want it may well be that this becomes too enlargement of the EU in May 2004, to eat?
We offer a wide range of low fat, expensive or even an impossible policy environmental legislation and potential low salt, calorie counted products: and to continue.
EU legislation for product safety systems.
we also offer full fat versions.
To fail to offer the full fat version when there In summary, we do not pretend to In the area of diet and health, we agree is demand for it, or to continue to offer have any, let alone all, of the answers with Dr Sadler that this is a major driver the semi-skimmed version when no one to the issues she raises.
We do wish that will impact not only product labelling buys it would probably put us in breach to continue to take our industry and our to assist the individual to build a balanced of our fiduciary duty to our shareholders.
Company forward, meeting the needs diet but also recipes.
The chilled food of customers, consumers and our other industry and its retail customers are working We would argue that the way in which stakeholders.
We will continue to together to play a positive role in realising the fresh prepared foods industry monitor the issues, respond to them the governments aims on this important has developed meets a number where appropriate and contribute issue.
Given the increasing scale of the of the concerns she raises.
Our market to their solution where sensible.
Finally chilled food industry, it is likely that its is largely retailer branded.
This gives we certainly agree with Dr Sadler when players will become more influential it a flexibility which is perhaps denied she states the need remains to meet in this area over time.
The rapid consumer expectations for price, taste growth of retailers healthy eating and convenience.
Kaarin Goodburn brands is a case in point.
The speed with which we formulate their childrens ranges is another.
A further benefit is that of reputation.
The National Diet and Nutrition 10 Henderson et al, 2003.
The National Dietary and Nutritional Bibliography Survey: Adults aged 19 to 64 years.
The Heights and Weights of Adults 11 Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition SACN, 2003.
07 UK Public Health Association and Faculty of Public Health in Great Britain.
Joint Submission to the House 02 Gregory et al, 1990: The Dietary and Nutritional Survey 12 Henderson et al, 2002.
The National Dietary and of British Adults.
of Commons Health Committee Inquiry on Obesity.
Nutritional Survey: Adults aged 19-64 years.
03 Health Survey for England - Trend Data: www.
National Diet and Nutrition Survey: www.
uk  Published 13 Food Standards Agency, 2004.
Consumer Attitudes Survey  HealthSurveyResults young people aged 4 to 18 years, volume 1.
The National Dietary and Nutritional 14 IGD.
15 C F FT Creative Business, 17 February 2004 page 15.
