Our investment Increasing volumes mean that we can age of assets has reduced.
We also have start to automate certain parts of the a prudent depreciation policy see below.
This enables us to With the new focus on making our capital eliminate some repetitive tasks and relocate work harder we believe that we are in a people to more skilled jobs.
It also helps us good position with respect to our Returns to manage better some of the peaks and on Invested Capital ROIC.
We would troughs of our day-to-day order patterns expect our levels of capital expenditure all part and parcel of dealing with to reduce over the next two years to reflect fresh products.
Capital velocity As a business we are very focused on Mick V Mick Vassall Business Impr assall, ovement incremental sales capacity achieved achieving our target returns see below.
Business Improvement Director Director spent on new capacity We set Group targets for ROIC which is As we continue to grow, we aim to use our translated into Returns on Capital Employed capital more efficiently.
We do not believe Our capital velocity is now running at around ROCE targets at business unit level.
that our markets are anywhere near two and a half and we are targeting better We believe that this focus throughout maturity, but, as fresh prepared foods than three.
It means we are achieving higher the business on achieving returns is key become part of peoples lifestyles, we sales for every extra spent on new capacity.
have seen that people are buying these products more frequently.
This is important Not only are we making our invested capital to recognise as it influences the way work harder, but we are also committed, in which we use our existing facilities where physically and commercially possible, and allocate new capacity.
to expand existing investments rather than build brand new buildings on new sites.
When we do decide on new builds, these are configured carefully with future expansion in mind.
Following our high historic levels of investment over recent years, our average Our target returns: Our depreciation policy Level of capital expenditure 1997 Better than 12% Internal Rate We have a prudent depreciation policy to 2003 million of Return post-tax for new ventures and depreciate the majority of our equipment e. g. a new build over eight years.
The industry norm is ten 1997 A target of 20% Internal Rate of Return years and over.
1998 post-tax for incremental projects 1999 e. g. extensions Please do not think that we buy unsuitable 2000 Return on Capital Employed equipment we follow this policy owing of better than 20% pre-tax to the potential for certain elements of our 2001 for continuing businesses equipment to become obsolete following 2002 changes in consumer demand, such 2003 as types of packaging.
0 10 203040506070 80 Source: Geest 41 Time line It proves what you can Summer April August March August Christmas do when you have a clear 2001 2002 2002 2003 2003 2003 vision, a focused team and Initial Board Digging Equipment All four lines The big test feasibility approves commences ready to installed can see the end game.
study project be installed Terry Doyle, Manufacturing Director The dips market sector has grown by outset.
I also chose an architect and main more than 35% over the last three years.
building contractor with proven track In addition to catering for this growth records.
In the end, the build was finished we have to manage peaks in market in 24 weeks a record time.
The cost was demand in the summer and an even also 78% of the historic build cost for Geest.
Terry Doyle Manufacturing Director larger one at Christmas.
Following the increase in demand back in Christmas In an automated plant of this sort, the 2000 we knew that we would need machines should run the process, not the to invest in a new facility at the latest people otherwise the whole advantage in time for Christmas 2003. is lost.
We run our high volume dip lines through the plant and limit the number My project brief included input from of products.
The plant has been designed Gareth, our Chief Executive Officer, and in a linear format with potential to double came in three parts: build a factory which its size incrementally.
It also backs onto is technically fit for purpose and poses the warehouse so the finished product is minimal risk to food safety: push the moved automatically into its loading bay.
boundaries of productivity: and invest behind margin improvement.
Minimise The team now in place is very proud of its risk, dont cut corners but challenge achievements.
During the build I led the everything!
at least I knew where project with Joanne Hunter, who is now I stood.
Factory Manager of the facility.
The rest Project Cerberus facts of the team is small, but of quality calibre, I have been with Geest for five years well trained and with a high level of Building cost: 22% cheaper and have a background in large scale accountability.
It is their role to monitor than the historic Geest standard.
manufacturing, so, although this is the and control the process and carry Build time: 24 weeks a record largest automated project Geest has out preventative maintenance.
undertaken, I had the relevant experience.
the investment in the equipment, which The key for me was to invest in good should run itself, the team is empowered Throughput in December 2003: equipment from respected suppliers to add value to the process.
4.5 million pots of dips over the best equipment for the job 28 days if you laid these down not necessarily the cheapest and You can always improve things with they would stretch for 279 miles.
concentrate on the process side hindsight.
The time period for the build From filling to pallet location of the plant.
was tighter than I had hoped, I could have done with some extra pairs in warehouse: 8 minutes, Another of my objectives was to minimise of hands at times and it was timeno handling.
the risk of the build going wrong.
This consuming to transfer production lines Amount of product going is all about getting the timing of the build from the other facility as the team there through the facility: 13 tonnes at right and making sure that the brief to was very busy too.
However, we the contractors is clear.
I worked upon achieved our objectives it was all any one time thats the equivalent the premise of a frozen plan nothing up and running for Christmas, we had weight of two African elephants!
could be changed once agreed unless our record throughput and achieved absolutely critical.
It means investing a service level, above target, of 99.7%.
a lot of time before anything happens and involving a lot of people up front.
For example, our Technical food safety team scrutinised the plans at the very 42 Recipes Serves 1 person Lightly grilled red snapper Preparation time 25 minutes with Vietnamese noodle salad Cooking time 10 minutes Ingredients Quantity Ingredients Quantity Nutrition Red snapper filet 125g Dressing Portions 1 Rice vermicelli blanched 35g Red chilli 5g Calories 302 Carrot matchsticks 15g Chopped garlic 5g Fat 0.8g Beansprouts 15g Lime juice 15g Saturated fat 0.2g Mange tout strips 15g Palm sugar 6g Carbohydrate 5.5g Fresh coriander 8g Vietnamese fish sauce 6g Protein 10.5g Fresh basil 8g Fibre 1.0g Fresh mint 8g Salt 0.1g Lime cut in half 1 Geest Culinary Academy 2003 Method Lightly oil lime and chargrill fresh side Bring a pan of cold water to the boil.
Add the rice vermicelli and cook for Combine the vegetables, herbs and 2-3 minutes.
Add the dressing and toss Place a chargrill pan on the heat.
lightly to ensure it coats the salad evenly.
Using a pestle and mortar pound the Serve immediately with the grilled dressing ingredients together until fish on top.
Optional extra not included in the Prepare the vegetables and fresh herbs above nutritional information serve and set aside.
Lightly grill the red snapper skin side up for 3-4 minutes until the skin becomes crispy.
43 Cut out and keep Serves 2 persons Farfalle with watercress Preparation time 10 minutes and tomato sauce Cooking time 25 minutes Method Drain the cooked pasta in a colander Ingredients Quantity Bring a large pan of cold water to the boil, then place back into the pan and drizzle Tinned chopped tomatoes 400g season well with salt.
Cloves of garlic, peeled and chopped 2 When boiling add the pasta and re-boil.
Remove the tomato sauce from the heat Small onion, peeled and chopped 1 Cook until soft but not soggy.
This should and stir in the other half of the olive oil.
Tomato juice 200ml take about 10 minutes.
Cool slightly, then add the chopped 1 Vegetable stock cube Kallo 2 Heat half the olive oil in a saucepan.
watercress so it keeps its flavour and Water 200ml colour and stir through.
Add the onion, garlic, oregano and basil Caster sugar 2 tsp and cook for 2-3 minutes to soften.
Finally spoon the farfalle onto two warm Balsamic vinegar 4 tsp plates, top with the sauce and sprinkle with Add the tomato juice, sugar, tinned a little freshly grated Parmesan cheese.
Tomato pure 2 tbsp tomatoes, tomato pure, vinegar, crumbled stock cube and water and bring to the boil.
Virgin olive oil 3 tbsp Chopped basil 4 tbsp Season well and simmer for 10 minutes stirring occasionally.
You should end Dried oregano 2 tsp up with a thick tomato sauce.
Watercress chopped roughly 1 x 85g bag Salt and freshly milled black pepper Dried farfalle pasta 225g Virgin olive oil 3 tbsp Freshly grated Parmesan cheese 2 tbsp Nutrition Portions 2 Calories 839 Fat 40g Saturated fat 7g Carbohydrate 102g Protein 23g Fibre 8g Salt 2.95g Phil Vickery January 2003 44 Cut out and keep
