Food safety This year we opened a new laboratory, installed an on-line microbiological results system and further improved ingredient traceability procedures.
These investments give us greater confidence in our ability to minimise food safety risks.
John Gorman, Group Technical Director We were reaching capacity in the laboratory in Spalding for microbiological testing and took the decision in 2003 to open and re-equip a laboratory on the Holbeach site which we bought in 2001.
By keeping this process in house, we can be more confident of our results by seeing them first hand and if need be take action much more quickly.
The total investment in the new laboratory was around 100,000.
It is a separate, self-contained laboratory and, furthermore, incorporates a dedicated pathogen testing environment.
We will start to use this testing facility in the first half of 2004, once it is validated by external audit.
This will enhance our service offered to our manufacturing facilities and, again, will give us increased confidence by being in control of the process and being able to respond rapidly.
Emma Beeston preparing sample material for plates in the new laboratory 33 To coincide with the opening of the increase to some 5,000 samples laboratory, we selected an industryper week.
This will replace a huge leading Laboratory Information administrative job with a paperless Management System LIMS, which has process.
Given the market growth rates been set up to manage our processes we are seeing, we are confident that to specific requirements.
The system LIMS will provide a sound platform uses barcode technology to track for the medium to long term.
samples throughout the microbiological testing process, which improves But the system does more than just the speed and flow of information save time and costs.
We now have the and further improves accuracy by ability to analyse and interpret results David Townsend, Head of Purchasing minimising the risk of human error.
with an off-line investigation and reporting facility.
This means that we The ability to trace ingredients used The system generates status reports can look at results by customer, types in finished food products is important, as which are updated hourly and accessed of product, ingredient, site or even is being able to react quickly to food issues.
by Technical Departments over the specific areas of a production facility.
Our Purchasing and Technical teams have Company network.
Instead of ploughing through reams liaised to pool systems to achieve just that.
of paper we can generate trend analysis David Townsend, Head of Purchasing, The system is in operation at two reports literally at the touch of a button.
introduced a purchasing system three business units and has been built with This is a very powerful tool which can years ago to help co-ordinate raw material expansion in mind and will soon be only help in our mission to strive for supplies.
This has since been enhanced extended to our Spalding manufacturing continuous improvement in the area further to help manage food safety issues.
The throughput is likely to of food safety.
Via our purchasing system, we are able to identify the ingredients being used at any UK site at any time.
In the event of a food crisis, we can establish very quickly whether or not any of our products would be affected.
For example, when the Foods Standards Agency FSA warned us of the presence of the illegal colouring agent Sudan 1 in some imported spices, we could establish within 30 minutes that none of our products contained it.
Had we been less fortunate, we would still have been able to react quickly enough to stop any finished product from leaving the sites.
This speed of response in an emergency is vital both from a food safety and commercial point of view.
It gives us and our customers reassurance that we have systems in place which allow us to be in control throughout our manufacturing process.
For further information on our approach to food safety please see page 63.
David Savage scanning plates using the new Laboratory Information Management System 34
