Our consumers Adrian Pickett Head of Marketing In 2003, we spoke to more consumers than ever to understand their attitude to, and aspirations for, fresh prepared foods.
Adrian Pickett, Head of Marketing Jason England and Kip Winter-Cox making one of Phil Vickerys recipes see page 44 In 2003 we deepened our understanding of consumer and market trends with market research projects in many of our sectors including leafy salads, pizza, coleslaw, pasta, sauces and ready meals.
We continue to use Taylor Nelson Sofrs TNS to analyse exactly how and when people buy and eat fresh prepared foods and we track the trends in our market sectors on a monthly basis.
This combination of information helps us to understand and anticipate what people are looking for and we use this knowledge in our product development.
A landmark in 2003 was a return to direct communication with our consumers through our watercress campaign.
This project kept two of our employees and our watercress growers particularly busy and Kip and Jason outline the campaign overleaf.
We estimate that the impact of this campaign was an incremental profit of 250,000.
On the back of this success, we are already planning the 2004 watercress campaign and working on other consumer initiatives following nutritional research carried out by the Pennsylvania State University.
And if all that publicity wasnt enough, Kip and Jason have demonstrated the versatility of watercress to TV viewers across the country.
37 The results of the watercress campaign: 80% of Alresford Salads estimated 250,000 incremental profit employees involved during more households buying watercress Watercress Week highest ever sales of watercress increased awareness of the Site during Watercress Week Employee Forum SEF and its role stronger relations with growers and the local community Our aim was to make watercress fashionable Jason England now working at our Selby The Watercress Alliance again and to increase the number of site was General Manager at Alresford There have been links between the households buying one of the countrys most and oversaw the campaign.
watercress growing regions of Hampshire historic salads.
Prior to defining the campaign and Dorset for over a decade.
In 2003, we carried out market research to understand The watercress campaign had a huge these were strengthened by the formation consumer attitudes to watercress did they knock-on effect beyond the financial benefits of The Watercress Alliance.
The objective know what it was?
did they know how it and was more far-reaching than we had of this association is to promote the taste could be used?
We worked even more closely and health benefits of watercress.
We used the results with our main grower and we were involved members include Geest, Geests partner of the research to tailor our campaign.
with the local community planning the grower The Watercress Company Watercress Week in the area for example, and Vitacress.
Our slogan Not just a bit on the side we delivered free samples of watercress tried to move people away from thinking to the Watercress Line a steam railway that watercress could only be used as in Alresford during the event.
We are already a garnish or accompaniment and to inspire talking to Winchester City Council about them to use the leaf as an ingredient in new ideas for 2004 and beyond.
Also, we wanted the slogan www.
co. uk to symbolise the fun of the campaign Internally, it helped with team building.
For more information about watercress and appeal to younger consumers.
We held an away day with our Site Employee in fact, probably more than youll ever Forum SEF for more information on the role need to know with recipes for those We launched the campaign to coincide with of the SEF in Geest, please turn to page 76 counting calories as well as for those Watercress Week in May the height of the and established two sets of goals one looking for a new recipe for weekend growing season and were overwhelmed of which was a plan of activity for employees entertaining, then please visit the by the response we received.
We sent during Watercress Week.
The SEF was website above.
watercress sandwiches to national radio responsible for organising internal activities stations and were mentioned throughout the at the site, including a quiz night, sporting week by Terry Wogan, featured on national activities, watercress recipe sampling one a TV, local radio, and in national newspapers day throughout Watercress Week and raising Watercress media coverage: and magazines.
Celebrity chef Phil Vickery 516 for Cancer Research.
The objective was 47 national magazines developed some mouth-watering recipes to create awareness internally and involve 40 regional newspapers and we made sure that everybody knew as many employees as possible.
Its hard about the health benefits of watercress to measure team spirit but our SEF is far more 1 national TV station with the help of nutritionist Lyndel Costain.
We also had a huge 4 regional TV stations amount of fun.
3 national radio stations The campaign was recognised nationally 16 regional radio stations and Alresford Salads and its team were joint Kip and I were also filmed for an episode winners of The Food Manufacture Magazines of Ready, steady, cook!
which was shown 4,000 hits per month award for excellence in the chilled ready on television this March.
We arrived armed on the website meals and prepared foods category, beating with watercress and the chefs were very off much larger companies.
The award innovative proving again just how also recognised the achievements made versatile watercress can be.
by Alresford Salads in quality assurance and food safety something that can only be done by analysing the whole supply chain Above right: Kip and Jason with the and working closely with our main watercress chefs on the set of Ready, steady, cook!
partner grower, The Watercress Company.
