Board of Directors From left to right top : John Robinson, Peter Johnson, Michael Blackburn, Christine Cross.
From left to right bottom : Stewart Cline, Andrew Carr-Locke, Baroness Dean, David Williams, James Jordan.
Christopher Bartram resigned on 10 April 2003.
Keith Cushen resigned on 31 December 2003.
Photographs taken at the new Options Centre during the Boards visit to Scotland in October 2003.
28 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 John H Robinson Andrew Carr-Locke Baroness Dean of Chairman Group Finance Director Thornton-le-Fylde Non Executive Director John has been Chairman since 1999, Andrew was appointed in May originally joining George Wimpey as a 2001.
Previously he was Group Brenda was appointed in October Non Executive Director in September Finance Director of Courtaulds 2003.
In January 2004, John was Textiles Plc.
In October 2003 to the Board, Brenda retired as appointed Chairman of Bespak plc, he Andrew joined AWG Plc as a Chairman of the Housing is also Chairman of Paragon Health Non Executive Director.
Corporation, a post she had held Care Group Limited and an operating since 1997.
She is a member of the partner at Duke Street Capital.
John House of Lords and active in a range Stewart M Cline has previously been Chairman and of public areas.
She has previously President, Morrison Homes Chief Executive of Smith & Nephew held Non Executive positions with Stu joined Morrison Homes PLC and Chairman of Low & Bonar Plc, Take Care plc, Chamberlain Phipps in 1994 as President and was Railtrack PLC and UK Coal PLC.
Age 60. appointed to the Board of Chairman of the Governing Council George Wimpey in December of the University of Hull.
Prior to joining Morrison he Non Executive Director was with the Ryland Group for 22 Peter M Johnson years, concluding as President of David was appointed in May 2001.
Group Chief Executive their South West Region.
He is currently Finance Director of Peter was appointed in October Bunzl plc, a position he has held 2000, having previously been Chief since 1991.
Previously David has held Christine Cross Executive of The Rugby Group PLC Non Executive positions at Dewhirst Non Executive Director and, prior to that, a Director of Redland Group PLC and Medeva PLC.
He is a Non Executive Director Chris was appointed in December of DS Smith Plc and Chairman of 2002.
She currently runs her own its Audit Committee.
He is a member retail consultancy business and, of the Council for Industry and prior to that, had been Group Higher Education CIHE.
Age 56. Business Development Director at Tesco, where she worked from J Michael Blackburn 1989-2003.
Chris holds two visiting Non Executive Director professorships in Business Studies Group Company Secretary at Srinakarinwirot University, Michael was appointed in September James J Jordan 1999.
Previously Chief Executive of Bangkok and in Consumer Studies Halifax plc, he is a Non Executive at the University of Ulster.
She is a James, a solicitor, was appointed Director of DFS Furniture Company Non Executive Director of Sobeys Group Company Secretary in plc and Freeport Plc.
George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 29
