Fellow of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers Chairman.
Joined GKN in 1970 as an accountant becoming Group and Fellow of the Institution of Electrical Engineers.
Degree BSc Finance Director in 1982.
Appointed Group Managing Director in in Mechanical Engineering from University College London and 1987 and Chairman and Chief Executive in 1988 before becoming MBA from Harvard University.
Member of the National Defence Industries RoyBrown will succeed Sir David Lees as Chairman following the Council and the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers.
Chairman of Annual General Meeting on 20 May 2004.
Tate & Lyle plc, non-executive joint Deputy Chairman of Brambles Industries plc and Brambles Industries Limited Australia and 05 Richard Clowes Age 53 [A] non-executive Director of Royal Opera House, Covent Garden Ltd.
Managing Director Powder Metallurgy, OffHighway and Former Chairman of Courtaulds plc and former Member of Court AutoComponents.
Joined GKN in 1991 and appointed Chief of the Bank of England.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Executive OffHighway Systems and AutoComponents in 1993.
Accountants in England and Wales.
Appointed to the Board in 2001.
Prior to GKN, held various positions with TI Group plc.
Chartered Engineer and Member of the Institution Sir David Lees retires from the Board following the Annual General of Mechanical Engineers.
Degree BSc in Mechanical Engineering Meeting on 20 May 2004. from Birmingham University.
02 Baroness Hogg Age 57 [B, C, D, E] 06 Dick Etches Age 58 [A] Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Joined the Human Resources Director.
Formerly Senior Board as a non-executive Director in 1996 and appointed Deputy Vice President Human Resources of Grand Metropolitan plcs food Chairman and Senior Independent Director on 1 December 2003. sector in the US.
Degrees in Psychology BSc from Edinburgh Chairman of 3i Group plc and Frontier Economics Ltd, and University and Management Studies MSc from Durham University.
non-executive Director of Carnival plc and Carnival Corporation Panama.
Former Head of the Prime Ministers Policy Unit.
Degree 07 Sir Ian Gibson, CBE Age 57 [B, C, D, E] MA in Politics, Philosophy and Economicsfrom Oxford University.
Member of Court of the Bank of England, non-executive Deputy Chairman of BPB plc, 03 Kevin Smith, CBE Age 49 [A, B, E] and non-executive Director of Northern Rock plc and Chelys Ltd. Chief Executive.
Joined GKN in 1999 as Managing Director Aerospace Former President of Nissan Europe and corporate officer of Nissan and appointed Chief Executive on 1 January 2003.
Chairman of Motor Co Ltd Japan and former Deputy Chairman of ASDA AgustaWestland.
Prior to GKN, held various positions in BAE Group plc.
Fellow of the Institute of Physics.
Degree BSc in Systems over a 20 year period latterly as Group Managing Director Applied Physics from Manchester University.
Director of The Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders Ltd and Council member of The Society of British Aerospace 08 Ian Griffiths Age 53 [A] Companies Ltd.
Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
Degree Managing Director GKN Driveline.
Appointed BA in Business Studies from the University of Central Lancashire.
Chief Executive GKN Driveline in 2000 and to the Board in 2001.
Responsible for the Groups worldwide operations manufacturing 04 Roy Brown Age 57 [B, C, D, E] driveline components and systems.
Has been a member of the Non-executive Director.
Non-executive senior driveline management team since 1990 during which Chairman of Thus plc, non-executive Deputy Chairman of HMV time has been responsible for operations in the US and for Group plc and non-executive Director of Brambles Industries plc, global marketing and engineering.
Non-executive Director of Brambles Industries Limited Australia, The British United Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
Degree BSc in Mechanical, Provident Association Ltd BUPA and the Franchise Board of Electrical and Production Engineering from Coventry University.
Former executive Director of Unilever plc 17 GKN plc 2003 09 11 13 15 10 12 14 09 Neal Keating Age 48 [A] 13 Nigel Stein Age 48 [A] Managing Director Aerospace Services.
Joined GKN in 2002 Finance Director.
Joined GKN in 1994 and appointed to the on appointment to the Board and became Managing Director Board as Finance Director in 2001.
Has held a range of commercial, Aerospace Services on 1 January 2003.
Prior to GKN, was Executive general management and finance roles within the Group, most Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Commercial Aerospace recently Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer Systems of Rockwell Collins in the US.
Spent 24 years with Rockwell of GKN Sinter Metals.
Prior to GKN, had extensive experience in International, latterly as Vice President and General Manager, the commercial vehicle and manufacturing sector.
Non-executive Air Transport Systems and Vice President and General Manager, Director of Wolseley plc.
Member of the Institute of Chartered Passenger Systems.
Degree BS in Electrical Engineering from Accountants of Scotland.
Degree BSc in Engineering Science University of Illinois and MBA from University of Chicago.
10 Helmut Mamsch Age 59 [B, C, D, E] 14 Sir Peter Williams Age 58 [B, C, D, E] Non-executive Director.
Chairman of the Deputy Chairman of LogicaCMG plc and non-executive Director Engineering and Technology Board and the Japan Business of RMC Group plc and Sappi Limited South Africa.
Member of Network of Trade Partners UK.
Formerly Master of St Catherines Supervisory Board of K&S Aktingesellschaft and Readymix AG.
College Oxford, prior to which Chairman and previously Chief Formerly Management Board member of VEBA AG now E. ON AG.
Executive of Oxford Instruments plc.
Non-executive Chairman Degree in Economics.
of NPL Management Ltd and non-executive Director of Advent VCT plc and Advent 2 VCT plc.
Fellow of the Royal Society and 11 Sir Christopher Meyer, KCMG Age 60 [B, C, D, E] of the Royal Academy of Engineering, and Past President of the Non-executive Director.
Chairman of British Association for the Advancement of Science.
Degree MA the Press Complaints Commission and non-executive Director of in Natural Sciences and PhD from Cambridge University.
The Sanctuary Group plc and Riggs Bank Europe Ltd. Former British Ambassador to the United States and Germany, and also served 15 Grey Denham Age 55 in the British Diplomatic Service in Russia, Spain and the UK Company Secretary.
Joined GKN in 1980 and was head of the representative office to the European Community, Brussels.
Former Group Legal function for nine years before being appointed Prime Ministers Chief Press Secretary.
Degree MA in History from Company Secretary in 1996.
Holds various positions on Industry Cambridge University.
and City bodies and currently Chairman of the Primary Markets Group of the London Stock Exchange.
Member of the Business 12 Dr Klaus Murmann Age 72 [B, D, E] Leadership Council of Young Enterprise.
Law Degree LLB from Non-executive Director.
Chairman of SauerLondon University and a barrister.
Danfoss Inc, formed following the merger of Sauer-Sundstrand Group with Danfoss Fluid Power.
Founded Sauer Getriebe AG in A Member of Executive Committee 1969 and, following a merger with Sundstrand in 1987, developed B Member of Chairmans Committee it into the leading global supplier of hydrostatic transmissions.
CMember of Audit Committee Chairman of Gothaer Versicherungsbank and non-executive D Member of Remuneration Committee Director of Bankgesellschaft Berlin AG.
Degree BA in Political EMember of Nominations Committee Science and Dr. Juris.
The Company Secretary is secretary to these Board Committees.
The responsibilities of the Committees are described on pages 76 and 77.
Dr Murmann retires from the Board following the Annual General Meeting on 20 May 2004.
