12 GKN plc 2003 AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY PROFILE TECHNOLOGY IN ACTION AT GKN: AUTOMOTIVE TORQUE MANAGEMENT GKN Driveline is one of the worlds premier, first tier automotive Today, the TSG represents annual turnover of more than 300 million, suppliers.
including wholly-owned businesses and a 33% interest in Tochigi Fuji Sangyo TFS of Japan.
Customers include BMW, DaimlerChrysler, It is also the undisputed world leader in the technology and Ford, General Motors, Honda, Jaguar, Land Rover, Mitsubishi, Nissan, manufacture of constant velocity jointed CVJ sideshafts which Porsche, Subaru, Toyota and Volkswagen.
GKN Drivelines goal is are used on 85% of all of the cars and light vehicles produced for TSG to achieve sales of 800 million per annum by 2008. in the world.
GKN Driveline believes that demand for high-performance vehicle CVJ sideshafts transmit torque rotational power from the drivelines will continue to grow, driven by the continued popularity powertrain to the driven wheels in front wheel drive FWD of sports utility vehicles and crossover vehicles that combine the vehicles, rear wheel drive RWD vehicles with independent functionality of 4WD with the refinement and feel of conventional rear suspension and many four wheel drive 4WD vehicles.
CVJs are critical to the performance and refinement of these GKN offers the widest range of driveline products of any supplier vehicles as they ensure the even flow of power to the wheels.
and is well positioned to capitalise on the demand for capable, Two years ago GKN decided to create another premier position lightweight drivelines that not only react to changing road conditions within the global automotive industry.
In doing so it is building but contribute proactively to vehicle stability and performance.
on market leadership, close relationships with all of the worlds The TSG comprises three product areas: leading vehicle manufacturers VMs and a deep understanding of the science and engineering of driveline systems.
Premium propshafts GKNs high-performance longitudinal shafts can be of complex metallic or composite construction utilising a GKN Driveline established a Torque Systems Group TSG in number of CVJs and other couplings.
Their primary applications 2002 with the objective of becoming the world leader in non-CVJ are in RWD and 4WD vehicles.
driveline products by the end of this decade.
These products include propeller shafts, geared components transfer cases, power transfer Geared driveline components These complex units include power units and final drive units and torque management devices.
transfer units, transfer cases and final drive units.
13 GKN plc 2003 A power transfer unit PTU is used most commonly to convert RWD vehicles, which account for approximately 20% of vehicle a FWD platform to 4WD.
The PTU takes power from the transaxle production, are increasingly using independent rear suspension unit through a 90 degree angle to a propeller shaft connected to which requires the installation of an FDU and two CVJ sideshafts.
Within the FWD segment, which accounts for more than 60% of A transfer case is typically used in vehicles with a longitudinally vehicle production, modern engines are now capable of power mounted engine at the front and enables power to be transferred outputs which exceed the practical limit for conventional FWD through a 180 degree angle to the driven front axle.
Vehicle designers will increasingly turn to TMDs such as those produced and under development by GKN to ensure higher A final drive unit FDU is used in RWD and 4WD vehicles with levels of stability and control for these more powerful vehicles.
Like a PTU, the FDU transfers power through a 90 degree angle from a longitudinal propeller shaft Unlike the global market for CVJs within which there are a handful to the transverse sideshafts.
of major players, the torque systems market is fragmented and few suppliers can claim to operate on a global basis.
The combination Torque management devices TMDs These devices manage the flow of GKN and TFS is potentially very powerful not only through GKNs of torque.
They range from mechanical limited-slip devices to global presence but because no other single competitor operates complex  clutches.
They can be incorporated across the same wide range of devices and technologies.
into geared components or installed as stand-alone units.
GKN Driveline has a complete range of TMDs and is the world leader in viscous couplings.
GKNs most advanced product is the Electronic Torque Manager, which uses a combination of software, electronics and electro-mechanical devices to manage torque flow proactively according to a vehicles control strategy.
Two other automotive trends also favour GKNs strategic ambitions to develop and grow in torque systems.
Photograph: High end variants of the VW Touareg utilise GKNs Electronic Torque Manager.
14 GKN plc 2003 AEROSPACE TECHNOLOGY PROFILE TECHNOLOGY IN ACTION AT GKN: HIGH-PERFORMANCE AEROSPACE COMPOSITES GKN is the worlds leading independent supplier of composite resins.
GKNs products include engine nacelles, wing structures, structures to the worlds aircraft and aero engine manufacturers.
flight control surfaces and fuselage sub-assemblies.
A composite material is produced by fusing or bringing together There has been rapid growth in the application of composites to different elements and materials the individual characteristics aircraft structures during the last 20 years.
of which combine to produce an outstanding combination of Composite content on civil and military aircraft in the 1980s was properties.
It is estimated that the Airbus A380 Modern composites enable todays aerospace engineers to produce will be 25% composite and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter will have lightweight and stiff structures with often complex shapes which a composite content of 45%.
will make a major contribution to the efficiency of commercial and For civil aircraft, composites offer the opportunity for higher military aircraft now under development.
efficiencies through their low weight and high strength.
The same The origins of GKNs involvement with composites can be traced properties allow military aircraft designers to achieve higher thrustto the late 19th century when aviation pioneer Sam Saunders, to-weight ratios for enhanced combat performance.
based on the Isle of Wight in the UK, created a lightweight laminate This increase in the importance of composites has driven an which he used on seaplanes.
Hiscompany evolved to produce increased application of technology to enhance the performance rocket-propelled fighters, satellite launch rockets, hovercraft and of the material and to improve the quality and efficiency of the helicopters and in 1994 became part of GKN.
The business has expanded from its Isle of Wight origins and GKN Following three years of intensive development in liaison with now supplies customers from plants in the UK, Germany and the US.
customers, GKN is at the forefront of two new processes GKNs aerospace engineering teams are focused on the Resin Film Infusion and Resin Transfer Moulding.
development of high-performance composite materials and the Resin Film Infusion RFI This process has been developed at GKNs processes used in their manufacture.
Todays composite structures Cowes facility on the Isle of Wight in collaboration with Airbus, and are produced from carbon fibre, fibreglass, Kevlar and high-tech 15 GKN plc 2003 the A380 is the first full-scale production application of RFI.
cost benefits as RFI but produces high-strength, complex shapes It is a process suited to civil aircraft because of its ability to to very precise tolerances which can operate in the highly-stressed deliver large, lightweight, high-quality structures at lower cost environment of a combat aircrafts airframe or engine.
Carbon fibres are formed into a dry approximate shape of the The introduction and certification of RFI could lead to far-reaching final component to be produced.
The material is placed in a metal future developments.
The conventional use of autoclaves large, mould and epoxy resin injected.
The mould is then subjected to a high-temperature ovens to bond carbon filaments and epoxy resins combination of high pressure and high temperature which produces within a mould has limited the cycle time of the production process a finished, net shape component.
as well as the size of one-piece structures which can be produced.
GKNs RTM processes are concentrated in St Louis in the US and RFI is undertaken at low pressures and does not require an autoclave.
are used on the F A-22 and F-35 fighters.
On the F-35s engine, Current work by GKN indicates that automation could be applied to GKNs RTM process has allowed one-piece composite structures the previously labour-intensive process of laying up the carbon fibre to replace complex metal fabrications for the first time.
and applying the epoxy resins by hand.
Significant advances are also being made in metallics.
New Future developments aim to create an automated system in which processes promise to radically reduce the cost of titanium, new layers of fibre and low density epoxy film are brought together and fabrication technologies for high-speed cold spray of powder metals the required temperatures are applied in situ dispensing with the promise the ability to create parts which would be impossible to need for expensive and energy hungry autoclaves.
The RFI system produce by machining, and developments within GKN are bringing promises to be highly flexible and could produce a range of metal matrix materials close to the market.
structures of potentially unlimited size.
Resin Transfer Moulding RTM Military aircraft are the principal target market for RTM although certain high-volume commercial Photograph: The Airbus A380 is the launch platform for new composite processes applications are also attractive.
RTM does not deliver the same developed by GKN.
