06 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 07 The business Products Pharmaceuticals History and development of the company Building a strong and diverse R&D pipeline The Group is aiming to create the most productive discovery Therapeutic area Trade mark Compound Mechanism Indication may vary by country GlaxoSmithKline plc, and its subsidiary and associated pipeline in the industry for the benefit of patients, consumers and Central nervous Seroxat Paxil paroxetine selective serotonin re-uptake depression, panic, anxiety undertakings, constitute a major global healthcare group society.
This includes developing a focused portfolio strategy to system inhibitor engaged in the creation, discovery, development, manufacture support the pipeline and manage the full life cycle of compounds Wellbutrin bupropion noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor depression and marketing of pharmaceutical and consumer health-related from launch through to over-the-counter products.
This strategy Imigran Imitrex sumatriptan 5HT agonist migraine, cluster headache 1 Naramig Amerge naratriptan 5HT agonist migraine products.
includes selective in-licensing and efficient execution of 1 Lamictal lamotrigine sodium channel modulator epilepsy, bipolar disorder development, commercialisation and the supply chain processes.
GlaxoSmithKline has its corporate head ofce in London at: Requip ropinirole dopamine D2 D3 agonist parkinsons disease GlaxoSmithKlines R&D organisation measures productivity not Zyban bupropion SR noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor smoking addiction 980 Great West Road just by the number and innovation of the products it creates, but Respiratory Flixotide Flovent uticasone propionate inhaled anti-inammatory asthma, COPD Brentford also by the commercial value of the products and their ability to Serevent salmeterol xinafoate bronchodilator asthma, COPD Middlesex TW8 9GS address the unmet needs of all consumers, including patients, Seretide Advair salmeterol and uticasone bronchodilator anti-inammatory asthma, COPD England healthcare professionals, budget holders and regulators, each with propionate Tel: 020 8047 5000 their own perspective on what constitutes a valuable new product.
Flixonase Flonase uticasone propionate intranasal anti-inammatory hayfever, perennial rhinitis Ventolin salbutamol albuterol bronchodilator bronchospasm GlaxoSmithKline also has operational headquarters in Philadelphia, Further details are given on pages 15 to 23.
Becotide Beclovent beclomethasone dipropionate inhaled anti-inammatory asthma and Research Triangle Park, USA, and operations in some 117 Beconase beclomethasone dipropionate intranasal anti-inammatory hayfever, perennial rhinitis countries, with products sold in over 130 countries.
The principal Product commercialisation Anti-virals Trizivir lamivudine, zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV AIDS research and development R&D facilities are in the UK, the USA, GlaxoSmithKline links research and commercial operations closely and abacavir Japan, Italy and Belgium.
Products are currently manufactured in in order to maximise the value of the portfolio.
As compounds Combivir Biovir lamivudine and zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV AIDS some 38 countries.
are being developed and tested, innovative marketing campaigns Epivir 3TC lamivudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV AIDS and powerful and focused sales efforts are being planned.
Where The major markets for the Groups products are the USA, Japan, Retrovir AZT zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV AIDS appropriate within markets, the Group aims to build strong France, Germany, the UK and Italy.
Ziagen abacavir reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV AIDS relationships with patients as the ultimate consumers of its Agenerase amprenavir protease inhibitor HIV AIDS GlaxoSmithKline plc is a public limited company incorporated on medicines.
Further details are given on page 13 and page 22.
Lexiva fosamprenavir protease inhibitor HIV AIDS 6th December 1999 under English law.
On 27th December 2000 Valtrex Zelitrex valaciclovir DNA polymerase inhibitor shingles, genital herpes the company acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Global competitor Zovirax aciclovir DNA polymerase inhibitor herpes infections, shingles, Beecham plc, both English public limited companies, by way of a GlaxoSmithKline operates in an increasingly global environment chicken pox, cold sores Zefx Heptavir lamivudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor chronic hepatitis B infection scheme of arrangement for the merger of the two companies.
where scale offers significant advantages.
The Group leverages Heptodin Epivir HBV Both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were major global that scale by building interdependent businesses that share healthcare businesses.
successful practices across business boundaries and geographic Anti-bacterials Augmentin amoxicillin clavulanate broad spectrum oral injectable bacterial infections anti-malarials antibiotic borders.
Common approaches to management processes and On 1st October 2001 Glaxo Wellcome plc changed its name to Zinnat Ceftin cefuroxime axetil oral antibiotic bacterial infections business functions are used by an internationally diverse and GlaxoSmithKline Services plc and on 28th March 2002 became Fortum Fortaz ceftazidime injectable antibiotic severe, life threatening infections talented management team in order to create and sustain GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited.
Historical references to Glaxo Bactroban mupirocin topical antibiotic skin infections competitive advantage in all markets.
In addition, GlaxoSmithKline Wellcome plc in this document have not been changed.
Amoxil amoxicillin broad spectrum oral injectable bacterial infections continues to demonstrate its commitment to corporate antibiotic responsibility by helping to improve access to better medicines Malarone atovaquone proguanil electron transport inhibitor treatment and prophylaxis of malaria Business segments in the developing world.
Further details are given on page 13 and Lapdap chlorproguanil hydrochloride antifolate anti-malarial treatment of malaria GlaxoSmithKline operates principally in two industry segments: pages 27 to 31. dapsone Pharmaceuticals prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines Metabolic Avandia rosiglitazone PPAR-gamma agonist type 2 diabetes Consumer Healthcare over-the-counter medicines, oral care Consumer Healthcare Avandamet rosiglitazone metformin PPAR-gamma agonist type 2 diabetes and nutritional healthcare.
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare recognises that a clear hydrochloride antihyperglycemic agent understanding of the needs and expectations of consumers is metformin GlaxoSmithKline strategy fundamental to the success of the business.
The traditional method Vaccines Havrix hepatitis A of communicating with customers is through television advertising, Engerix-B hepatitis B GlaxoSmithKlines business goal is to become the indisputable although newer channels, such as the internet, are gaining Twinrix hepatitis A and B leader in the pharmaceutical industry.
Achieving this goal will importance.
Whichever method is chosen, the challenge is to make Infanrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular pertussis require meeting the three key challenges that face both the GlaxoSmithKline products stand out from the competition.
Oncology Zofran ondansetron 5HT receptor antagonist nausea and vomiting from cancer 3 industry and society as a whole: and emesis therapy New products can come from many sources, but, importantly, Hycamtin topotecan topoisomerase 1 inhibitor ovarian cancer, small cell lung cancer improving productivity in research and development Consumer Healthcare partners with the Pharmaceutical business to Navelbine vinorelbine cytotoxic non-small cell lung cancer, breast ensuring patients have access to new medicines maximise the Groups assets through opportunities for cancer reaching consumers beyond the traditional healthcare pharmaceutical products in the over-the-counter market.
Bexxar iodine - 131 tositumomab radioimmunotherapy follicular non-Hodgkins lymphoma professional.
Cardiovascular Coreg carvedilol alpha beta blocker congestive heart failure People and urogenital Lanoxin digoxin cardiac anti-arrhythmic congestive heart failure, GlaxoSmithKline has developed strategies which focus on a The single greatest source of competitive advantage of any cardiac arrhythmia number of key business drivers in order to meet these challenges.
The Groups ambition is to make it the Flolan epoprostenol inhibitor of blood clotting primary pulmonary hypertension place where great people apply their energy and passion to make Lacipil lacidipine calcium channel blocker hypertension Pritor telmisartan angiotensin II antagonist hypertension a difference in the world.
Their skills and intellect are key Levitra vardenal PDE-5 inhibitor erectile dysfunction components in the successful implementation of the Groups Avodart dutasteride selective inhibitor type I & II benign prostatic hyperplasia strategy.
The work environment supports an informed, empowered isoforms 5AR and resilient workforce, in which the Group values and draws on Other Zantac ranitidine histamine H antagonist duodenal ulcers, stomach ulcers, the diverse knowledge, perspectives, experience, and styles of the 2 reux and dyspepsia global community.
Further details are given on page 26. co-promoted 08 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 09 Anti-virals The major products which are not necessarily sold in all markets GlaxoSmithKlines principal pharmaceutical products are presently Infanrix is a range of paediatric vaccine combinations.
Infanrix Combivir, a combination of Retrovir and Epivir, has consolidated are: directed to nine therapeutic areas.
An analysis of sales by these provides protection against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis the position of these two reverse transcriptase inhibitors as the therapeutic areas, and a description of the principal products, are whooping cough.
Infanrix PeNta Pediarix provides additional Category Product cornerstone of many multiple anti-HIV product regimens.
Physician set out below: protection against hepatitis B and polio, and Infanrix hexa further Over-the-counter medicines acceptance has clearly demonstrated the value placed on adds protection against haemophilus inuenzae type b, which 2003 2002 2001 Analgesics Panadol Turnover by therapeutic area m m m minimising the pill burden faced by patients.
Dermatologicals Zovirax Central nervous system 4,455 4,511 4,007 Ziagen is a reverse transcriptase inhibitor.
The products potency, GlaxoSmithKline also markets Priorix, a measles, mumps and Abreva Respiratory 4,417 3,987 3,537 ease of use and resistance prole allow it to play a significant role rubella vaccine, Typherix, a vaccine for protection against typhoid Gastro-intestinal Tums Anti-virals 2,349 2,299 2,128 in a variety of highly active, well tolerated and simplied HIV fever, and Varilrix, a vaccine against varicella or chicken pox.
In Citrucel Anti-bacterials anti-malarials 1,815 2,210 2,604 treatment regimens.
addition, the Group markets a range of vaccines to prevent Respiratory tract Contac Metabolic 1,079 960 875 meningitis under the umbrella name Mencevax.
Beechams Trizivir is a combination of Combivir and Ziagen, combining three Vaccines 1,123 1,080 948 Smoking control Commit anti-HIV therapies in one tablet, for twice daily administration.
Oncology and emesis 1,001 977 838 Oncology and emesis Nicorette Cardiovascular and urogenital 771 661 591 Agenerase is a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, Zofran is used to prevent nausea and vomiting associated with NicoDerm CQ Other 1,171 1,310 1,677 the first medicine of this class to be brought to the market by chemotherapy and radiotherapy for cancer, and is available in NiQuitin CQ 18,181 17,995 17,205 GlaxoSmithKline.
Agenerase has a twice daily dosing regimen both oral and injectable forms.
It is also approved for use in the Nicabate CQ and no significant food or drink restrictions.
prevention and treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting.
Natural wellness support Abtei Lexiva is also a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, but Hycamtin is a second line treatment both for ovarian cancer and Oral care Aquafresh Central nervous system CNS with a new combination of tolerability and convenience.
Lexiva for small cell lung cancer.
Corega Seroxat Paxil is a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor SSRI may be dosed once daily when boosted with ritonavir.
Dr Best approved for depression, panic, obsessive compulsive disorder, Navelbine is approved as a first line treatment of non-small cell Macleans post traumatic stress disorder, social anxiety disorder, premenstrual Zefx has been approved for marketing in the USA, Europe, China lung cancer in combination with cisplatin or as a single agent.
Odol dysphoric disorder, and general anxiety disorder.
Paxil CR, a and other markets for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B. Bexxar is a treatment for patients with follicular, non-Hodgkins Odol Med 3 controlled release version, was launched in the USA in 2002.
Valtrex is a treatment for chicken pox, zoster shingles, cold sores lymphoma whose disease is refractory to Rituximab and who have Polident Wellbutrin is an anti-depressant, available in the USA in normal and episodic genital herpes as well as the long term suppression relapsed following chemotherapy.
Poligrip and sustained-release SR tablet formulations.
Valtrex supersedes Zovirax, which is also widely Sensodyne version, Wellbutrin XL, was launched in the USA in September used to treat herpes infections.
Cardiovascular and urogenital Nutritional healthcare Horlicks 2003.
Coreg is an alpha beta blocker which has been proven to be Lucozade Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials effective in treating hypertension and heart attack patients and Imigran Imitrex is a 5HT1 receptor agonist used for the treatment Ribena Augmentin is a broad-spectrum antibiotic suitable for the mild, moderate and severe heart failure.
GlaxoSmithKline has sole of severe or frequent migraine and cluster headache, and has treatment of a wide range of common bacterial infections and is marketing rights in the USA and Canada.
Generic versions of the become the reference product in this sector.
Naramig Amerge is particularly effective against respiratory tract infections.
Augmentin product became available in Canada in 2003.
Over-the-counter medicines a newer migraine product.
ES-600 is an extra strength suspension specifically designed to treat The leading products are Panadol, a widely available Levitra is a PDE-5 inhibitor indicated for male erectile dysfunction.
Lamictal, a well established treatment for epilepsy, is now also children with recurrent or persistent middle ear infections.
paracetamol acetominophen analgesic: Nicorette gum: the GlaxoSmithKline has co-promotion rights worldwide except for indicated for bipolar disorder.
Nicoderm, NiQuitin CQ and Nicabate range of smoking control Augmentin XR is an extra strength tablet form for adults to combat Japan.
Levitra was launched in 2003 in the USA and most products: Tums, a calcium based antacid: Citrucel laxative: Contac Requip is a specic dopamine D2 D3 receptor agonist indicated the growing problem of bacterial resistance in the community.
for the treatment of colds and inuenza: Abtei, a natural medicines for the treatment of Parkinsons disease.
Zinnat is an oral antibiotic used primarily for community-acquired Avodart is a 5-ARI inhibitor currently indicated for benign prostatic and vitamin range: and Zovirax and Abreva for the treatment of Zyban is a nicotine-free prescription medicine, available infections of the lower respiratory tract.
Fortum is used in the hypertrophy.
A large clinical outcome study is underway examining cold sores.
as a sustained-release tablet, for treating the problem of hospital-based injectable antibiotics market.
its efcacy in the prevention of prostate cancer.
In 2003, Flixonase Allergy Nasal Spray for airborne allergies was smoking addiction.
Malarone is an oral anti-malarial used for the treatment and launched in the UK.
This is a further product in GlaxoSmithKlines Other prophylaxis of malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum.
programme of, where appropriate, switching prescription Respiratory This category includes the Groups principal dermatological medicines to over-the-counter.
Seretide Advair, a combination of Serevent and Flixotide, offers products: Betnovate, the higher potency Dermovate and the newer Metabolic a long-acting bronchodilator and an anti-inammatory in a single Cutivate are anti-inammatory steroid products used to treat skin Avandia is a potent insulin sensitising agent which acts on the Oral care inhaler.
Seretide was approved for the treatment of chronic diseases such as eczema and psoriasis.
Relafen is a non-steroidal underlying pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes.
Avandamet is a The leading oral care products are toothpastes and mouthwashes obstructive pulmonary disease COPD in the EU in May 2003. anti-inammatory drug for the treatment of arthritis.
Zantac, for combination of Avandia and metformin HCI: it is the first medicine under the Aquafresh, Sensodyne, Macleans and Odol brand the treatment of peptic ulcer disease and a range of gastric acid Serevent is a long-acting bronchodilator used to treat asthma and that targets insulin resistance and decreases glucose production names, and a range of toothbrushes sold under the Aquafresh, related disorders, continues to play a major role in a number of COPD, and Ventolin is a selective short-acting bronchodilator used in one convenient pill.
In addition, denture care products are available markets, even where patent protection has been lost.
principally under the Polident, Poligrip and Corega brand names.
Vaccines Flixotide Flovent and Becotide Beclovent are inhaled steroids for Products Consumer Healthcare GlaxoSmithKline markets a range of hepatitis vaccines.
Havrix Nutritional healthcare the treatment of inammation associated with asthma and COPD.
protects against hepatitis A and Engerix-B against hepatitis B. GlaxoSmithKlines principal consumer healthcare products are in The leading products in this category are Lucozade glucose energy Flixonase Flonase and Beconase are intra-nasal preparations for Twinrix is a combined hepatitis A and B vaccine, protecting against three major areas.
An analysis of sales by these areas is set out and sports drinks, Ribena blackcurrant-based juice drink rich in the treatment of perennial and seasonal rhinitis.
both diseases with one vaccine and available in both adult and below: vitamin C, and Horlicks, a range of milk-based malted food and paediatric strengths.
2003 2002 2001 m m m Over-the-counter medicines 1,556 1,586 1,603 Oral care 1,082 1,052 1,106 Nutritional healthcare 622 579 575 3,260 3,217 3,284 10 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 11 Operating environment Competition Pharmaceuticals Major respiratory competitors are Singulair from Merck, especially Competition Consumer Healthcare Grant of a marketing authorisation affords the Group a protection in the USA and in Europe, Symbicort from AstraZeneca and Spiriva period during which a competitor cannot rely on condential data The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive.
The main competitors in the Groups Consumer Healthcare markets from Pzer Boehringer Ingelheim.
in the regulatory le as a basis for its own marketing authorisation.
GlaxoSmithKlines principal competitors are large international include the major international companies Colgate-Palmolive, The data protection period begins on the date an authorisation is pharmaceutical companies with substantial resources.
Some of Johnson & Johnson, Pzer, Procter & Gamble, Unilever and Wyeth.
Anti-virals first granted in the European Union and expires after ten years for these companies and their major products are mentioned below.
In addition, there are many other companies that compete with The major competitors in the HIV market are Bristol Myers Squibb, authorisations granted via the Centralised Procedure, or ten or six GlaxoSmithKline in selected markets.
Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from other Merck and Pzer amongst others.
years for authorisations granted via the Mutual Recognition products during the period of patent protection and, once off The major competitor products in over-the-counter OTC procedure, depending on the country concerned.
GlaxoSmithKline has a pioneering role in the HIV market, with patent, from generic versions.
The manufacturers of generic medicines are: Retrovir and Epivir acting as the cornerstone of combination In May 2004, the European Union will be expanded from 15 to 25 products typically do not bear significant research and development therapy, and available as Combivir in a single tablet.
The launches in the USA: Metamucil laxative, Clearasil acne treatment, Member States.
In anticipation of this enlargement European costs and consequently are able to offer their products at of Ziagen, Agenerase, Trizivir and Lexiva have broadened Pepcid indigestion and private label smoking control regulatory legislation is currently undergoing review.
The impact of considerably lower prices than the branded competitors.
A research the Groups portfolio of HIV products.
Valtrex has helped products any changes on regulatory procedures and data protection periods and development based pharmaceutical company will normally strengthen the Groups position in the anti-herpes area, although in the UK: Lemsip cold remedy, Nurofen and Anadin remains to be seen.
seek to achieve a sufciently high profit margin and sales volume Zovirax faces competition from generic aciclovir.
Both Valtrex and analgesics, and Nicorette and Nicotinell smoking control during the period of patent protection to repay the original In the USA, the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Zovirax compete with Novartis Famvir.
Zefx was the first anti-viral remedies.
investment, which is generally substantial, and to fund research Restoration Act of 1984 Hatch-Waxman established the current on the market to treat Hepatitis B. Gileads Hepsera is the second for the future.
Competition from generic products generally occurs In Oral healthcare the major competitors are Colgate-Palmolives framework for approval of generic drugs, including related patent and was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration FDA as patents in major markets expire.
Increasingly patent challenges Colgate and Procter & Gambles Crest.
Under Hatch-Waxman, the sponsor in September 2002. are made, prior to patent expiry, claiming that the innovator patent of an Abbreviated New Drug Application ANDA can receive In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicks are is not valid and or that it is not infringed by the generic product.
marketing approval without submitting any safety or efcacy data.
Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials Ovaltine and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks.
The Following loss of patent protection, generic products rapidly It can rely on the pioneer companys extensive pre-clinical and In 2002 generic versions of both Augmentin and Ceftin Zinnat competitors to Ribena are primarily local fruit juice products while capture a large share of the market, particularly in the USA.
clinical development data, provided the proposed generic drug has were introduced in the USA, following successful legal challenges Lucozade competes with other energy drinks.
been demonstrated to be bioequivalent to the pioneer product.
GlaxoSmithKline undertakes a range of activities to maximise the by generic manufacturers see Note 30 to the Financial statements, GlaxoSmithKline holds leading global positions in all its key However, generic drug approvals are subject to data protection value of its intellectual property, including introducing innovative Legal proceedings.
Augmentin has already lost patent protection consumer product areas.
Worldwide it is the second largest in periods of five years for new chemical entities and three years for products into as many markets as possible, accelerating the process in various countries in Europe.
Augmentin XR and Augmentin ES Oral care and the third largest in OTC medicines.
In Nutritional any modications supported by new clinical studies.
Moreover, to bring new products to market developing improved, patent compete against a broad range of other branded and generic healthcare it holds the leading position in the UK, India and under the provisions of Hatch-Waxman, the ling of an ANDA can protected, versions of older products and increasing brand antibiotics.
Malarones safety prole and convenient dosing Ireland.
trigger procedures that may allow patent holders to initiate patent recognition among customers.
regimen have helped put this product in a strong position versus infringement litigation with the significant procedural advantage meoquine following its recent launch for malaria prophylaxis.
GlaxoSmithKline believes that its competitive position is dependent Regulation Pharmaceuticals of being assured that the FDAs approval of the proposed generic upon the discovery and development of new products, together product will be stayed for up to 30 months, pending resolution Metabolic The international pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated.
with effective marketing of existing products.
Within the of the litigation.
These procedures have generated litigation and The major competitor for Avandia is Takeda Chemicals Actos, National regulatory authorities administer a panoply of laws pharmaceutical industry, the introduction of new products and controversy, particularly because, as currently applied, they have which is co-promoted with Eli Lilly in the USA.
and regulations governing the testing, approval, manufacturing, processes by competitors may affect pricing levels or result in resulted in multiple, non-concurrent 30-month stays for some labelling and marketing of drugs and also review the safety product replacement.
There can be no assurance that products proposed generic products.
In June 2003, the FDA issued new Vaccines and efcacy of pharmaceutical products.
These regulatory may not become outmoded, notwithstanding patent or trade mark regulations to clarify certain aspects of its procedures that have GlaxoSmithKlines major competitors in the vaccine market include requirements are a major factor in determining whether a protection.
In addition, increasing government and other pressure generated controversy.
In addition, in November 2003 new laws Aventis Pasteur AP, Merck and Wyeth.
Engerix-B and Havrix substance can be developed into a marketable product and the for physicians and patients to use generic pharmaceuticals, rather were enacted by the US Congress that modied the Hatchcompete with vaccines produced by AP and Merck Comvax and amount of time and expense associated with such development.
than brand-name medicines, may increase competition for Waxman laws.
These modications eliminated the grant of Recombivax HB for hepatitis B, and Vaqta and Avaxim for hepatitis products that are no longer protected by patent.
Of particular importance is the requirement in many countries that additional 30-month stays for patents issued after an ANDA is A. Infanrixs major competitor is APs range of DTPa-based products be authorised or registered prior to marketing and that led, and limited the grant of a 30-month stay to one per ANDA combination vaccines.
CNS disorders such authorisation or registration be maintained subsequently.
Major competitors in the USA to Paxil are its generic forms, Oncology and emesis The national regulatory authorities in many jurisdictions, including In the USA, the second reauthorisation of the Prescription Drug launched in September, uoxetine, the generic form of Zofran presently provides GlaxoSmithKline a leadership position in the USA, the European Union, Japan and Australia, have high User Fee Act came into effect on 1st October 2002 PDUFA III.
It Eli Lillys Prozac, Zoloft from Pzer, Forest Laboratories Celexa the anti-emetic market where the competition includes standards of technical appraisal and consequently the introduction remains to be seen if the substantial additional resources funded and Lexapro.
The principal competitors in the USA for Wellbutrin Roche Chugai, Aventis and most recently Merck.
Major competitors of new pharmaceutical products generally entails a lengthy under PDUFA III will result in a reduction of overall approval times are SSRIs and Effexor XR, a Wyeth product.
Limited generic in the diverse cytotoxic market include Bristol Myers Squibb, approval process.
for all drugs and biologicals.
However, one of the requirements competition to Wellbutrin began in the USA in January 2004.
GlaxoSmithKlines cytotoxic portfolio, under PDUFA III calls for the FDA to initiate a review of first action In the European Union, there are currently two procedures for The success of Seroxat Paxil and Wellbutrin has made them a led by Hycamtin and Navelbine, holds a relatively small market approvals compared to approvable or non-approvable decisions obtaining marketing authorisations for medicinal products: target for generic manufacturers, against whom GlaxoSmithKline position.
and to report back on the findings of this review.
continues to respond appropriately see Note 30 to the Financial The Centralised Procedure, with applications made direct to The FDA has also completed the previously announced statements, Legal proceedings.
The recent launches of Paxil CR Cardiovascular and urogenital the European Medicines Evaluation Agency and leading to an consolidation of the review activities of certain biologicals, other and the once-daily Wellbutrin XL are expected to help to retain a GlaxoSmithKline markets Coreg in the USA where its major authorisation valid in all member states, is compulsory for than vaccines, to the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research strong presence in the anti-depressant market, given the recent competitors are Toprol XL and generic betablockers.
During 2003, products derived from biotechnology and optional for new CDER.
This consolidation also entailed a shifting of resources entry of generic paroxetine in the USA.
Generic competition has the Group launched two urogenital products: Levitra and Avodart.
active substances and other innovative medicinal products from the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research CBER to also commenced in the UK and a number of other markets.
Avodart competes directly with Mercks Proscar within the BPH The Mutual Recognition Procedure, which is applicable to the CDER.
The impact of this shift in resources remains to be seen.
Levitra is marketed for male erectile dysfunction and faces majority of conventional medicinal products, operates by Respiratory competition from Pzers Viagra and Lillys Cialis.
mutual recognition of national marketing authorisations.
GlaxoSmithKlines respiratory franchise is driven by the growth of Where agreement cannot be reached, it is resolved by Seretide Advair, gaining patients from competitor products and procedure of binding arbitration.
the cannibalisation of Serevent and Flixotide.
Ventolin and Becotide have faced generic competition for some years but have maintained significant sales.
12 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 13 Operating activities Along with the PDUFA III first action review and consolidation Value for money Marketing and distribution Pharmaceuticals Stakeholder initiatives of some CBER review activities into CDER, the FDA has also It is becoming increasingly necessary to demonstrate the value for During 2003 the company launched several initiatives to improve announced, under the sponsorship of the Commissioner, a money of new products, in particular the impact upon drug budget An analysis of total pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region its abilities to deliver important information to physicians and renewed focus on innovation in drug development, hopefully expenditure and the burden of the disease that will be treated.
is set out below: patients about diseases and therapies to treat them.
allowing more rapid development of needed medicines.
This 2003 2002 2001 In some markets, the need to satisfy healthcare purchasers as to initiative will investigate the use of pharmacogenomics and Turnover by geographic region m m m Sales force excellence value for money is becoming an additional hurdle for product surrogate markers of efcacy, among other things, as tools for The Worldwide Sales Force Excellence initiative focuses on USA 9,410 9,797 9,037 acceptance over and above the regulatory tests of safety, efcacy rapidly developing safe and effective drugs for unmet medical increasing GlaxoSmithKline sales representatives skills in providing Europe 5,114 4,701 4,561 and quality.
This can delay bringing effective and improved needs.
value to healthcare professionals around the globe.
A centrepiece International: medicines to the market and reduce their effective patent of the project is a global framework for training that will raise the Asia Pacic 1,140 1,100 1,047 Across International markets, countries outside the USA and protection time.
standards for representatives knowledge about diseases and the Japan 753 712 741 Europe, the regulatory environment continues to be extremely In many markets it is becoming increasingly difficult for even a role of GlaxoSmithKline medicines in treating them.
The training Latin America 597 606 790 varied and challenging.
GlaxoSmithKline anticipates that the signicantly improved therapy to obtain a premium price over will also address how to answer the central questions each Middle East, Africa 693 652 611 introduction of new products will continue to require substantial existing medication.
Value-based pricing may be difficult to follow physician faces when deciding on a patients treatment: When Canada 474 427 418 effort, time and expense to comply with regulatory requirements.
in such circumstances, although in the USA it is still possible to should I use a GlaxoSmithKline medicine, why should I use it, 18,181 17,995 17,205 price products to reect their value.
Price controls GlaxoSmithKline sells its prescription medicines primarily to In many countries the prices of pharmaceutical products are It is not possible to predict whether, and to what extent, the The initiative aims to build on the good reputation that wholesale drug distributors, independent and chain retail controlled by law.
Governments may also influence prices through Groups business may be affected by future legislative and GlaxoSmithKline sales forces already enjoy among physicians pharmacies, physicians, hospitals, clinics, government entities and their control of national healthcare organisations, which may bear regulatory developments relating to specic pharmaceutical worldwide.
Surveys of physicians in major world markets have other institutions.
These products are ordinarily dispensed to the a large part of the cost of supplying products to consumers.
recently rated GlaxoSmithKline sales representatives No.
1 in the public by pharmacies through prescriptions written by doctors in industry in the UK, Germany, France and Spain, and No.
1 in the Recent Government healthcare reforms in countries such as France, hospitals or in doctors surgeries.
Regulation Consumer Healthcare US among pulmonologists, allergists immunologists, paediatricians, Spain and Germany may restrict pricing and reimbursement.
neurologists, ear, nose and throat specialists, and infectious disease In the USA, the worlds largest pharmaceutical market, the The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation In the USA, recent legislation on healthcare reform, cross-border specialists.
pressure to contain healthcare costs has encouraged the growth for the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing trade, the acceleration of generics to market and increased patient of managed care organisations and pharmacy benefit managers.
In many countries high standards of technical Source for rankings: Taylor Nelson Sofres Healthcare 2002 for Europe: contributions have further increased the focus on pricing.
Currently These intermediaries use a range of methods to lower costs, appraisal entail a lengthy approval process before a new product Verispan 2003 for USA.
there are no government price controls over private sector including the substitution of generic products or other cheaper is launched.
purchases, but federal legislation requires pharmaceutical therapies for branded products prescribed by doctors.
As a result Marketing excellence manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates on certain drugs in order National regulatory authorisation is also required to approve the of its increasing importance as a supplier of healthcare to the Goals of the global Marketing Excellence initiative are first, to to be eligible for reimbursement under Medicaid and other federal switch of products from prescription to OTC.
The requirements community, GlaxoSmithKline contracts with the managed care help undiagnosed patients seek a physicians help and, second, healthcare programmes.
include long-term experience of the quality, safety and efcacy sector through a small number of wholesalers.
to ensure they receive appropriate treatment.
For example, in the of the product in a wide patient population and data to confirm UK, ofcials estimate that 2.4 million people suffer from type 2 In each market, GlaxoSmithKline deploys sales forces of Medicare that the relevant condition is both self-limiting and can easily be diabetes, yet about 25 per cent of them remain undiagnosed, representatives and supporting medical staff to promote its The US Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and diagnosed by the consumer.
and of those diagnosed, another 25 per cent remain untreated.
prescription products to medical prescribers and healthcare Modernization Act of 2003 provides limited immediate benets to Of those treated, a significant number is under-treated in some purchasers through personal visits.
Medicare patients in the form of government sponsored discount way that is, these patients do not achieve the level of health cards to be replaced with a comprehensive out-patient drug Promotion of GlaxoSmithKlines products is supplemented by that the treatments could provide under optimal circumstances.
The benefit is intended to be administered by a scientific seminars, advertising in medical and other journals, GlaxoSmithKlines marketing initiative explores barriers to proper number of private organisations who will construct benefit television advertising, provision of samples, direct mailing and diagnosis and treatment, and implements programmes to structures consistent with federal law and will market the benefit information contained on the Groups website.
As these programmes begin to show effects, the to Medicare patients.
societal costs of disease will decrease.
To the extent that physicians Direct-to-consumer DTC advertising is a major component of While the law provides strong incentives for manufacturers to choose a GlaxoSmithKline product for their patients treatment, product marketing in the USA.
DTC advertisements are now the negotiate prices with plan sponsors, the bill does not provide for the company will benefit as well.
primary source of information for patients requesting specic explicit government price controls.
As most seniors already have brand name products from their physicians in the USA.
some sort of out-patient drug coverage, increases in demand may Patient advocacy Outside the USA, DTC is either prohibited or has a more limited be limited to drugs required by low income seniors who have not, A third worldwide initiative seeks to achieve a higher level of role in informing patients.
In the European Union, DTC of in the past, been able to arrange private coverage.
Those lowintimacy between GlaxoSmithKline and the ultimate consumer prescription-only products is currently prohibited.
In Australia, the income seniors will receive larger subsidies for the deductible and of our products the patient.
Already in the US, GlaxoSmithKline government allows DTC advertising of pharmacy-only products co-payments associated with the comprehensive benefit.
has hosted two Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits, which have subject to certain safeguards.
In New Zealand, DTC is allowed and brought as many as 300 leaders of patient groups together to This law also changes the way that drugs administered in physician self-regulated by the industry in collaboration with the Advertising seek areas of common interest among each other and with ofces, clinics and hospital outpatient departments will be Standards Agency.
Other markets allow DTC, but to date the GlaxoSmithKline, and to plan actions around them.
Instead of reimbursement based on prices published impact has been more limited.
together, these groups strive for continued open access to all by independent pricing services, the new law provides for appropriate medicines for their constituencies an increasing In addition to the direct marketing of products by its subsidiaries, reimbursement that is based on the actual market prices as challenge in a time of tightening budgets and champion GlaxoSmithKline has entered into agreements with other reported by manufacturers and audited by the government.
In continued investments in the development of new medicines.
pharmaceutical companies for the co-marketing and co-promotion addition, beginning in 2006, physicians will have the option of of their products in many markets, for example Levitra with Bayer.
choosing not to purchase or claim reimbursement for products at A similar approach has been launched in Europe, where patient all, instead allowing drug distributors to provide drugs to doctors advocacy groups are becoming increasingly organised.
ofces and submit claims to Medicare and to patients for their contributions.
These distributors will earn the ability to provide these products and services through a competitive bidding process.
14 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 15 Marketing and distribution Consumer Healthcare Secondary supply chain Consumer Healthcare supply chain R&D Processes - Discovery, Commercialisation & Delivery European region There are 24 Consumer Healthcare manufacturing sites spread The principal markets for Consumer Healthcares OTC medicines There are 15 sites in the European region spread across eight across 16 countries.
The Consumer Healthcare supply chain is The diagram below shows the relationship between the various are the USA, the UK, Germany, Australia, Argentina, Italy, Mexico, countries.
Between them the European sites manufacture nearly diverse and includes the manufacturing and supply of OTC stages of R&D.
The principal markets for Oral care all of the major pharmaceutical products marketed globally by medicines, Oral care, Nutritional healthcare and Smoking control products are the USA, Germany and the UK.
The Nutritional drinks GlaxoSmithKline in a wide variety of nished dosage forms.
As well as internal facilities, over 220 contract suppliers business is particularly strong in the UK, Ireland and India, although Research Development Commercialisation are used worldwide.
the range of products is available in other markets.
North America region Research and development Pharmaceuticals OTC and Oral care products are primarily distributed through There are six pharmaceutical manufacturing sites in the North pharmacy or mass market outlets either directly or through America region located in Puerto Rico, Canada and the USA.
The global biological and pharmaceutical Research and wholesalers.
Nutritional healthcare products are distributed through Development R&D function in GlaxoSmithKline is responsible Genetics Preclinical a similar but more extensive retail and wholesale network.
International region for discovering, developing, registering, commercialising and Research Development The International region comprises 30 manufacturing sites, in supporting effective marketing of innovative prescription Project Future 18 countries, spread across six distinct areas.
There are five sites Discovery Worldwide medicines, vaccines and delivery systems for the treatment and In 2003, a fundamental review was undertaken of the Consumer in Middle East Africa, 15 sites spread across the Asia Pacic Research Development prevention of human disease.
Healthcare business model for Product Innovation and Marketing Australia area, four sites in China, one in Japan and five in Latin Fundamental to this goal is a thorough understanding of the aimed to increase competitiveness and, thereby, sales growth.
diseases under investigation, facilitated by pioneering work review, termed Project Future has transitioned GlaxoSmithKlines in genetics and a range of technologies, as well as more traditional Consumer Healthcare from a geographically based structure with GlaxoSmithKline integration research disciplines.
In addition to the work to create new some global strategic support, to one where brands are developed This long-term, integrated change programme implemented at R&D processes medicines and vaccines, extensive efforts are made to gain a clear in the most appropriate place.
As a result, more responsibility will the time of the merger is called the Global Supply Network GSN In line with GlaxoSmithKline's strategic intent to become the understanding of the unmet needs of patients and of healthcare be taken centrally to develop global brands, and more autonomy and is structured to deliver benets through five major streams indisputable leader in the industry, R&D has set itself the goal providers and payers as a guide to the overall direction of R&D.
will be afforded to local markets to manage their local brands, of activity: of becoming the industrys most productive R&D organisation.
using their entrepreneurial skills to the full.
In 2003 GlaxoSmithKline invested nearly 2.7 billion in As a fundamental pre-requisite to this approach, it is crucial that Reduction in above-site infrastructure and costs pharmaceuticals R&D.
R&D is an organisation that benets from R&D also focuses on the needs of the patient so that the benets Procurement initiatives Manufacture and supply the insights of top scientists around the world and employs over that may be derived from new medicines and innovative Continued network rationalisation 15,000 staff in biological and pharmaceutical R&D activities, at formulations of existing medicines are available to those who need GlaxoSmithKline has a large portfolio of products, ranging from Logistics improvements more than 20 sites worldwide, including: them to recover health and quality of life.
tablets and toothpaste to inhalers and complex capsules, in over Operational excellence and lean-sigma improvements.
28,000 different pack sizes and presentations.
UK: Beckenham, Brentford, Cambridge, Dartford, R&D measures productivity not just by the number and innovation As part of the network rationalisation plan, production ceased Greenford, Harlow, Stevenage, Tonbridge, Ware, of the products it creates, but also by the commercial value of Manufacture of medicines begins with the development of a in 2003 at eight sites in countries which included the UK, India, Welwyn the product's ability to address the unmet needs of all customers therapeutic active ingredient bulk active in a selected formulation.
The programme has met its merger USA: Bristol, Tennessee: Philadelphia, Upper Merion and including patients, healthcare professionals, budget holders and Global Manufacture & Supply GMS develops manufacturing commitments one year ahead of plan.
Upper Providence, Pennsylvania: Research Triangle regulators: each with their own perspective on what constitutes processes for full scale volume production of active compounds Park, North Carolina a valuable new product.
R&D is positioned to ensure that it at 'primary' manufacturing sites.
Converting active compounds External suppliers Belgium: Rixensart generates the right safety, efcacy and quality information to into a nished dosage formulation is the responsibility of the Procurement is a global function supporting all functions and Canada: Mississauga respond to these different perspectives through data 'secondary' manufacturing sites.
areas of the GlaxoSmithKline business.
Manufacturing is one of France: Les Ulis, Evreux demonstrating the overall social benets of the new medicine: the largest areas with over 2 billion spent with many external GMS operates as a single global network of 87 sites in 37 Italy: Verona increased length or quality of life, and increased workplace suppliers every year, including the purchase of active ingredients, countries.
Each year GMS produces around 6,000 tonnes of bulk Japan: Tsukuba Science City, Takasaki productivity.
chemical intermediates, part-nished and nished products.
GMS actives and over four billion packs, which are packaged and Spain: Tres Cantos, Madrid.
has taken appropriate steps to protect its supply chains from any One of the historical contradictions in the pharmaceutical industry delivered for sale in over 160 countries.
Throughout the world it disruption resulting from interrupted external supply through During 2003, R&D once again delivered a wide range of products has been the need to lever the advantages of a large organisation also supports approximately 2,000 new product and line extension appropriate stock levels, contracting and alternative registered to the market and achieved significant success in bringing several without losing the creative spirit of the research environment.
new compounds through the earlier stages of research and past GlaxoSmithKline, R&D has been structured to balance the areas GMS is focused on delivering: the critical proof of concept PoC decision point.
The extensive that benefit from large scale with those that take advantage of Vaccines supply chain in-licensing programme of 2001 and 2002 has slowed as the being small to enhance their productivity.
a secure source of supply of high quality products Vaccine manufacturing is located primarily at Rixensart and Wavre productivity of the post-merger organisation has started to compliance with regulatory requirements and customer The key areas that benefit from being large are those that are in Belgium, with three other sites in France, Germany and Hungary progress into development of an increasing number of compounds expectations capital intensive or high throughput activities such as compound and two joint ventures in China and Russia.
Managing the vaccine discovered internally.
Practical prioritisation and management of best in class cost screening: those that require scarce skills: and those that are supply chain involves anticipating market needs and using a exible the portfolio of compounds in development has also been a focus, leading edge practices and performance at sites, in highly regulated, mainly at the later end of the development approach to be able to meet uctuations in demand.
These are ensuring that R&D invests its resources to achieve the optimum procurement and in other global functions.
Other areas ourish to their best advantage if the structural based on forecasts from the different markets and rm orders from value and deliver new medicines to patients.
unit remains small: the units can respond quickly to the changing health authorities for mass vaccination campaigns.
Organisation In December 2003, R&D presentations were made in the UK and environment, the opportunity for scientists to interact is optimised, Bulk, lling and packaging is carefully balanced and stocking of US, when GlaxoSmithKlines pipeline of future products was and the need for return on investment is focused through the Primary supply chain vaccines helps manage short-term increases in demand.
It featured 35 promising compounds, selected fostering of an entrepreneurial, accountable culture.
This is a global organisation with 12 sites, spread across five increases are prompted by disease outbreaks or increased demand for novelty, impact on disease and commercial potential.
These countries, where a broad range of active ingredients for antibiotic from the public owing to disease awareness campaigns.
included 353162, a next-generation noradrenaline dopamine and non-antibiotic products are manufactured and packaged.
The re-uptake inhibitor for depression: a cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitor, sites are located in Australia, Ireland, Singapore, the UK and the 406381, for pain: 480848, a  phospholipase USA.
The majority of the active ingredients manufactured by the inhibitor for atherosclerosis: 572016, a dual kinase inhibitor for primary supply chain are supplied to the secondary pharmaceutical cancer: and 685698, a third-generation inhaled corticosteroid sites in Europe, North America and International.
offering once-daily treatment and greater efcacy compared with current compounds.
16 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 17 In addition to the now established Centres of Excellence for Drug Many diseases arise through complex interactions between a Product development pipeline Discovery CEDD discussed below, a number of partnerships have number of gene variants and environmental factors, so the The product development pipeline set out below shows considerable breadth and depth: at February 2004 GlaxoSmithKline had 201 been forged with other companies to extend GlaxoSmithKlines challenge involved is significant.
Identifying the genes that pharmaceutical and vaccine projects in development, of which 148 are in the clinic.
This includes 83 New Chemical Entities NCE, capability to screen compounds generated by the research predispose patients to a particular disease and understanding 12 in Phase III or registration, 34 in Phase II, 37 in Phase I, 45 Product Line Extensions and 20 vaccines.
For competitive reasons, new function.
This effectively extends the CEDD concept to ensure the their role in its progression lead to nding new ways to intervene projects in pre-clinical development have not been disclosed and some project types may not have been identied.
most efficient and rapid validation of a maximum number of lead in these diseases.
Key candidates through preclinical testing and then clinical studies The programme initiated in 2002 to identify tractable targets v Vaccine Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted against proof of concept criteria, before handing over the p Pharmaccine that are genetically associated with human diseases of interest in volunteers compound to the Worldwide Development organisation for large Compounds in  Pharmaceuticals has already identied over 50 genetic associations in several major scale clinical trials.
LLC joint venture Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of diseases.
Several clinical studies have started to investigate the In-license or other alliance relationship with third party efcacy, conducted in a small number of patients The Worldwide Development WWD function integrates the presence of genetic markers for efcacy or susceptibility to adverse S Date of first submission A Date of first Regulatory approval for MAA, this is the first Phase III Large comparative study compound versus placebo clinical and regulatory activities necessary to bring a new medicine events which will enhance the ability to focus development of EU approval letter and or established treatment in patients to to the marketplace.
In the past year, the clinical development new medicines on patients who will be most likely to benefit from AL Approvable letter establish clinical benefit and safety process has been signicantly shortened by improvements to all them, ultimately providing reassurance to both the prescriber and MAA: Marketing authorisation application Europe NDA: New drug application USA the associated processes, enabling a seamless transition of data the patient.
Estimated ling dates from clinical testing through to the final report.
Implementation Compound Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA of an integrated document management system has reduced the Discovery Research Cardiovascular, Metabolic & Urogenital time required to collate the thousands of pages of data necessary Discovery Research DR produces the lead compounds that form 641597 peroxisome  receptor PPAR dyslipidaemia I for submission to regulatory agencies around the world.
the basis of drug discovery efforts in the CEDDs.
In 2003, DR alpha agonist provided the CEDDs with many high quality new lead compounds At the beginning of 2004 to accommodate the unprecedented 659032 Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis I with activity against dened targets.
Investment in DR is focused 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor atherosclerosis also rheumatoid arthritis & COPD I number of compounds moving through the pipeline this group on increasing the quality and quantity of the lead compounds 796406 angiotensin converting enzyme neutral hypertension I was transformed, changing the scale and structure of late-stage peptidase ACE-NEP dual inhibitor available.
A central theme of the investment has been a focus on development to enable a stronger focus on patients and on the Coreg CR beta blocker hypertension & congestive heart failure once daily I N A 2005 automation.
odiparcil 424323 indirect thrombin inhibitor prevention of thrombotic complications of II delivery of products by creating six therapeutically aligned Medicine cardiovascular disease Development Centres MDCs, residing within WWD.
The centres, In 2003, R&D has opened new automation facilities for high 480848 Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis II discussed in more detail on page 22, will be accountable for the throughput screening in Tres Cantos Spain and high throughput 493838 adenosine A1A agonist dyslipidaemia also neuropathic pain ll 501516 PPAR delta agonist dyslipidaemia II generation and life cycle management of marketed medicines chemistry in Harlow UK.
Construction of a new combined facility 590735 PPAR alpha agonist dyslipidaemia II from compounds reaching Proof of Concept PoC in the CEDDs.
was also started in Upper Providence USA.
piboserod 5HT4 antagonist atrial brillation ll talnetant NK3 antagonist overactive bladder also irritable bowel syndrome II The New Product Supply organisation bridges the traditional divide Another focus for 2003, was high throughput biology.
Techniques IBS & schizophrenia between development and manufacturing, ensuring that robust have been developed for rapid screening of new compounds in Avodart 5-alpha reductase inhibitor benign prostatic hyperplasia, in combination with III manufacturing processes are developed.
The Global Commercial both cell based and whole animal model systems.
In many cases, an alpha blocker Avodart 5-alpha reductase inhibitor reduction in the risk of prostate cancer lll Strategy GCS organisation provides integrated global these efforts have been supported by sophisticated imaging Noratak nesiritide recombinanttype natriuretic peptide acute heart failure Submitted S:Sep02 N A commercialisation and strategic direction into R&D to maximise systems which have enhanced the understanding of disease solifenacin YM905 muscarinic antagonist overactive bladder Approvable N A AL:Oct03 portfolio value through the full product life cycle.
Levitra PDE-5 inhibitor erectile dysfunction Approved A:Mar03 A:Aug03 Metabolic Projects success of R&D is its capacity to embrace and develop new The resources available to exploit opportunities within the Group 427353 beta3 adrenergic agonist type 2 diabetes and overactive bladder I technologies to streamline the drug discovery process.
The will always be limited.
As overall productivity is enhanced and 815541 dipeptidyl peptidase DPP IV inhibitor type 2 diabetes I technology development organisation keeps abreast of emerging 823093 DPP IV inhibitor type 2 diabetes I attrition reduced better value for money will be achieved.
technologies that may advance the creation of new medicines, 869682 sodium dependent glucose transport type 2 diabetes I Following the annual portfolio prioritisation review, the CEDDs are SGLT2 antagonist evaluates them and provides the investment and knowledge able to select which programmes to fund internally.
Excess assets Avandamet XR PPAR gamma agonist plus metformin type 2 diabetes extended release I 2005 required to ensure GlaxoSmithKlines access to appropriate 181771 CCK-A agonist obesity II may be developed through a novel partnership scheme known as technologies.
As R&D generates and modies its own technologies, 677954 PPAR pan agonist type 2 diabetes II the Alternative Drug Discovery Initiative ADI.
The key philosophy Avandaryl PPAR gamma agonist plus sulphonylurea type 2 diabetes xed dose combination Submitted 2004 S:Oct03 it will not only focus them on the Groups internal goals but also behind ADI is the concept of shared risk and reward for the Avandia Amaryl maximise the return on R&D assets through sales, spin-outs and Avandamet PPAR gamma agonist plus metformin type 2 diabetes xed dose combination Approved A:Oct03 A:Oct02 partners.
Consequently, there are many different business out-licensing.
Avandia PPAR gamma agonist type 2 diabetes in combination with insulin Approved N A A:Feb03 arrangements.
ADI partnerships have been established with academic institutions to supplement target validation and provide Infectious Diseases Early research and the role of genetics better access to tissue samples and patient populations for clinical Augmentin once daily beta lactam antibiotic respiratory tract infections I The early stages of nding new medicines requires essentially studies.
R&D has also formed ADI partnerships with biotechnology 270773 phospholipid anti-endotoxin emulsion sepsis II two components, targets that can be shown to affect mechanisms 275833 topical pleuromutilin bacterial skin infections ll 2005 2005 companies and other pharmaceutical companies to explore of important pathological processes in human disease and chlorproguanil, dapsone antifolate artemisinin treatment of uncomplicated malaria ll 2006 N A different approaches to drug discovery.
artesunate CDA compounds, typically small molecules but also including Augmentin ES beta lactam antibiotic acute otitis media incl.
penicillin-resistant S. pneumoniae III N A macromolecules, protein therapeutics and vaccines, able to Chewable high-dose chewable tablet modulate the behaviour of specic targets.
As part of this target sitamaquine 8-aminoquinoline treatment of visceral leishmaniasis III N A Etaquine tafenoquine 8-aminoquinoline malaria prophylaxis adults III validation process, GlaxoSmithKline aims to identify the genes Lapdap antifolate treatment of uncomplicated malaria Approved A:Jul03 N A most relevant to common diseases with large unmet medical Anti-virals needs and major patient burdens, such as asthma, non-insulin 204937 MIV210 nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV infections I dependent diabetes, osteoarthritis, COPD, early onset heart 640385 aspartyl protease inhibitor HIV infections I 2006 2006 695634 non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV infections I disease and Alzheimers disease.
Valtrex XR nucleoside analogue management of genital herpes modied release l 873140 ONO4128 CCR5 antagonist HIV infections II Ziagen Epivir reverse transcriptase inhibitors HIV infections combination tablet Submitted S:Nov03 S:Oct03 Lexiva 433908 protease inhibitor HIV infections Approved S:Dec02 A:Oct03 Valtrex nucleoside analogue Herpes Simplex virus HSV suppression in Approved N A A:Apr03 immunocompromised patients Valtrex Zelitrex nucleoside analogue prevention of HSV transmission Approved A:Aug03 A:Aug03 18 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 19 Estimated ling dates Estimated ling dates Compound Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Compound Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Psychiatry Neurology & Gastrointestinal 644784 dual acting COX-2 inhibitor schizophrenia also acute & chronic pain conditions I 234551 endothelin A antagonist stroke I including neuropathic pain 270384 endothelial cell adhesion molecule inhibitor inammatory bowel disease I 679769 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety I 273629 selective iNOS inhibitor acute migraine I 742457 5HT6 antagonist schizophrenia also Alzheimer's disease I 274150 selective iNOS inhibitor migraine also asthma, COPD & allergic rhinitis I 773812 mixed 5HT dopaminergic antagonist schizophrenia I 353162 noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor restless leg syndrome RLS & neuropathic pain I 823296 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety I also depression 353162 noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression also RLS & neuropathic pain II 2006 2006 362115 gap junction blocker migraine & epilepsy I 372475 N52359 triple 5HT noradrenaline dopamine depression & attention deficit hyperactivity II 406725 gap junction blocker migraine & epilepsy I reuptake inhibitor disorder 644784 dual acting COX-2 inhibitor acute & chronic pain conditions including I 468816 glycine antagonist smoking cessation II neuropathic pain also schizophrenia 597599 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety also functional dyspepsia & II 683699 dual alpha4 integrin antagonist VLA4 multiple sclerosis & inammatory bowel disease I chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting 737004 endothelin A antagonist stroke I talnetant NK3 antagonist schizophrenia also IBS & overactive bladder II 737552 benzodiazepine partial inverse agonist Alzheimer's disease & vascular dementia I Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor bipolar disorder acute treatment III N A 2006 742457 5HT6 antagonist Alzheimer's disease also schizophrenia I Wellbutrin XL noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor seasonal affective disorder III 2004 alvimopan peripheral mu-opioid antagonist irritable bowel syndrome l Paxil CR selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor SSRI pre-menstrual dysphoric disorder, intermittent treatment Approved A:Jan04 Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor neuropathic pain & epilepsy once daily l 2006 Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor bipolar disorder long-term prophylaxis Approved A:Mar03 A:Jun03 406381 dual acting COX-2 inhibitor acute and chronic pain conditions including II 2006 2006 Paxil CR SSRI pre-menstrual dysphoric disorder, continuous treatment Approved A:Aug03 neuropathic pain & migraine Paxil CR SSRI social anxiety disorder Approved A:Oct03 493838 adenosine A1A agonist neuropathic pain also dyslipidaemia II Wellbutrin XL noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression Approved 2006 A:Aug03 597599 NK1 antagonist functional dyspepsia also chemotherapy induced II nausea and vomiting, depression & anxiety Respiratory alvimopan peripheral mu-opioid antagonist chronic opiate induced bowel dysfunction & II constipation 332235 chemokine 2 IL8 receptor antagonist oral chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD I Avandia PPAR gamma agonist Alzheimer's disease II 678007 long acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a I talnetant NK3 antagonist IBS also schizophrenia & overactive bladder II glucocorticoid agonist sumatriptan MT400 5HT1 agonist naproxen migraine xed dose combination II N A 2005 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor oral COPD also rheumatoid arthritis & atherosclerosis I alvimopan peripheral mu-opioid antagonist post operative ileus III 2004 2004 799943 glucocorticoid agonist allergic rhinitis & asthma, also asthma and COPD in I Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor neuropathic pain III N A 2004 combination with a long acting beta2 agonist Requip CR non-ergot dopamine agonist Parkinsons disease controlled release formulation III 2005 2005 159797 long acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a ll Requip non-ergot dopamine agonist restless legs syndrome Submitted S:Jul03 AL:Dec03 glucocorticoid agonist Imigran Imitrex 5HT1 agonist adolescent migraine nasal formulation Approved A:Apr03 AL:Dec00 274150 selective iNOS inhibitor oral asthma, COPD & allergic rhinitis also migraine ll Imigran Imitrex 5HT1 agonist migraine fast disintegrating rapid release formulation Approved A:Jul03 A:Jun03 597901 long acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a ll glucocorticoid agonist Oncology, Musculoskeletal & Inammation 685698 glucocorticoid agonist allergic rhinitis II 2006 2006 685698 glucocorticoid agonist asthma, also asthma & COPD in combination with a ll 251353 Gro-T CXC chemokine prevention of chemotherapy-induced cytopaenias I long acting beta2 agonist 423557 calcium antagonist osteoporosis I 766994 chemokine 3 CCR3 antagonist oral asthma & allergic rhinitis II 462795 cathepsin K inhibitor osteoporosis & osteoarthritis I 842470 PDE IV inhibitor inhaled asthma & COPD II 485232 recombinant human IL18  cancers I mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody asthma also hypereosinophillic syndrome II immunomodulator melanoma & renal cell Serevent beta2 agonist asthma & COPD non-CFC inhaler III 2004 N A 497115 thrombopoietin agonist thrombocytopenia I Seretide beta2 agonist inhaled corticosteroid asthma initial maintenance therapy III 2004 N A 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis also atherosclerosis & COPD I Seretide Advair beta2 agonist inhaled corticosteroid COPD mortality claim III 2006 2006 786034 vascular endothelial growth factor 2 solid tumours I Ario PDE IV inhibitor oral COPD Approvable 2004 AL:Oct03 tyrosine kinase inhibitor Flixotide Flovent inhaled corticosteroid asthma non-CFC inhaler Approved A:Apr97 AL:Dec02 elacridar 120918 oral bioenhancer cancer I Seretide Advair beta2 agonist inhaled corticosteroid asthma non-CFC inhaler Approved A:Jun00 AL:Oct01 597599 NK1 antagonist chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting II 2006 2006 & Oct02 also functional dyspepsia, depression & anxiety Seretide Advair beta2 agonist inhaled corticosteroid COPD Approved A:May03 A:Nov03 715992 kinesin spindle protein KSP inhibitor non-small cell lung cancer also other solid tumours II ethynylcytidine selective RNA polymerase inhibitor solid tumours II Hepatitis Vaccines mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody hypereosinophillic syndrome also asthma II 2006 2006 572016 ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer also lung, bladder, gastric, head IIl 2006 2005 Hepatitis E recombinant hepatitis E prophylaxis II and neck cancers Fendrix Extra Strength recombinant extra strength hepatitis B prophylaxis Submitted S:May03 Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer first line therapy Ill 2004 2004 hepatitis B pre-haemodialysis & haemodialysis patients Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor non-small cell lung cancer second line therapy III 2004 N A Paediatric Vaccines Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second line therapy III 2005 2004 - oral formulation N. meningitidis conjugated meningitis prophylaxis II 2005 Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor ovarian cancer first line therapy III 2005 2005 combinations Boniva Bonviva bisphosphonate treatment & prevention of postmenopausal III 2004 2004 Priorix-Tetra MMR-varicella live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella and varicella prophylaxis III 2004 ibandronate osteoporosis monthly oral dosing Rotarix live attenuated oral rotavirus prophylaxis III 2004 Boniva Bonviva bisphosphonate treatment & prevention of postmenopausal III 2004 2004 Streptorix conjugated S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis for children III ibandronate osteoporosis intermittent i. v. dosing Navelbine vinca alkaloid advanced tumours III N A 2006 Other Vaccines breast cancer - oral formulation Dengue fever attenuated tetravalent vaccine prophylactic use I nelarabine 506U78 guanine arabinoside prodrug acute lymphoblastic leukaemia & lymphomas III 2004 2004 HIV recombinant HIV prophylaxis I Avandia PPAR gamma agonist psoriasis III 2006 2005 131 New inuenza subunit inuenza prophylaxis new delivery I Bexxar I radiolabelled anti-B1 monoclonal non-Hodgkin's lymphoma Approved N A A:Jun03 S. pneumoniae elderly recombinant S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis I antibody Varicella Zoster recombinant Varicella Zoster prevention I Boniva Bonviva bisphosphonate treatment & prevention of postmenopausal Approved S:Jun02 A:May03 Cervarix recombinant prophylaxis of human papillomavirus HPV infections II ibandronate osteoporosis daily oral regimen Epstein-Barr virus EBV recombinant EBV prophylaxis II Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second line therapy Approved 2004 A:Nov98 Mosquirix recombinant malaria prophylaxis II Staphylococcal antibodies monoclonal antibody prevention of staphylococcal infections II Simplirix recombinant genital herpes prophylaxis III Boostrix Polio subunit adolescent adult booster for diphtheria, tetanus, Submitted S:Jul03 pertussis and polio Boostrix subunit adolescent adult booster for diphtheria, tetanus and Approved A:Oct00 2004 pertussis Pharmaccines Breast cancer therapeutic recombinant treatment of breast cancer l Her 2 Neu mage 3 249553 recombinant treatment of lung cancer melanoma II 20 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 21 Product approvals In 2003, approvals were received for a number of new products, including several significant new indications and formulations for existing Compounds progressed into Phase I clinical development in 2003 products, as summarised in the table below.
During 2003 a number of discovery projects, listed in the table below, progressed through non-clinical safety testing and into early Phase I Country Region clinical development.
These compounds are continuing their rigorous non-clinical, clinical and commercial assessments, leading to proof of Product Approval Date Description concept decisions over the next 1218 months.
Augmentin USA May convenient tablet formulation, with a breakline, of amoxicillin a beta-lactam antibiotic and clavulanate a beta-lactamase inhibitor for bacterial infections Compound Product Mechanism Indication Avandamet EU October xed dose combination of Avandia and metformin for type 2 diabetes 270384 endothelial cell adhesion molecule inhibitor inammatory bowel disease Avandia-insulin combination USA March combined use of Avandia and insulin for type 2 diabetes 273629 selective iNOS inhibitor acute migraine Bexxar USA June I-131 radio-labelled anti-B1 monoclonal antibody, in-licensed from Corixa for 275833AA topical pleuromutilin bacterial skin infections the treatment of non-Hodgkins lymphoma 332235 chemokine 2 IL8 receptor antagonist oral COPD Boniva USA May ibandronate, a bisphosphonate for oral daily treatment of osteoporosis in-licensed 362115A gap junction blocker migraine & epilepsy from Roche 406725A gap junction blocker migraine & epilepsy Imigran Imitrex EU July and a fast dissolve tablet formulation of sumatriptan, a 5HT1 antagonist 423557 calcium receptor antagonist osteoporosis USA June 597599 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety Lamictal EU March and lamotrigine, a sodium channel blocker for long-term prophylaxis prevention of bipolar 641597 PPAR alpha agonist dyslipidaemia USA June disorder 644784 COX2 inhibitor 2nd generation pain Lamictal USA January lamotrigine for add-on therapy in paediatric epilepsy 659032 Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis Lapdap EU July combination of chlorproguanil and dapsone for the treatment of malaria 678007 long-acting beta2 agonist COPD Levitra EU March and PDE V inhibitor for the treatment of male erectile dysfunction in-licensed from 679769 NK1 antagonist chemotherapy-induced nausea & vomiting USA August Bayer AG 742457 5HT6 antagonist Alzheimers disease & schizophrenia Lexiva USA October fosamprenavir, a protease inhibitor for HIV 773812 mixed 5HT dopaminergic antagonist schizophrenia Paxil CR USA August controlled release formulation of paroxetine, a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor 796406 ACE NEP dual inhibitor hypertension for continuous treatment of pre-menstrual dysphoric disorder 799943 glucocorticoid agonist asthma COPD inhaled, allergic rhinitis intranasal Paxil CR USA October paroxetine controlled release for social anxiety disorder 815541A dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitor type 2 diabetes Requip USA ropinirole, a non-ergot dopamine D2 agonist for restless legs syndrome 823093 dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitor type 2 diabetes Seretide Advair Diskus EU May and combination of salmeterol, a long-acting beta-blocker, and uticasone, a 823296 NK 1 antagonist depression & anxiety USA November corticosteroid in a dry powder Diskus device for the treatment of COPD 825964 dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitor type 2 diabetes Valtrex USA April valaciclovir, a DNA polymerase inhibitor for the suppression of herpes simplex virus in 869682 sodium-dependent glucose transporter type 2 diabetes immuno-compromised patients SGLT-2 inhibitor Valtrex EU and USA August valaciclovir, for the suppression of transmission of herpes simplex virus 873140 CCR5 antagonist HIV Wellbutrin XL USA August extended release formulation of bupropion for the treatment of depression Augmentin once daily formulation of amoxicillin and clavulanate respiratory tract infections approvable letter January 2004 Avandamet XR extended release xed dose combination of Avandia type 2 diabetes and metformin Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery Each CEDD is responsible for identifying the optimal drug Phase I started January 2004 The two essential steps in creating drug candidates are candidate for the desired biological effect and then assessing its i optimising the lead compound for potency, efcacy, safety and safety and other development characteristics in preclinical screens.
Submissions other intrinsic characteristics of the molecule and ii demonstrating Once this is achieved, the CEDDs are responsible for proving that A number of significant dossiers were submitted to the regulatory authorities in the major regions during 2003 which are summarised in the validity of the therapeutic hypothesis through early clinical the compound is safe and efcacious in patients in small-scale the table below.
trials of the resulting candidate.
The CEDDs are focused on specic clinical trials the proof of concept decision point.
disease areas and designed to be nimble and entrepreneurial with Product Country Region Description A decision is then made on whether the information available the range of skills and resources required to drive mid-stage to date justifies the compounds progression into late-stage drug abacavir lamivudine EU and USA xed dose combination of 2 reverse transcriptase inhibitors for the treatment development projects from lead optimisation through to their key development where the necessary large-scale clinical trials are of HIV infections decision-point, demonstration of proof of concept, before major conducted to register and commercialise the product.
Advair Diskus USA labelling for paediatric twice-daily dosing of the combination of salmeterol, investments are made to fund large-scale clinical trials.
a long-acting beta-blocker, and uticasone, a corticosteroid in a dry powder device In 2003, the CEDDs further accelerated the progress of new A new Biopharmaceuticals CEDD was formed during 2003 to Avandaryl USA combination of rosiglitazone and sulphonylurea for type 2 diabetes compounds into both first dosing in humans see table of extend R&Ds current efforts to discover and develop recombinant Augmentin USA convenient tablet formulation, with a breakline, of amoxicillin and clavulanate for compounds progressed into Phase I on page 20 and initial therapeutic proteins, monoclonal antibodies, and certain bacterial infections evaluation of efcacy in patients.
In addition, adjustments to the therapeutic vaccines.
Imigran Imitrex EU and USA a fast dissolve tablet formulation of sumatriptan, a 5HT antagonist processes involved in this stage of development are enabling a Paxil CR USA controlled release formulation of paroxetine, a selective serotonin re-uptake There are seven CEDDs, based in the USA and Europe: reduction in development times.
inhibitor for intermittent treatment of pre-menstrual dysphoric disorder Biopharmaceuticals, centred in Stevenage UK As a result, a substantial number of new compounds achieved Paxil Japan paroxetine for obsessive compulsive disorder Cardiovascular & Urogenital Diseases, centred in Upper Merion the critical milestone of proof of concept, where potential new Requip EU and USA ropinirole, a non-ergot dopamine D2 agonist for restless leg syndrome USA medicines have been shown to have sufficient effect in the target Seretide MDI EU a dose counter for the pressurised aerosol containing salmeterol and uticasone Metabolic & Viral Diseases, centred in Research Triangle Park patient group to justify the transition to the later stages of Seretide EU use of the pressurised aerosol containing salmeterol and uticasone in USA development.
paediatric asthma Microbial, Musculoskeletal & Proliferative Diseases, including Serevent Diskus EU salmeterol, a long-acting beta-blocker in a dry powder Diskus device for the A major partnership was announced during 2003 with Imperial cancer, centred in Upper Providence USA treatment of COPD College, London, to develop a major Clinical Imaging Centre for Neurology & Gastrointestinal Diseases, centred in Harlow UK GlaxoSmithKline at Imperials Hammersmith Hospital site.
Psychiatry, centred in Verona Italy Respiratory and Inammation, centred in Stevenage UK.
22 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 23 As described above, these TASTs were replaced at the beginning Other late-stage projects terminated during 2003 were the This is the first such partnership in the world, and will be a highly Since the Group was formed in December 2000, it has signed 36 of 2004 with six MDCs responsible for creating value through the development of oxibendazole for helminth intestinal infections interactive relationship with the clinical service and on-going major external collaborations, 24 for products in clinical delivery of full product development plans.
This includes managing in Phase III and in Phase II, both 559090 for asthma and 810781 biomedical, chemical and IT research in a world-class academic development and a further 12 for products at pre-clinical stage.
the day-to-day operational activities for the post-PoC portfolio, for the treatment of HIV.
The Imaging Centre will provide unique Compounds that were the subject of in-licensing or co-promotion delivery of medicines to patients, maximising the global commercial new capabilities required to drive the clinical portfolio forward.
deals during 2003 were: potential of products and ensuring strong partnerships with the Vaccines R&D As part of GlaxoSmithKlines major response to the challenges of a pulsatile drug delivery system from Advancis, for use in the CEDDs and Global Commercial Strategy GCS.
The project All vaccines R&D is conducted at GlaxoSmithKlines biologicals diseases affecting the developing world, the Microbial, controlled delivery of anti-microbials management function has been integrated into the MDC centre in Rixensart, Belgium, including other related activities such Musculoskeletal & Proliferative Diseases CEDD has responsibility controlled release Micropump technology from Flamel framework in order to provide direct expertise in the planning and as clinical development, regulatory strategy, commercial strategy, for a drug discovery unit, based at Tres Cantos, that is dedicated Technologies for use in developing new formulations execution of development activities.
The MDCs are therapeutically scaling up, production, packaging and all support functions.
Over to nding new medicines for these diseases.
Research projects at a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor from Medivir for aligned as follows: 1,000 research scientists are employed who are devoted to Tres Cantos focus on malaria and TB and, together with work the treatment of HIV infections discovering new vaccines and developing more cost-effective and elsewhere in the Group on HIV AIDS and vaccines, address the Cardiovascular Metabolic a xed-dose combination tablet containing combinations of convenient combination products to prevent infections that cause prevention and treatment of all three of the World Health Infectious Diseases including DDW a long acting non-steroidal anti-inammatory drug from serious medical problems worldwide.
Discovery work identies Organizations WHO top priority diseases.
The Group also works Musculoskeletal Inammation Gastrointestinal Urology POZEN and GlaxoSmithKlines range of anti-migraine therapies, new vaccines and these candidates are then expressed in yeast, with numerous external partners worldwide in the search for new Neuroscience Psychiatry Neurology Imigran Imitrex and Naramig Amerge, to improve patient bacteria or mammalian cells and puried to a very high level.
treatments for Diseases of the Developing World DDW.
Oncology benets in migraine Respiratory solifenacin, a muscarinic antagonist for co-promotion with This is followed by formulation of the vaccine, which involves Preclinical development Yamanouchi in the treatment of overactive bladder mixing antigens with selected adjuvants which will ultimately These matrix teams are responsible for maximising the worldwide Preclinical Development PCD participates in a wide range of atriple monoamine re-uptake inhibitor for attention-deficit stimulate a good immune response in humans.
The next step is development opportunities for each product within their remit so activities within the drug development process from optimising hyperactivity disorder, NS2359 372475, as part of a broad to evaluate safety and efcacy of the candidate vaccine in in-vivo that all information needed to support the registration, safety the selection of compounds for potential development through alliance covering a number of research programmes in central models.
Once preclinical proof of concept has been established, programmes, pricing and formulary negotiations is available when launch to the marketplace and enhancement of existing products nervous system diseases, with NeuroSearch A S. the candidate vaccine is then tested in clinical trials in healthy it is required.
Commercial input from GCS ensures that at an early by devising more convenient formulations.
Early in the individuals to evaluate safety and how effective the vaccine is in stage regional marketing needs are fully integrated into Current collaborative ADI partnerships are: Cytokinetics Inc. development process, the metabolic rate and safety of compounds inducing an immune response to protect the body from disease development plans.
Careful prioritisation across all phases of oncology: mitotic kinesin inhibitors, Shionogi & Co. HIV and are evaluated in laboratory animals prior to testing in humans.
encountered later in a natural setting.
Large-scale eld trials in development ensures that a high potential and integrated portfolio neurology programmes: potential broad based discovery healthy individuals follow to establish safety and efcacy in a is achieved.
The testing required in both animals and humans is mandated and collaboration in antimicrobials, oncology, metabolic and cross section of the population.
The results obtained during clinical is highly regulated by government agencies.
neurology, Tanabe Seiyaku Co. Ltd. broad based: neurology, The MDCs collaborate at an early stage with the CEDDs to define trials and the development of a quality production process and gastro-intestinal, urology, diabetes, respiratory, Exelixis Inc. PCD researchers investigate dosage form e. g. tablet or inhaled target product proles for new molecules and with integrated facilities are then combined into a regulatory le which is oncology, inammation, Theravance Inc. asthma, and Ranbaxy and develop formulations to enhance the drugs effectiveness.
technical development and manufacturing functions to ensure submitted to the authorities in the various countries where the Laboratories Ltd. broad based.
PCD is also responsible for the development of drug formulations rapid, effective launch and delivery of the product.
Innovative vaccine is to be made available.
Processes and supporting analytical methods clinical programmes for lead molecules from the CEDDs are GlaxoSmithKline has one academic ADI partner in the UK and for drug synthesis and product formulation and delivery are scaled developed using cross-functional project teams.
These are long term collaborative relationships in Animals and research up to meet increasing supply requirements, ultimately leading to which the Group has committed funding for two years, with the For ethical, regulatory and scientific reasons, research using animals Cross-functional input extends to focused life cycle management the technical transfer of the processes and methods to option to renew for an additional three years.
In addition, remains a vital part of the research and development of new for products to deliver new indications and new presentations after manufacturing.
GlaxoSmithKline has already entered into a number of agreements medicines and vaccines.
Animals are only used where no the initial regulatory approval and commercial launch.
Examples of with third parties to co-develop and then co-market certain alternative is available and GlaxoSmithKline constantly aims to life cycle management include the extended release formulation, The New Product Supply Process, a partnership between R&D and compounds.
These arrangements range from milestone payments reduce the numbers used.
The Group strives to exceed industry Wellbutrin XL, and development programmes designed to deliver Global Manufacturing and Supply, ensures that a robust product to third parties to acquire rights to their intellectual property, to standards in the care and welfare of the animals it uses: laboratory new indications such as the use of Lamictal for bipolar disorder.
is developed for large scale commercial manufacturing and launch.
joint ventures to develop and commercialise specified compounds.
animals are usually bred specifically for research and are well cared Other key technology areas that provide ways to improve R&Ds The first products under the Gold Pass initiative, started in 2002, Under many of these agreements the Group has obligations to for throughout their lives by qualied, trained staff.
productivity include drug delivery systems, predictive technologies, Levitra and Wellbutrin XL, were launched in 2003.
This make payments in the future if specified milestones are achieved.
When animals are used in research unnecessary pain or suffering particle engineering and process innovation.
The use of particle designation, agreed between R&D, regional markets and These financial commitments are summarised in Note 26 to the is scrupulously avoided.
GlaxoSmithKline is actively engaged in engineering and process innovations enhances the ability to manufacturing, is a key component of the portfolio and resource Financial statements, Commitments.
research to develop and validate experimental methods that can manufacture consistently high-quality products efficiently.
prioritisation and management process, to ensure that the provide more and better alternatives to the use of animals in resources placed behind key emerging assets yield the optimum Discontinuations research.
Worldwide development commercial benefit as well as the maximum medical benefit to All research and development carries a risk of failure To provide focus for the development process, all the major patients.
Gold Pass assets are of high value and strategic commensurate with the extension of scientific knowledge of a GlaxoSmithKline acknowledges that use of animals for research functional components of clinical, medical, biomedical data, importance to GlaxoSmithKline and require specic organisational compound and its effects.
Not all lead compounds that are purposes is a subject that rightly commands a high level of public regulatory and safety have been integrated into this single visibility and urgency to meet patients needs.
Consequently, only identied to possess positive activity against a validated target interest.
The full GlaxoSmithKline Public Policy Position 'The care management organisation, Worldwide Development.
During 2003 a small number of assets receive Gold Pass status at any one time, will prove to be safe enough to introduce to humans or feasible and ethical use of animals in research' is available on the website, there were six cross-functional Therapeutic Area Strategy Teams enabling the full focus of the organisation to be aligned.
Two to manufacture on a commercial scale.
TASTs, each covering one of the following groups of diseases: further products, 353162 for depression and 572016 for cancer, endeavours to ensure that as far as possible these risks are received the Gold Pass designation during the year.
ameliorated by extensive predictive testing as early as possible in Research and development Consumer Healthcare Cardiovascular, Urogenital and Metabolic Diseases the development process.
Despite these efforts, the ultimate test The principal centres for Consumer Healthcare R&D are in the UK Infectious Diseases including DDW In-licensing and research collaborations for a product remains the point at which it is administered to and in the USA.
The focus of R&D is on the identication and Neurology & Gastro-intestinal Diseases GlaxoSmithKline has continued to identify compounds that would large numbers of patients with the disease.
In 2003, rapid development of novel products that bring benets to Oncology, Musculoskeletal Diseases and Inammation enhance the portfolio and to create innovative collaborations to GlaxoSmithKline and Merck KGaA reviewed the progress of the consumers in the OTC, Oral care and Nutritional healthcare Psychiatry ensure that the Group is regarded as the partner of choice for development programme for the SSRI 5HT1a receptor partial markets.
Consumer Healthcare liaises closely with Pharmaceuticals Respiratory.
both large and small companies.
As a result, the companies agreed that the to maximise the Groups assets, by nding applications for development programme should be terminated.
prescription products in the OTC marketplace.
24 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 25 Operating resources d Intellectual property Levitra.
The Group has co-promotion rights under the US patent Trade marks significant cost savings have been achieved through consolidation, on the active ingredient vardenal which is not due to expire until All of GlaxoSmithKlines pharmaceutical products are protected by simplication and standardisation of basic infrastructure such as GlaxoSmithKline regards its intellectual property as a key business 2018 in the USA.
Pzer has initiated legal action in the USA and registered trade marks in major markets.
In general, the same mark networks, e-mail and business application hosting.
The effective legal protection of intellectual property is certain other countries against Bayer and GlaxoSmithKline for is used for a product in each market around the world, but there new central infrastructure services are being introduced including critical in ensuring a reasonable return on investment in R&D.
alleged infringement of their patent with a broad method of may be local variations.
For example in the USA the trade mark hosting for web based applications, information storage and Intellectual property can be protected by patents, trade marks, e treatment claim.
Paxil is used instead of Seroxat and Advair is used instead of document management.
registered designs, copyrights and domain name registrations.
Patent and trade mark rights are regarded as particularly valuable.
GlaxoSmithKline is exclusive licensee under the patent Pro-active attention and management of computer virus threats on the active ingredient fosamprenavir, which is not due to expire Trade mark protection may generally be extended for as long resulted in minimal impact to continuity of business operations.
Patents until 2017 in the USA and 2018 in Europe.
as the trade mark is used by renewing it when necessary.
Risk mitigation plans have been established in several important GlaxoSmithKlines policy is to obtain patent protection on all GlaxoSmithKlines trade marks on pharmaceutical products computing risk areas, including externally facing systems, data Paxil Seroxat.
The patent on the active ingredient paroxetine is significant products discovered or developed through its R&D generally assume an increasing importance when the patent for privacy, business continuity plans, outsourced business applications not due to expire until 2006 in the USA and Europe.
Patent protection for new active ingredients is available that product has expired in a particular country and generic and compliance.
concerning validity and infringement of the patents protecting in all significant markets.
Protection can also be obtained for new versions of the product become available.
e these products is ongoing in the USA.
Generic competition has pharmaceutical formulations and manufacturing processes, and Transforming and extending business activities commenced in the USA, UK and certain other markets.
In the Consumer Healthcare business trade marks are particularly for new medical uses and special devices for administering Insights gained from genomics and proteomics are transforming important, as the business is very brand orientated and many products.
There are no patents on the active ingredient zidovudine.
the way that disease targets are identied and validated.
products do not have patent protection.
Patents covering pharmaceutical formulations containing Information obtained from external sources may now be integrated The basic patent position with respect to significant products is zidovudine and their medical use are not due to expire until 2005 with internally generated information in a rapid and exible as follows: Information technology in the USA and 2006 in Europe.
manner, and subjected to further analysis to provide insights to Augmentin.
The basic patent on the key active ingredient, Information technology IT plays three strategic roles in support decision-making.
Full advantage is being taken of advances Seretide Advair.
The patents on the specic combination of active potassium clavulanate has expired in all markets, except in Italy GlaxoSmithKline: in computer technology and increased processing power.
ingredients salmeterol and uticasone propionate are not due c 2006 and generic competition exists in most markets.
Litigation b to expire until 2010 in the USA and 2013 in Europe.
A challenge supporting key business processes at the local, regional, Access to information for regulatory agencies, clinical opinion concerning the clavulanic acid production strain is ongoing in the e has been made to the patent in the UK.
functional and global levels leaders, healthcare professionals, patients and the public has been e USA.
enabling the transformation and extension of key business enhanced.
Steps have been taken to reduce reliance on paper Serevent.
Patents on the active ingredient salmeterol xinafoate are Avandia and Avandamet.
The basic patent on the active ingredient activities based processes for clinical trials and registration of new medicines b b not due to expire until 2005 in most of Europe 2008 in France a b rosiglitazone is not due to expire until 2011 in the USA and 2013 facilitating collaboration and access to information on a through use of wireless, handheld technologies and the internet.
c and 2009 in Italy and until 2008 in the USA.
Patents on the commercial form of the active ingredient global basis.
Many administrative processes including human resources, rosiglitazone maleate are not due to expire until 2015 in the USA Trizivir.
The patents on the specic combination of lamivudine, In addition to computer infrastructure, hardware and software, procurement and technology support have been streamlined by b and 2014 in Europe.
Litigation concerning validity and zidovudine and abacavir are not due to expire until 2016 in the the IT organisation is responsible for voice and video technologies, moving to a self-service model, which enables employees to be b infringement of the patents protecting these products is ongoing USA and 2018 in Europe.
monitoring business and technology trends that could have an IT more self-sufficient and reduces the time and effort required to e in the USA.
The patents on the active ingredient valaciclovir are not impact on GlaxoSmithKline and preparing the Group for the risks complete basic transactions.
A major eLearning programme which a b Avodart.
Patents on the active ingredient dutasteride have a due to expire until 2009 in the USA and 2009 in Europe.
associated with the latest information technology.
allows employees to choose where and when to learn new skills normal expiry of 2013 USA and 2014 Europe.
Requests for Litigation concerning validity and infringement of the patents while reducing training costs signicantly has been introduced for In 2003, IT focused on delivering increased value to the Group.
e extension of term of these patents are pending and are expected protecting this product is ongoing in the USA.
sales force and technology training.
Almost all basic IT services have improved in quality whilst at the a b to extend these dates to 2015 in the USA and 2017 in Europe.
Patents on the basic active ingredient same time the cost of these services has been reduced.
Return on Introduction of extranet capabilities that enable the secure Combivir.
The patents on the specic combination of lamivudine have expired.
Various formulation patents protect the currently investment has been increased through the introduction of a new interaction between partners and suppliers has increased the and zidovudine are not due to expire until 2012 in the USA and marketed SR sustained release formulations, the latest of which rapid low cost methodology for improving business processes effectiveness of the supply chain and collaboration with R&D b 2013 in Europe.
is not due to expire in the USA until 2013.
In Europe, regulatory without requiring major technology investments and by establishing alliance partners and prescribers.
data exclusivity provides protection until at least 2005 and until a process to ensure that business application projects pay for Coreg.
GlaxoSmithKline is exclusive licensee under the US patent 2009 in some countries.
Litigation concerning validity and themselves within one year.
Collaborating and assessing information on the active ingredient carvedilol, which is not due to expire until infringement of the patents protecting these products is ongoing Enabling GlaxoSmithKlines staff to be more productive remains a 2007. e in the USA.
Generic competition to one of the dosage forms has Supporting key business processes a high priority.
The adoption of standard global tools to support Epivir.
The patents on the active ingredient lamivudine are not due already commenced in the USA and is expected shortly for other IT has developed web based tools that provide scientists with the collaboration and information access are critical enablers to a b to expire until 2009 in the USA and 2011 in Europe.
information they need on candidate medicines.
In this way, early achieving this.
phase R&D teams can draw up shortlists of molecules for Flixotide Flovent and Flixonase Flonase.
In the USA, the patent on Ziagen.
The basic patents on the active ingredient abacavir are A standard intranet portal has been adopted and is now the consideration as possible treatments for specic diseases faster and a b the active ingredient uticasone propionate had an initial expiry not due to expire until 2011 in the USA and 2014 in Europe.
primary communication channel for employees.
Retrieval of with more confidence in the quality of the shortlist.
Other areas date in 2003, but this has been extended by virtue of paediatric important information has been made easier and faster through Zofran.
The basic patents on the active ingredient ondansetron in R&D where IT is playing an important role are high-throughput exclusivity until May 2004.
In most European countries protection provision of a standard intranet searching capability.
b are not due to expire until 2005 in the USA and 2005 in Europe, biology, laboratory automation, imaging, electronic data capture, b is not due to expire until 2005. c c 2007 France and 2010 Italy.
Patents on use in treating emesis document management and clinical data management.
Uptake of the Groups standard collaboration product suite which Imigran Imitrex.
The patents on the active ingredient sumatriptan expire in 2006.
Litigation concerning validity and infringement of enables employees to work collaboratively across multiple Implementation of the Groups Enterprise Resources Planning b e are not due to expire until 2008 in the USA and 2006 in Europe, the patents protecting these products is ongoing in the USA.
geographic and time zones increased signicantly.
Included in strategy has continued.
Common applications for use in c 2010 Italy.
Litigation concerning validity and infringement of the this product suite are high-quality video-conferencing facilities, manufacturing plants and commercial units have been e patents protecting these products is ongoing in the USA.
instant messaging and on-line meeting services.
implemented in a number of sites.
The patents on the active ingredient lamotrigine are not middleware are being used to enable efficient movement across Progress is being made on the global implementation of a standard a b a Including extension of term due to expire until 2008 in the USA and 2005 in most countries the supply chain whilst allowing for independent optimisation of desktop which provides employees with improved access to b Including extension of term by supplementary protection certicates in Europe.
Litigation concerning validity and infringement of the commercial units at a regional or functional level as well as information and business applications.
A lower cost, light-weight c Including extension of term by national supplementary protection certicate, as e notied following a recent change in Italian law but subject to legal challenges patents protecting this product is ongoing in the USA.
web based desktop is also under development.
d Registered trademark of Bayer AG.
e See Note 30 to the Financial statements.
26 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 27 The business and society GlaxoSmithKline people Last year marked the first annual Multicultural Marketing and Corporate responsibility EHS management Diversity Awards, with 78 entrants from five countries.
The event GlaxoSmithKline takes a systematic approach to managing EHS GlaxoSmithKline people are fundamental to the success of the GlaxoSmithKline is committed to connecting business decisions highlighted activities that serve diverse employees, customers and risks and impacts.
A framework of information and programmes business.
Their skills and intellect are key components in the to ethical, social and environmental concerns.
Solid financial stakeholders across GlaxoSmithKlines global community.
based on the global EHS standards guides the management of successful implementation of sound business strategy.
This is the performance is closely connected to ethical business practices.
key aspects, impacts and risks throughout the organisation.
human capital that maximises the potential of the Groups The Group is committed to employment policies free from The Group understands that it is not just how much profit it scientific, commercial and financial assets.
The outcome of effective discrimination against potential or existing staff on the grounds of makes that matters.
Stakeholders want to know how that profit EHS assurance and improvement human resources policy is GlaxoSmithKlines solid reputation as an age, race, ethnic and national origin, gender, sexual orientation, is made and to be reassured of the sound ethical basis for the As part of its governance responsibility, GlaxoSmithKline conducts international employer of choice.
In particular GlaxoSmithKline is committed to business.
GlaxoSmithKline has identied the broad issues that EHS audits of its sites, key contract manufacturers and suppliers.
offering people with disabilities access to the full range of have generated interest from stakeholders and reports on these To achieve this, the Group initiated Candidate Care the The processes are based on assessing performance against the recruitment and career opportunities.
Every effort is made to retain each year in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
This is available commitment to seeking and acquiring the best employment EHS standards and include quantitative performance measurement.
and support staff who become disabled.
from Secretariat and on the website at www.
candidates who reect a diversity of background, experience In 2003, 31 sites were audited and three follow-up reviews were and perspective and who can contribute most to the success of GlaxoSmithKline has a Corporate Responsibility Committee of performed.
As part of the continuous improvement process, Talent management and leadership development GlaxoSmithKline.
Non-Executive Directors, which has oversight of corporate progress was monitored on actions arising from issues raised on Development planning is a key element in performance planning responsibility matters.
It advises the Board on social, ethical and all audits.
for all employees each year.
Reviews are conducted in each Performance and reward environmental issues that have the potential to impact seriously business and function to ensure that a diverse talent pool is fully In 2003, a pilot exercise was conducted with Global Manufacturing The importance of people must translate into employment GlaxoSmithKlines business and reputation.
The Corporate developed to meet future business needs, and that successors are and Supply to investigate obtaining Group wide third party practices that demonstrate the value of each individual.
Executive Team directs the Groups corporate responsibility identied for key positions.
certication to the international standards on environmental and Compensation and benefit packages GlaxoSmithKlines Total activities.
The General Counsel is responsible for managing the health and safety management systems ISO 14001 and OHSAS Reward aim to be competitive and innovative and are either Comprehensive leadership development opportunities are available overall programme.
Five sites achieved certication to both standards as part global or local in orientation, depending on what best drives to managers at all levels.
These opportunities are targeted to help Corporate responsibility issues and dialogue with stakeholders are of this process.
This is in addition to the 12 sites that had business performance and rewards individual contribution.
leaders to meet the challenges they face in a complex global managed in the most appropriate functions within GlaxoSmithKline previously been individually certied to ISO 14001.
They ensure leaders motivate teams and individuals Compensation philosophy and programme development rather than through a central department.
This ensures they confirmed the feasibility of the approach and the programme will to do their best work.
underscore GlaxoSmithKlines commitment to a performance remain an integrated part of the everyday operation of the continue on a voluntary basis.
Global certication should be culture.
Performance based pay, both base and variable, share business.
To facilitate policy development, implementation and achieved in three to four years.
Human Resources services and information systems awards, share options, performance and development planning communication, however, a cross-functional team was established GlaxoSmithKlines human resource delivery strategy is designed As part of the commitment to corporate social responsibility and and evaluation contribute to retention of key talent, superior at the beginning of 2002 to ensure a co-ordinated and to make the most of technology.
Human Resources services and the pro-active management of the GlaxoSmithKline manufacturing performance and accomplishment of business targets.
This team, made up of representatives information are delivered through low cost, highly effective and supply base, 16 of the key contract manufacturers and from the key business areas, ensures that policies are in place and A commitment to exible working through exi-time, channels that make it easy for job candidates, employees, and suppliers were also assessed.
This process evaluated the mechanisms exist for their implementation and monitoring.
teleconferencing, remote working and exible work schedules, retirees to access information about employment, compensation management of EHS risks and impacts based on the Groups EHS recognises that employees work best in an environment that and benets, policies and programmes.
These include intuitive During 2003 the cross-functional team developed a set of requirements for contract manufacturers.
Generally good helps them integrate their work and personal lives.
personalised web based tools, available to employees in many corporate responsibility principles for GlaxoSmithKline.
This sets performance was identied and recommendations were made locations.
out the approach to ten areas: standards of ethical conduct, where improvements were needed.
Communication and involvement leadership and advocacy, research and innovation, products and To stimulate employee engagement, a daily news service is in Property, plant and equipment customers, access to medicines, employment practices, human Objectives and targets place on all business unit intranet sites.
This includes daily Group rights, community investment, caring for the environment and Objectives for 2003 focused on the theme of reducing key risks.
GlaxoSmithKline has invested over 4 billion in its property, with news and announcements, an online news magazine service, the engagement with stakeholders.
The risks identied as most significant, based on past performance, a carrying value in the Financial statements of almost 3 billion, Chief Executive Ofcers home page and Q&A, and an online were driver safety, ergonomics, chemical exposures, process safety, with a further 3.7 billion, at carrying value, invested in plant and In some instances, such as caring for the environment and access information resource to encourage employees to serve as company resilience and well being and emergency response.
equipment and assets in construction.
In 2003, GlaxoSmithKline to medicines, performance measures are already in place to ambassadors.
Where appropriate, the publication of media invested 870 million in new and renewal property, plant and support demonstration of progress.
For other principles the Progress was made on all issues and work will continue into 2004. clippings is also accompanied by a Group position statement to equipment.
This is mainly related to a large number of projects for potential for developing performance indicators to support Objectives for 2004 will centre around emerging issues such as ensure employee access to key messages on important issues.
the improvement and expansion of facilities at various worldwide effective management and communication is being explored pharmaceuticals in the environment, chemicals policy and climate An employee survey was undertaken during 2003 to determine sites.
Property is mainly held freehold.
New investment is nanced further.
The aim is to strike a balance between the desires of change, with a theme of responding to external EHS challenges.
employee satisfaction with communications channels and content, from Group liquid resources.
At 31st December 2003, the Group stakeholders for greater transparency about the operations of Numerical targets for EHS improvements set in 2001 are to be and more than 70 per cent of employees expressed satisfaction had capital contractual commitments for future expenditure of GlaxoSmithKline, and the realities and costs of running the accomplished over five years.
The health and safety target is a with them.
An employee broadcast, hosted by the CEO and some 171 million and in 2004 operating lease commitments of business.
reduction in lost time injury and illness rate by 15 per cent per Chairman, Pharmaceuticals R&D, was held in December to 120 million.
Further information on these issues may be found in the Corporate year.
Environmental targets include reductions in energy usage recognise 2003 performance, remind employees of R&D pipeline GlaxoSmithKlines business is science-based, technology-intensive Responsibility Report 2003.
An overview of three of the key and associated greenhouse gas emissions, reductions in solvent information and reiterate global strategy for 2004.
Share and highly regulated by governmental authorities.
It allocates corporate areas of Environment, health and safety, Access to emissions and the amount of waste and wastewater disposed.
ownership schemes encourage participation as owners of the significant financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of healthcare and Community investments follow.
Progress toward meeting these targets is tracked every year and business, increasing awareness of short and long term business its property, plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption will be published on www.
To date significant progress objectives.
Global and local employee opinion surveys allow of production and to achieve compliance with regulatory Responsibility for environment, health and safety has been made towards achieving all EHS targets.
employees the opportunity to express their views and perspectives standards.
The research and development and manufacture of on important Group issues.
Environment, health and safety EHS is a key element of corporate pharmaceuticals uses chemicals and hazardous materials.
The Performance improvement measures responsibility for the Group and has a high priority.
Responsibility Group observes stringent procedures and uses specialist skills to GlaxoSmithKline measures the impact on the health and safety of Diversity for EHS is at the highest level.
There is a corporate group reporting manage environmental risks from these activities.
Environmental people who work at its sites and the impact on the environment.
The GlaxoSmithKline diversity initiative continued to focus on to the General Counsel that has overall responsibility for providing issues, sometimes dating from operations now modied or The measure of impact on people is the lost time injury and illness creating an inclusive work environment, aiming to enhance governance and leadership on EHS issues.
The head of this group discontinued, are referenced under Responsibility for Environment, rate, enough to result in lost time per 100,000 hours worked.
employee innovation and productivity, and measurably improve makes regular reports to the Corporate Executive Team CET and health and safety page 27 and in Note 30 to the Financial The impacts on air, water and land are measured as metric tonnes employee attraction, development and retention.
Within operations, line managers are statements, Legal proceedings.
GlaxoSmithKline believes that its of material emitted, waste disposed and the impact on natural responsible for EHS and are supported by site-based EHS and facilities are adequate for its current needs.
resources is measured as cubic metres of water used and gigajoules occupational health professionals.
28 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 29 GlaxoSmithKline selects its measures of performance improvement Access to healthcare in the developing world Preferential pricing is improving access.
The Group has 175 Global community investment based on the risk.
Risks are determined, in part, through evaluation arrangements, covering 56 of the worlds poorest countries, to Access to healthcare in developing countries remains a unique GlaxoSmithKlines global community investment activities in 2003 of impacts.
The impacts considered were those with the potential supply ARVs at preferential prices.
Customers include governments, challenge to the global community.
The problem, which is rooted were valued at 338 million.
This included 125 million for the for adverse impact on people or the environment, business non-governmental organisations NGOs, hospitals, academic in poverty, demands a significant mobilisation of resources and a Groups Patient Assistance Programs and other medicine donations continuity or business reputation.
Most of the measures selected institutions and private employers.
It must be tackled as a shared for low income groups in the USA, and 105 million of are similar to those reported by other companies and are responsibility by all sectors of global society.
The Group does not The offer of not-for-profit prices requires a sustainable framework, humanitarian product donations.
This total was equivalent to recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative, a long-term, have the mandate, expertise or resources to address the underlying combining the Groups commitment to preferential pricing with 5.3 per cent of Group profit before tax and included 17 million multi-stakeholder, international undertaking to develop and problems that exist.
However, GlaxoSmithKline continues to play commitments from governments to avoid price referencing against in costs to manage and deliver community programmes in more disseminate globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines.
a vital role, through its commitment to R&D into diseases preferentially priced medicines and to help prevent product than 100 countries.
particularly prevalent in the developing world, through its diversion.
GlaxoSmithKline has taken steps to minimise the threat Product stewardship Many of the programmes are long term commitments that help programme of preferential pricing for its anti-retrovirals ARVs, of diversion and is now able to supply 57 countries with Combivir GlaxoSmithKline has a global standard for product stewardship bring about sustainable change in underserved communities.
anti-malarials and vaccines, and through its community investment in a special access pack.
Similar efforts are underway to secure that establishes requirements for responsible and ethical The Groups community investment activities are mainly focused activities and partnerships.
widespread regulatory approval for Trizivir and Epivir access packs management of EHS aspects of products throughout their life on health and education and include: and to colour differentiate the product, not just the packaging.
Product stewardship provides a systematic way to identify R&D for diseases of the developing world product or process risks early, so that they may be mitigated, However, this alone will not fully deter illegal traders who are Public health programmes Growing anti-infective resistance to current treatments, inadequate managed and ultimately eliminated.
Integrating product experts in the repackaging of medicines.
GlaxoSmithKline therefore The Global Alliance to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis healthcare infrastructure and poor patient compliance to complex stewardship into business activities protects people and the welcomed the political commitment to prevent diversion that arose GlaxoSmithKlines agship community programme aims to treatment regimens continues to drive the need for investment in environment, enhances compliance with local regulatory from the G8 Summit in June 2003, and the European Union eliminate this disguring mosquito-borne disease from the world R&D into new drugs and vaccines for diseases that affect the requirements and avoids interruption of product supply.
Other countries should be by 2020.
The company has committed to provide as much of the developing world.
encouraged to take similar steps and ensure the introduction, and anti-parasitic drug albendazole as required an estimated 5-6 billion Environmental sustainability GlaxoSmithKline believes that it has the industrys most extensive strict enforcement of, measures to counter this trade, the main preventative treatments to treat the one billion people at risk in The concept of sustainable development is central to the Groups portfolio of products and R&D projects for diseases of the beneciaries of which are the illegal importers.
Work has started towards eventual developing world.
It undertakes R&D into the prevention and In October 2003, GlaxoSmithKline extended the voluntary licence GlaxoSmithKline and WHO were founders of the Global Alliance environmental sustainability by mitigating environmental impacts treatment of all three of the World Health Organizations WHO granted to Aspen Pharmacare, sub-Saharan Africas largest generics to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis LF, a unique partnership which and looking at ways to improve production efficiency.
The use of priority diseases in the developing world - HIV AIDS, tuberculosis company, for the manufacture and sale of Combivir, Epivir and includes Ministries of Health in endemic countries, non renewable resources and the overall balance of the consumption TB and malaria.
The licence was previously limited to only the public sector governmental organisations, community-based organisations, of resources with the generation of waste will be investigated in In addition to the R&D on HIV AIDS, GlaxoSmithKline has an R&D in South Africa and Zimbabwe.
The Group has now extended the academic institutions, international organisations and the private the future.
The Group has a standard on sustainable development team based in Spain and the UK dedicated to treatments for licence to cover both the public and private sectors across all of sector.
that defines the approach from discovery through manufacturing Diseases of the Developing World.
Projects are prioritised primarily sub-Saharan Africa.
As part of In 2003, the fifth year of the programme, 94 million tablets, on their socio-economic and public health benets rather than on the support for R&D, a toolkit has been developed to assist in the worth almost 11 million at wholesale acquisition cost, were their commercial returns.
The Group currently has over 19 R&D Success through partnership selection of green chemistries and processes.
As part of this ongoing preventative projects and programmes of relevance to the developing world, GlaxoSmithKline continues to build on its history of community programme, GlaxoSmithKline shipped 10 million albendazole nine of which are aimed at producing vaccines and medicines for investment programmes and support for better healthcare delivery Access to healthcare in the developed world tablets to the Sri Lanka Ministry of Health, which mobilised 50,000 diseases that disproportionally affect developing countries.
and education in under-served communities in the developing healthcare workers and volunteers to treat 10 million people in a GlaxoSmithKline plays an active part in improving healthcare of world.
The Group does this through active engagement with The Group is increasingly involved in public-private partnerships to single day in July.
It was one of the largest community treatment people who have limited access to medicines.
Our Orange Card other external stakeholders.
During 2003, it consulted and worked enable a wide range of projects to be undertaken.
2003 saw one programmes of its type to take place in the developing world.
In scheme has helped more than 150,000 senior American citizens with governments of both the developed and developing world, of the first tangible outputs of such partnerships with the launch addition, the Group gave grants of almost 1 million and staff on low incomes to save on the medicines they buy.
In 2003, the the UN, the WHO, NGOs and with the investment community.
The result of a collaboration between expertise to support the activities of the Global Alliance to group reinforced its commitment to this programme until at least the WHO, the UK government, the University of Liverpool and the Much was achieved in 2003, specifically around HIV AIDS funding, Eliminate LF, including advocacy, research, community mobilisation 2006.
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, with support by thanks to initiatives such as the Global Fund and President Bushs and educational initiatives.
This brings company-sponsored savings programmes into a single an initial grant from the Wellcome Trust, Lapdap has already been Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief.
However, a significant increase in card, extending the possible savings at the pharmacy counter to launched in a number of African countries.
resources is still needed and it is also important to maintain GlaxoSmithKlines Positive Action on HIV AIDS more than 170 widely prescribed medicines with this easy to use incentives for R&D through protection of intellectual property.
2003 marked the 11th year of Positive Action, GlaxoSmithKlines card.
Together Rx participants are able to save up to 40 per cent Preferential pricing arrangements There is, for example, neither a cure nor a vaccine for HIV AIDS.
pioneering global programme of HIV education, care and off the usual amount paid for prescriptions.
By the end of 2003 GlaxoSmithKline has offered its vaccines to public health community support.
During 2003 Positive Action supported 38 GlaxoSmithKline will continue with its vital contribution to approximately 1.2 million people had joined this programme.
programmes at significant discounts for over 20 years.
The Group programmes in 34 countries with 28 partners.
Positive Action has improving healthcare in the developing world.
However, real also sets a single, sustainable, not-for-profit price for each of its a focus in sub-Saharan Africa because of the magnitude of the progress will only occur if the significant barriers that stand in the ARVs and anti-malarials to a wide range of customers in the least HIV AIDS pandemic there, but the programme also supports way of better access to healthcare are tackled as a shared developed countries and sub-Saharan Africa, as well as projects affected communities in other countries around the world.
responsibility by all sectors of global society - governments, fully-funded by the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria.
international agencies, charities, academic institutions, the Support included a grant of 20,000 to the Movement of Men This means that the not-for-profit prices are offered in a total of pharmaceutical industry and others.
Against AIDS in Kenya MMAAK to encourage mens engagement 100 countries.
GlaxoSmithKline is committed to contributing to and involvement with all aspects of the HIV AIDS crisis, since men health improvements in a sustainable manner.
are commonly the decision-makers in the workplace, government The preferential prices for GlaxoSmithKline ARVs and anti-malarials and religious institutions.
Another example of support of are therefore set at levels at which no profit is made, but direct vulnerable communities was a grant of 50,000 to five, a UKcosts are covered, allowing supply to be sustained for as long as based NGO, to develop a low-cost health education resource on required.
The Group has undertaken to reduce these prices HIV, hepatitis and sexual health for use in UK prisons.
whenever possible and was able to meet this commitment twice in 2003.
30 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 31 To help address the growing HIV AIDS problem in China, the Other 2003 education programmes included 100,000 for Science The Groups efforts to improve public education included a grant Employee involvement Group provided 300,000 to the British Red Cross and Australian Across the World, an international education programme that uses of $383,000 for Science in the Summer, a free library-based GlaxoSmithKline employees are encouraged to contribute to their Red Cross for a three-year programme to prevent the spread of web based resources to promote discussion of science issues within science education programme in the Philadelphia area teaching local communities through employee volunteering schemes.
HIV through training young people and drug users in HIV and between schools in almost 100 countries.
For the seventh year, basic scientific concepts to children.
Now in its 17th year, more Support varies around the world but includes employee time, prevention and life skills.
the Group sponsored the Royal Institution Christmas Lectures than 60,000 children have participated in the programme.
cash donations to charities where employees have completed broadcast by Channel Four television, which give young people the voluntary work and a matching gifts programme.
In many In Russia and Ukraine, where there is a rapidly increasing incidence The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill received $250,000 opportunity to be inspired by eminent scientists.
countries, GlaxoSmithKline offers tax-efficient options for employee of HIV AIDS, GlaxoSmithKline has provided funding to establish as part of an overall $1.25 million grant for a travelling science giving in accordance with local taxation guidelines.
and support national networks of positive people to help them As part of GlaxoSmithKlines commitment to the environment, the laboratory to help improve science teaching and encourage advocate for HIV education, prevention, care and treatment Group sponsored Go-Wild, a one-off living festival at the Royal underserved students to pursue careers in science.
In 2003, in the USA, the Group matched more than 14,660 services.
In addition, the Group granted $1.6 million over two Botanic Gardens Kew, which received over 500,000 visitors from employee gifts at a value of $3.8 million.
The US pharmaceuticals group launched GlaxoSmithKline Healthy years to support the work of two HIV AIDS clinics in Malawi and May to September 2003.
Communities in 2003, a health education and outreach The Group also matched the $1.3 million of employee donations Uganda.
programme to advance healthy living among African Americans.
to the federal United Way campaign in the USA, giving a combined Europe The Congressional Black Caucus Foundation has to date received contribution of $2.6 million.
In addition, GlaxoSmithKlines The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership Corporate programmes in Europe in 2003 focused on improving $250,000 as part of a $500,000 grant over a four year period to Investment in Volunteer Excellence GIVE programme provided The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership supports three childrens health with total funding of 1 million supporting a help support high school graduates and college students interested over 1,000 grants to charitable organisations in the USA where behavioural development programmes working in seven African range of long-term programmes.
In addition, GlaxoSmithKline in pursuing careers in science or medicine.
employees or their partners have volunteered at least 50 hours in countries.
During 2003, the Group disbursed the first grants of a companies in Europe provided a further 12 million for regional the year.
$1.5 million commitment to its partners: Freedom From Hunger, community activities.
International AMREF and Plan International.
The programmes are expected to GlaxoSmithKlines Making a Difference programme in the UK The European Forum for Families and Children Living with HIV AIDS Over and above the Groups corporate public health programmes benefit nearly two million people and focus particularly on young provided grants of 286,000 to over 450 non-profit organisations received 150,000.
This three year programme works with young in developing countries, other corporate programmes in the children and pregnant women, encouraging effective prevention or registered charities based on employee involvement.
people in Italy, Portugal, Romania, Russia and Spain to alleviate International region addressed health education and mobilisation, measures, prompt treatment and antenatal malaria management.
providing funding of 1 million in 2003.
Foundations Regional community initiatives Barretstown in Ireland and LEnvol in France, which support The Group provided 244,000 to the PHASE initiative Personal GlaxoSmithKline does not operate a single charitable foundation United Kingdom European children with cancer and life-threatening illnesses to Hygiene and Sanitation Education in Kenya, Zambia, Nicaragua for its community investment programmes but has a number of GlaxoSmithKline contributed 4 million in 2003 to its continuing rediscover their own inner strength and self-esteem, received and Peru.
During the last four years, PHASE has provided education country-based foundations in Canada, the Czech Republic, France, corporate programme of charitable activities in the UK.
to 150,000 school children to reduce diarrhoea-related disease Italy, Romania, Spain and the USA.
support over 200 projects within the areas of health, medical and death.
GlaxoSmithKline continued to support the charity HealthProm and Over the last five years, the GlaxoSmithKline France Foundation research, science education and the arts and the environment.
In the Azerbaijan Health Ministry, investing 83,000 in 2003 for the In Ethiopia the Group provided 100,000 for the Integrated has supported 32 programmes in 13 African countries to improve addition GlaxoSmithKline companies in the UK provided a further fourth year of a safe childbirth initiative to benefit 228,000 Management of Childhood Illnesses IMCI in partnership with HIV AIDS prevention education, training and care.
By 2005 over 7.1 million for community purposes, giving a combined total of refugees.
This enables families to improve key household 240,000 people are expected to have benefited.
In 2003, the 11.1 million in support of projects in the UK.
practice and behaviours that will have a significant impact on Foundation provided 506,000 or 733,000 in funding to 17 Zippys Friends, a school programme run by Partnership for To further medical research, a total of 354,000 was provided to child survival rates, and their growth and development.
ongoing initiatives as part of this five year commitment.
Children to teach coping skills to young children in Denmark and Epilepsy Research Foundation, International Spinal Research Trust, Lithuania, continued to receive funding of 200,000, and extended In Pakistan, the National Commission for Human Development The North Carolina GlaxoSmithKline Foundation in the USA is an National Osteoporosis Society and Tommys, the baby charity.
its reach to the UK and India.
NCHD received 48,000 to focus on improving maternal health endowed, self-funding organisation which operates as a separate GlaxoSmithKlines annual UK Impact Awards recognise excellence in rural areas.
The Foundation publishes its own Annual Report, which is in the work of voluntary community health organisations across North America available on request, and uses its asset base to support the UK.
In 2003, 10 UK charities each received an unrestricted Corporate programmes in North America focused on improving Product donations mathematics, science and health education in North Carolina.
award of 25,000, for their work dealing with issues as diverse as public education and access to better healthcare for children and GlaxoSmithKline donates essential products, such as antibiotics, In 2003, this Foundation made donations totalling just over sexual abuse, mental health, elderly day care and disability.
seniors with funding of $15 million.
A further $62.3 million was for humanitarian relief efforts.
Donations are made at the request $2 million which is included in the Groups total community donated by the Groups US based businesses to regional of governments and major charitable organisations and may be investment gure.
A donation of almost 170,000 was made to the charity Beating community activities.
manufactured specifically to meet these requirements.
Bowel Cancer for a national awareness campaign about bowel GlaxoSmithKline works in partnership with charitable organisations cancer, the UKs second most deadly cancer, aimed at highlighting Examples of GlaxoSmithKlines contribution to improving who deliver relief, including AmeriCares, InterChurch Medical the symptoms and promoting early diagnosis to save lives.
healthcare include a three-year grant of more than $2 million Assistance, MAP International and Project HOPE, and ensure the which has helped expand The Childrens Health Funds Referral GlaxoSmithKline hopes to encourage the next generation of right product reaches the right person at the right time.
For Management Initiative RMI into seven US states, ensuring scientists through supporting science education programmes that example, the Group donated vital medicines for the first airlift into continuity of specialist medical care for high-risk children who are give science context and enhance science teaching.
The Group Iraq in April and for an aid ight to Kosovo, organised by often homeless.
has committed 1 million over four years in support of Phase Two AmeriCares.
GlaxoSmithKline also provided relief following of the new Darwin Centre at the Natural History Museum in The GlaxoSmithKline SHARE Recognition Awards have recognised earthquakes in India and ooding in Nicaragua.
GlaxoSmithKline continued to support the INSPIRE the work of small community-based organisations that aim to In 2003, the total value of the Groups international humanitarian INnovative Scheme for Post-docs in Research and Education improve the health of older people across diverse cultures.
In 2003, product donations was 105 million.
This excludes albendazole scheme, developed in partnership with Imperial College London six organisations received a total of $450,000, providing extra donated as part of the Groups commitment to the lymphatic and the Specialist Schools Trust, with a 1 million donation over support to launch new programmes or to strengthen ongoing lariasis elimination programme.
Product donations are valued at four years.
INSPIRE aims to raise achievement in science by placing initiatives.
wholesale acquisition cost which is the wholesale list price, not post-doctoral researchers in specialist science schools to assist with The annual USA Impact Awards acknowledge and reward including discounts, and is a standard industry method.
science teaching and to study for a teaching qualication.
excellence in the non-profit healthcare sector, in the Greater Philadelphia area.
In 2003, nine charities each received an unrestricted award of $40,000 for their work dealing with issues as diverse as child abuse, breast cancer and sexual and reproductive health.
32 GlaxoSmithKline GlaxoSmithKline 33 Corporate governance This section discusses GlaxoSmithKlines management structures and governance procedures.
It contains the companys reporting disclosures on corporate governance required by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the UK Listing Authority 1998 Code : including the required statement of compliance.
It also gives details of the principles and provisions of the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Reporting Council 2003 Code, with which GlaxoSmithKline is required to comply from 1st January 2004 and report on in the 2004 Annual Report.
The measures implemented to achieve this are described in this section.
Further, the company reports on compliance with the relevant US laws and regulations that apply to it.
34 The Board 35 Corporate Executive Team 36 Governance and policy 37 Dialogue with shareholders 38 Annual General Meeting 38 Internal control framework 40 Committee reports 41 The Combined Code 42 US law and regulation 34 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance Corporate governance GlaxoSmithKline 35 The Board John McArthur Aged 69 Corporate Executive Team CET David Pulman Appointed 23rd May 2000 President Sir Christopher Hogg Aged 67 JP Garnier Non-Executive Director.
Mr McArthur was formerly a Non-Executive Global Manufacturing & Supply Appointed on 23rd May 2000 Chief Executive officer Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Dr Pulman is responsible for the global manufacturing and supply Non-Executive Chairman.
Sir Christopher was formerly a As Chief Executive officer, Dr Garnier is responsible for the BCE Inc. BCE Emergis Inc. Cabot Corporation, HCA Corporation, chain network.
He joined Glaxo in 1978 and was responsible for Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
He is management of the Group.
He oversees all operational aspects Koc Holdings A. S. Rohm and Haas Company, Telsat Canada and the North American supply network, manufacturing strategy and Non-Executive Chairman of Reuters Group PLC and a member of including establishing policies, objectives and initiatives, and he The AES Corporation.
He is also Senior Advisor to the President of logistics until his current appointment in 2002. the Supervisory Board of Air Liquide S. A. and Chairman of directs long-term strategy.
He was formerly Chief Executive officer the World Bank.
of SmithKline Beecham, having joined the Group in 1990.
David Stout Donald McHenry Aged 67 President Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier Aged 56 Rupert Bondy Appointed on 23rd May 2000 Pharmaceutical Operations Appointed on 23rd May 2000 Senior Vice President and General Counsel Non-Executive Director.
Mr McHenry was formerly a Non-Executive Mr Stout is responsible for the global pharmaceuticals and vaccines Chief Executive officer.
Dr Garnier was appointed an Executive Mr Bondy is responsible for legal matters across the Group, Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
He joined SmithKline Beecham in 1996 as head of its Director of SmithKline Beecham plc in 1992, and became Chief together with environmental, health and safety issues, insurance directorships include The Coca-Cola Company, FleetBoston US Sales and Marketing, and was President, US Pharmaceuticals, Executive officer in April 2000.
He is a Non-Executive Director of and security.
He was a lawyer in private practice before joining Financial Corporation, International Paper Company and AT&T until his current appointment in January 2003.
United Technologies Corporation and a member of the Board of SmithKline Beecham in 1995.
Trustees of the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships.
He holds a Chris Viehbacher Ford Calhoun PhD in pharmacology from the University of Louis Pasteur in Sir Ian Prosser Aged 60 President Chief Information officer France and an MBA from Stanford University in the USA.
Appointed 23rd May 2000 US Pharmaceuticals Dr Calhoun is responsible for information technology, a global Non-Executive Director.
Sir Ian was formerly a Non-Executive Mr Viehbacher has been responsible for US pharmaceuticals since John Coombe Aged 58 function that enables key business processes across all parts of the Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
He was Chairman of Six January 2003.
He joined Wellcome in 1988 and became Director, Appointed on 23rd May 2000 Group.
With doctoral and post-doctoral training in microbiology, Continents PLC and the World Travel & Tourism Council and is Continental Europe at Glaxo Wellcome in 1999.
He was Chief Financial officer.
Mr Coombe was formerly an Executive genetics, biomathematics and computer science, he joined Smith Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of BP plc.
He is a member of responsible for GlaxoSmithKlines European Pharmaceuticals Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc where he was responsible for Kline & French in 1984. the CBI Presidents Committee.
business before his current appointment.
He is a member of the Supervisory John Coombe Board of Siemens AG and the Code Committee of the UK Dr Ronaldo Schmitz Aged 65 Andrew Witty Chief Financial officer Takeover Panel.
Appointed 23rd May 2000 President As head of the finance function, Mr Coombe is responsible for Non-Executive Director.
Dr Schmitz was formerly a Non-Executive Pharmaceuticals Europe Dr Michle Barzach Aged 60 activities such as financial reporting and control, tax and treasury, Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Mr Witty has been responsible for the Groups pharmaceuticals Appointed on 23rd May 2000 investor relations, finance systems, internal audit and real estate.
Legal & General Group plc and a member of the Board of Directors operations in Europe since January 2003.
He joined Glaxo in 1985 Non-Executive Director.
Dr Barzach was formerly a Non-Executive He joined Glaxo in 1986 as Group Financial Controller and was of Rohm and Haas Company and Cabot Corporation.
and at GlaxoSmithKline was Senior Vice President, Asia Pacic, Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
She is a member of the appointed Group Finance Director in 1992. until his current appointment.
International Cooperation High Council, Chairman of the Board Dr Lucy Shapiro Aged 63 Marc Dunoyer of Equilibres et Populations and Director of the Board of Project Appointed on 23rd May 2000 Tachi Yamada President Hope.
International consultant in health strategy, she was formerly Non-Executive Director.
Dr Shapiro was formerly a Non-Executive Chairman Pharmaceuticals Japan French Minister of Health and Family.
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
She is Ludwig Professor of Research & Development Mr Dunoyer was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Japan in Cancer Research in the Department of Developmental Biology Dr Yamada leads the Groups complex business of drug discovery Lawrence Culp Aged 40 March 2003.
He joined the Group in 1999 and was Senior Vice and Director of the Beckman Center for Molecular and Genetic and development creating new medicines through research.
He Appointed on 1st July 2003 President and Regional Director, Japan until his current Medicine at the Stanford University School of Medicine and a joined SmithKline Beecham in 1994 as a Non-Executive member of Non-Executive Director.
Mr Culp is President and Chief Executive appointment.
Non-Executive Director of Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. She holds the Board and became Chairman, R&D Pharmaceuticals in 1999. officer of Danaher Corporation.
Prior to joining Danaher, he held a PhD in molecular biology from Albert Einstein College of Russell Greig He was appointed to the Board of Directors on 1st January 2004. positions in Accenture, previously Andersen Consulting.
President Jennie Younger Crispin Davis Aged 54 Pharmaceuticals International Sir Robert Wilson Aged 60 Senior Vice President Appointed on 1st July 2003 Dr Greig leads the pharmaceutical operations outside the USA Appointed on 1st November 2003 Corporate Communications & Community Partnerships Non-Executive Director.
Mr Davis is Chief Executive of Reed Elsevier and most of Europe, covering more than 100 countries.
He joined Non-Executive Director, Sir Robert is Non-Executive Chairman Mrs Younger is responsible for the Groups internal and external PLC.
Prior to that, he was Chief Executive of Aegis Group plc, the Group in 1980 and was Senior Vice President, Worldwide of BG Group plc and the Economist Group and was previously communications, its image and partnerships with global which he joined from Guinness plc, where he was Group Business Development for R&D prior to his current appointment Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto plc.
She joined Glaxo Wellcome in 1996 as Director of Managing Director of United Distillers and a member of the main in March 2003.
He spent his early career with Procter & Dr Tachi Yamada Aged 58 Dan Phelan Gamble.
Appointed on 1st January 2004 Jack Ziegler Senior Vice President Chairman, Research & Development.
Dr Yamada was formerly a President Sir Peter Job Aged 62 Human Resources Non-Executive Director, and subsequently an Executive Director, Consumer Healthcare Appointed on 23rd May 2000 Mr Phelan is responsible for benets, compensation, recruitment, of SmithKline Beecham plc.
Prior to joining SmithKline Beecham Mr Ziegler is head of the global Consumer Healthcare business, Non-Executive Director.
Sir Peter was formerly a Non-Executive organisation development, leadership development and succession he was Chairman of the Department of Internal Medicine at the which produces oral healthcare, over-the-counter medicines and Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director planning, human resource information systems and employee University of Michigan Medical School and Physician-in-Chief of nutritional healthcare products.
He joined SmithKline Beecham in of Schroders plc, Shell Transport and Trading Company plc, TIBCO health management.
He was a lawyer in private practice before the University of Michigan Medical Center.
He is a member of the 1991 and in 1998 was appointed President of the Consumer Software Inc. and Instinet Group Inc.
He is also a member of the joining Smith Kline & French in 1981 and in 1994 was appointed Board of Directors of diaDexus, Inc. and is a Trustee of the Healthcare business.
Supervisory Boards of Deutsche Bank AG and Bertelsmann AG.
Senior Vice President and Director, Human Resources, SmithKline Rockefeller Brothers Fund.
Other members Other Directors Mr Pien left the Group on 31st March 2003 to pursue another role Sir Roger Hurn, Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Mr Paul in the pharmaceutical industry.
Mr Ingram continues to work partAllaire, Non-Executive Director, both retired from the Board on time as Vice Chairman of Pharmaceuticals, acting as a special 5th June 2003. advisor to the Group and attends CET meetings in that capacity.
Details of membership of the Board Committees may be found on page 36.
36 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance Corporate governance GlaxoSmithKline 37 Governance and policy The Board reviews the companys internal controls and risk Audit Committee Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Directors management policies and approves its governance structure and The Audit Committee reviews the financial and internal reporting In 2003 the Board initiated a systematic approach to evaluation.
The Board and Executive code of ethics.
The Board reviews and also approves major process, the system of internal control and management of risks The performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and The Directors are listed under The Board page 34. nancing, investment and contractual decisions in excess of and the external and internal audit process.
The Committee also Directors was undertaken by the Chairman and implemented in dened thresholds.
In addition to these items, the Board evaluates proposes to shareholders the appointment of the external auditors collaboration with the Committee Chairmen and with the support The Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate and monitors the performance of the Group as a whole.
This and is directly responsible for their remuneration and oversight of of the Company Secretary.
governance and is ultimately accountable for the Groups activities, includes: their work.
The Committee consists entirely of independent strategy and financial performance.
The evaluation was conducted by way of private discussion Non-Executive Directors.
It meets at least four times a year.
The engaging at Board meetings with the CEO, the other Executive between the Chairman and each of the Directors.
The Chairman The Board comprises three Executive and eleven Non-Executive Report of the Audit Committee is given on page 40.
Directors and members of the CET as appropriate, on the was assisted in preparing and conducting the evaluation by an Directors.
Whilst the Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors financial and operating performance of GlaxoSmithKline and external adviser, who conducted separate interviews with each of to be independent in character and judgement in accordance with Remuneration Committee external issues material to the Groups prospects the Directors.
This enabled Directors perspectives on the the 1998 Code, it has determined that four Non-Executive The Remuneration Committee determines the terms of service and Chairmans performance to be fed back to the Chairman and the Directors - the Chairman, Dr Barzach, Mr McHenry and Dr Shapiro evaluating progress toward the achievement of the Groups remuneration of the Executive Directors and members of the CET full Board.
Performance evaluations of Board Committees were - should not be considered as independent under the 2003 Code.
financial and business objectives and annual plans and, with the assistance of external independent advisors, it conducted on behalf of the Chairman by the Chairmen of the In the case of the Chairman and Mr McHenry this is due to their evaluates and makes recommendations to the Board on overall monitoring, through reports received directly or from various respective Board Committees.
length of service with GlaxoSmithKline and its predecessor executive remuneration policy.
The Committee consists entirely of committees, the key significant risks facing the Group.
companies and, in the case of Drs Barzach and Shapiro, due to independent Non-Executive Directors.
It meets at least four times a Corporate Executive Team remuneration that they have received from the Group in other The Board has overall responsibility for succession planning for year and otherwise as necessary.
Information on the remuneration The CET assists the CEO in the executive management of the capacities.
These four Non-Executive Directors have resigned their the CEO position.
The Board has given the CEO broad authority to of Directors is given in the Remuneration Report on pages 43 to Group.
The CET meets 11 times per year.
The members and their positions on the Board Committees where independence is operate the business of the Group and the CEO is accountable for, 58. responsibilities are listed under Corporate Executive Team page required under the 2003 Code.
and reports to the Board on business performance.
Nominations Committee The Board considers that Mr McArthur, Dr Schmitz, Mr Culp, The Board met six times in 2003 and each Director attended every The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and Mr Davis, Sir Peter Job, Sir Ian Prosser and Sir Robert Wilson are meeting held during their tenure.
Dialogue with shareholders composition of the Board and the appointment of members of independent under the 2003 Code.
The Board noted that The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or the Board and the CET, and makes recommendations to the Board Dr Schmitz and Mr McArthur are associated as Non-Executive Financial results are announced quarterly.
more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal as appropriate.
The Committee also monitors the planning of Directors of other public companies, Rohm and Haas Company and or financial advice at the companys expense.
There is an succession to the Board and Senior Management.
The Committee The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when and Cabot Corporation, but did not consider the associations agreed procedure to enable them to do so.
consists entirely of Non-Executive Directors of whom a majority are its half-year and full-year results are announced.
The CEO and CFO to be of sufficient economic signicance to compromise their independent and meets at least once a year to consider succession give presentations on the final year end results to institutional independence.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available planning and otherwise as necessary.
The Report of the investors, analysts and the media in London and in New York.
In to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures.
The At the date of publication, a majority of the Board members, Nominations Committee is given on page 41. addition, there are teleconferences after the release of the first, Company Secretary is Simon Bicknell who was appointed in May excluding the Chairman, were independent Non-Executive second and third quarter results for institutional investors, analysts 2000.
He is a barrister and joined the Group in 1984.
He is Directors, in accordance with the recommendations of the 2003 Financial Results Committee and the media.
These presentations may also be accessed on the secretary to all the Board Committees.
The Financial Results Committee reviews and approves, on behalf companys website.
of the Board, the Annual Report and Form 20-F, the Annual Dr Barzach, Mr McArthur and Mr McHenry will be retiring from Board Committees The AGM takes place in London and formal notication is sent to Review and the convening of the Annual General Meeting, the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting AGM shareholders at least one month in advance.
At the Meeting a together with the preliminary and quarterly statements of trading on 17th May 2004.
Following their retirement and assuming that The Board has established a number of Committees and provides business presentation is made to shareholders and all Directors able results.
Each Director is a member of the Committee and the the other Directors seeking election or re-election at the AGM are sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
to attend are available, formally during the Meeting, and informally quorum for a meeting is any three members.
To be quorate, each elected or re-elected, the Board will comprise three Executive Current membership of these Committees is given in the table afterwards, for questions.
Details of the 2004 AGM are set out in meeting must include the Chairman or the Chairman of the Audit p of Board Committees is indicated in the following table: Directors and eight Non-Executive Directors with a majority of the below.
the section Annual General Meeting page 38.
Committee and the CEO or the CFO.
The Committee meets as Board, excluding the Chairman, being independent Non-Executive necessary.
To ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are aware of and Directors.
understand the views of major shareholders about the company, Sir Christopher Hogg is Non-Executive Chairman and Dr Garnier Corporate Responsibility Committee the Board has in place a process focusing on sector specic issues Audit M M C M Corporate Administration M M M M M M M M M M M M M M is Chief Executive officer CEO.
The Chairman leads the Board, The Corporate Responsibility Committee formerly the Corporate as well as general shareholder preferences.
With respect to the & Transactions and represents the Board to the CEO and other CET members as Social Responsibility Committee consists entirely of Non-Executive general perspectives of shareholders, each year the Non-Executive Corporate Responsibility M M C M necessary between Board meetings.
The CEO manages the Group Directors and provides a Board level forum for the regular review Directors receive an external review of shareholder opinion which, Financial Results M M M M M M M M M M M M M M Nominations C M M and implements the strategy and policies adopted by the Board.
of external issues that have the potential for serious impact upon in 2003, was presented in May.
In October 2003, the full Board Remuneration M M M C M The Chairman and the chairmen of Board Committees, the Groups business and reputation.
The Committee is also received a presentation from a leading financial analyst specialising Key: C Chairman M Member communicate regularly with the CEO and other CET members.
responsible for annual governance oversight of the Groups in the pharmaceutical sector.
The division of responsibilities between the role of Chairman and worldwide donations and community support.
The Committee The CEO and CFO maintain a dialogue with institutional the CEO has been set out in writing, agreed by the Board and meets formally twice a year and has further meetings and The following is a summary of the role and terms of reference of shareholders on performance, plans and objectives through a appears in full on the companys website.
Sir Ian Prosser was consultations as required.
The full terms of reference of each Committee programme of regular meetings.
They both speak regularly at appointed Senior Independent Director with effect from can be obtained from the Company Secretary or the Corporate external conferences and presentations.
Sir Roger Hurn was Senior Independent Director Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee governance section of the companys website.
The Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee reviews The Groups Investor Relations department, with ofces in London and approves matters in connection with the administration of the and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with investors Board process Groups business, and of certain corporate transactions.
The Board has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders, Committee consists of the Directors, Corporate Executive Team The companys website gives access to current financial and for ensuring that the company is appropriately managed and members and the Company Secretary.
The Committee meets as business information about the Group.
achieves the strategic objectives agreed by the Board.
discharges those responsibilities by supervising overall budgetary planning, treasury planning and business strategy.
Hogg Garnier Coombe Barzach Culp Davis Job McArthur McHenry Prosser Schmitz Shapiro Wilson Yamada 38 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance Corporate governance GlaxoSmithKline 39 Share buy-back programme Biographical details for each Director are given under The In a number of risk areas, specic standards that meet or exceed Legal and intellectual property In October 2002, following the completion of the 4 billion share Board page 34. requirements of applicable law have been established.
Specialist Product liability, intellectual property and antitrust litigation, buy-back programme announced in 2001, the company audit and compliance groups for example Corporate Environment, government investigations and related private litigation are Dr Barzach, Mr McArthur and Mr McHenry will retire from the announced plans for a further 4 billion share buy-back Health and Safety and Worldwide Regulatory Compliance assist in significant potential risks to GlaxoSmithKline, and the Group is Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
The programme covers purchases by the company the dissemination, implementation and audit of these standards.
involved in various legal and administrative proceedings in these of shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury Shares, in areas.
The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted Re-appointment of Auditors The internal control framework also relies on the Risk Oversight accordance with the authority given by shareholders at the with any level of certainty.
Resolutions will be proposed to re-appoint and Compliance Council ROCC, which reports to both the CET companys Annual General Meeting in 2003.
In total 980 million  LLP as auditors and to authorise the and the Audit Committee, as well as other business unit Risk There is also a potential risk that third parties may allege that the was spent during 2003.
Audit Committee to determine their remuneration.
Management and Compliance Boards RMCB, to help identify risks marketing of the Groups own products will infringe the intellectual In May 2003 the company was authorised to purchase a and to provide guidance to the risk management and compliance property rights of those third parties.
maximum of 600 million shares 617 million shares in May 2002 Special business initiatives at the corporate and business unit levels.
The ROCC is and 81 million shares were purchased for cancellation during 2003, The company will seek to renew its authority to: chaired by the Corporate Compliance officer CCO and meets Finance see Note 27 to the Financial statements, Share capital and share regularly to review and assess significant risks and mitigation plans There are potential risks and uncertainties surrounding the Groups make donations to EU Political Organisations and incur premium account.
The exact amount and timing of future directed against those risks.
While the ROCC has oversight of the ability to forecast the future and thus to meet its financial targets.
EU Political Expenditure purchases will be determined by the company and is dependent risks deemed significant to the Group, each RMCB oversees risks The Group invests in new products and ventures based on give the Directors authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights on market conditions and other factors.
important to its business or function, thus increasing the active assumptions about their success which may prove to be inaccurate.
when allotting new shares in connection with rights issues management of risks across the Group.
The Corporate Ethics and There are also potential risks around the Groups treasury or otherwise up to a maximum of five per cent of the Donations to Political Organisations and EU Political Compliance Department CEC, is responsible for supporting the operations including tax liabilities, transfer pricing, and the current issued share capital Expenditure development and implementation of practices that facilitate possibility of trading losses and counterparty fraud.
Compliance obtain authority to purchase its own Ordinary Shares up to At the AGM in May 2001, 2002, and 2003 shareholders employees compliance with laws and Group policy.
The CCO, with evolving financial disclosures and other legal reporting a maximum of just under ten per cent of the current issued authorised the company to make donations to EU Political who also manages the CEC, assists in the coordination of the risk requirements constitute risks including the appropriateness and share capital.
Organisations and to incur EU Political Expenditure, under the management activities among the various compliance and audit effectiveness of controls in place to support financial statement provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act functions across the Group.
The Groups pension liabilities represent a further area Internal control framework 2000, of up to 100,000 each year.
Although the company does of potential risk, which are discussed in Note 33 to the Financial For details of risks affecting the Group, see Note 30 to the not and has not intended to make donations to political parties, statements, Employee costs.
The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and Financial statements, Legal proceedings and Risk factors on within the normal meaning of that expression, the denition in understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Areas of potentially significant risk that are subject the legislation of EU Political Organisation can extend to bodies Manufacturing The structure of accountability and audit operated in to regular reporting to and by the ROCC include the following.
including those concerned with policy review, law reform, the Maintaining supply of key GlaxoSmithKline products is a potentially GlaxoSmithKline is as follows.
representation of the business community and special interest significant risk.
The Groups policy is to take reasonable measures Human resources groups such as those concerned with the environment in which The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the to ensure uninterrupted supply of product, including The legal requirements regarding discrimination and harassment, the company and its subsidiaries might wish to support.
The adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the manufacturing in accordance with applicable laws and regulations the integrity of the workforce, including pre-employment Group made donations to non-EU Political Organisations totalling company, including financial, operational and compliance controls as well as with corporate standards that may exceed such screening, and the control and use of contractors and temporary 353,000 during 2003.
No donations were made to EU Political and risk management.
The Board has delegated responsibility for requirements.
The Group takes efforts to minimise the single staff are risks inherent in a Group with over 100,000 employees.
such review to the Audit Committee which receives reports from sourcing of key products.
Rationalising the supply chain and those individuals identied in the Committees Report on page 40. balancing manufacturing capacity present other risks that could Research and development Annual General Meeting It is the responsibility of management through the CET to potentially disrupt the supply of important products.
Safety of marketed products is a potentially significant risk and a implement Board policies on risk and control.
The CET is matter of great concern to GlaxoSmithKline, as is the conduct of The AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Monday, 17th May 2004 at responsible for identifying, approving and enforcing key policies Information technology laboratory practices and clinical practices trials in R&D.
These must The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, that go to the heart of how the Group conducts business.
The Protecting information technology assets is an increasing risk as be in accordance with applicable laws and regulations as well as Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The business to be transacted at internal control framework includes central direction, resource businesses extend networks, systems and data to third parties, with corporate standards that may exceed such requirements.
All the meeting will include: allocation, and risk management of the key activities of research and as dependency on the internet for communications increases.
pharmaceutical products bring with them benets and risks, and development, manufacturing, marketing and sales, legal, Ensuring proper systems validation and electronic records and including potential side effects.
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are Receiving and adopting GlaxoSmithKline's 2003 Annual human resources, information systems, and financial practice.
signatures are key regulatory issues and matters of potential risk conducted during the development of potential products to Report As part of this framework, there is a comprehensive planning for the Group.
Web systems accessible to the public must comply determine the safety and efcacy of products for use by humans system with an annual budget approved by the Board.
The results with legal and regulatory requirements and represent potential following approval by regulatory bodies.
In spite of these efforts, Approving the 2003 Remuneration Report of operating units are reported monthly and compared to the risks.
Other potential risks include use of personally identiable when drugs are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated The Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 58 sets out the budget.
Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year.
information, electronic record retention, outsourced business side effects may become evident.
The Group views the use of remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and applications, and susceptibility to viruses and outside incursions.
Extensive financial controls, procedures, self-assessment exercises animals and human tissue in the testing required to develop new disclosures on Directors remuneration including those required With much of the Groups business dependent upon electronic and risk mitigation activities are reviewed by the Groups internal products as another risk.
by the Companies Act 1985 and the Directors Remuneration means, disaster recovery also poses a potential risk.
Commercial and financial responsibility, however, is Report Regulations 2002.
A resolution will be proposed to clearly delegated to local business units, supported by a regional Marketing and sales approve the Remuneration Report.
Security, environment and safety management structure.
These principles are designed to provide The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory Threats to the security and well being of the Groups employees, an environment of central leadership coupled with local operating environments that often vary among jurisdictions.
The Groups Retirement, election and re-election of Directors property and the environment present significant risks for which autonomy as the framework for the exercise of accountability and policy is to conduct marketing in accordance with applicable laws Mr Lawrence Culp, Mr Crispin Davis, Sir Robert Wilson and appropriate safeguards and precautions are continually reviewed control within the Group.
and regulations as well as with corporate standards that may Dr Tachi Yamada, each of whom were appointed Directors since and upgraded.
Employee injury, ill health due to occupational exceed such requirements.
Any failure to observe applicable the last AGM, will offer themselves for election to the Board.
The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and conditions and plant management and the potential impact of marketing codes, rules regarding government pricing, management procedures designed to achieve appropriate accountability and plants on the environment are potential risks the Group addresses Sir Christopher Hogg will retire and offer himself for re-election of samples, and legal restrictions on sale and marketing practices control.
A corporate policy, Risk Management and Legal through a process that sets targets and provides guidance on to the Board under article 93 of the companys Articles of may create significant risks to the commercial sectors and the Compliance, mandates that business units establish processes how results may be achieved.
Failure to comply may result in legal proceedings.
for managing risks significant to their businesses and the Group.
40 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance Corporate governance GlaxoSmithKline 41 Effectiveness of controls Dr Schmitz has also been a member of the Executive Board of The Committee has primary responsibility for making a The Committee met once during 2003 in full session and once The Audit Committee receives regular reports on these areas of Directors of Deutsche Bank AG.
He retired from that Board in recommendation to shareholders on the appointment, on a quorate basis.
All members were present at the full meeting.
significant risk to the Group and on related internal controls.
2000 having been in charge of investment banking.
Dr Schmitz reappointment and removal of the external auditors by annually Following consideration of these reports, the Committee reports was formerly a member of the Executive Board of Directors of assessing the qualications, expertise, resources and independence Remuneration Report annually to the Board on the effectiveness of controls.
Such BASF from 1980 to 1990, including CFO from 1985 to 1990.
He of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Remuneration Report can be found on pages 43 to 58. controls may mitigate but cannot eliminate risks.
In addition, holds an MBA from Insead.
Sir Peter Job was CEO of Reuters plc In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which there are areas of the Groups business where it is necessary to from 1991 to 2001 and brings considerable industrial experience The Combined Code detail the relevant regulatory requirements required of external take risks to achieve a satisfactory return for shareholders, such to his role as a member of the Committee.
Sir Ian Prosser was auditors and evaluates reports from the external auditors on their as investment in acquiring new products or businesses.
In these CFO and later CEO of Six Continents PLC and is a member of the Throughout 2003 the company complied with the code provisions stated compliance with the requirements.
Where the external cases it is the companys objective to apply its expertise in the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
of the 1998 Combined Code except as follows: auditors provide non-audit services, the Committee ensures that prudent management rather than elimination of risk.
The Directors Sir Robert Wilson began his professional career as an economist.
auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded by a policy A.
2.1 The Board should appoint one of the independent review relates to the company and its subsidiaries and does not He held senior management positions at Rio Tinto plc culminating requiring pre-approval by the Audit Committee for such services.
Non-Executive Directors to be the Senior Independent Director.
extend to material associated undertakings, joint ventures or other in his appointment as Executive Chairman.
Expenditure on audit and non-audit services is set out on Sir Roger Hurn was Senior Independent Director from investments.
The Committee is supported by the Company Secretary, who page 102.
For the remainder of Having considered the Audit Committee report on the effectiveness attends the Committees meetings, and it has available to it the year all Non-Executive Directors remained available to The guidelines set out in the companys policy on engaging the of controls, the Board believes that the system of internal controls financial resources to take independent professional advice when shareholders to raise concerns which could not be addressed external auditors to provide non-audit services, include ascertaining provides reasonable although not absolute assurance against considered necessary.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by through the Chairman, CEO or CFO.
In December 2003, that: the skills and experience of the external auditors make them material misstatement or loss.
The process accords with the the Chairman, CEO, CFO, General Counsel, Head of Global following the Nominations Committee review of the Boards a suitable supplier of the non-audit services: adequate safeguards guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull Committee in Internal Audit GIA, CCO and the external auditors.
structure and composition, the Board announced the are in place so that the objectivity and independence of the audit 1999. appointment of Sir Ian Prosser as Senior Independent Director, In 2003 the Committee worked to a structured programme of are not compromised: the fee levels relative to the annual audit with effect from 1st January 2004 activities, with agenda matters focused to coincide with key events fee are within the limits set by the Committee: and the criteria Committee reports of the annual financial reporting cycle, together with standing which govern the compensation of individuals performing the B.
1.6 In schemes of performance related remuneration, items that the Committee is required to consider at each meeting: annual audit are appropriate.
neither annual bonuses nor benets in kind should be Audit Committee Report pensionable.
Pension contributions are not solely determined The Audit Committees role ows directly from the Boards the external auditors reported to the Committee on all critical The company also has well-established policies, including a Code on the basis of basic salary.
The companys position is described oversight function and it is authorised by the Board to investigate accounting policies and practices used by the company, of Ethics, which is available on the website, and a help-line facility in the Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 58 any activity within its terms of reference.
The Committee has alternative accounting treatments which had been discussed for the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct.
written terms of reference which have been approved by the with management and the resultant conclusion by the external B.
1.7 Notice or contract periods for service contracts to be The Committee met in full session four times in 2003 and four Board.
The Committee reports regularly to the Board on the auditors, material written communications with management one year or less.
The companys position is described in the times on a quorate basis.
Each full session was attended by all performance of the activities it has been assigned.
The and any restrictions on access to information Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 58 members.
Committees main responsibilities include reviewing the corporate the CFO reported on the financial performance of the company B.
1.9 Compensation commitments in the event of early accounting and financial reporting process, monitoring the and on technical financial and accounting matters Nominations Committee Report termination of a directors contract.
The companys position integrity of the companys financial statements, evaluating the The Nominations Committees terms of reference include in respect of Mr Coombes previous contract is described in system of internal control and the management of risks, and the General Counsel reported on material litigation responsibility for proposing the appointment of Board and the Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 58. overseeing compliance with laws, regulations and ethical codes the Company Secretary reported on corporate governance Committee members.
During 2003 three new Non-Executive of practice.
The Committees oversight role requires it to address The company is required to comply with the 2003 Combined Directors and one Executive Director were appointed.
regularly the relationships between management and the internal the Head of GIA reported on the effectiveness of the system of Code from 1st January 2004 and report on compliance in its and external auditors, and understand and monitor the reporting internal controls and the steps taken to improve the companys In the case of the Non-Executive Directors the Committee 2004 Annual Report which will be issued in 2005.
In this regard relationships and tiers of accountability between these parties.
risk management framework considered the particular skills, knowledge and experience that the measures described below have been implemented: would benefit the Board most signicantly for each appointment.
The Committee is entirely composed of independent Non-Executive the CCO reported on the activities undertaken by the ROCC A.
6.1 The Annual Report contains a statement of The broad selection criteria focused on achieving a balance Directors.
Sir Christopher Hogg resigned as a member of the how the Board operates and the decisions taken by it and the Company Secretary is the Chairman of the Disclosure between the representation of UK and US markets, and having Committee with effect from 1st January 2004 and Sir Robert those which are delegated to management, and the manner Committee and reported on matters that affect the quality and individuals with CEO experience and skills developed in various Wilson was appointed in his place from that date.
in which the performance of the Board, its committees and timely disclosure of financial and other material information to sectors.
The Board engaged a professional search agency individual directors are evaluated Committee members bring considerable financial and accounting the Board, to the public markets and to shareholders.
This specialising in the recruitment of high calibre Non-Executive experience to the Committees work.
Members have past enabled the Committee to review the clarity and completeness Directors.
A dossier of potential Non-Executive appointees was A.
2.1 The Board has also recorded the division of employment experience in either finance or accounting roles or of the disclosures in the published annual financial statements, provided to the Committee and candidates were short-listed for responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO comparable experience in corporate activities.
interim reports, quarterly and preliminary results interview after considering their relevant qualications.
3.1 The company has determined the independence of announcements and other formal announcements relating to Non-Executive Directors were selected and appointed and will offer The Board has determined that the combined qualications and its Non-Executive Directors and stated reasons for their financial performance prior to their release by the Board.
themselves for election at the companys 2004 AGM.
Their experience of the Committee members, when taken together with independence notwithstanding the existence of relationships appointments were announced publicly.
its modus operandi, gives the Committee collectively the financial The Audit Committee, management, internal audit and the full or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to expertise necessary to discharge its responsibilities.
Accordingly the Board all work together to ensure the quality of the companys A customised induction process was conducted for each of the affect their independence Board has chosen not to nominate any one committee member corporate accounting and financial reporting.
The Committee new Non-Executive Directors focusing on their particular A.
3.3 The Board appointed with effect from 1st January 2004 as having recent and relevant financial experience.
serves as the primary link between the Board and the external experience and taking account of their different backgrounds.
one of the independent Non-Executive Directors as a senior and internal auditors.
This facilitates the necessary independence This process included meeting key members of the CET and, In arriving at its conclusion the Board considered the following independent director from management and encourages the external and internal other key executives and, in some cases, visiting particular points.
Dr Ronaldo Schmitz has been the Chairman of the auditors to communicate freely and regularly with the Committee.
operational facilities of the Group.
1.4 and C. 3.3 The Annual Report contains the Committee since April 2001.
Prior to his appointment as a In 2003, the Committee met both collectively and separately with required statements on the work of the Nominations, Non-Executive Director of the company he was a Non-Executive The Committee also recommended that the Board consider the external auditors and the Head of GIA.
Remuneration and Audit Committees Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc where he served on the Audit appointing Dr Tachi Yamada, the executive responsible for Committee.
pharmaceutical R&D within the Group, as an Executive Director.
5.1 New directors received a full, formal and tailored Dr Yamada was subsequently appointed to the Board with customised induction on joining the Board effect from 1st January 2004.
4.1 The composition and positions held For accounting periods ending after 15th April 2005, SarbanesRemuneration Report by the members of each of the Remuneration, Audit and Oxley requires that the companys Annual Report contain a report Nominations Committees now comply with the 2003 Combined stating the responsibility of management for establishing and Code.
Each of the Committees have also amended their terms maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting of reference to comply with the requirements of the 2003 and assessing the effectiveness of the companys internal control Combined Code which are available to shareholders on the over financial reporting.
Although the company is not required The Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policies companys website to report compliance in its 2003 Annual Report, the management operated by GlaxoSmithKline in respect of the Directors and has undertaken a process to ensure that it will be in a position Corporate Executive Team CET members, together with C. 3.4, C. 3.5 and C. 3.7 The Audit Committee has complied to report compliance by the due date.
disclosures on Directors remuneration including those required with the requirements for: reviewing the arrangements under by The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the which staff of the company raise, in confidence, concerns Sarbanes-Oxley introduced a requirement for the CEO and the Regulations.
In accordance with the Regulations, the following about improprieties in matters of financial reporting: the CFO to complete formal certications, conrming that: sections of the Remuneration Report are subject to audit: Annual monitoring and reviewing of the effectiveness of internal audit they have reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F remuneration: Non-Executive Directors remuneration: Share activities: and the provision of non-audit services by the options: Incentive plans and Pensions.
The remaining sections are companys external auditors.
it contains no material misstatements or omissions not subject to audit, neither are the pages referred to from within the Financial statements and other financial information fairly the auditable sections.
US law and regulation presents, in all material aspects, the financial condition, results This Report is submitted to shareholders by the Board for approval of operations and cash ows for the period covered by the A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to at the Annual General Meeting, as referenced in the Chairmans Annual Report GlaxoSmithKline because the companys shares are quoted on letter and notice of Annual General Meeting, which has been sent the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the form of ADSs.
they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure to all shareholders.
controls and procedures that ensure that material information is Throughout the Remuneration Report the Executive Directors and NYSE rules made known to them, evaluating the effectiveness of these CET members are referred to as the Executives.
The NYSE rules permit the company to follow home country, UK controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results of such corporate governance practices instead of those that apply in the evaluation being contained in the Annual Report, and disclosing References to GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADSs mean, respectively, USA provided that the company explains any significant variations.
in the Annual Report any changes in such controls that have, or Ordinary Shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p and American This explanation is provided on the companys website.
are reasonably likely to have, a material effect on such controls Depositary Shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Each ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
they have disclosed to the external auditors and the Audit Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 Committee all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the 44 Introduction in the design or operation of internal control over financial USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 Sarbanes- 45 Remuneration policy reporting and any fraud regardless of materiality involving Oxley.
Sarbanes-Oxley established new or enhanced standards 48 Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration persons that have a significant role in the companys internal for corporate accountability in the USA.
Although the companys 50 Non-Executive Directors terms, conditions and fees control over financial reporting corporate governance structure was believed to be robust and in 51 Directors and Senior Management Remuneration line with best practice, certain changes were necessary to ensure they have indicated in the Annual Report whether there 52 Annual Remuneration compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley.
were any significant changes in internal control over 53 Non-Executive Directors Remuneration financial reporting.
54 Directors interests As recommended by the Securities and Exchange Commission 55 Share options SEC, GlaxoSmithKline established a Disclosure Committee.
The The CEO and CFO have completed these certications which will 56 Incentive plans Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO and to the Audit be led with the SEC as part of the Groups Form 20-F. 57 Pensions Committee.
It is chaired by the Company Secretary and the 58 Directors and Senior Management members consist of senior managers from finance, legal, Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures 58 Directors interests in contracts compliance, corporate communications and investor relations.
The Group carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of the Groups management, including the External legal counsel and the external auditors are invited to CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of attend its meetings.
It has responsibility for considering the the Groups disclosure controls and procedures.
There are inherent materiality of information and on a timely basis, determining the limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls disclosure and treatment of that information.
It also has and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the responsibility for the timely ling of reports with the SEC and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures.
formal review of the Annual Report and Form 20-F.
In 2003 the Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can Committee met eight times.
only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a objectives.
Based upon the Groups evaluation, the CEO and CFO statement as to whether a member of the companys Audit have concluded that as at 31st December 2003 the disclosure Committee is an audit committee financial expert.
controls and procedures are effective to provide reasonable asurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports The Board has reviewed the qualications and backgrounds of the the Group les and submits under the US Securities Exchange Act members of the Audit Committee and determined that, although of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarised and no one member of the Companys Audit Committee is an audit reported as and when required.
committee financial expert, the combined qualications and experience of the Audit Committee members, when taken significant changes in internal control over financial together with its modus operandi, give the Audit Committee reporting collectively the financial expertise necessary to discharge its There have been no changes in the Groups internal control over responsibilities.
For an explanation of the basis for the Boards financial reporting during the year that have materially affected or judgement, refer to page 40. are reasonably likely to affect materially the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
44 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration Report Remuneration Report GlaxoSmithKline 45 Remuneration Report Introduction The Committee met 12 times during 2003 with each member Remuneration policy Pay and performance comparators attending as follows: The following table sets out the companies used for pay and performance comparison: The Remuneration Committee or Committee is responsible for Principles Market Cap Number of meetings Number of meetings making recommendations to the Board on the companys The Committee considered the findings and established three core 31.12.03 held whilst a attended by Company Country m remuneration policy and, within the terms of the agreed policy, principles which underpin the new remuneration policy for Name Committee member Committee member determining the total individual remuneration packages of the GlaxoSmithKline.
These are: Abbott Laboratories USA 40,700 Mr J McArthur 12 12 Executives.
AstraZeneca UK 45,465 Chairman from 5th June 2003 pay for performance and only for performance Aventis France 29,593 Mr P Allaire 2 2 During 2003 the Committee reviewed and developed the robust and transparent governance structures Bristol-Myers Squibb USA 30,985 Chairman until 5th June 2003 remuneration policy to align Executive remuneration with the a commitment to be a leader of good remuneration practice in Eli Lilly USA 44,119 Dr M Barzach 12 10 interests of shareholders whilst meeting the imperative of recruiting the pharmaceutical industry.
GlaxoSmithKline UK 76,153 Mr C Davis 10 10 and retaining the executive talent essential to the leadership of In formulating the policy, the Committee also decided that: Johnson & Johnson USA 85,661 Sir Roger Hurn 2 2 the company.
Merck USA 57,427 Sir Peter Job 11 11 the remuneration structure must support the business by The remuneration policy set out in this report was nalised after Novartis Switzerland 68,457 Mr D McHenry 12 12 securing, retaining and motivating key talent in a very undertaking an extensive consultation process with shareholders Pzer USA 150,627 competitive market place and institutional bodies during the course of 2003.
During the Two quorate meetings were held to effect the formal grant of Roche Holdings Switzerland 39,658 UK shareholder guidelines would be followed to the maximum year the Chairman of GlaxoSmithKline and the Chairman of the share options and performance share awards to give effect to the Sano-Synthelabo France 30,811 extent consistent with the needs of the business and the Committee met shareholders, representing nearly half of Committees decisions.
Schering-Plough USA 14,276 company would maintain a regular dialogue with shareholders GlaxoSmithKlines share capital, to ensure that the Committee Takeda Chemical Industries Japan 19,684 global pharmaceutical companies are the primary pay With the exception of the Company Secretary, no employees of obtained a clear understanding of shareholder expectations and Wyeth USA 31,584 comparator group the company were involved in the conduct of Committee to communicate the competitive issues facing the company.
performance conditions would be based on the measurable meetings.
Dr Garnier CEO and the Senior Vice President, Human Benchmarking The Committee has derived very considerable benets from this delivery of strong financial performance and the delivery of Resources, were invited to attend part of some meetings of the For benchmarking purposes total remuneration incorporates base process of consultation and as a result has instigated a major shift superior returns to shareholders as compared with other Committee as required.
salary, annual bonus and long-term incentives.
When setting pay in the way GlaxoSmithKline sets the remuneration of its most pharmaceutical companies Towers Perrin, a leading rm of remuneration and benefit the Committee has due regard to the Executives pension senior executives.
a high proportion of the total remuneration opportunity would consultants, provides strategic advice to GlaxoSmithKline on arrangements.
be based on performance-related remuneration which will be The revised remuneration policy is designed to establish a general remuneration and benefit planning and also provides delivered over the medium to long-term The global pharmaceutical industry will continue to be used as the framework for remuneration which is consistent with the market data.
Towers Perrin were appointed by the Committee remuneration would be determined using the projected value primary pay comparator for the Executives as it is the appropriate companys scale and scope of operations and meets the under a separate mandate, to advise on the remuneration of method see explanation below marketplace for the companys most senior executive talent.
In recruitment needs of the business and is closely aligned with UK senior executive management.
one remuneration structure for Executive Directors and the the first instance, pay is benchmarked to publicly available shareholders guidelines.
As at 31st December 2003, the company CET, in particular, the same performance conditions will apply remuneration data for these companies.
was the second largest pharmaceutical company in the world by 2003 Independent review of executive remuneration equally to their long-term incentive awards revenue, with operations in five continents covering over 100 As indicated in the 2002 Remuneration Report, the Committee To provide context to the above information, reference is made no ex-gratia payments would be made countries and with around 50 per cent of sales being generated appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte to conduct a to the Towers Perrin annual global pharmaceutical pay survey for pay structures would be as simple as is consistent with the in the USA.
comprehensive review of the remuneration of the Executives of the Pharmaceutical Human Resources Association PHRA.
Deloitte reported exclusively to the Committee ensure that the global pharmaceutical industry benchmark is Remuneration Committee Overall the policy is intended to provide median total remuneration and the Chairman of the company.
subject to scrutiny and review, the Committee will also consider The composition of the Committee changed during the year.
Poor performance will result in total pay data from other global businesses primarily in the consumer Deloitte provided other consulting services to GlaxoSmithKline The early part of 2003 saw the departure of Mr Allaire and remuneration signicantly below the pay comparator group and the manufacturing sectors.
during the year, but did not provide advice on Executive Sir Roger Hurn.
Mr McArthur was appointed interim Chairman median, with the opportunity to earn upper quartile total remuneration matters other than to the Committee.
Prior to determining the annual long-term incentive opportunity, of the Committee and led the Committee in the conduct of the remuneration for exceptional performance.
the Committee considers a range of vesting levels that may be policy review.
The other members of the Committee were Deloitte reviewed all aspects of the remuneration policy, each This strong alignment with performance is demonstrably in the achieved based on different assumptions such as share price Dr Barzach, Mr Davis appointed on 1st July 2003, Sir Peter Job element of remuneration, the performance measures used and interests of shareholders and provides the Executives with growth, performance levels etc.
For performance in line with appointed on 5th June 2003 and Mr McHenry.
Pending the the terms and conditions of the Executives contracts.
Their review unambiguous signals about the importance of delivering success expectations, total remuneration is targeted at the median of the embodiment of the Higgs Report in the 2003 Combined Code, also included consideration of the relevant comparator companies to the companys shareholders.
comparator group and the long-term incentive opportunity is set the Board deemed all of the members of the Committee to be for performance measurement and pay benchmarking for the in a way which provides for positioning of total remuneration at independent Non-Executive Directors.
As a consequence of the revised denition of independence as set The Committee will apply this policy on a consistent and Deloittes independent review produced the following key findings: To ensure that a stable benchmark is developed and to reduce the out under the 2003 Combined Code, Dr Barzach and Mr McHenry transparent basis.
Any significant changes in the measures used the link between pay and performance needed strengthening impact of short-term uctuations, incentive policies for other global retired from the Committee on 1st January 2004.
The implications to assess performance will be discussed with shareholders.
In the the potential for payment for failure needed addressing pharmaceutical companies are assessed over a number of years.
of the 2003 Combined Code are set out under the Corporate use of comparators for pay benchmarking, the Committee will stronger alignment to UK best practice and shareholder Governance section on page 41. use its discretion to ensure that remuneration levels are reasonable, guidelines was needed Valuation method and if it believes that changes may cause concern amongst Sir Robert Wilson and Mr Culp were appointed as members of other global pharmaceutical companies are the primary market The projected value method will be used to benchmark total shareholders, the position will be discussed with shareholders the Committee from 1st January 2004.
Mr McArthur is to retire for talent remuneration.
This method projects the future value of the prior to implementation.
from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting the long-term incentive opportunity was uncompetitive.
remuneration package under different performance scenarios.
on 17th May 2004 and his role as Chairman of the Committee It represents a major change to the method hitherto applied for will be assumed by Sir Robert Wilson from that date.
pay comparison, which had been based solely on estimated present value using a mathematical model.
The Committee believes that the new approach will moderate the impact of market uctuations in the short term and greatly strengthen the focus on performance.
46 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration Report Remuneration Report GlaxoSmithKline 47 Individual elements of remuneration Long-term incentives TSR will be measured in sterling over the performance period and When setting EPS targets the Committee will consider the The balance between the xed base salary and variable annual Executives are eligible for performance share awards and share is the change in the value of a share together with the value of companys internal projections and analysts forecasts for bonus and long-term incentive elements of remuneration changes options.
The remuneration policy provides that annual long-term reinvested dividends paid.
In order to remove the impact of the GlaxoSmithKlines EPS performance as well as analysts forecasts with performance.
The chart below shows the normal range of incentive awards will normally be made up of a performance share varying tax treatments of dividends in different jurisdictions, all for the pharmaceutical industry.
variability for the CEO, Dr Garnier, and the CFO, Mr Coombe.
award and a share option award.
The new remuneration policy dividends will be reinvested gross.
The Committee agreed the following key principles to govern the increases the emphasis on the use of performance shares.
If GlaxoSmithKline is ranked at the median of the performance use of EPS as a performance measure: CEO 5%-35% 10%-25% 40%-85% CFO 10%-50% 20%-25% 25%-70% The Committee considers that performance shares provide a comparator group, 35 per cent of the shares will vest.
Only if adjustments will only be considered for major items 100% stronger alignment to shareholder value and therefore, the new GlaxoSmithKline is one of the top two companies will all of the adjustments will be for the judgement of the Committee remuneration policy increases the emphasis on the use of shares vest.
When determining vesting levels, the Committee will the purpose of the adjustments is to ensure that the performance shares.
Long-term incentive awards are determined have regard for the companys underlying financial performance.
performance measurement is fair and reasonable to both such that for on target performance more than half of the participants and shareholders Base salary Annual bonus Long-term incentives long-term incentive reward is derived from performance shares.
TSR rank with 14 companies & Percentage of any discretion exercised by the Committee will be disclosed to GlaxoSmithKline award vesting The grant of annual awards using more than one plan is consistent shareholders in the Annual Report.
1 100% Base salary with the practice of the pay comparator group and other leading The Committee will set out the basis of its decision if it considers 2 100% Base salaries will be set by reference to the median for the relevant UK companies.
Long-term incentives for the CET will be on the it appropriate to make any adjustment.
For Executives this is the pharmaceutical pay comparator same basis as that for the Executive Directors.
Actual salary levels are reviewed annually and may vary departure from the previous policy, share options granted to CET Prior to 2003 only those share options granted to Executive 5 70% depending on an Executives experience, responsibility and market members are subject to the same performance conditions as are Directors were subject to a performance condition.
Any changes usually take effect from 1st April.
No increase applied to share options granted to the Executive Directors.
This the options to vest in full, business performance EPS growth, 7 50% arose out of the independent review.
provides a closer alignment to UK best practice and represents a excluding currency and exceptional items, had on average to be Median 35% major step change in the global pharmaceutical pay practice, at least three percentage points per annum more than the increase Below median 0% Annual bonus which typically does not apply performance conditions to the in the UK Retail Prices Index over any three-year performance All bonuses are determined on the basis of a formal review of vesting of options.
TSR is measured on a pro-rata basis.
Where GlaxoSmithKlines annual performance against stretching financial targets based on performance falls between two of the comparators, the level of vesting As part of the review process, the Committee considered what For the 2003 grant, vesting increases on a straight line basis for business performance profit before interest and tax and are subject will be determined by the actual relative level of TSR rather than simple performance conditions should be applied to the long-term EPS performance between the hurdles set out in the table below.
to detailed assessment of individual, business unit and group ranking.
The Committee concluded that it was appropriate to achievements against objectives.
No bonus is payable if financial Annualised Percentage of measure performance using a combination of absolute financial performance is less than 96 per cent of the target performance.
growth in EPS award vesting To provide a closer link between shareholder returns and payments results based on Earnings per Share - EPS and the delivery of Bonuses are subject to upper limits, which for the Executives other to the Executives, from 2003, notional dividends will be reinvested RPI 5% 100% superior value to shareholders based on Total Shareholder than the CEO range between 100 per cent and 200 per cent of and paid out in proportion to the vesting of the award.
The receipt RPI 4% 75% Return - TSR.
The CEOs limit is 200 per cent.
of dividends has been incorporated into the benchmarking of RPI 3% 50% The Committee concluded that EPS was the key measure of award levels.
In addition, from 2003, performance shares earned RPI 3% 0% An annual bonus paid on the basis of on target business performance of the business and was also fully reected through by the Executives cannot be sold, except to meet related tax performance together with base salary provides annual cash in the business measures extended throughout the Group, ensuring This performance condition is substantially consistent with UK liabilities, for a further two years following the end of the vesting line with the median of the pay comparator group.
shareholder guidelines and expectations and is considerably period.
The Committee believes that this further aligns the interests In the case of the CEO, the bonus targets are set by the more demanding than any operated by other global of the Executives with the long-term interests of shareholders.
Comparative performance was previously measured by reference Committee.
Following the end of the financial year, the Committee pharmaceutical companies.
This change is consistent with the to the FTSE 100 but the Committee concluded that the Prior to 2003, performance share awards were in two parts: half reviews the CEOs performance and determines the bonus payable.
new policy of providing pay for performance and only for measurement of performance against the performance comparator could be earned by reference to GlaxoSmithKline's TSR The CEO makes recommendations to the Committee regarding performance.
group of pharmaceutical companies see page 45 would provide a performance compared to the FTSE 100, of which the company is the performance level achieved against objectives for the other better assessment of the companys performance.
TSR was chosen For the Executives, from 2003 onwards, performance will be a constituent, and the other half of the award was deliverable if Executives.
These recommendations are then considered by the as the most appropriate comparative measure since it focuses on measured over the three financial years following the grant of the companys business performance EPS growth, excluding Committee to determine the resultant bonus.
the return to shareholders, is a well understood and tested an option.
The Committee has decided for the 2003 grant that currency and exceptional items, was on average at least three Executives can also choose to invest their bonus in GlaxoSmithKline mechanism to measure performance, and allows comparison if the performance condition is not met in full after the three year percentage points per annum more than the increase in the UK shares for a minimum of three years under the Annual Investment between companies operating in different countries.
period, performance will be measured again over the four financial Retail Prices Index over the three-year performance period.
At the end of the three-year holding period Executives are years following the date of grant of the option.
To the extent the Performance share awards and share options will be delivered to For these pre-2003 awards, if GlaxoSmithKline delivers returns entitled to a matching award of 10 per cent of their deferred option performance conditions have not been met at the end of US resident executives in the form of ADSs.
Awards are delivered which would rank in the top 20 of the FTSE 100 based on TSR shareholding.
The match is not subject to further performance four years, the option will lapse.
in the form of Ordinary Shares to executives resident in the UK performance, then all of the shares, in this part of the award, will conditions.
This plan is open to approximately 700 senior and other countries.
All awards are made under plans which The Committee considers re-measurement to be an important vest.
For the 50th position in the FTSE 100, 40 per cent of the executives on the same terms.
The Committee believes that these incorporate dilution limits consistent with the guidelines provided feature for the 2003 grant in the light of the imposition of shares will vest.
If GlaxoSmithKline is ranked below 50th position, arrangements encourage shareholding amongst senior executives by the Association of British Insurers, the National Association performance conditions in an industry where most of the major none of the shares, subject to this part of the award, will vest.
and considers it appropriate for the Executives to participate on of Pension Funds and other shareholder representative bodies.
competitors do not apply them to options.
The Committee will Between the 20th and 50th positions, vesting will occur on a the same terms.
Current estimated dilution from existing awards made since the consider prior to each annual grant of options whether a sliding scale.
Bonus awards for 2003 reected the Committees belief that the merger is approximately four per cent of the companys share re-measurement will be permitted.
company produced superior results during the year, after taking capital at 31st December 2003. b Share options account of factors outside the control of management, notably Pensions Share options allow a holder to buy shares at a future date at exchange rate changes and the launch of generic competition to a Performance shares The Executives participate in GlaxoSmithKline senior executive the share price prevailing at the time of grant.
Share options are Paxil in the USA.
The pension arrangements are structured in For the Executives, the level of performance shares vesting is granted to more than 11,000 managers at GlaxoSmithKline accordance with the plans operated for Executives in the country based on the companys TSR relative to the performance including the Executives.
The share options granted in 2003 to in which the Executives are likely to retire.
Benets are normally comparator group over a three-year measurement period.
the Executives are linked to the achievement of compound annual payable at age 60.
Details of individual arrangements for the EPS growth over the performance period.
Executive Directors are set out on page 57.
48 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration Report Remuneration Report GlaxoSmithKline 49 Share ownership requirements The key aspects of the new contractual framework are: 2003 and thereafter However, if Dr Garnier leaves prior to age 60, he would receive To align the interests of executives with those of shareholders, The above provisions apply but options will be subject to less than he would otherwise have been contractually entitled to.
Aspect Policy executives are required to maintain significant holdings of shares performance testing in all circumstances and any options or Accordingly, the severance payment due to Dr Garnier on Notice period on 12 calendar months in GlaxoSmithKline.
These requirements are an important part of performance share awards made 12 months prior to the termination by the company other than for cause or on resignation termination by the aligning the interests of executives with shareholders.
The CEO is termination notice date will lapse.
by the executive, will include a years worth of pension employing company required to hold shares to the value of four times base salary.
Mr Coombe remains entitled on termination to the cash equivalent or executive Other Executive Directors are required to build a shareholding to of 12 months benets and continuing medical and dental In the Committees view this balances the new pension the value of three times base salary.
Members of the CET are Termination payment - 1x annual salary and insurance.
arrangement with the contractual entitlement under the previous 1 required to build a shareholding to a value of two times base 1x annual on target bonus contract aimed at providing a fair replacement for the previous 2 salary.
A requirement to build a shareholding to a value of one In addition, Dr Garnier and Mr Coombe are also entitled to receiveNo mitigation required arrangement.
times base salary applies to the other top 700 executives in the one years worth of pension contributions on termination.
Benets Governed by benets policy, Group.
As a result of the policy review in 2003, the Executives are The new arrangement came into effect on 1st January 2004 and including: Dr Garniers and Mr Coombes contracts were executed on required to continue to satisfy these shareholding requirements is not likely to have an effect on the final accrued benefit or 3rd March 2004 and take effect from 1st January 2004.
- healthcare medical and dental for a minimum of twelve months following retirement from the transfer value of Dr Garniers pension.
Dr Garnier has no Dr Garniers contract will expire on 31st October 2007 and - personal financial advice company.
entitlement to a spouses pension or to pension increases, other Mr Coombes on 31st March 2005, being the last day of the - life assurance contributions than by reducing his own initial pension.
In order for shares to qualify for these share ownership month on which they reach their 60th birthday.
Vesting of long-term Rules of relevant equity incentive requirements they must be held personally by the Executives or Mr Coombe participates in the Glaxo Wellcome defined benefit 3 No termination payments will be made in respect of any part of incentives plan have been earned but deferred under one of the share plan.
On retirement at age 60, he is entitled to receive an annual a notice period extending beyond the contract expiry dates.
Pension Based on existing arrangements and programmes operated by the company.
Unexercised share options pension of 2 3rds of his final salary, a 2 3rds widows pension and terms of the relevant pension plan are not included in this calculation.
As at 31st December 2003 Upon Dr Yamadas appointment to the Board, pending nalisation ination proong.
In 2000 all benets accrued under the Glaxo Dr Garniers shareholding was 271,282 ADSs and Mr Coombes of his new contract, his previous contractual arrangements have Wellcome UK pension arrangements were augmented by the Non-compete clause 12 months from termination 2 was 173,911 shares.
On his appointment to the Board on been superseded by a letter setting out the principal terms of his Trustees of the plans by five per cent to reect a distribution of notice date 1st January 2004 Dr Yamada held 52,930 ADSs.
These holdings appointment, which is available for inspection.
This augmentation will apply to that element of 1Dr Garniers target bonus is 100 per cent of salary and Mr Coombes is 85 per cent were in excess of the share ownership requirements at these dates.
letter expire on the earlier of the execution of his new contract Mr Coombes pension earnings before 31st March 2000.
or termination on 12 months notice.
Dr Yamadas contract will be company terminates his employment prior to retirement 2 The imposition of a 12-month non-compete period on the Executives is considered Other remuneration elements made available for inspection by shareholders when the final Mr Coombe is entitled to receive a pension calculated as if he vitally important by the company in order to protect the Groups intellectual The Executives participate in various legacy Glaxo Wellcome and details have been confirmed.
were employed for a further 12 months or until age 60 if sooner.
In light of the non-compete clause and competitor practice, the SmithKline Beecham all employee share plans in either the UK or Committee believes that it would not be appropriate to provide for mitigation in the contracts.
When reviewing the level of severance payments, the Committee Other entitlements the USA and in the GlaxoSmithKline plans that replaced them.
Pensions considered investor and DTI guidance.
However, it determined that in line with In addition to the contractual provisions outlined above, in the The UK plan provides for a pension based on two-thirds of final competitive practice it is appropriate to provide for the payment of salary and The Sharesave plan and the ShareReward plan are Inland Revenue event that Dr Garnier or Mr Coombes service agreements are salary at age 60.
The US cash balance plan provides for an annual target bonus on termination.
Mr Coombes previous contract specified approved plans open to all UK employees on the same terms.
compensation to be paid in the event of redundancy.
In the event that notice of terminated by their employing company they would be entitled to: contribution and interest on the sum accumulated in the cash Mr Coombe is a member of the Sharesave plan, into which he termination had been given, other than in the case of redundancy, Mr Coombe balance plan but with no contractual promise to provide specic the Special Deferred Bonus awarded to each member of the contributes 250 a month.
This provides him with the option to would have been required to mitigate any resulting loss of earnings.
CET in respect of 2001 and payable on 15th February 2005, buy shares at the end of the three-year savings period in line with 3As approved by shareholders of GlaxoSmithKline, Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline unless terminated for cause prior to that date.
Details of this the opportunity available to all UK employees.
Mr Coombe also Beecham, as appropriate.
GlaxoSmithKline makes annual contributions of 15 per cent of bonus are given on page 52 contributes 125 per month to buy shares under the Share Reward Dr Garniers annual salary and bonus.
The fund increases at an plan.
The company matches the number of shares bought each Dr Garnier and Mr Coombe have agreed to changes in their own interest rate based on the yield on 30-year treasury bonds.
The in the case of awards under the GlaxoSmithKline Annual month.
contractual terms without compensation to come broadly in line company has no liability beyond making these annual Investment Plan, provided that their agreement is terminated with the new contractual framework, including the reduction of contributions.
other than for cause, any deferred amount and any income, The Executives also receive other benets including healthcare contractual notice period from 24 to 12 calendar months.
gains and losses, are automatically distributed as soon as medical and dental, personal financial advice and life assurance Prior to 1999 all US employees, including Dr Garnier, were moved However, in order to honour certain aspects of their old administratively practicable after termination.
The cash value of the benets received by the from a final salary pension arrangement to the current cash contractual terms there are a number of individual features which retire or the termination is for cause then any deferred Executive Directors in 2003 is shown on page 52. balance structure.
For all employees in the US cash balance plan will be retained.
amount is not distributed until the end of the minimum contributions are based on combined annual salary and annual three year deferral period Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration In Dr Garniers case these include the entitlement to bonus.
reimbursement of excise tax on change of control related in line with the policy applicable to US senior executives, As part of the remuneration review, Dr Garniers pension provisions Executive Director contracts payments, life insurance benefit funded by the company to age 65 Dr Garnier is entitled to receive continuing medical and dental have been simplied by removing the entitlement to receive three The policy regarding the Executive Directors contracts was the and the following provisions relating to the vesting of long-term insurance years worth of additional pension contributions on termination subject of extensive review and change during 2003.
The new incentives: and also by removing the entitlement to receive a payment from following the merger, those participants in the legacy share policy provides the framework for contracts for Executive Directors Pre-2003 awards the company which enables Dr Garnier to purchase an annuity option schemes who elected to exchange their legacy options appointed in the future.
On termination by the company other than for cause, on which treats him as being three years older.
The new pension for options over GlaxoSmithKline shares will receive an retirement or on resignation for good reason i. e. resignation arrangement will provide for a simple annual contribution of additional cash benefit equal to 10 per cent of the grant price due to not being elected or retained as a director of the 15 per cent of annual salary and annual bonus so that the of the original option.
This additional benefit is triggered when company or any merged company, or as a result of a change pension contributions will vary by performance.
the new option is exercised or lapses.
To qualify for this of control provided that such resignation occurs on or within additional cash benefit participants had to retain their options This new annual contribution rate does not represent an 30 days of the first anniversary of the change in control options until at least the second anniversary of the effective date of enhancement in Dr Garniers pension entitlement: it is designed to will vest in full and remain exercisable for the full option term the merger.
consolidate the previous additional contractual terms into a single and performance shares will vest at the end of the performance annual contribution rate.
The new annual contribution percentage period subject to performance but not time-apportioned.
ensures that as long as Dr Garnier continues his employment until age 60, he is in the same financial position as he would have been in prior to the consolidation of his contractual pension entitlements.
50 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration report Remuneration report GlaxoSmithKline 51 As a result of the remuneration review, a number of changes are Mr Allaire received fees of $88,000 per annum together with an TSR performance graph also being made to the contracts of the CET members, who have allocation of 500 American Depositary Shares made under the The following graph sets out the performance of the company not been compensated for agreeing to these changes.
The Non-Executive Directors Share Arrangements.
relative to the FTSE 100 index of which the company is a amendments relate to the following aspects: constituent and to the performance comparator group since the Dr Michle Barzach, Sir Peter Job, Mr John McArthur, Mr merger on 27th December 2000.
The graph has been prepared in on termination by the company for poor performance, the Donald McHenry, Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Ronaldo Schmitz and accordance with the Regulations and is not an indication of the notice period and related severance payments are reduced Dr Lucy Shapiro likely vesting of awards granted under any of the companys from 24 to 12 months The letters of appointment for all of the above Non-Executive incentive plans.
the entitlement to post-notice long-term incentive grants has Directors were dated 19th June 2000 and in all cases it was agreed been removed that they serve the company as Non-Executive Directors until the 100 conclusion of the Annual General Meeting AGM following the on termination by the company, performance share awards 90 third anniversary of their appointment.
In the cases of Sir Peter Job, made 12 months prior to the termination notice date will lapse.
Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Schmitz and Dr Shapiro their appointments may 80 For new CET members, the same standard contractual terms as be extended for a further term of three years by mutual outlined above for Executive Directors will apply.
Dr Barzach, Mr McArthur and Mr McHenry have 70 announced that they will retire from the Board at the conclusion 60 Non-Executive Directors terms, conditions and fees of the AGM on 17th May 2004.
31 12 00 31 12 01 31 12 02 31 12 03 GlaxoSmithKline Total Return FTSE 100 Total Return Index Mr McArthur succeeded Mr Allaire as Chairman of the GlaxoSmithKline Performance Comparator Group Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline do not have service Remuneration Committee on 5th June 2003 and his fees were contracts but instead have letters of appointment.
The company increased to $88,000 per annum from that date.
Mr McHenry aims to provide Non-Executive Directors with fees that are Directors and Senior Management Remuneration succeeded Sir Christopher as Chairman of the Corporate Social competitive with other companies of equivalent size and The following tables set out for the Directors of GlaxoSmithKline Responsibility Committee now the Corporate Responsibility complexity.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to plc the remuneration earned in 2003: their interests in shares of Committee on 7th February 2003 and his fees were increased to compensation if their appointment is terminated.
GlaxoSmithKline plc: their interests in share options and incentive $88,000 per annum from that date.
Sir Ian Prosser succeeded plans and their pension benets.
The members of the CET and To enhance the link between Directors and shareholders and as Sir Christopher as Chairman of the Nominations Committee on the Company Secretary, known as the Senior Management, also set out in the table below, GlaxoSmithKline requires Non-Executive 7th February 2003.
Sir Ian stepped down as Chairman of the participate in the same remuneration plans as the Executive Directors to receive a significant part of their fees in the form of Nominations Committee with effect from 1st January 2004 and Directors and the aggregate remuneration and interests of the shares allocated to a share account and offers the opportunity to was succeeded by Sir Christopher.
Directors and Senior Management are also provided.
invest part or all of the balance of fees in a share account.
These shares are not paid out until the Directors retirement from the The fees payable and the share allocations under the Non-Executive Board, or at a later date, and are paid on the basis of dividends Directors Share Arrangements for each of these directors is as reinvested in the interim.
follows: Non-Executive Annual Shares Allocated The Chairman and the chairmen of the Board Committees receive Directors Fees Annually higher fees.
Dr M Barzach 45,000 1,000 ordinary shares Sir Peter Job 45,000 1,000 ordinary shares Terms and conditions Mr J McArthur $88,000 500 ADSs Mr D McHenry $88,000 500 ADSs Sir Christopher Hogg Sir Ian Prosser 55,000 1,000 ordinary shares Sir Christopher Hoggs letter of appointment to the Board was Dr R Schmitz 55,000 1,000 ordinary shares dated 19th June 2000, under which it was agreed that he serve Dr L Shapiro $72,000 500 ADSs the company as a Non-Executive Director until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting following the third anniversary of his Mr H Lawrence Culp, Mr Crispin Davis and Sir Robert Wilson appointment.
This may be extended for a further term of three The letters of appointment for all of the above Non-Executive years by mutual agreement.
Directors were dated 9th June 2003 and in all cases it was agreed Sir Christophers letter of appointment was amended on that they serve the company as Non-Executive Directors until the 1st September 2002 to record his appointment as Non-Executive conclusion of the Annual General Meeting following the third Chairman with effect from 20th May 2002.
He receives 300,000 anniversary of their appointment.
In all cases this may be per annum plus an allocation of 6,000 shares per annum.
extended for a further term of three years by mutual agreement.
Mr Culp and Mr Davis joined the Board from 1st July 2003 and Sir Roger Hurn and Mr Paul Allaire Sir Robert joined the Board with effect from 1st November 2003.
Sir Roger Hurn retired as Deputy Chairman and as a Non-Executive The fees payable and the share allocations under the Non-Executive Director, and Mr Allaire retired as a Non-Executive Director, with Directors Share Arrangements for each of these directors is as effect from 5th June 2003.
Sir Rogers and Mr Allaires letters of follows: appointment were both dated 19th June 2000 and in both cases Non-Executive Annual Shares Allocated it was agreed that they serve the company as Non-Executive Directors Fees Annually Directors until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting Mr L Culp $72,000 500 ADSs following the third anniversary of their appointment.
In both cases Mr C Davis 45,000 1,000 ordinary shares this could have been extended for a further term of three years by Sir Robert Wilson 45,000 1,000 ordinary shares mutual agreement.
Sir Roger received fees of 80,000 per annum together with an allocation of 3,000 ordinary shares under the Non-Executive Directors Share Arrangements.
52 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration Report Remuneration Report GlaxoSmithKline 53 Annual remuneration Non-Executive Directors remuneration 2003 2002 2003 2002 Total Cash Allocated Elected Total Cash Allocated Elected Total Total Fees and salary 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Fees and Other Annual annual Fees and Other Annual annual salary benets bonus remuneration salary benets bonus remuneration Footnote 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Current Non-Executive Directors Sir Christopher Hogg 374 150 74 150 252 163 51 38 Executive Directors Dr M Barzach 57 45 12 59 45 14 Dr J P Garnier a, b, c 916 386 1,485 2,787 967 132 1,353 2,452 Mr L Culp 29 7 22 Mr J D Coombe b, c 490 17 730 1,237 475 15 457 947 Mr C Davis 29 6 23 Total 1,406 403 2,215 4,024 1,442 147 1,810 3,399 Sir Peter Job 57 1245 59 1445 Mr J H McArthur 62 49 13 62 48 14 Current Non-Executive Directors Mr D F McHenry 65 52 13 62 48 14 Sir Christopher Hogg 374 374 252 252 Sir Ian Prosser 66 27 12 27 59 22 14 23 Dr M Barzach e 107 107 100 100 Dr R Schmitz 67 33 12 22 69 33 14 22 Mr L Culp 29 29 Dr L Shapiro 57 44 13 62 48 14 Mr C Davis 29 29 Sir Robert Wilson 10 8 2 Sir Peter Job 57 57 59 59 Mr J H McArthur 62 62 62 62 Former Non-Executive Directors Mr D F McHenry 65 65 62 62 Sir Richard Sykes 154 129 25 Sir Ian Prosser 66 66 59 59 Sir Roger Hurn 50 32 8 10 121 40 41 40 Dr R Schmitz 67 67 69 69 Sir Peter Walters 51 29 12 10 Dr L Shapiro f 109 109 118 118 Mr P A Allaire 28 25 3 68 54 14 Sir Robert Wilson 10 10 Mr J A Young 29 10 4 15 975 975 781 781 Total 951 465 187 299 1,107 669 245 193 Former Non-Executive Directors The table above sets out the remuneration received as Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline.
Accordingly, it does not include Sir Richard Sykes a, d 958 958 154 8 162 Dr Barzachs fees received from GlaxoSmithKline France for healthcare consultancy provided or Dr Shapiros fees received as a member of Sir Roger Hurn 50 50 121 121 GlaxoSmithKlines scientific Advisory Board see page 52.
Sir Peter Walters 51 2 53 Mr P A Allaire 28 28 68 68 Non-Executive Directors are required to receive part of their fees in the form of shares and ADSs with the balance received in cash.
They Mr D C Bonham 5 5 may then elect to receive either all or part of the cash payment in the form of further shares and ADSs.
The total value of these shares and Mr J A Young 29 2 31 ADSs as at the date of award together with the cash payment, forms their total fees which are included within the Annual remuneration table under Fees and salary.
The table above sets out the value of their fees received in the form of cash and shares and ADSs.
78 958 1,036 423 17 440 Total Non-Executive Directors 1,053 958 2,011 1,204 17 1,221 The shares and ADSs are notionally awarded to the Non-Executive Directors and allocated to their interest accounts and are included within the Directors interests tables on page 54.
The accumulated balance of these shares and ADSs, together with notional dividends Total remuneration 2,459 1,361 2,215 6,035 2,646 164 1,810 4,620 subsequently reinvested, are not paid out to the Non-Executive Directors until retirement.
Upon retirement, the Non-Executive Directors will a Following the merger, those participants in the legacy share option schemes who elected to exchange their legacy options for options over receive either the shares and ADSs or a cash amount equal to the value of the shares and ADSs at the date of retirement.
GlaxoSmithKline shares were granted an additional cash benefit equal to 10 per cent of the grant price of the original option.
This additional benefit, known as the Exchange Offer Incentive EOI, is only payable when the new option is exercised or lapses above market value.
To qualify for this additional The table below sets out the accumulated number of shares and ADSs held by each Non-Executive Director as at 31st December 2003 cash benefit participants had to retain these options until at least the second anniversary of the effective date of the merger.
During the year Dr Garnier together with the movements in their account over the year.
received 182,478 relating to options exercised page 55 and Sir Richard Sykes received 940,499 as a result of his options lapsing above market value.
These amounts are included in other benets in the table above.
Number of shares and ADSs Dividends b Dr Garnier is a Non-Executive Director of United Technologies Corporation.
In respect of 2003, Dr Garnier received $110,000 in the form of deferred Non-Executive Directors share arrangements At 31.12.02 Allocated Elected reinvested Paid out At 31.12.03 stock units and 4,000 stock options with a grant price of $61.05.
Mr Coombe is a member of the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG.
In respect of 2003, Mr Coombe received 36,724 and 1,125 stock appreciation rights with a grant price of 73.25.
These amounts are excluded from the table above and Current Non-Executive Directors retained by the Executive Directors.
Sir Christopher Hogg 9,324 6,000 12,247 358 27,929 Dr M Barzach 2,042 1,000 67 3,109 c In 2001 Dr Garnier and Mr Coombe received a special deferred bonus awarded to them as members of the CET.
The amount awarded was equivalent to their salary on 31st December 2001 and was notionally invested in GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs on 15th February 2002.
The bonus to be paid out on Mr L Culp - ADSs 250 811 1,061 15th February 2005 will be an amount equivalent to the then value of shares or ADSs notionally acquired in February 2002 plus dividends reinvested over Mr C Davis 500 1,772 2,272 the period.
As at 31st December 2003 the value of those shares or ADSs notionally acquired in respect of Dr Garnier was 797,501, an increase of Sir Peter Job 7,309 1,000 3,674 245 12,228 16 per cent over the year.
This includes dividends reinvested during the year of 27,428.
Those shares notionally acquired in respect of Mr Coombe were Mr J H McArthur - ADSs 1,540 500 44 2,084 valued at 367,395 as at 31st December 2003, an increase of 11 per cent over the year.
This includes dividends reinvested during the year of 13,078.
Mr D F McHenry - ADSs 1,502 500 43 2,045 d In addition to the remuneration received as a former director, as set out above, Sir Richard Sykes received 49,000 relating to his appointment as Senior Sir Ian Prosser 5,642 1,000 2,200 188 9,030 Advisor from 1st June 2002.
Dr R Schmitz 4,600 1,000 1,796 154 7,550 Dr L Shapiro - Shares 1,570 49 1,619 e Dr Barzach received fees of 72,268 2002 66,369 from a subsidiary of the company for healthcare consultancy provided.
These are included within - ADSs 1,502 500 43 2,045 fees and salary above.
Sir Robert Wilson 167 167 f Dr Shapiro is a member of GlaxoSmithKlines scientific Advisory Board for which she received fees of $85,000 2002 $85,000 with $30,000 Former Non-Executive Directors 2002 $30,000 in the form of ADSs.
These are included within fees and salary above.
Sir Roger Hurn 10,808 750 878 349 622 12,163 Where the Directors above have received part or all of their remuneration in currencies other than sterling, the average rates of exchange for the year have Mr P A Allaire - ADSs 1,502 125 1,627 been used.
None of the above Directors received expenses during the year requiring separate disclosure as required by the Regulations.
Mr J A Young - Shares 3,749 103 1,874 1,978 - ADSs 1,935 47 968 1,014 54 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration Report Remuneration Report GlaxoSmithKline 55 On 5th June 2003, Sir Roger Hurn and Mr Allaire retired from the Board.
Following retirement they received the value of their shares and Share options ADSs as awarded under the Non-Executive Directors share arrangements page 53 and equivalent SmithKline Beecham arrangements.
Granted As at 5th June 2003 they had been awarded shares and ADSs with a total value at the date of award, as indicated: Sir Roger Hurn Weighted average Options ADSs At 31.12.02 Date of grant grant price Number Exercised At 31.12.03 184,771 and Mr Allaire 51,817.
The change in value is attributable to dividends re-invested and the change in share price between the dates of awards and 5th June 2003.
Sir Roger has elected to receive the value of his shares as at 5th June 2003 in quarterly instalments over 10 years and, accordingly, received 7,894 in 2003.
Mr Allaire elected to receive the 1,627 ADSs due to him on retirement.
Mr Young has elected to Granted receive the value of his shares as at 20th May 2002 in three annual instalments and accordingly, received 48,307 in 2003.
Weighted average Options Shares At 31.12.02 Date of grant grant price Number Lapsed At 31.12.03 Directors interests Mr J D Coombe 1,158,979 15.12.03 12.70 276,000 730 1,434,249 The following beneficial interests of the Directors of the company are shown in the register maintained by the company in accordance with For those options outstanding at 31st December 2003 the earliest and latest vesting and lapse dates for those above and below the market the Companies Act 1985: price for a GlaxoSmithKline share at the year end are given in the table below.
16.97 867,218 a Includes shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline ShareReward Plan totalling 481 shares at 31st December 2003 2002 225 and 526 shares at Below market price at year end: unvested options 12.23 567,031 01.12.05 15.12.06 31.05.06 15.12.13 27th February 2004.
Total share options as at 31st December 2003 15.10 1,434,249 b Includes a non-beneficial interest in trusts which hold nil shares at 31st December 2003 2002 13,241 and nil shares at 27th February 2004. c In addition to the interests shown above, Mr McHenry has interests in a deferred fees plan relating to the period during which Mr McHenry was a Director GlaxoSmithKline grants share options to Executive Directors and Senior Managers on an annual basis, generally in November.
An initial of SmithKline Beckman prior to the merger with Beecham Group in 1989.
The deferred fees are now indexed to the total return on GlaxoSmithKline grant was made following completion of the merger in March 2001.
The measurement period for the options granted in March 2001 shares and are payable over seven years following Mr McHenrys retirement as a Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline.
The total accumulated value commenced on 1st January 2001.
The measurement periods for options granted in November 2001, 2002 and 2003 commenced on of deferred fees on 31st December 2003, restated to reect the merger and fully provided for, was equivalent to 22,563 GlaxoSmithKline ADSs.
The Directors hold these options under the various share option plans referred to in d Includes shares and ADSs received as part or all of their fees as described under Non-Executive Directors share arrangements above.
Dividends received Note 34 to the Financial statements, Employee share schemes.
None of the other Directors had an interest in any option over the on these shares and ADSs were converted to shares and ADSs as at 31st December 2003.
These are also included in the Directors interests above.
The interests of the above-mentioned Directors at 27th February 2004 reect changes between the end of the financial year and that date.
Following the merger, each of the Directors above elected to exchange their outstanding options in the legacy share option plans for options over GlaxoSmithKline shares.
These Directors and all other participants in those legacy schemes who made such an election, will receive an additional benefit of a cash sum equal to 10 per cent of the grant price of the original option.
This additional benefit will be given when the new option is exercised or lapses, provided the exercise or lapse is on or after the second anniversary of the effective date of the merger or, as in the case of Sir Richard Sykes, on cessation of executive employment, if earlier.
On 19th February 2004, Dr Garnier exercised 231,052 options with an exercise price of $14.53 giving rise to a gain of $6,621,049.
Dr Garnier also received $335,730 in respect of the Exchange Offer Incentive benefit arising on the exercise of these options.
Mr Coombe did not exercise any share options during 2003 or 2002.
The highest and lowest closing prices during the year ended 31st December 2003 for GlaxoSmithKline shares were 13.90 and 10.00, respectively.
The highest and lowest prices for GlaxoSmithKline ADSs during the year ended 31st December 2003 were $47.64 and $31.85, respectively.
The market price for a GlaxoSmithKline share on 31st December 2003 was 12.80 31st December 2002 11.92 and for a GlaxoSmithKline ADS was $46.62 31st December 2002 $37.46.
The share price on 27th February 2004 was 11.21 per GlaxoSmithKline share and $42.62 per GlaxoSmithKline ADS.
56 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration Report Remuneration Report GlaxoSmithKline 57 Incentive plans Pensions Granted The accrued annual pension benets and transfer values for Executive Directors on retirement are set out below.
ADSs Market ADSs Performance Share Plan ADSs at 31.12.02 Number price at 31.12.03 The regulations require disclosure of: the accrued benefit at the end of the year: the change in accrued benefit over the year: the transfer value at both the beginning and end of the year, and the change in the transfer value over the year.
The Listing Rules require additional Dr J P Garnier 2001 award 70,000 70,000 disclosure of the change in accrued benefit net of ination and the transfer value of this change.
2002 award 70,000 70,000 2003 award 70,000 70,000 Change in 2004 award 200,000 $44.57 200,000 Change in Change accrued Transfer value Accrued Accrued accrued Transfer Transfer over year benefit over of change benefit benefit benefit value value in transfer year net in accrued Granted at 31.12.02 at 31.12.03 over year at 31.12.02 at 31.12.03 value of ination benefit Shares Market Shares 000 pa 000 pa 000 pa 000 000 000 000 pa 000 Performance Share Plan shares at 31.12.02 Number price at 31.12.03 Dr J P Garnier 929 565 295 5,578 5,636 676 313 676 Mr J D Coombe 2001 award 40,000 40,000 Mr J D Coombe 291 317 26 4,723 6,436 1,713 21 438 2002 award 40,000 40,000 The change in transfer value is shown net of contributions made by the individual.
2003 award 40,000 40,000 2004 award 120,000 12.70 120,000 Dr Garnier is a member of the all employee US cash balance pension plan, under which GlaxoSmithKline makes annual contributions calculated as a percentage of the employees base salary and bonus.
The fund increases at an interest rate set annually in advance based on The Performance Share Plan PSP is a medium-term incentive scheme introduced during 2001.
The PSP replaces the Long-Term Incentive the 30 year treasury bond rate to provide a cash sum at retirement.
This cash sum is used to purchase a pension at retirement based on the Plan and the Mid-Term Incentive Plan operated respectively by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham.
annuity rates applicable at that time.
Dr Garnier has no entitlement to a spouses pension or to pension increases, other than by reducing Under the terms of the PSP the number of shares actually vesting is determined following the end of the relevant three year measurement his own initial pension.
period and is dependent on GlaxoSmithKlines performance during that period as described on pages 46 and 47.
The share awards are The normal retirement age under this plan is 65 years of age.
Dr Garniers pension arrangements have been bought into line with the terms granted annually in November or December and the measurement period commences on the following 1st January, ending after three years of his service agreement and the assumed retirement age reduced to 60.
The effect of this has been to reduce Dr Garniers accrued benefit on by 295,184 per annum 313,427 per annum excluding the effects of ination as the cash balance available under Dr Garniers plan is 31st December.
The three year measurement period for the 2001 award ended on 31st December 2003.
Based on the performance of now required to purchase an annuity for five more years than previously assumed.
GlaxoSmithKline during that period, 50 per cent of the 2001 award vested in February 2004.
The transfer value, or cash sum, of Dr Garniers plan has increased by 676,261 over the year as a result of phased transfers froma Shares exercised previous scheme, the further accumulation of interest and contributions paid by the Company of five per cent of base salary plus bonus.
Market Average Money price on market price value on Shares award on exercise exercise Dr Garniers accrued benefit and transfer value have been translated at the year-end exchange rate of 1 US$1.79 2002 - 1 US$1.61.
Long-Term Incentive Plan shares at 31.12.02 Number at 31.12.03 The change in accrued benefit and transfer value have been translated at the average exchange rate of 1 US$1.64 2002 - 1 US$1.50.
Mr J D Coombe 23,013 23,013 14.60 11.13 256,134 Accordingly the changes in accrued benefit and transfer value stated above exclude exchange losses as follows: change in accrued benefit over year 68,701: change in accrued benefit over year net of ination 69,041 and change over year in transfer value 617,565.
The Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP was a share award scheme operated by Glaxo Wellcome.
The plan closed to new entrants upon Dr Garnier is also a member of the US Retirement Savings Plan, a money purchase scheme open to all US employees.
Contributions are completion of the merger and no further grants have been made.
The award made to Mr Coombe in February 2000 vested in February invested in a range of funds and the value of the accumulated funds are paid at retirement.
During 2003 contributions of 88,609 were 2003 on completion of the measurement period.
In connection with the merger the performance conditions in respect of the grant made paid into this scheme by the company in respect of Dr Garnier, of which 2,439 was invested in GlaxoSmithKline shares in a stock in February 2000 were waived.
The shares held in this account are included within the Directors interests tables on page 54.
Vested and Vested and Unvested Participations Unvested deferred Participations Dividends deferred Mr Coombes transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
The participations vesting participations participations vested reinvested participations Mid-Term Incentive Plan ADSs at 31.12.02 in 2003 at 31.12.03 at 31.12.02 in 2003 in 2003 at 31.12.03 transfer value represents the present value of future payments to be made under the pension plan.
Whilst Mr Coombes annual accrued benefit has increased by 26,377 21,433 excluding the effects of ination, the transfer value has increased by 1.7 million over the year.
Dr J P Garnier 36,985 36,985 116,009 36,985 4,430 157,424 This increase has arisen primarily as a result of the following factors: The Mid-Term Incentive Plan MTIP was a share award scheme operated by SmithKline Beecham.
The plan closed to new entrants upon completion of the merger and no further participations have been granted.
In connection with the merger, the performance conditions The method of calculating the transfer value is reviewed following the completion of each formal valuation of the pension scheme to in respect of grants made in 1999 were waived.
The measurement period ended on 31st December 2002. ensure that the assumptions used continue to be reasonable.
Following the 31st December 2002 valuation, various assumptions were updated including increasing the allowance for the life expectancy of members after retirement which led to an increase in the transfer The participations that vested in 2003 were awarded to Dr Garnier on 24th November 1999 when the ADS price was $59.88.
The ADS values of all pension fund members.
The assumptions used will continue to be reviewed following each valuation and adjusted as and price at the time of vesting was $35.85.
Where a final award of ADSs is made, receipt of the award may be deferred by a Director.
when appropriate Dr Garnier deferred receipt of the full amounts awarded in 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003.
The deferred awards, together with any additional ADSs subsequently received through dividend reinvestment, are not included in the Directors interests table on page 54 Annual increases to transfer values become larger the closer an individual is to retirement.
Under the terms of Mr Coombes service since technically they are retained in the MTIP until paid out.
agreement he will retire at the age of 60.
As Mr Coombe approaches retirement the transfer value of his pension will further increase to reect the level of funds required to meet the annual accrued benefit payments Average Stock Appreciation Rights SARs ADSs At 31.12.02 At 31.12.03 grant price The yield of gilts, to which the underlying assets are linked, has declined therefore leading to an increase in the market value of the Dr L Shapiro 1,487 1,487 $50.34 gilts required to meet the annual accrued benefit.
All SARs held by Dr L Shapiro have a grant price above the market price of a GlaxoSmithKline ADS at year end.
Dr Shapiro is a member of GlaxoSmithKlines scientific Advisory Board SAB.
Dr Shapiro was a member of SmithKline Beechams SAB from 1993 until the completion of the merger with Glaxo Wellcome.
Along with other members of the SAB, she received annual grants of SmithKline Beecham SARs which, in general, vested three years from the date of grant and will expire 10 years from the date of grant.
Grants of SARs to SAB members ceased in 1999.
SARs entitle the holder to a cash sum at a future date based on share price growth between the date of grant and the date of exercise.
Full provision is made in the financial statements for accrued gains on SARs from the date of grant.
In connection with the merger, all previously granted SARs became immediately exercisable.
58 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration Report GlaxoSmithKline 59 Operating and financial review and prospects Directors and Senior Management The Operating and financial review and prospects discusses the For US reporting purposes, it is necessary to provide information on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management operating and financial performance of the Group, the financial as a group the group.
For the purposes of this disclosure, the group is dened as the Directors, members of the CET and the Company outlook and the financial resources of the Group, under the Secretary.
In respect of the financial year 2003, the total compensation paid to members of the group for the periods during which they following headings: served in that capacity was 16,106,911, the aggregate decrease in accrued pension benets was 174,219 and the aggregate payment 60 Financial trends and ratios to dened contribution schemes was 318,480.
During 2003 members of the group were granted options over 845,500 shares and 1,149,250 ADSs and awarded 355,500 shares and 499,500 ADSs in the Performance Share Plan.
At 27th February 2004, the 61 2003 Year results for the year to 31st December 2003 compared then-current members of the group comprising 26 persons owned 460,939 shares and 451,034 ADSs, constituting less than one per cent to the year to 31st December 2002 of the issued share capital of the company.
The group also held, at that date: options to purchase 4,788,785 shares and 70 Financial position and resources at 31st December 2003 6,744,234 ADSs: 619,500 shares and 841,310 ADSs awarded under the Performance Share Plan, including those shares and ADSs that are vested and deferred: 4,188 shares and 227,262 ADSs under the legacy SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive Plan, including those 74 Outlook and risk factors shares and ADSs that are vested and deferred, and 1,487 ADSs awarded under the legacy SmithKline Beecham Stock Appreciation Rights.
Additionally, in accordance with US requirements: These holdings were issued under the various executive share option plans described in Note 34 to the Financial statements, Employee share schemes.
77 2002 Year results for the year to 31st December 2002 compared to the year to 31st December 2001 Directors interests in contracts 83 Selected financial data UK US GAAP Except as described in Note 35 to the Financial statements, Related party transactions, during or at the end of the financial year no The results for each year are compared primarily with the results Director or connected person had any material interest in any contract of signicance in relation to the Groups business with a Group for the preceding year.
Reference is made also to quarterly and company.
half-yearly trends within the results, where appropriate.
The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by Exchange The Group, as a multinational business, operates in many countries and earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies.
The results of the Group, as reported in sterling, are therefore affected by movements in exchange rates between sterling and overseas currencies.
Sir Christopher Hogg The Group uses the average exchange rates prevailing during the Chairman period to translate the results and cash ows of overseas Group 3rd March 2004 subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures into sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of those undertakings.
The currencies which most influence these translations are the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
During 2003 average sterling exchange rates were stronger against the US dollar and the Japanese Yen by nine per cent and two per cent respectively, and weaker against the Euro by nine per cent, compared with 2002, giving an overall adverse currency impact on the results for the year.
Business performance and constant exchange rates Business performance, which is the primary performance measure used by management, is presented after excluding merger items, integration and restructuring costs and the disposal of businesses.
Management believes that exclusion of these items provides a better reection of the way in which the business is managed and gives an indication of the performance of the Group in terms of those elements of revenue and expenditure which local management is able to influence.
This information, which is provided in addition to the statutory results prepared under UK GAAP, which appear on pages 88 and 89, is given to assist shareholders to gain a clearer understanding of the underlying performance of the business and to increase comparability for the periods presented.
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Groups practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate CER growth.
This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in sterling had remained unchanged from those used in the previous year.
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
60 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 61 Financial trends and ratios 2003 Year Statutory results 2003 Growth 2002 Growth 2001 World economy World market pharmaceuticals m CER% % m CER% % m Fears of terrorism, SARS and the war in Iraq, including Global pharmaceutical sales increased by almost nine per cent in Turnover - Pharmaceuticals 18,181 5 1 17,995 8 5 17,205 uncertainties of the wars aftermath, held the headlines in 2003.
-Consumer Healthcare 3,260 4 1 3,217 2 2 3,284 Rising unemployment in a number of major world economies and Total 21,441 5 1 21,212 7 4 20,489 World market by Value % of Growth the collapse of the World Trade Organisation talks in Mexico did geographic region bn total CER% % little to underpin the fragile global economic situation.
However, Cost of sales 4,544 1 4,609 3 4,733 USA 127 46 11 2 optimism for a recovery in the global economy and a more settled Selling, general and administration 7,581 2 6 8,041 1 4 8,408 Europe 76 27 8 15 economic climate emerged in the latter part of the year, though Research and development 2,791 1 4 2,900 12 9 2,651 Germany 15 5 7 15 there remained little confidence for significant improvement in the Trading profit 6,525 21 15 5,662 26 21 4,697 France 14 5 6 14 long term.
UK 9 3 11 11 The USA dominated the areas of recovery, with a vigorous and profit before taxation 6,329 21 15 5,506 28 22 4,517 Italy 9 3 5 13 resilient economic performance, particularly in the consumer Earnings 4,484 20 15 3,915 35 28 3,053 Japan 31 11 2 1 sector.
A growth rate of four per cent was achieved despite Basic earnings per share pence 77.2p 23 17 66.2p 38 32 50.3p Asia Pacic 19 7 9 4 concerns over a growing budget deficit and the possible impact on Latin America 12 4 3 11 Merger, restructuring and disposal of subsidiaries interest rates and taxes.
Middle East, Africa 8 3 17 13 Cost of sales 356 366 303 Canada 6 2 12 11 In the UK, growth was also stronger than expected, although still Selling, general and administration 18 498 957 subdued at 2.3 per cent.
The effects of the first increase in UK Total 279 100 9 5 Research and development 21 168 96 interest rates for four years in the autumn followed by a further Trading profit 395 1,032 1,356 The US market, although less buoyant than 2002, maintained increase in February 2004 have led to predictions that UK rates double digit growth and now represents 46 per cent of the global will increase further over the next 12 to 18 months.
profit before taxation 390 1,011 1,652 prescription pharmaceutical market compared to 31 per cent a In the Euro zone, Germanys economy continued to be weak, Earnings 281 712 1,330 decade ago.
but growth in other countries such as France and Italy improved.
Business performance results Although these improvements were welcomed, there was general At 30th September 2003, GlaxoSmithKline held second position agreement that they did not indicate a long-term trend.
The in the world pharmaceutical market with a market share of Turnover 21,441 5 1 21,212 7 4 20,489 European Central Bank expressed confidence in the zones 6.9 per cent, behind Pzer with a market share of 10.3 per cent.
Cost of sales 4,188 1 4,243 2 4 4,430 economic situation and maintained its interest rates of two per GlaxoSmithKline had seven products in the worlds top 50 Selling, general and administration 7,563 4 7,543 5 1 7,451 cent from the middle of the year.
The impact of the accession of pharmaceutical products: these are Augmentin, Avandia, Research and development 2,770 4 1 2,732 9 7 2,555 ten new countries to the European Union in 2004 and the likely Imigran Imitrex, Seretide Advair, Seroxat Paxil, Wellbutrin and Trading profit 6,920 9 3 6,694 15 11 6,053 subsequent changes in the labour force may slow future economic Zofran.
profit before taxation 6,719 8 3 6,517 11 6 6,169 World market Value % of Growth Adjusted earnings 4,765 8 3 4,627 11 6 4,383 Towards the end of the year, other industrialised nations followed top five therapeutic classes bn total CER% % Adjusted earnings per share pence 82.1p 10 5 78.3p 13 8 72.3p the USA by reporting signs of recovery.
Chinas growth was healthy Cardiovascular 47 17 7 4 at 9.1 per cent, with projections for 2004 at a more cautious Central nervous system 46 16 13 8 Research and development Statutory seven per cent.
However, Japans economy showed slower than Alimentary tract and metabolic 36 13 8 4 Pharmaceuticals 2,704 2,791 2,549 expected growth, reecting a continued weakness in business Anti-infectives bacterial, Consumer Healthcare 87 109 102 investment.
Despite this, there was optimism for stronger growth.
viral and fungal excluding vaccines 31 11 7 2 Total 2,791 2,900 2,651 Respiratory 20 7 2 2 Alongside signs of a slow recovery of the global economy in 2003, share price indices improved and halted their three-year decline, Note: data based on 12 months to 30th September 2003.
Interest indicating reduced risks of recession and deation.
Net interest payable 161 141 88 The momentum achieved in the latter stages of the year, Pharmaceutical turnover Interest cover 40 times 40 times 52 times particularly in some economies of Asia and in the USA and UK, All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant indicates a renewed strength in the world economy for 2004, Interest cover is calculated as statutory profit before interest divided by net interest payable.
exchange rates CER unless otherwise stated.
The sterling growth likely to be led again by the USA and followed, albeit less steeply rates may be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover by Tax rate and more slowly, by Europe.
therapeutic area on page 63 and by geographic region on Business performance 27.5% 27.0% 26.8% page 64.
Exchange Statutory results 27.5% 26.5% 29.5% Total pharmaceutical turnover in 2003 was 18,181 million The currencies that most influence the Groups results are the US Borrowings compared with 17,995 million in 2002, an increase of five per dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
Approximately one per cent of this overall growth came from Net debt 1,648 2,335 2,101 The pound hit its highest level against the dollar for more than price increases and the remainder from volume growth.
Growth Gearing 16% 24% 20% three years, climbing to $1.79 at the year-end, and the Euro gained in sterling terms of one per cent was signicantly impacted by the The gearing ratio is calculated as net debt as a percentage of shareholders funds, net debt and minority interests.
20 per cent against the dollar in 2003, the first year that the dollar weakness of the US dollar and other currencies.
has fallen in value against the Euro, as investors weighed up the Within the Groups portfolio, turnover of new products launched impact of continued unrest in Iraq, tension elsewhere in the world in a major market within the last five years accounted for 25 per and concerns for the US economy.
cent of total turnover and grew by 29 per cent to 4,633 million.
Turnover of the more established, franchise products amounted to 9,888 million representing 54 per cent of total turnover and grew one per cent compared to last year.
Turnover of older products, now less actively promoted, was 3,660 million, a decline of eight per cent, representing 21 per cent of total turnover.
