CORPORATE STRATEGY Objectives Differentiation The sustained addition of shareholder value is the principal The differentiation of our three businesses is crucial to our goal of our strategy and is achieved by a clear and focused success and we have positioned them to trade successfully approach to securing long-term profit growth in our chosen without employing pricing as a primary competitive tool.
The leisure, hospitality and drinks industries have We differentiate our position by: changed radically over the last decade.
We have pursued a consistent strategy since the mid-1990s which has operating in and revitalising traditional sectors of both anticipated and addressed the forces at work in the hospitality and drinks markets our markets.
Our emphasis on achieving organic profit raising the quality of our assets and people growth, supplemented by a prudent investment strategy, marketing brands which possess a strong consumer from a portfolio of high quality pubs and brands has proved franchise highly successful and offers much scope for future increases targeting our businesses on achieving sustainable in shareholder value.
Market trends Quality pubs Our markets continue to fragment as consumers become High quality pubs offering good service achieve a distinctive more demanding and diverse in their requirements, while position in their local market and thereby secure attractive competition increases as businesses consolidate.
We believe long-term economic returns.
Good branding can benefit the that highly focused, well managed businesses which comprise individual outlet, but is secondary to the virtues of a good excellent people, pubs and brands will be well placed site and excellent service provided by well-motivated staff.
to secure long-term advantage in these conditions at the Furthermore, the traditional pub offers a very flexible trading expense of both larger, less focused companies and smaller, format that can appeal to a broad spectrum of consumers on weaker competitors.
different occasions, thereby maximising outlet sales revenues without requiring continual major reinvestment.
2 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2002 2003 CORPORATE STRATEGY Beer brands The declining interest of the dominant international brewers in the traditional ale market has provided our strong portfolio of brands with an excellent opportunity to win market leadership in both cask and packaged formats.
Our brands have been able to achieve consistent and profitable growth through the pursuit of these values: the delivery of excellent product quality to the consumer consistent and significant marketing investment innovative brand presentation and formats high levels of customer service.
Our share of the British cask ale market rose 2 percentage points to 15.4 per cent Consistency We have pursued a consistent strategy and have avoided the vicissitudes caused by frequent changes in direction, while continually refining our response to market and environment changes.
Our profit growth and capacity to deliver substantial free cash flow have been very reliable and, backed by a strong balance sheet, we have been able to achieve well above average earnings per share and dividend growth over many years.
Strategic development The structure of our industry continues to change at a dizzy pace.
Such dramatic developments are likely to produce opportunities for growth by strategic acquisition or further investment in our existing assets.
We will pursue those initiatives which build sustainable shareholder value by strengthening our core business.
