DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES Graham Greene Alan Bowkett Neil Gillis Michael Shallow Tim Bridge David McCall Rooney Anand Howard Phillips David Elliott David McCall, CBE, DL David Elliott Chairman and independent non-executive director 68.
Appointed Managing director, Pub Partners 49.
Joined the company from to the board as non-executive chairman in 1995.
Former chairman Scottish & Newcastle Retail and was appointed to the board of Anglia Television Group Limited, and chairman of the Norfolk & in 1998.
Norwich Millennium Company and of the Council of the University of East Anglia.
Neil Gillis Managing director, Pub Company 38.
Joined the company from Tim Bridge Heinz and was appointed to the board in 2000.
Joined the company in 1970 and was appointed to the board in 1977.
Became managing director in 1990 Graham Greene, CBE and chief executive in 1994.
Appointed to the board in 1979.
Chairman of London Merchant Securities plc and Rooney Anand former chairman of the trustees of the British Museum.
Joined the company from Sara Lee and was appointed to the board in 2001.
Howard Phillips Independent non-executive director 62.
Appointed to the board Alan Bowkett in 1998.
Former chief executive of Perkins Foods plc, now a nonIndependent non-executive director and chairman of the audit executive director of Martin Currie European Investment Trust plc committee 52.
Appointed to the board in 1993.
Former chief and a trustee of the Lloyds TSB Foundation for England and Wales.
executive of Berisford plc, now chairman of Metzeler APS SA and of Michael Shallow, FCA the supervisory board of Acordis BV.
Joined the company from Kingfisher and Accenture and was appointed to the board in 1991.
Members of the Members of the Members of the audit committee remuneration committee nomination committee Alan Bowkett chairman David McCall chairman David McCall chairman Graham Greene Alan Bowkett Alan Bowkett Howard Phillips Graham Greene Tim Bridge Howard Phillips Graham Greene 8 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2002 2003
