DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their annual report together with the audited financial statements of the company and the group for the year ended 4 May 2003.
Profits and dividends The groups profit before taxation, exceptional items and the amortisation of goodwill for the period amounted to 75.0 million 2002 - 69.2 million.
A net interim dividend of 8.60p per share 2002 7.85p was paid on 27 January 2003.
The directors recommend a net final dividend of 21.30p per ordinary share 2002 19.45p, making a total dividend for the period of 29.90p per share 2002 27.30p.
Subject to the approval of shareholders at the annual general meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 5 September 2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1 August 2003.
The total dividends for the period amount to 21.4 million and the retained profit of 25.8 million will be transferred to reserves.
Activities Greene King plc is the holding company for a group whose principal activities are operating managed, tenanted and leased public houses, brewing beer, and wholesaling beers, wines and soft drinks.
The chairmans statement, the chief executives review and the financial review provide further details of the groups activities during the period and likely future developments and form part of this report.
The disclosures within the directors remuneration report and corporate governance statement also form part of this report.
The only significant change in the companys activities during the period was the acquisition of the entire issued share capital of Morrells of Oxford Limited on 17 June 2002.
Directors Details of the current directors are given on page 8.
All of these directors held office throughout the period.
Under article 85 of the companys articles of association Alan Bowkett retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
He is a non-executive director and does not therefore have a service contract.
Details of the directors service agreements, remuneration, and interests in shares and share options are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 41 to 46.
Except as disclosed, there have been no changes in their interests between 4 May 2003 and the date of this report.
Interests in contracts No director had a material interest in any contract that was significant in relation to the groups business at any time during the period.
Share capital Details of the share capital of the company are set out in note 22 to the accounts on page 36.
A total of 341,051 ordinary shares of 25p each with an aggregate nominal value of 85,263 were allotted, for cash, during the period in connection with the companys sharesave and executive share option schemes.
The company has purchased in the market a total of 2,923,060 of its own ordinary shares of 25p each, with an aggregate nominal value of 730,765.
Of the shares so purchased 2,808,060 were cancelled during the period, and represent 3.92% of the current issued share capital.
The remaining 115,000 shares purchased were cancelled after the period end and represent a further 0.16% of the current issued share capital.
The aggregate consideration for these purchases was 20,006,756, equating to a weighted average of 684p per share.
The company lowered its weighted average cost of capital and enhanced its earnings per share as a result of these purchases.
38 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2002 2003 DIRECTORS REPORT A number of resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting in connection with the companys share capital: Share allotment authority This resolution seeks to renew the authority of the directors to allot securities in the company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,966,260, being the authorised but unissued capital of the company and representing approximately 33.3 per cent of the current issued ordinary share capital, for up to fifteen months after the AGM.
Dis-application of statutory pre-emption rights This resolution seeks to renew the authority of the directors to dis-apply pre-emption rights and allot equity securities for cash in connection with a rights issue and otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of 894,939, being approximately 5 per cent of the current issued ordinary share capital, for up to fifteen months after the AGM.
Authority for purchase of own shares This resolution seeks to renew shareholders authority for the company to make market purchases of its own shares, as permitted by article 8 of the Articles of Association.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled or held in treasury.
The directors would only purchase and cancel shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders generally.
The authority that will be sought contains several important restrictions, being: the authority is limited to a specific period of time and only permits 7,159,513 shares with a nominal value of 1,789,878, being 10 per cent of the companys current issued share capital, to be purchased on the London Stock Exchange: the minimum price per share which may be paid is the nominal value of 25p: the maximum price per share that may be paid is 105 per cent of the average mid-market price for the companys shares as shown in the Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the purchase.
Full exercise of all options outstanding at the date of this report would require the issue of 3,071,265 ordinary shares.
This represents 4.29% of the current issued share capital and 4.77% of the share capital if the proposed authority to purchase own shares had been obtained and exercised in full.
The company has issued no warrants to subscribe for share capital.
Substantial shareholdings At the date of this report, the company has not been notified of any material interest of 3 per cent or more in its issued ordinary share capital.
Employment policies Internal communications The group is committed to involving employees in its activities and believes that effective communication brings important business benefits.
This is achieved through regular briefings, internal news announcements and access to an intranet for all computer-using employees, whilst information about the business is published in a range of in-house magazines and the annual report.
Employee benefits The group operates a profit-sharing scheme open to all employees with the requisite qualifying service and a sharesave option scheme open to all employees.
The schemes are intended to enhance commitment to the success of the company and details of them can be found in the notes to the accounts.
All employees are offered access to a  defined contribution pension scheme.
Training and development The group is committed to developing its people.
Training and development opportunities are provided for all employees, and range from bar skills training to MBA programmes.
By giving employees the skills and knowledge essential to perform their jobs effectively, the group believes it will create a professional and highly motivated workforce that will take the business forward.
Equal opportunities The group is committed to the principle of equal opportunities for all.
The rationale for recruitment and selection is the ability and aptitude of applicants.
Disabled people are offered the same opportunities as all others in respect of recruitment, training, promotion and career development, taking account of their skills and qualifications.
Employees who become disabled will be retained and retrained wherever possible.
39 DIRECTORS REPORT Environmental policy The group regards compliance with relevant environmental laws and the adoption of responsible standards as integral parts of its business operations.
It is also committed to introducing measures to limit any adverse effects its business may have on the environment and will promote continuous improvement in accordance with the best available techniques.
The overall responsibility for environmental policy rests with the board, but the managing directors of the divisions are responsible for the sound environmental management of their particular operations.
Charitable donations Donations for charitable purposes made during the period amounted to 23,700 2002 - 57,950.
The group made no political donations.
Going concern The directors expect the group to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and have, therefore, used the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Payments to suppliers The group understands the benefits to be derived from maintaining good relationships with its suppliers and where possible enters into agreements over payment terms.
Where such terms have not been agreed it is the group policy to settle invoices close to the end of the month following invoicing.
This policy is dependent on suppliers providing accurate, timely and sufficiently detailed invoices.
Payment in respect of 35 days average purchases from trade creditors was outstanding at the end of the period 2002 - 33 days.
Annual general meeting and special business The annual general meeting will be held at 12 noon on Friday 29 August 2003 at Culford School, Culford, Suffolk.
The notice of the annual general meeting and an explanation of the items of non-routine business are set out in the explanatory circular that accompanies this annual report.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office and a resolution to re-appoint the firm as the companys auditors will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
By order of the board Adrian Bushnell Company Secretary 2 July 2003 40 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2002 2003
