36128 CR 2003 Annual Report A4 4 22 04 9:49 AM Page 6 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 MANAGING DIRECTORS REPORT I became Managing Director of Greggs at the beginning of 1984, the year in which we floated on the stock market.
Over these 20 years we have expanded the business by almost 1,000 shops, and increased sales from 37 million to 457 million.
Pre-tax profit has grown from 1.7 million to 40.5 million, a compound growth rate of 17 per cent per annum, with only one small setback in 1991. Dividend growth has been consistent and ahead of the rate of profit progress at a compound rate of 19 per cent.
We have also created jobs for more than 14,000 additional people.
All this has been reflected in the rise in our share price from its flotation level of 135 pence to 31.40 at the end of 2003.
Whilst these anniversaries make it a natural time to look back, our business focus remains firmly on the future and on our ambitious plans for continued growth as Europes finest bakery-related retailer.
TRADING PERFORMANCE Satisfactory progress was achieved during 2003, despite the well-publicised impact of over a wide range of ingredients including flour, meat and dairy products.
With many the heatwave at the time of our interim results announcement in August.
This has to be ingredient prices effectively denominated in euros, currency movements contributed to balanced against the benefit of favourable weather in the early part of the year, and we these pressures together with the effects of poor harvests across Europe as a result would regard conditions over the year as a whole as being no worse than the long term of the very hot summer.
Group like-for-like sales for the year grew by 3.3 per cent, including a core Including the benefit of new shop openings in the current and prior year, total sales rose by 8.1 volume increase of 1.5 per cent.
Having grown by 4.7 per cent in the first half per cent, comprising increases of 9.9 per cent in the first half and 6.8 per cent in the second.
24 weeks, like-for-like sales growth over the second half averaged 2.2 per cent, with Cost reduction measures across the Group contributed to the 10.8 per cent performance showing a gradually improving trend after the period of exceptionally improvement in operating profit to 39.2 million.
With net interest receivable hot weather.
Although consumer spending overall appears to have remained robust, we remaining at around 1.3 million, pre-tax profit grew saw some evidence of weaker customer traffic on the high street during the second half, by 10.4 per cent to 40.5 million.
Our selling prices increased by 1.8 per cent over the year as a whole, rising from 1.7 per cent in the first half to 1.9 per cent in the second.
Our constant drive to upgrade products remained an important contributor to this, but we also had to recover a range of cost increases including a further substantial rise in business insurance premiums, higher National Insurance contributions from April and, in the final quarter, inflation PAGE 6 36128 CR 2003 Annual Report A4 4 22 04 9:50 AM Page 7 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 The first Greggs in a petrol station Our new filling station Greggs continuously reviews its shop portfolio to ensure that our products are available where consumers want to buy them - whether they are at home or at work, or out on shopping or leisure trips.
Relocations target higher-traffic locations, and experiments with new types of site last year included the opening of our first outlet on a petrol station forecourt.
PAGE 7 36128 CR 2003 Annual Report A4 4 22 04 9:50 AM Page 8 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Continued work on the Bakers Oven seated catering format is designed to create a more modern ambience with a broader customer appeal.
There has been an encouraging initial response to this latest concept, while sales have responded well to the roll-out of our improved sandwich range.
These initiatives are helping us to create a winning Bakers Oven format which we can expand alongside Greggs in the future.
Caf culture comes to Bakers Oven PAGE 8 36128 CR 2003 Annual Report A4 4 22 04 9:50 AM Page 9 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 MANAGING DIRECTORS REPORT continued GREGGS BRAND UK PRODUCT PROFILE Once again the nine Greggs divisions were the main drivers of group sales and profits.
Like-forSavouries and sandwiches remained the main driver of Group sales.
There was evidence like sales grew by 3.8 per cent over the year as a whole, including a core volume increase of 1.8 of a slowdown in overall growth in the sandwich market, which also saw increased per cent.
This comprised like-for-like sales increases of 5.4 per cent in the first half and 2.6 competition.
Savouries were our strongest-growing category under the Greggs brand, per cent in the second, including core volume uplifts of 3.6 and 0.4 per cent respectively.
though sandwiches performed more strongly in Bakers Oven as a result of our focus on Divisional highlights included an outstanding performance by our business in Wales and improving its product offer.
We also continued to respond to changing consumer the South West, and continued strong growth in Scotland.
After a number of years of requirements in Greggs, with the launch of the Lifestyle Choice range of healthier-eating excellent progress the recent integration of our divisions in the South East, together with sandwiches.
Cakes and confectionery products showed modest like-for-like sales growth, disruptive expansion works in our Enfield bakery, contributed to a short term setback in while the traditional bakery staples of bread and rolls continued to decline as a proportion the region.
The integration of our former Enfield and Twickenham divisions is now of our sales.
progressively bedding down, under a unified management team, and we expect to see STRATEGIC PRINCIPLES a steady improvement in performance during 2004.
We have maintained our strong focus on the Group-wide Mission, Vision and Values BAKERS OVEN BRAND statement set out inside the front cover of this report and have made further progress in The four Bakers Oven divisions together made a satisfactory increase in their profit each of the key areas this defines.
Like-for-like sales grew by 1.6 per cent over the year, A Great Place to Work.
One of the founding principles of Greggs is that we put including a core volume rise of 0.3 per cent.
Having grown by 2.4 per cent in the first people first.
We are passionate in our belief that if the company treats its people half, including core volume growth of 0.6 per cent, second half like-for-like sales correctly, they will treat customers with similar consideration and so help to deliver advanced by 0.9 per cent while core volumes were flat.
In the last few months of the year the performance that shareholders expect.
I believe that our track record demonstrates sales growth improved, benefiting from a positive consumer response to our the effectiveness of this philosophy.
We continually seek to improve working conditions enhancement of the Bakers Oven sandwich offer.
in our shops and bakeries, and to ensure that the Greggs culture is one that enables During the final quarter we appointed a new national managing director of the Bakers people to derive real enjoyment and satisfaction from what they do.
There has been a Oven brand, Martin Kibler, who will focus on driving the continued improvement of its particular emphasis on ensuring that we really do treat people in line with our Values product offer, retail environment and profitability.
and that the behaviour of our staff at all levels reflects this.
Greggs will prosper only by delivering products that people GREGGS CONTINENTAL EUROPE enjoy.
Hence we attach great importance to maintaining a continuous flow of new and Our first two shops on the Continent, at Antwerp and Leuven in Belgium, opened early in improved products that reflect customer expectations and their changing tastes.
Both have achieved progressive sales improvements after a slow start, as our local The most significant product innovation during the year was the launch of our Lifestyle management team has worked to refine our product range and retail format, and to build Choice range of sandwiches, based on growing evidence of consumer demand for consumer awareness.
We have always viewed this as a long-term, low-risk experiment to healthier-eating options.
These included the main Lifestyle Choice range using a 50% determine the potential of the Greggs concept in Continental markets.
This learning process fat-reduced mayonnaise, a Just selection of simple fillings with no mayonnaise and a will continue in the current year, when we expect to open at least two more shops in Belgium.
5% fat spread, and a Low Fat range containing under 3g of fat per pack.
Initially trialled in Greggs of the North East and South East, to a positive customer response, these RETAIL PROFILE products are being rolled out across the Greggs divisions.
We are also successfully We opened 68 new shops during the year and closed 39, including 13 re-sites to better developing other low-fat carrier options, such as wraps, and in the longer term we will locations.
This gave us a net increase of 29 shops to a total of 1,231 at the year end.
look to the potential development of Lifestyle Choice in other product categories.
This comprised 1,009 under the Greggs brand, a net addition of 36: and 222 under the Our capabilities in product development and testing have been greatly enhanced by the Bakers Oven fascia, a net reduction of 7.
We also completed 22 comprehensive shop work of our group technical centre in Balliol Park, Newcastle upon Tyne, which has also refurbishments and 20 minor refits during the year.
enabled us to maintain the highest standards of food safety through its facilities for the Both the new shop opening and refurbishment programmes were slower than we had rapid microbiological testing of ingredients and products.
originally planned, as we focused on refining the new Greggs format to soften its Business Excellence.
Continuous improvement in every area of our business is the takeaway orientation and re-emphasise our strong bakery heritage, and also to reduce its objective of everyone in Greggs.
We endeavour to assist this by striving to simplify what we cost.
A further tranche of refits under an enhanced Greggs format is scheduled for the do, and by facilitating and encouraging effective two-way communication throughout the coming months and, if these units meet our expectations, we will gradually accelerate the Group.
This enables all our people to understand our corporate goals and the contribution pace of refurbishments and new shop openings during the year.
Our current target is to that they can make to realising them.
We continue to attach importance to systematic add a net total of 30 shops to our portfolio by the end of 2004.
PAGE 9 36128 CR 2003 Annual Report A4 4 22 04 9:50 AM Page 10 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 MANAGING DIRECTORS REPORT continued targeting, benchmarking and the measurement of progress, and have started to use EFQM CASH FLOW AND BALANCE SHEET total quality management standards with their emphasis on raising business performance The Group has consistently demonstrated its strong cash generating capabilities.
through self-assessment and the identification of critical areas for improvement.
Net cash on the balance sheet at the year end had risen to 36.4 million, compared with Challenging Targets.
For many years we have set and achieved stretching targets for 28.6 million at the end of 2002. the expansion of the business.
Our latest goal, which has been in place since 1998, is to attain Group turnover of 1 billion and 1,700 shops by 2010.
Progress towards these PEOPLE targets is currently behind schedule, chiefly because we had assumed at the time they Our business depends entirely on its people, and our philosophy of making Greggs were set that we would be able to drive expansion of the Bakers Oven brand alongside A Great Place To Work is based on our belief that this is not only the right thing to do, Greggs.
In fact the Bakers Oven chain has contracted to date, though we are continuing but also makes sound business sense.
Our 14,200 shop staff are our daily point of to progress towards the right formula to drive its expansion.
We remain committed to contact with our customers, and the 2,700 people who work in production and our targets and are as confident as ever in the long term potential of the business, distribution ensure the timely delivery of quality, enjoyable products.
Our reputation with scope for at least 2,000 shops under our existing brands in the UK and additional depends entirely on the service and products these two groups provide, while our 1,000 opportunities on the Continent.
people in management and administration ensure that the Group operates efficiently for Caring for the Community.
From its earliest days, the Group has been committed the benefit of all its stakeholders.
Once again, I would like to thank all our people for to putting something back into the communities where it operates, particularly in areas their individual contributions to another year of progress.
The Greggs Breakfast Clubs, providing free breakfasts for children CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND REGULATION in selected primary schools, have continued to expand successfully and now operate in 60 locations.
The Group continues to be a strong supporter of Business in the We continue to strive for good standards of corporate governance, and to comply with Community, and during the year I was appointed HRH The Prince of Wales Regional all relevant legislation, regulations and codes of best practice.
Across every area of our Ambassador for the North East.
The annual Childrens Cancer Run in Newcastle, which business, however, we are faced with a rising tide of legislation and bureaucracy which is we have sponsored since 1983, has raised a total of more than 2 million for cancer occupying increasing amounts of management time and can ultimately only detract from research.
Other initiatives during the year included support for the launch of a credit our ability to achieve profitable growth.
While we recognise that much of what union on Wearside.
The Group is a founder member of the Per Cent Club and our total Government proposes is well-intentioned, I appeal to them to temper some of their charitable donations during the year amounted to 420,000 2002: 379,000, proposals with common sense and to examine the scope for businesses to undertake principally channelled through the Greggs Trust.
We also recognise the importance of sensible self-regulation in many areas so as not to dampen enterprise or innovation.
corporate environmental responsibility, and continue our efforts to minimise the impact THE FUTURE of our operations on the environment in areas such as energy utilisation, the recycling of packaging and the disposal of waste materials.
As the Chairman has noted, we believe that we can achieve continued progress despite the more competitive trading environment, building on our established strength as the CAPITAL INVESTMENT leading specialist operator in our field.
Our focus has always been on long term growth, Capital expenditure during 2003 was 32.4 million, compared with a record and on reducing risk.
This means making investment decisions on expansion only when 42.1 million in 2002, when we made a substantial land purchase for future expansion.
we are sure that we have got things right.
Hence the recent slowing of shop openings The 2003 total comprised investment of 14.3 million in new shops and refurbishments, and refits in the UK while we refine the Greggs format, and our cautious approach to 13.8 million in land, buildings and plant, and 4.3 million in vehicles.
This was lower development on the Continent.
I expect that the pace of shop refurbishments will than we had originally expected, largely reflecting the slower rate of new shop openings accelerate as the year progresses, and we will also make increasing investment in support and refits.
Major capital projects undertaken during the year included the redevelopment of our core Greggs brand.
I have greatly enjoyed my first 20 years with Greggs, and of our Enfield bakery in London, increasing its capacity by over 50 per cent, and the I am as confident today as when I joined the business of the Groups long term growth extension of our Birmingham bakery.
We also began work on an expansion project in potential.
I look forward to reporting on our continued progress.
All these investments are essential to provide additional capacity to support the future growth of our retail operations, and to ensure that all our plants operate to the highest standards of quality, consistency and safety.
Our investment plans for the business in 2004 are for total capital expenditure of some 34 million.
This will include the completion of our Leeds bakery development and an Sir Michael Darrington extension of our Edinburgh facility, as well as the opening of a net 30 new shops and an Managing Director acceleration of our refit programme as the year progresses.
5 March 2004 PAGE 10 36128 CR 2003 Annual Report A4 4 22 04 9:50 AM Page 11 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 We will be enthusiastic and supportive in all that we do, open, honest and appreciative, treating everyone with fairness, consideration and respect.
We firmly believe that our business success has been based on the principle of putting people first.
By trying to make Greggs A Great Place To Work, we will ensure that our team is motivated to go on providing the friendly and efficient service for which we are famous.
A major initiative this year involved video presentations on the importance of Our Values to all our almost 18,000 staff.
