14 12 GWR Group plc GWR Group plc Executive chairmans statement Business overview Annual report and accounts 2003 Annual report and accounts 2003 01 1 Business overview Financial Improvement in pre-tax profits before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items as a result of restructuring and disposal of loss-making operations, in spite of a fall in revenues Year-on-year UK like-for-like revenues down less than 2% Strong cash inflow from operating activities of 21.8 million Balance sheet strengthened with net debt reduced by 64.5 million to 99.2 million at the year end Post year end disposals reduce debt further by 33 million Corporate The Groups disposal strategy to focus on its core UK stations largely complete resulting in significant reduction of debt and elimination of losses Post year end sale of businesses in Hungary for 18 million Post year end sale of shareholding in Vibe Radio Services Ltd to Scottish Radio Holdings for 17.6 million Operational Analogue Reorganised UK operating structures to create a platform for growth Local Radio Group: 7% increase in listening hours in our six major stations Classic FM continues to grow audiences Classic FM TV successfully launched Digital Consumer uptake of Digital has begun to gain momentum with the Digital Radio Development Bureau forecasting UK sales of 500,000 receivers by the end of 2003 GWR Group plc Business overview Annual report and accounts 2003 02 Financial results Executive chairmans The Groups total revenues for the year were 127.1 million 2002: 128.4 million, of which 91% was derived from statement 2002 3 the UK.
Underlying UK radio revenues were 2.3% down compared Ralph Bernard CBE to last year.
National radio revenues, which represented 59% of our total UK advertising revenues, performed well, growing by 0.6% year-on-year.
Local radio revenues We have made excellent progress in delivering our stated were down by 6.6%, partly reflecting our shifting of strategy over the past twelve months.
The company is now inventory towards the more lucrative national market in a significantly stronger position, despite trading during the year.
conditions during this period continuing to be difficult.
Operating profits, before goodwill amortisation and In May 2002 we set out a strategy that involved a focus exceptional items, were 14.7 million 2002: 16.4 million.
on our UK businesses where we saw the best opportunities Profits before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional to create additional value for shareholders, and a reduction items amounted to 8.6 million 2002: 7.7 million.
of our debt by disposing of non-core assets in the UK and overseas.
At the time of our interim results, we included a non-cash impairment provision of 12.9 million against the carrying We have successfully reorganised our UK operations values of our European assets.
Having sold the majority and introduced new systems with significant benefits of these assets in the last six months, we have been able now showing through.
to release 5.0 million of this provision.
We have again reduced our staff numbers resulting in Exceptional items, including goodwill impairment a further annualised saving in staff costs of 3.0 million.
of 7.9 million, total a charge of 15.3 million 2002: 13.4 million.
This also includes a net loss of 5.4 million With the sale of our Hungarian businesses for in relation to disposals during the year and 1.7 million 18 million, announced today, we have now virtually relating to restructuring costs.
completed the process of disposing of our overseas and non-core UK radio operations.
These assets together After amortisation of goodwill of 8.0 million have accounted for 1.5 million of losses in the year 2002: 9.3 million the loss before tax amounted ended March 2003 2002: 4.1 million.
As a result of disposals during the year, we have Following the disposal of our overseas operations, reduced our debt by 65 million to 99 million.
Further including our interest in DMG Australia and of certain net cash proceeds of 33 million on sales announced assets in the UK, notably our interest in London News today will reduce debt to approximately 66 million.
Radio, we have been able to reduce the level of our debt by 65 million year-on-year.
This reduction Following the decision of the Secretary of State to support will benefit our interest charge in a full year by in excess the recommendation of the Competition Commission of 1.0 million.
in relation to the acquisition of Galaxy 101 by our joint venture company Vibe Radio Services Limited, we have Headline earnings per share for the year were 4.8 pence announced today the disposal of our 49% shareholding in 2002: 4.0 pence.
that company for 17.6 million to Scottish Radio Holdings, which previously owned 51% of VRSL.
We estimate that Throughout the past two difficult years, the Board has this disposal will be earnings neutral in the current been determined to maintain the level of the Groups financial year.
In line with this policy, and reflecting their confidence in the Groups future, the Directors have proposed a final dividend of 3.5 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 5.8 pence, the same as for last year.
The dividend is covered by headline Earnings Per Share EPS 0.8 times 2002: 0.7 times.
Our focus is on strengthening our position in the UK, improving our balance sheet and developing our digital assets.
GWR Group plc Executive chairmans statement 2002 3 Annual report and accounts 2003 03 proposition for Classic FM itself, in particular by attracting Executive chairmans television advertisers to Classic FMs radio output for the first time.
statement 2002 3 continued Digital radio GWR has an unrivalled opportunity in the development of digital radio.
Our interests in digital radio operations comprise: UK analogue radio a controlling interest 63% in the only national Our Local Radio group LRG consists of 32 FM stations commercial digital multiplex, Digital One: with an adult audience of just under five million adults each week.
With 33% of all adults in our broadcast areas management of Digital One and 11 local multiplexes, listening to our stations, we are the commercial market all of which are now profitable businesses: leaders in all but one of these.
This part of our business delivers 70% of our total UK revenues.
broadcast services, including three national digital radio stations Classic FM, Core and Planet Rock and During the year, we implemented a number of important other new local brands, as well as the simulcast of existing changes to LRG.
Firstly, we switched from a management FM and AM services: and system derived from the geographical history of the Group to one based on functional lines of responsibility: substantially all the capacity available on the national programming and sales.
After some disruption during the multiplex for a multimedia data service for a national transitional period of last summer, the new structure is information and entertainment service using datacasting now evidently benefiting our business through shorter technology, which can be integrated and clearer lines of communication, a tighter focus on the into mobile devices.
needs of our local communities and advertisers, and the application of common standards and processes across LRG.
The net cost of these investments has fallen year-on-year from 5.2 million last year to 4.7 million in 2002 03 as a Secondly, Opus, our sales business, has introduced new result of growing profitability of the multiplex business.
sales systems that provide the ability to manage our It is very encouraging that over the past year the customers, our inventory and pricing across all sales points consumer uptake of digital radio has really begun to gain more flexibly.
We are seeing some of the benefits of this momentum.
At the beginning of 2002, it was estimated investment already.
Over the next year, we believe our sales that approximately 50,000 digital radios had been sold in teams will be able to service our customers much more the previous two years.
By the end of the year, this number effectively, and that this will bring extra revenues.
had more than doubled to approximately 130,000, assisted by huge demand for the first sub 100 radio, the PURE Creation, the programming arm of LRG, is determined Evoke 1.
Over this period, new manufacturers have to continue to improve the quality of our output.
This entered the market with a range of new products.
year, Creations management focused its main efforts on Particularly encouraging is the recent announcement that the six principal stations that national advertisers most Roberts, the UKs leading portable radio manufacturer, want to use.
Success is already measurable with the RAJAR is to enter the market in July with 4 new products.
Q1 2003 results announced earlier this month showing that we have increased the total hours of listening to these We are confident that demand will be stimulated further stations by 7% year-on-year, compared with an industry over the next year as other manufacturers develop digital reduction of 1.9%.
The current forecast for the uptake in digital radios given by the Digital Radio Development Bureau The quality of the programming of our local stations DRDB, a body jointly funded by the BBC and the is increasingly being recognised by our industry.
At the commercial radio industry, is that by the end of 2003 recent Sony awards, FM 103 Horizon Milton Keynes there will be 500,000 digital radios in the UK.
The DRDB won the Sony Gold for Station of the Year under 300,000 has set its next objective as winning the confidence of population for the second year running, and Hereward FM major Japanese manufacturers to enter the UK market Peterborough won Gold for the best on-air competition.
If this happens, we believe the uptake For the second year Silver went to Jo & Twiggy, the by consumers will be more rapid.
Morning Crew who present the breakfast show at Trent FM in Nottingham.
Classic FM, the UKs only national commercial FM station, reaches just under seven million adults per week its best ever figure and delivers 21% of the Groups UK revenues.
Classic FM has continued to perform strongly despite the 98m particularly heavy impact of the economic environment on its customer base.
The travel industry, for example, a major source of Classics customers, reduced its demand for advertising significantly in the lead up to the Iraq war reduction and as concern grew over the spread of SARS.
Although, on a quarterly basis, advertising revenues have been in debt to 66m volatile, the quality of the Classic brand ensured that revenues for the year as a whole were up by 1%.
Classic FM has continued to develop its brand on and off-air through its magazine, its website, concerts, CDs and most recently through the launch of Classic FM TV.
Classic FM TV has a weekly reach of 314,000 people with a young, upmarket profile.
It is strengthening the sales GWR Group plc Executive chairmans statement 2002 3 Annual report and accounts 2003 04 We have continued to work on our datacasting project, In January, we appointed Mair Barnes to the Board as a Livetime.
The market for multimedia information and non-executive director.
The majority of her career has been entertainment services broadcast to mobile devices is in retailing.
She was Managing Director of Woolworths plc potentially very large.
We are currently in discussions in the UK until 1994 and Chairman of Vantios plc until with a number of strategic partners in relation to this 1998.
Currently, she holds non-executive positions on the exciting opportunity.
Boards of Scottish Power plc, Patientline plc and the South African company, Woolworths Holdings plc.
Digital radio is an important opportunity for GWR.
Within our Group, we have embryonic businesses, which Outlook we believe will represent significant value in the future.
In the last year, we have made substantial progress in Our strategy is to continue to develop these opportunities, eliminating loss-making businesses, reducing our cost whilst having close regard to the level of investment base and improving our operational effectiveness.
relative to the earnings of the existing core businesses.
Since the beginning of our new financial year, the Disposals advertising market has remained uncertain, characterised In September 2002, we sold our interests in both our major by its continued short-term nature.
DMGT purchased our 25% interest in DMG Radio Australia and our option over the remaining Our local radio business has begun the new financial 75% for 35 million.
Classic FM continues to develop its brand, and should be one of the early beneficiaries of an upturn in We sold our 49% shareholding in London News Radio the advertising market.
Digital radio looks set for another to Chrysalis.
As part of the terms of this sale, we acquired year of progress.
We look forward to the next year with Galaxy 101, the regional dance music station covering the considerable confidence.
Ralph Bernard CBE Today, we announced the sale of our businesses in Executive Chairman Hungary for 18 million, all payable in cash on closing.
22 May 2003 Having declined to sell these assets last year at an unreasonably depressed valuation, in December we succeeded in reaching agreement with the ORTT, the Post year-end Board changes Hungarian regulatory authority, for the companys licence After the Preliminary Results announcement on 22 May to be extended and for the concession fee payable to be 2003, we announced that, following the programme of substantially reduced.
As a result, the price obtained for disposals and streamlining completed over the year, the the business is materially higher than the value reflected Board of GWR had concluded that it no longer requires in the balance sheet at the time of our interim results six executive directors.
Consequently Patrick Taylor, in November 2002.
Chief Executive, and Simon Ward, New Media and Digital Director, will step down from the Board after Following these transactions we have largely completed the AGM on 31 July 2003. our overseas disposal programme with the exception of our wholly owned station in Salzburg, Austria and our Patrick joined the Board of GWR as Finance Director and 48% interest in FM plus in Bulgaria which is profitable.
Over the last two years as Chief Executive, he led the team which has been Communications Bill responsible for the successful implementation of the The Communications Bill is progressing through disposal programme and the strengthening of GWRs Parliament.
Despite its slow passage through the House balance sheet, and the re-organisation of the UK Group.
of Lords, it is expected that the Bill will receive Royal Assent When he steps down from the Board and relinquishes his later this year.
We were disappointed by the Competition Chief Executive responsibilities, Patrick has accepted a role Commissions ruling with regard to the local position of as non-executive Chairman of Livetime, the Groups DAB Vibe Galaxy.
We believe that while consolidation will be datacasting development arm.
possible on a national basis, small local transactions of a non strategic nature will be more difficult.
However, Patricks responsibilities will be assumed by Steve Orchard, GWR is particularly well placed to take advantage of Operations Director of Local Radio and Roger Lewis, consolidation under these conditions.
Managing Director of Classic FM, who along with the Group Finance Director Wendy Pallot, will report direct Our proposed new regulator, Ofcom, has now appointed to me as Executive Chairman.
its board, together with its executive team.
Subject to the Bill receiving the Royal Assent, it should assume its Simon Ward has been New Media and Digital Director regulatory powers on 15 December.
We hope that since 2000, after joining the Board as Sales and Marketing Ofcom will indeed be the light-touch regulator that the Director in 1996.
To strengthen the management of Government has said is needed.
Our objectives are directly GWRs digital radio operations, Simon will continue to be in line with those of Ofcom.
We want to provide great employed by the company and will in future concentrate radio that is relevant, informative and entertaining to our exclusively on leading GWRs digital radio division.
We hope that Ofcom will judge us on the quality report to me as Executive Chairman.
of our product, not on the processes we use to deliver it.
In his seven years as Finance Director and Chief Executive, Board changes Patrick has shown total commitment to maximising the In the past year, we have made a number of important value of GWRs business, and has achieved much.
The Board changes to the Board.
Richard Palmer, previously vicewishes to place on record its deep gratitude to Patrick and chairman of the Group, Eddie Blackwell, Jonathan Trafford also to Simon for their contributions to the Board.
We are and Nicholas Tresilian, the founding Chairman of GWR, pleased that we shall continue to have the benefit of their have all resigned from the Board.
The Group owes a great knowledge and experience in their new roles at Livetime debt to each of these individuals for their service to the and in the digital division, where there is so much potential Group over many years.
GWR Group plc Executive chairmans statement 2002 3 Annual report and accounts 2003 05
