Focus: Digital radio 500,000 digital radios will be in use in the UK by the end of 2003, forecasts the Digital Radio Development Bureau.
GWR Group plc Digital radio Annual report and accounts 2003 06 Advertisers are beginning to see the advantages of digital Digital radio radio as receiver take-up improves and RAJAR audience data is released for the new raft of stations.
Increasingly, digital radio services are also broadcast as audio channels on digital television, providing access to more than 7 million homes these TV listeners are an important additional audience and an excellent sampling target, users who enjoy listening to digital radio and can be persuaded to purchase a DAB receiver to use elsewhere The key growth driver for commercial radio over the next in the home, or in the car.
10 years will be digital radio.
Offering more choice of stations, better quality output and easier tuning, Digital The enhanced advertising possibilities of digital radio are Audio Broadcasting technology has been adopted by both now emerging, with the sets scrolling text display offering commercial radio and the BBC.
Digital One launched 7 new increased exposure for brand names and contact details.
digital stations and 3 simulcasts of the national commercial The ability to highlight in on-screen text important aspects analogue stations in 1999, and the BBC has added the of the audio in an advertisement, or to offer supplementary peak-time service 5 Live Sports Extra, 6 Music, 1 Extra, information on screen to complement the audio treatment, the Asian Network, the World Service and BBC 7 to its will offer advertisers a new incentive to bring their brands simulcasts of the 5 national analogue networks.
to this are the local multiplexes springing up around the country a typical urban listener can now hear more than The DRDB has studied the take-up curves for new 40 stations on digital radio, a significant increase on the technology introductions such as Compact Disc, Video 15 typically available via analogue broadcasts.
Cassette Recorders, and DVD players.
In each case, the increasing availability of a wide range of content has The attraction of these new stations has been amplified combined with a falling retail price to trigger an by a fall in price and rise in functionality of DAB receivers.
exponential rise in consumer take-up.
With digital radio The 99 PURE Evoke 1 set has been joined in the market adding new multiplexes and channels to attract listeners by new offerings from manufacturers such as Goodmans, around the country, and retail prices reducing as the ARCAM, Cambridge Audio, Blaupunkt and Roberts Radio.
market grows, DRDB forecasts show that digital radio The new Roberts range includes an innovative rewind is on course to make its mark as a mass-market product.
feature which allows users to recall the last few minutes of broadcasts, and a pause button to allow a programme to be stopped and then resumed at the same point.
These additional features are likely to increase further the demand for digital radio: in March 2002 there were just 60,000 receivers in the market, now the figure is 150,000 and the industry body the Digital Radio Development Bureau DRDB is forecasting 500,000 by the end of 2003.
In analogue radio, the BBC has the major share of the FM spectrum, giving it the ability to run four national FM networks, in comparison with commercial radios one national FM station, Classic FM.
This spectrum advantage translates to an audience advantage, with the BBC gaining a 53% share of radio listening RAJAR Q1 2003 against commercial radios 45%.
In the digital context, the spectrum is distributed more equally between the sectors, with Digital Ones capacity for 10 commercial channels competing with the BBCs 10 full-time channels, and the local multiplexes typically carrying eight commercial channels alongside the BBCs local radio service for each area.
Availability drives audience share, and the spectrum advantage enjoyed by commercial radio in the digital radio world is expected to translate into increased audience, and increased advertising revenues.
GWR Group plc Digital radio Annual report and accounts 2003 07 GWR Local Radio Group Big 6 stations.
Review of operations 2002 3 5 year listening hour trends Figures in millions Patrick Taylor FCA 22.5 Chief Executive 22 This year has been one of refocusing on our UK 21.5 operations, on our new functional management structure, and on developing our digital radio assets.
The disposal of 21 our overseas businesses is virtually complete, new IT systems are increasing yield and targeting the most profitable customers, and digital radio is beginning its 20.5 entry to the mass consumer market.
20 Local Radio Group LRG has seen a substantial reduction in staff numbers 99 00 01 02 03 saving 1.9 million a year and has introduced a management structure based on function rather than geography.
This change which groups all programme The quality of Creations output won 3 Sony Radio staff under Creation and concentrates all national and local Academy Awards for LRG for the second year running sales activities under Opus is already leading to improved FM103 Horizon won the Sony Gold for Station of the Year efficiency and faster response times.
Sales people and under 300,000 population, Hereward FM in Peterborough programme makers are managed by specialists and lines won the Gold for best on-air competition, and Jo and of responsibility are clearer and shorter.
Twiggy won a Silver award for their breakfast show at Trent FM in Nottingham.
Jo and Twiggy also won the Social Both Creation and Opus have clear and stretching Action award at the ntl Commercial Radio awards, and objectives Creation to produce the right audience of the Mercia FM won the ntl Marketing Excellence Award.
right age in the right locations for Opus, and Opus to use those audiences to achieve the advertising revenue targets.
Opus is now seeing the benefit of new systems covering Perhaps the greatest advantage of the new functional inventory management, campaign planning, pricing and management structure is the ability to allocate the most booking.
Audio distribution around the Group is now resources to the stations with the greatest profit potential.
automated, allowing commercials to reach the point of Creation has focused its efforts on our six largest local radio broadcast much more rapidly, and a new advertising stations and has seen hours of listening increase from scheduling system will go live in summer 2003.
Already 20.6 million in Quarter 1 2002 to 22.3 million in Quarter 1 yield is improving, pricing is following demand more 2003, against the background of a 1.9% fall in listening to closely, and inventory availability is improving, even at the industry as a whole.
Creation now creates the content peak times.
Proper segmentation of clients is now possible, for the musicradio.
com websites which support our local allowing those with the greatest revenue potential to stations.
The use of SMS text messaging has become a receive appropriate attention to develop their business.
mainstay of our contact with our young audiences.
The new systems allow managers to react much faster to sales opportunities, and April 2003 saw all GWRs sales Local news is a key component of our appeal to listeners, centres hit target, a consistency of performance which and we have developed innovative systems which will is a tribute to the effectiveness of the new systems.
enable our news teams to spend more time out in the field gathering stories from within our communities, and less time undertaking tasks that were previously duplicated around the Group.
In those areas where we have introduced these systems, we have experienced a noticeable improvement in the quality of our news service and, therefore, intend to adopt these practices elsewhere within the Group.
The greatest advantage of the new functional management structure is the ability to allocate the most resources to the stations with the greatest profit potential.
GWR Group plc Review of operations 2002 3 Annual report and accounts 2003 08 Gemini FM Mercury FM South Hams Radio Champion 103 FM The Buzz 97.1 Orchard FM SGR FM Colchester Coast 96.3 FM FM 103 Horizon Lantern FM 96.2 2Ten FM 96.9 Chiltern FM Mercury 102.7 FM Q103 Broadland 102 MFM 103.4 SGR FM 102.7 Hereward FM Beacon FM Wyvern FM 97 FM Plymouth Sound Focus: Local radio across the UK Our Big 6 stations have seen hours of listening increase by over 7% against the background of a 1.9% fall in listening to the industry as a whole.
LRG stations contribution to total audience GWR Group plc Review of operations 2002 3 Annual report and accounts 2003 09 2CR 96 Trent FM Mercia FM RAM FM 102.4 Severn Sound FM Essex FM inc.
Ten 17 Northants FM 96 97.6 Chiltern FM 105.4 FM Leicester Sound GWR FM 2003 6.9m 2002 6.7m 2001 6.4m 2000 6.1m 1999 5.9m Focus: Classic FM Classic FM achieved another best ever audience figure in the Q1 2003 RAJAR results and has developed into the Groups first true multi-platform brand.
Classic FM listener figures source RAJAR Over 45 Under 45 GWR Group plc Review of operations 2002 3 Annual report and accounts 2003 10 Classic FM Classic FM continues to build its audience, with another best ever audience figure of 6.9 million weekly listeners in the Q1 2003 RAJAR results.
Classic FM has developed into the Groups first true multiplatform brand, with analogue and digital radio stations, the Classic FM magazine, 33% classicfm.
com, Classic FM Live concerts and the new Classic FM TV Channel, available on Sky Digital and ntl cable.
Reaching 8.9 million homes, the channel has been a lowcost addition to the brand portfolio: it attracts a 314,000 of all adults in average weekly reach, with 50% of the audience of an ABC1 profile and 81% of them under 54.
This is a highly our broadcast attractive audience for advertisers, with ABC1s viewing for an average of 17 minutes per session compared with 11 minutes for other music television channels.
Advertising areas listen to revenue is building, and 80% of Classic FM TV advertisers are new to Classic FM radio ideal candidates to transfer for the first time to radio.
GWR stations Classic FM, compared to our Local Radio Group, experiences greater volatility in revenues as the station receives larger orders on a less frequent basis.
Thus if there is a decline in advertiser confidence it can significantly Creation has effect revenues for that period.
This effect was particularly noticeable in the run up to the war in Iraq.
Although we have experienced quarter-on-quarter fluctuations, year-onfocused its year revenue is up 0.8%.
efforts on our Costs have remained under tight control at the station, which has won a number of awards in the year.
The Arts and Business charity named Classic FM its Champion of the six largest local Year for its contribution to classical music and the arts, Creative Director Tim Lihoreau and producer Paul Kelly won the ntl Award for Classic FMs jingle and identification radio stations package, and Managing Director Roger Lewis was the ntl Commercial Radio Programmer of the Year.
The Classic FM Consumer Panel, chaired by Rt.
Chris Smith MP, has done a very effective job in representing the views of listeners to Classic FMs management over the past year.
They have made a number of valuable suggestions which we have implemented on air.
Their Each of our stations has developed a 3 year Growth Plan, first independent report can be found on page 15. a bottom-up business plan which charts how the station will develop in the context of changes in its market, its Classic FMs partnerships with orchestras and arts competitors, and its place in its community.
Newly organisations around the country have continued to develop from performers like the English National Ballet constituted Local Advisory Boards connect our stations to their communities and make sure that local concerns are to the Philharmonia and the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic properly reflected.
Measuring performance in revenue, Orchestra, to venues such as Symphony Hall, Birmingham, audience, profit and community involvement, these station The Lowry and the Wales Millennium Centre, Classic FM development plans focus staff on the key performance encourages listeners to enjoy live music wherever they live.
indicators for the business, and set targets for long-term The campaign to engage young people in classical music, growth in profitability.
Taken as a whole, the Growth Plans with its roots in Music Teacher of the Year, now extends to new partnerships with Music For Youth and the National ensure that the Groups resources are allocated between stations in proportion to their profit potential.
By developing ever closer links with its listeners and the causes they care about, Classic FM has strengthened its proposition to listeners and advertisers and is poised to take advantage of any upturn.
GWR Group plc Review of operations 2002 3 Annual report and accounts 2003 11 Digital Radio GWR is the leading radio company with the only national Commendation data broadcasting capability.
Early consumer demand for digital radio receivers has been encouraging, with the introduction of the 99 PURE Evoke proving that there is a from Good consumer appetite for receivers at the right price.
New personal DAB radios allow users to listen on headphones, and Roberts Radio, the UKs leading radio manufacturer, Corporation will bring 4 new models to the market this summer.
One of these offers a unique rewind function, which allows listeners to rewind to listen to audio broadcast minutes for GWRs earlier.
The ability to catch the weather report or traffic news that has just been broadcast should further stimulate the market for receivers.
community impact The audience attraction of digital radio is starting to emerge.
GWRs national stations will participate in RAJAR from Quarter 3 2003, which will prove the contribution they make to national radio listening.
This is the market where the BBC faces the most competition from the new commercial digital brands carried by Digital One, in which GWR has a 63% share and operates 3 national stations.
The leading Data broadcasting is a developing part of the attraction of digital radio.
The new Roberts sets will have large data screens, allowing the text which scrolls across the display of digital radio current sets to remain static, the whole screen refreshing as new data comes in.
As consumers recognise this advantage, GWR will further develop its data broadcasting service.
company with This is a unique national service regional multiplexes cannot achieve truly national coverage for which GWR the only national has acquired substantially all of the available capacity, and the technical issues are now proven.
The service is likely to run on a subscription basis, and negotiations continue with data broadcasting potential commercial partners.
Regulation capability The legislative activity around the Communications Bill has reached its peak this year, and GWR has been active in supporting the industrys arguments for greater freedom in ownership and content regulation.
Greater ownership freedom has been achieved, with the initial proposal that every area should have at least 3 commercial radio owners in addition to the BBC now relaxed to a requirement for 2 commercial radio owners alongside the BBC.
Analogue licence terms will be extended from 8 years to 12, and the cross-media ownership rules have been clarified and the public interest test abolished.
Content regulation Improved content regulation powers will be granted to Ofcom, the new industry regulator.
These have been developed in consultation with GWR and the industry and will ensure that localness, a key driver of listener loyalty, remains strong in the industry as a whole.
GWR Group plc Review of operations 2002 3 Annual report and accounts 2003 12 Focus: Digital radio GWR has a unique position in digital radio.
Consumer demand for digital radio receivers is encouraging, with the introduction of the 99 PURE Evoke proving the consumer appetite for receivers.
2003: Sales of digital radio receivers source DRDB 500,000 units forecast 1999 GWR Group plc Review of operations 2002 3 Annual report and accounts 2003 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate responsibility is at the heart of GWRs business listeners trust our programmes, advertisers trust that our promotion of their businesses will be effective, and employees trust us to develop their careers.
Last year we committed to achieving full membership of Good 6.9 Corporation, which we were awarded after a detailed verification process which measured the Groups performance against the Good Corporation Charter.
This structure developed by the Institute of Business million weekly Ethics rates the companys activities in 6 broad categories covering Employees, Customers, Suppliers, Communities, the Environment, and Shareholders.
Classic FM We were encouraged to learn that we had exceeded the required standards throughout our business, and especially listeners pleased to be given a commendation by the assessors for our community activities, which, they found, included some outstanding examples of how GWR and its staff help local charities and organisations.
The strategic approach to developing sustainable community projects is very impressive for a company of GWRs size, they said.
An executive summary of their verification report is available on the Classic FM GWR Group website: www.
com The GWR Team multi-platform: It has been an exceptionally tough year for the team of people who make up GWR.
They have seen a series of redundancies and staffing cuts, allied to tight pay analogue and controls and a difficult advertising market which has kept commissions low for our sales staff.
Through all of this the Groups people have worked hard to achieve the successes digital radio we report here.
We have entered the new financial year a much stronger company than we were 12 months earlier, and I would like to thank all our staff for their stations, the continued efforts.
Conclusion Classic FM Since our preliminary results in May, the company has announced that I shall be stepping down as Chief Executive and retiring as a director at the end of July.
I would like magazine, to thank my colleagues within the company for the commitment they have made to GWR during these past two difficult years.
Without it, we would not have been classic fm.
com, able to achieve as much as we have.
I leave the company knowing that it is financially in a significantly stronger position, with a strong management team, and is well Classic FM Live positioned to take advantage of the upturn in the advertising market, whenever it comes.
concerts and the Patrick Taylor FCA Chief Executive new Classic FM TV channel GWR Group plc Review of operations 2002 3 Annual report and accounts 2003 14
