But biggest is rarely best.
Clever in the face of change change in the world we serve and change in the ways we work.
Were happy to be different.
See what we can achieve when we take some of the worlds most famous brands.
Add know-how, substance and scale.
Then finish with a dash of bravado.
positively different 7 If you build a wall without proper foundations, it will tumble down.
Our business is about brands, and what we do with them.
Investing in them provides the structure we need to drive our sales and grow the value of the business.
Were becoming a marketing-led company, investing more money and dedicating an ever greater share of that spending to our core brands.
And were spending better too with precision and to measured effect.
building brands 9 If you want to know how people enjoy our products, just ask.
The who, the what, the why, where and who with.
Were spending more on research to understand our consumers better.
Understanding means we can invest in the right way behind the right brands in the right markets.
And by keeping an ear to the ground, we can predict what they will want in the future.
Meet the need from existing brands.
Our capacity to develop and deliver fresh ideas gives us that option.
Take Tia Lusso, now well established in the UK in little over a year.
In the US, current growth is in white spirits and rum.
So enter WET by Beefeater and Kuya spiced fusion rum from Kahla extending the portfolio, responding to trends.
exploratory thinking Even a job well done can always be done better.
And were always looking to improve the ways we work.
But chasing best practice isnt enough.
We're looking for emerging practice the brave new ideas that challenge accepted wisdom and outdated processes.
The joined up thinking that gets us there first.
Because when we get there, we know how to make money out of it.
We can operate globally, building powerful and exciting brands.
But with this opportunity comes responsibility.
Alcohol isnt just another consumer product, and were not just another employer.
We actively promote responsible drinking.
And wherever we operate we apply the same high standards to protecting our workforce, respecting the environment and caring for local communities.
And we ask: judge us by what we do, not by what we say.
responsible thinking 17 You need the brands of course, but you need distribution strength to sell them.
In mature markets North America, Western Europe were consolidating relationships, improving partnerships with our distributors.
And were building from strength in the growth markets of today and of tomorrow South Korea, Eastern Europe, the EU accession countries, Latin America.
Its a clich but no less true: We really are well positioned for growth.
more coverage 19 Its not just what we do, but how we do it that brings our brands to life.
By developing people and harnessing talents, we attract and retain the best to deliver our business goals.
People are the key to unlocking the value in the brands, and we reward good performance.
We asked our employees: What kind of company would you like to work for?
They said: One that makes time to celebrate success together.
