Directors reports Directors Report Employees The Directors are pleased to present their Annual Report and Allied Domecq operates a policy of equal opportunity and Accounts for the year ended 31 August 2003. continues to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons.
Employees who become Business review and future developments disabled will, wherever possible and practicable, be retained The Chairmans Statement and the Operating and Financial in employment and, where necessary, appropriate training will Review on page 3 and pages 22 to 35 provide a review be provided.
of the business and likely future developments.
Employees are encouraged to become shareholders in the Company.
Grants of options over a total of 11,754,945 Ordinary Main trading activities Shares including options over American Depositary Shares, The Groups main trading activities are the production, representing underlying Ordinary Shares were made marketing and sale of Spirits & Wine and the franchising to eligible employees under the Companys employee share of Quick Service Restaurants.
option plans during the year.
Dividends Communications and involvement An interim dividend of 5.3p per share was paid on 25 July 2003 Considerable emphasis is placed by the Group on communications and the Directors are pleased to recommend a final ordinary with its employees.
In addition to obtaining a comprehensive range dividend of 8.7p per share, making a total for the year of 14.0p.
of attitudes and views from employees through employee opinion The final dividend will be paid on 4 February 2004 to shareholders surveys, Group companies involve and consult them with regard on the register on 9 January 2004. to the activities and performance of their businesses and any matters of concern to them.
It is normal practice to use formal joint Annual General Meeting consultative bodies locally for one-to-one and Group meetings.
The AGM will be held on 30 January 2004 at the Hotel InterAllied Domecq has a European Council which acts as a forum Continental London, One Hamilton Place, Hyde Park Corner, for Pan-European consultation and discussion.
Details of the business to be considered at the AGM and the Notice of Meeting are included in the accompanying Health, safety and welfare Chairmans Letter.
The Group recognises that occupational health and safety management is among one of its highest corporate responsibilities.
Share capital A significant number of Group companies have now established Details of the Companys share capital and options over the health and safety management systems based on OHSAS 18001 Companys shares under the Groups employee share plans are Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series and have given in note 22 of the accounts on page 75.
As at 31 August 2003 achieved, or are working towards, external certification.
Further the company had authority to purchase up to 10% of its Ordinary development of the Groups audit processes has taken place over Shares.
Shareholders approval is being sought for the renewal the past year and during the year we again globally benchmarked of this authority.
our health and safety performance and practice in order to measure our impacts and further progress our targets and key Substantial interests performance indicators, towards our goal of continual improvement.
The Company has been notified of the following disclosable The Groups full health and safety report is posted on the interests in Allied Domecq Ordinary Shares: Companys website at www.
com Suntory Limited 37,834,591 shares 3.42% Research and development Barclays plc 33,513,581 shares 3.03% The amount spent by the Group on research and development Aviva plc 33,451,589 shares 3.02% during the period was 1m but this does not include the full cost of which 33,382,252 shares are held by Morley Fund Management of new product development.
Limited, a subsidiary of Aviva plc Creditor payment policy The Companys policy, in relation to all of its suppliers, is to settle the terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction, to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and to abide by those terms provided it is satisfied that the goods or services were supplied in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Company does not follow any particular code or standard on payment practice.
Creditor days have not been calculated as the Company had no trade creditors at 31 August 2003.
The Companys invoices for goods and services are settled by subsidiaries acting as agents for the Company.
40 Directors The names and brief biographical details of the Directors as at 20 October 2003 and those appointed with effect from 5 December 2003 are given on page 38.
During the year Bruno Angelici was appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
David Malpas retired as a Director on 20 October 2003.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Bruno Angelici, Philip Bowman, Sir Ross Buckland and Peter Jacobs retire at the forthcoming AGM.
Philip Bowman offers himself for re-election and Bruno Angelici, Paul Adams and John Rishton offer themselves for election.
Political and charitable contributions No political donations were made to EU political parties or organisations during the year.
Charitable contributions in the UK totalled 126,000.
In addition, the Allied Domecq Trust gave 10,000 to charitable causes and charitable contributions of over 500,000 were made outside the UK.
Auditor KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Auditor of the Company and the Audit Committee has approved its re-appointment.
A resolution for the re-appointment of the Auditor, at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the Directors, acting through the Audit Committee, will be proposed at the AGM.
By Order of the Board Leonard Quaranto General Counsel & Company Secretary 20 October 2003 41
