com Directors report The Directors submit their annual report and audited financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2003, which were approved on behalf of the Board on 30 June 2003. Review of the Group The principal activity of the Group is the retailing of books, recorded music, pre-recorded videos and electronic games.
The retailing of books is principally carried out under the Waterstones brand and the retailing of music, videos and games under the HMV brand.
The Group has operations in ten countries, with the principal markets being those of the UK, Japan and Canada.
The Chief Executives report, Operating review and Financial review on pages 20 to 35 contain details of the principal operations of the Group during the year and likely future developments.
Results and dividends The consolidated profit for the financial year after deducting taxation amounted to 47.0 million 2002: 30.7 million.
The Board of Directors recommends a final dividend of 3.4p per Ordinary Share which, together with the interim dividend of 1.1p already declared, makes a total for the year of 4.5p per Ordinary Share 2002: nil.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting the final dividend will be paid on 9 October 2003 to those shareholders whose names are on the register on 19 September 2003.
Retained profit for the year of 13.6 million 2002: loss 12.3 million has been transferred to reserves.
Directors The present Directors of the Company are listed, together with their biographical details on pages 36 and 37: all served as Directors throughout the year.
The Company is satisfied that each Non-Executive Director is able to devote the amount of time required to attend to the Companys affairs.
The Companys Articles of Association require one third of the Directors to retire by rotation each year at the Annual General Meeting, such that each Director offers himself or herself for re-election at least once every three years.
Accordingly, Eric Nicoli, Roy Brown and Alan Giles will retire by rotation and will offer themselves for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company, together with their remuneration and, where applicable, summaries of their service agreements, are detailed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 41 to 49.
No Director at any time during the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2003 had any material interest in any contracts with the Company or any of its subsidiaries other than the Executive Directors, who had such an interest through their service agreements with the Company, details of which are summarised on page 48, and Eric Nicoli who had such an interest through his position as Chairman of EMI Group plc, a major supplier of the Group.
None of the Directors at any time during the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2003 or subsequently was interested in any debentures of the Company or shares or debentures of the Companys subsidiaries.
Principal shareholders As at 30 June 2003 the Company had been notied of the following interests in its Ordinary Shares in accordance with Sections 198-208 of the Companies Act 1985: Percentage Number of of issued Ordinary share Name Shares capital ISIS Asset Management 36,687,065 9.10 Advent International Corporation 31,761,529 7.88 Prudential plc 23,537,670 5.83 Standard Life Investments Limited 20,559,232 5.10 Invesco Perpetual Asset Management 20,386,837 5.05 HBOS plc 19,849,203 4.92 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 15,707,442 3.89 Policy on payment of creditors The Group does not impose standard payment terms on its suppliers but agrees specic terms with each and ensures that each supplier is made aware of such terms.
It is the Groups policy to pay its suppliers in accordance with the terms that have been agreed.
The Company is a holding company and therefore has no trade creditors.
com Directors report continued Employee Policies The Group is a decentralised organisation with the aim of employing and developing the best people, putting them in the right positions with a significant level of delegated authority and responsibility, and supporting them with the infrastructure and technology required to perform at the highest levels and at the lowest costs with the quickest response time.
Responsibility for employment matters therefore rests primarily with each business operation under the general guidance of central policy and procedure guidelines.
The Group companies are committed to the maintenance of a work environment free of discrimination on the grounds of gender, nationality, ethnic or racial origin, non-job related disability, sexual orientation or marital status.
The Group gives full consideration to applications from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be adequately fullled by a disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy, wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career development and promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
In order to promote employee involvement in the Group, regular meetings are held between local management and employees to allow a free ow of information and ideas.
The Company encourages staff involvement in the Groups performance via a combination of employee bonus and share schemes.
The Group has established a Share Incentive Plan SIP details of which are set out on page 43 in which nearly all the Groups employees are entitled to participate provided they meet certain service conditions.
Share capital Details of the new Ordinary Shares issued pursuant to the exercise of options under the Companys share option schemes are set out in Note 25.
Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to give the Directors authority to allot shares, dis-apply pre-emption rights in limited circumstances and for the Company to purchase its own shares.
Full details of the business of the Annual General Meeting, with explanatory notes, appear in the Chairmans Letter and Notice of Meeting which accompany this Report.
The Company has a current authority granted at the Annual General Meeting held on 1 October 2002 and which shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 29 September 2003 to make market purchases up to a maximum of 40,320,304 Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each, subject to certain limitations.
Charitable contributions The Group made charitable donations of 16,000 in the period 2002: 9,000.
It is Group policy not to make donations to political parties and therefore no political donations were made during the period.
The Company is seeking authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to make political donations although it has no intention of doing so in order to prevent an inadvertent breach of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 as set out in the Chairmans Letter and Notice of Meeting that accompany this Report.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in ofce and a resolution re-appointing it as the Companys auditor and authorising the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30 pm on 29 September 2003 at The Lincoln Centre, 18, Lincolns Inn Fields, London, WC2A 3ED.
On behalf of the Board, Neil Bright Group Finance Director 30 June 2003
