Negative sentiment generated by financial sector news on shares and pensions was probably a contributory reason for UK consumers holding back on early holiday commitments in 2003.
Nevertheless, the continuing excellent performance The success of Superbreaks European programme is of our Hotel Breaks Division provided strong expected to continue with a newly launched dedicated evidence of robust consumer confidence in the UK.
Beach Hotels brochure HOLIDAYBREAK STRENGTHS AND STRATEGY Holidaybreak has important strengths in the current environment.
In all our businesses we have market leading brands, multi-channel distribution and are recognised for providing high standards of service and product quality.
Flexibility for the customer is a feature of our holidays and flexible cost structures a feature of our business models.
Our businesses also enjoy better margins than most of the travel industry and strong cash generation.
We believe that each of our divisions have good organic growth opportunities going forward and are well positioned to benefit from current consumer and supply side trends.
We will continue to actively seek out new product and distribution opportunities.
Easycamp Camping, European Cities and Beach Breaks Hotel Breaks, and Adventure Breaks and Family Adventures Adventure have all been introduced over the past two years.
Carefully selected acquisitions may also play a part, In the Eurozone countries, consumer sentiment has The exceptional UK summer weather undoubtedly most probably smallish add-ons to existing divisions.
been weaker and this had an impact on Camping persuaded numbers of British holidaymakers to stay The Bridge Britain & Ireland acquisition made by sales in Holland, Germany and our other European at home in 2003.
Whilst this may impact on Hotel Breaks in March 2003, is a good example.
Our general experience in the past is that, booking patterns for 2004 both Hotel Breaks, which We also have the management expertise and in a recessionary environment, Camping has proved is predominantly a UK destination business, and financial capacity to make a larger acquisition which fairly resilient due to families trading down in price Camping stand to benefit.
Our customers enjoyed would further diversify our activities whilst from more expensive holiday choices.
excellent holidays in northern and western France in remaining within the travel sector.
Such an summer 2003 and satisfaction rates were high Looking forward to 2004, Dutch and German acquisition would have to meet demanding strategic which augurs well for repeat and recommendation revenues generated by Camping have enabled us to and financial criteria.
Whether such an opportunity bookings in 2004. largely offset increased costs due to the stronger arises or not we are determined that we will Euro.
Prices have risen by 1-2% on average, much continue to deliver value for our shareholders less than most other holidays to Europe.
exchange rate relative to the European currencies remains at reasonably attractive levels by historical standards.
France, the main destination for Camping customers, is still a good value destination Richard Atkinson for British visitors whilst the weaker dollar has made many of our Adventure tours more affordable.
Chief Executive 6 THE YEAR IN PERSPECTIVE In response to the early demand patterns, we held In the UK, pre-Christmas bookings came in more back on mobile-home and tent capacity, which slowly than usual and, as war became inevitable, finished 4% below equivalent 2002 levels.
further ground was lost during the critical booking Nevertheless, we did not reach target occupancy rates which was the primary cause of the reduced Camping Division period in January and February.
It was only after Camping operating margin.
Easter, when the Iraq war was finally over, that overseas holiday markets gained any real EUROSITES ACQUISITION momentum.
The Camping sector reflected this Whilst booking performance proved disappointing, other aspects of the Eurosites acquisition were more successful.
By the end of 2002, the entire UK operation had been successfully relocated to our Hartford headquarters and fully integrated, with parallel reorganisations in Holland and Germany.
We achieved 1.6m in cost savings as a result of the integration, exceeding our original target.
This was a substantial achievement for the divisional management team who, at the same time, were battling with the adverse market conditions described above.
Demand during May and June was strong Eurocamp, the original but slowed subsequently as some consumers opted For 2004, we have concentrated our marketing business of the Holidaybreak to stay at home to enjoy the exceptionally warm efforts on our two main brands, Eurocamp and Group, celebrated 30 years of and dry summer weather.
Although had substantial ex-Eurosites mobile-home capacity Our European markets were less affected by the war not a vintage year for added to their accommodation portfolios.
but economic factors and weak consumer sentiment Camping, the Division had a depressive effect on holiday spending.
In this OVERSEAS OPERATIONS remains highly profitable, very difficult trading environment, sales to Dutch Overseas Operations had a good year: successfully and German customers held up reasonably well.
contributing 18.9m 59% managing the additional demands created by the Amongst the smaller markets, Ireland and to Group profits.
Turnover was Eurosites acquisition as well as achieving higher Switzerland performed strongly whilst Denmark was 17.6% higher but, including customer satisfaction ratings, an aspect of the notably weak.
business that we monitor closely.
A continuing 2002 sales for Eurosites, Of our three main brands, Eurocamp which is improvement in product and service standards is a acquired on 30 September primarily a direct marketing operation, performed vital part of our ongoing strategy for the business 2002, the like for like the best whilst Keycamp and newly acquired and a key to maintaining high levels of repeat and comparative shows a year on Eurosites, which both derived a substantial recommendation business.
proportion of sales from high street agents, were year reduction of 5.6%.
BOOKINGS AND SALES BY MARKET 2003 BOOKINGS % SALES % UK IRELAND 56 69 HOLLAND 19 16 GERMANY 17 10 OTHERS 8 5 7 8
