Our commitment to product development is also evidenced by the increasing number of entertainments and activities which can be included with a UK hotel break.
Our range of theatre and event packages has grown significantly and we can now also offer spa weekends, golfing breaks and a whole range of family attractions including London is the Hotel Breaks Divisions most Legoland, Alton Towers and the Eden Project.
popular destination OPERATIONS The increasing scope and size of the Hotel Breaks business and growing customer volumes has clearly had an associated impact on resources.
These have had to grow in unison for us to fully take advantage of the opportunities available.
Increased staffing and longer opening hours have both helped to maintain an operational capacity consistent with the reputation for service quality that we enjoy with consumers and the travel trade.
STRATEGY & PROSPECTS Consumers have an increasing preference for more frequent, shorter holidays.
The UK is now seen primarily as a short break destination by the majority.
Hotel standards continue to rise and rates remain very attractive whilst many UK visitor attractions are seeing the benefits of Millennium and lottery funding.
Strong multi-channel distribution gives Hotel Breaks the opportunity to exploit the favourable environment, complemented by a growing overseas breaks programme.
Our basic business model remains simple and the consumer GROWING UK HOTEL PORTFOLIO ACQUISITION benefits are essentially unchanged - good value, The acquisition also provided us with additional In March 2003 the Hotel Breaks Division acquired reliable service, choice and flexibility.
hotel room capacity - in some cases by additions to the Bridge Britain & Ireland and London Travel the programme and, in others, by expanding Service short break businesses from MyTravel Group allocations with existing partners.
The longest established and best known brand programme on the same no commitment allocation in the acquired portfolio was London Travel Service.
basis, allowing us to maintain a very flexible cost This has been retained and developed in base.
This year, the Moat House chain has been combination with our Theatrebreak brand to create welcomed into our mainstream UK brochures, the definitive London breaks brochure.
We were together with more lodge accommodation, including also able to build on a joint marketing partnership selected Ibis and Travel Inn locations.
The range of with Legoland, one of the UKs premier family hotels in London, particularly in the Docklands area, attractions.
12 Holidaybreak plc The war in Iraq and its lead up, which coincided Whilst the geopolitical with the peak sales period, was the most damaging uncertainty remains, recovery in set back.
By then the Bali bombing had already demand since the end of the halted bookings to South East Asia and had had a Iraq war gives us greater major impact on sales through our general sales agents in Australia and New Zealand.
As the year confidence that the business progressed, the emergence of SARS resulted in will properly fulfil its potential.
Adventure Division significant refunds and a collapse in forward Adventure EXPLORE WORLDWIDE bookings for Asia, and travel to East Africa was Holidaybreak initially invested Any business operating holidays to over 100 seriously affected by terrorist threats in Kenya and in the adventure holidays sector countries, many in the Third World, has an inherent foreign office travel advice for the region.
Before September in 2000 with the acquisition of Inevitably, as one event followed another demand 2001 Explores global spread of product allowed it Explore Worldwide and patterns were highly unpredictable, making yield to mitigate the risk of a destination becoming subsequent purchase of management a more difficult task.
It is a tribute to unavailable by offering alternatives in other the experience and dedication of the staff at Explore that the business managed to maintain its tour load factors and gross margin at normal levels.
DISTRIBUTION The Explore business is primarily a direct sell operation and will continue to be so.
We have been working to widen our distribution reach through specialist UK agents and there was a useful increase in sales through this channel.
Our overseas customers, who book through appointed sales agents and accounted for 9% of 2003 sales, have proven less resilient than their UK counterparts since September 11th.
The failure of our US sales agent RegalDive.
In 2003 the extent of disruption, in September 2003 was a further setback in an caused by world events and terrorist activity or its growing appetite for this type already difficult year, taking nearly 200,000 off threat, once again significantly restricted the of travel as consumers the bottom line.
We do not anticipate any further business.
increasingly sought the active financial impact arising from this event in 2004 and In fact, the 2003 campaign began positively.
we have already made progress in re-establishing and unusual holiday Demand was recovering well as memories of distribution of Explore products in the USA.
experiences in which these September 11th receded and two new product businesses specialise.
Despite developments, Adventure Breaks and Family the very difficult trading Adventures, were attracting strong interest.
EXPLORE WORLDWIDE - NUMBER OF TOURS BY DESTINATION 2004 circumstances since September 11th our strategic view remains EUROPE INC GREECE, CYPRUS & TURKEY 78 unchanged.
ASIA 56 Explore Worldwide and AFRICA 55 RegalDive turned in another resilient performance in 2003 AMERICAS AND PACIFIC 52 achieving a small increase in EGYPT & MIDDLE EAST 24 revenues and also maintaining INDIAN SUBCONTINENT 21 gross margins at historical ARCTIC AND ANTARCTICA 2 levels.
