The positive feedback was particularly pleasing in a We have worked hard to translate all of these year when our overseas team faced the challenges features into an on-line booking environment and brought about by widespread forest fires and severe are already seeing the additional functionality being storms in southern France.
We escaped any welcomed by customers.
We are very pleased with Product development and marketing campaigns are significant direct impact from these dramatic events the initial results.
We continue to develop and the aftermath was managed very efficiently.
STRATEGY & PROSPECTS our mobile-home fleet whilst tents, which are less The images broadcast across Europe probably had The camping sector enjoys a resilient core customer profitable, gradually reduce in number.
With the some effect on late booking demand.
base but we are keenly aware that our holidays integration of Eurosites now complete, greater Destinations that did see some growth include those must be regarded as attractive and good value in marketing investment in our two core brands and an served by low-cost airlines from the UK, although comparison to a range of other family options, in expectation of more settled market conditions, we 80% of our ex-UK holidays remain car and ferry particular self-catering alternatives.
are optimistic that 2004 will be a better year.
OTHER BRANDS Of our smaller businesses, own equipment specialist Eurocamp Independent bucked the trend and achieved year-on-year growth in both sales and profits.
By contrast, Perfect Places, which specialises in European self-catering holiday villages, was affected by broader market trends and struggled to make headway.
NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT In 2003, we launched a new brand, Easycamp, in Holland and Germany.
Holidays are value-focused, for which we believe there is substantial market potential in those countries.
Effectively a no-frills version of Eurocamp and Keycamp, Easycamp uses camp-site owned accommodation and does not provide on-site services.
Bookings were encouraging in our first year of operation, particularly in view of the difficult market conditions in continental Europe.
We are extending Easycamps reach in 2004 with launches in Poland and Denmark.
INTERNET DEVELOPMENT Camping is the largest and most profitable business Improving the content, presentation and of the Holidaybreak Group.
It has displayed highly functionality of our popular and award winning resilient qualities over the years and continues to be internet sites has been a key priority for our cash-generative despite the levels of capital marketing and IT teams.
In recent months we took expenditure that are made each year to maintain a major step forward with the launch of on-line the quality and range of our accommodation units.
booking for Eurocamp and Keycamp across all our We are confident that it will continue to prosper.
One of the great attractions of our holidays is the flexibility that we offer with dates of travel, number and duration of camp-site visits and range of travel options.
9 Holidaybreak plc BALANCED DISTRIBUTION Hotel Breaks is essentially a distribution business and 2003 saw strong growth across all the main channels.
High street travel agencies remain the core distribution channel, despite the increasing importance of direct and on-line sales.
General footfall in agencies reduced in 2003 reflecting lower Hotel Breaks Division demand for overseas holidays but, despite this, Hotel Breaks agency revenues for Superbreak rose by nearly 10%.
Since its acquisition by Internet has been the fastest growing channel.
Our Holidaybreak in 1995, the Hotel marketing strategy is effectively to replicate our high Breaks Division has proved to be street distribution by providing hotel a highly resilient, strongly cash generative business and a major contributor to the success of the Group.
It has also grown consistently, and 2003 was another excellent year with a turnover increase of 27% and operating profits, before goodwill amortisation and impairment, up to 11.0m.
The business has undoubtedly benefited from market conditions accommodation through large numbers of internet PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT favouring the domestic short portal and hotel booking sites, paying commission In September 2001, Hotel Breaks launched an breaks market on both the on sales made.
We support this with direct sales via accommodation only European Cities and Beyond demand and supply sides.
Good search engines and from past bookers.
In its second year of operation, sales quality hotel accommodation at centre provides an important back up to our on-line increased significantly to 9% of divisional turnover.
presence for customers with special requirements or The recently launched 2004 brochure features 1000 attractive prices has once again those who prefer to search out information on the hotels in 175 destinations.
been readily available, web but to book person to person.
We were pleased In November 2003, we launched a sister brand, complemented by continued to be appointed as the official accommodation European Beach Hotels & Self Catering, which strength in consumer spending provider internet and telephone for Visit London, includes hotels and holiday apartments in and we have successfully the Tourist Board for the capital, reflecting our wide mainstream Mediterranean resorts.
Again, product range, and our telephone and web exploited a number of product customers are offered flexibility and value for money capabilities.
in the increasingly popular 'accommodation only' We have also been steadily improving our direct sector.
These product initiatives complement our mail targeting and execution over the years and are overall distribution strategy.
now benefiting from a substantial customer database.
