01 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Dear fellow investor The size of the average house today is up to 50% smaller than it was 90 years ago.
And without modular furniture to manage the space, we wouldnt be able to live the lives that we do.
Helping people to live their lives their way is the market we understand a market where we know that we still have plenty of scope for future organic growth.
Investing in a low-risk way in our stores and depots, in new products, in IT infrastructure and in international expansion allows us to develop the business without reliance on the UK economy.
What we are trying to do is to build a balanced, strong, customer-aware, and focussed business.
Evidence of our success in understanding the furniture market is reflected in our financial results for last year.
Despite a tightening in consumer spending, we grew sales by 15.1% compared to 2002 and profit before tax and exceptional property profits by 28.6% to 103.8 million.
This means that we have grown sales by an annual compound rate of 18% and profits before tax and exceptional items by 43% since 1999.
We remain confident about the future success of the business and are proposing a raised final dividend of 2.0 pence per share 2002 1.6 pence, making a total full-year dividend of 3.8 pence per share 2002 3.1 pence an increase of 22.6%.
While maintaining a relatively high level of dividend cover just over three times we have increased our dividend over the past four years at an average annual compound growth of 28%.
02 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Our purpose is to help more people live better lives in their homes.
04 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Our market place The UK retail furniture market that we address is worth more than 11 billion.
It grew by over 4% last year and we estimate that, between 2003 and 2008, it will grow by 20% influenced by four key factors: An increased focus on home lifestyle A rising and ageing population Increased numbers of single person households Home working As Britain becomes more affluent, consumers are spending a larger proportion of what they earn on where they live and a smaller proportion on food and clothing.
Buying home furnishings is no longer driven solely by the acquisition of a home.
The increased interest in improving the home is evidenced by the many property and interior design TV programmes that are being watched by increasingly fashion conscious consumers who are prepared to replace their furniture in line with fashion and home lifestyle trends.
The UK has an increasing percentage of more affluent, middle-aged customers and a declining number of younger, more price-conscious buyers.
While these customers are less likely to move house than younger consumers, they are more likely to spend money on home improvements.
More people are living on their own arising from increasing numbers of single older people, high levels of single parent families and a younger generation who buy or rent their own properties and this has led to an increase in demand for furniture.
More people are working from home and this, together with increasing home ownership of computers, is fuelling demand for home office furniture.
We are living in houses that were often not designed to contain the 05 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 belongings we now take for granted playstations, hi-fis, computers, fitness equipment, dishwashers and microwaves.
We are acquiring more possessions, but living in smaller spaces.
To take account of these demographic factors we have designed our product to help people enjoy their homes to their full potential.
This gives us reason to believe that we are well placed in a market that is set to continue growing for the foreseeable future.
And we are the only company offering furniture for every room in the house nationwide.
Our vertical integration gives us the ability to react to customer tastes and requirements by developing and introducing new aspirational products quickly at competitive pricing.
We are very strong in some of our product categories, and our strategy is to develop this strength across the other categories.
We see plenty of headroom for growth in the next three years.
We are gradually moving our proposition towards Done For You or DFY.
The number of installations we handle has nearly doubled in the past three years and is likely to continue growing as we develop and sell more complex, higher-margin products.
We completely outsource the installation service to over 2,000 qualified contractors, thus minimising the infrastructure costs for the Group.
This is a further sign of the changing, more service-based relationship with our customers that we are trying to develop.
Not only does this enable us to move our own business in a direction our customers like, but it also benefits our self-help policy of moving our cost base from a fixed to a more variable nature.
We have a real job to do with customer service and we have a long way to go.
06 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 From a standing start two years ago, bathroom sales now have a run-rate of 55 million per annum.
Since we acquired Sofa Workshop 15 months ago, we have achieved a run-rate of 75 million of sales per annum.
08 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Our strategic priorities We have five strategic priorities: continued rollout of Howden Joinery, our trade-only business for small builders reformatting the MFI out-of-town stores with introduction of new product categories enhancing the performance of our French retail operation Hygena Cuisines developing and learning from selected seedcorn investments supply chain initiatives Each of these can make a positive contribution to our bottom line.
The diversification into new products and routes to market makes us less vulnerable to any weakness in the state of the housing market and the wider UK economy.
Howden Joinery The business was founded only in 1995, but now accounts for two-thirds of the Groups profits.
Its annual compound profits growth over the past four years has been 69% and the depots have delivered like for like growth above 25% every year.
Howden Joinery complements our retail operation.
It is a highly stable business in a separate sector, which has broadened our customer base by selling joinery and kitchens to builders and small developers neither of whom previously sourced supplies from MFI.
It is a low-cost business, where logistics costs are minimal as most customers collect goods direct from the depot, and it operates from small, low fixed-cost warehouses on industrial estates.
The Howden Joinery business model helps to differentiate us from other trade and builders merchant competitors.
The model is one of total 09 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 focus on the needs of the small builder who regularly visits the depot providing access to credit, high quality of service and products that are always in stock, from local depots with the best local prices.
Our sales representatives are trained to develop individual relationships with their customers, and to understand their needs.
It is a relationship business based on serving a limited number of customers exceptionally well.
UK Retail By the end of 2003, 122 of our 191 out-of-town stores had been opened in the new format, including 46 during the year.
Full refits, of which 21 were completed in the year, are continuing to show the pattern of 23% sales uplift in year one.
We also completed 25 of the new partial refits.
These are cheaper to implement and enable smaller stores to be modernised, while producing sales increases of 17% in their first year.
Apart from relocations, we have no immediate plans to open a significant number of new out-of-town stores.
These refurbishments are improving the store environment with better use of space and increased sales per square foot.
This has enabled us to introduce new product categories, enhancing our offer to cover every room in the house.
More than half of the 23% increase in sales, for example, is coming from sales of bathrooms and sofas neither of which we previously sold.
The 2.8 billion sofa market is competitive.
Nonetheless, following our initial eight store trial of the Sofa Workshop range in 2002 and the subsequent acquisition of Sofa Workshop we are now selling sofas from 172 stores, accounting for 5% of sales and have taken around 3% of the market in those areas where we operate.
We have invested in a new manufacturing facility in Wales to meet the increasing demand of our product.
10 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Store refurbishment has continued apace this year with 46 MFI and 40 Hygena Cuisines stores being opened in the new format.
We continue to develop new products and 2004 will see the introduction of new bed and bedroom ranges.
12 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Bathrooms were first tested early in 2001 and are now sold in virtually all of our stores.
They currently account for approximately 8% of sales and, from a standing start two years ago, we have already taken a 6% market share.
There is a huge middle ground in the UKs 1.1 billion bathroom market between the bottom-end DIY suppliers and the top-end boutiques.
We believe we can lead this sector of the market.
There is an opportunity to grow sales on the High Street where we are under-represented.
We will be focussing on this in 2004 and plan to open more High Street MFI currently 22 and Sofa Workshop currently 29 stores in 2005 when the out-of-town refit programme is completed.
Sales in Hygena at Currys grew significantly over the past 12 months, indicating the opportunity that exists for selling Hygena-branded products outside MFI.
We traded from 134 Currys outlets at the year-end.
France Retail Hygena Cuisines operated from 135 stores at the year-end, supported by distribution depots across the country from which customers can choose to pick up the product themselves or have it delivered to their homes.
We have invested signicantly in this business during the year.
Half our French stores are now in the new format which is based on the UK model, but tailored to local needs, and our revenue growth target is based on rolling out the refurbishment to all stores, on new store openings, and the introduction of new products.
Trading conditions in the French furniture market have not been easy the market declined last year as a result of the weakness of the economy.
But, with our programme of store conversions producing sales uplifts of around 20% per outlet in the first year, overall sales in local currency at Hygena Cuisines grew 10% during the year clearly a gain in market share.
13 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Seedcorn investments MFI has a good record of growing businesses.
Hygena Cuisines and Howden Joinery both developed from the pilot, test, invest approach that we still favour.
In two years time our store refurbishment programme in the UK and France will have been completed, and we are already investing for the future through our developing businesses which include Howden Millwork in the US, and our joint venture in Taiwan.
Our approach, as always, is cautious.
We experiment without commitment, but stick with it long enough to be sure.
We grew the Howden Millwork pilot from 12 to 15 depots in the year.
And during 2004, we hope to move on to the test phase of development with plans to open a further five depots.
American houses tend to be larger than those in the UK with larger rooms and owners with higher disposable incomes who spend more on furniture.
Nonetheless, the fundamentals of the US market are comparable to the UK though it is several times the size.
There is a huge opportunity for a specialist trade supplier offering range, service and attractive terms.
There are issues to be addressed of course.
In the UK, our retail division indicates to Howdens which are the best selling kitchens.
In the US we dont have this retail support, and it is taking us longer to learn by experience.
We are also experimenting with the sourcing of product.
Initially all kitchens were sourced locally.
But during the year, we began selling factory-assembled kitchens exported from the UK.
Even with the additional transport costs, these are much cheaper than Americansourced product and are selling well currently representing around 25% of total sales.
14 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Selling kitchens also gives us the opportunity to sell appliances.
In 2003 we sold over half a million appliances.
16 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 The pilot has shown encouraging early signs, and we are gaining an understanding of sales and margin levels.
But we are proceeding with caution, learning by experience at low risk and creating a structure to support rollout.
Results, not a timetable, will drive the future development of the business.
The same discipline applies to Taiwan, where we opened our first store in August 2001.
There are now 13 based on the same concept as the UK High Street stores.
Taiwan has a stable economy and a level of home ownership 87% that is higher than the UK.
The kitchen and bedroom market is highly fragmented and there is a proven consumer demand for western-style products.
We entered Taiwan via a joint venture as a low-risk way of testing both the potential for rolling out the new formats internationally, and our business model for expansion in the Far East at the same time allowing us to develop skills and knowledge of working in Asia.
Supply chain initiatives MFI is a vertically integrated company with a powerful manufacturing capability to which we are absolutely committed.
Our rigorous approach to make or buy decisions ensures that the products we do make are made efficiently: and the products that cant be made efficiently are bought in.
We have recently established a joint venture in Hong Kong to source product from China.
China is the lowest cost country for sourcing many of our core products and components that are currently procured within Europe.
The potential savings are considerable, and the joint venture should begin operation during 2004.
17 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 The first phase of our SAP project the financial systems went live in July on schedule, and the second phase supply chain will be completed in March.
Future stages covering manufacturing, warehouse management systems and the retail stores will be evaluated on their benefit to the business.
To date we have spent 50 million on the SAP system, which is replacing legacy systems that were inadequate for supporting our business growth.
MFI has come a long way since 1999.
The changes that we have made have been fundamental and enduringly successful as evidenced by our performance.
We believe we have the right strategy to continue to develop the strength of the brand.
Our UK retail business is achieving market share gains in new categories.
The outstanding performance of Howden Joinery boosts growth and adds balance and stability to the Group.
We have a strong management team pursuing self-help initiatives that ensure the business is firmly under our control and our future is in our own hands.
We lead a UK furniture market that is big and growing, but a market that is so fragmented that we dont even have a double-digit share of it.
There is still much for us to do, and much for us to go for.
Ian Peacock, Chairman John Hancock, Chief executive 26 February 2004 18 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Howden Joinery celebrated another year of record results in 2003 and adds balance and stability to the Group.
We have a number of seedcorn investments underway at present.
Our approach is to experiment without commitment, but stick with it long enough to be sure.
