30 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Board of directors Ian Peacock age 56 Non-executive Chairman Tony fide Nunzio age 43 Non-executive Director Ian joined the Board in January 2000, having Tony joined the Board in September 2000 and also previously held senior management positions at BZW serves as Chairman of its Audit Committee.
Tony is and Kleinwort Benson.
He is also a non-executive currently President and Chief Executive Officer of Asda director of Norwich and Peterborough Building Society Stores Limited.
Leading up to the takeover by Wal-Mart, and Lombard Risk Management and non-executive Tony was Group Finance Director of Asda Group, his Chairman of Mothercare.
For the period 1998 to 2000, career with the company beginning in 1994 after a spell Ian was a Special Adviser to the Bank of England.
as Finance Director of Allied Maples.
Prior to this he was Planning Director for Central Europe at PepsiCo in the John Hancock age 54 Chief Executive early 1990s after having been Group Financial Controller John became Chief Executive in March 1999, having for LOreal UK.
Tony started his career with Unilever.
served as a non-executive director since December 1998.
John was previously an executive director of WH Smith Lesley Knox age 50 Non-executive Director and his career includes senior posts with Associated Lesley was appointed non-executive director in May British Foods and Ted Bates Advertising.
John is also 2001 and also serves as Chairman of the Remuneration non-executive director of Manchester Airport, a board Committee.
Lesley was a founder director of British director of the National Retail Federation in the USA and Linen Advisers, a specialist corporate finance adviser Vice President of the British American Business Council.
She was previously Head of Institutional Asset Management and then Martin Clifford-King age 40 Finance Director Group Director at Kleinwort Benson.
She joined the Martin, a chartered accountant, joined the Board in Corporate Finance Division of Kleinwort Benson in 1981 December 2000.
Prior to that Martin was Group Finance and has advised many domestic and international clients Director of Harveys Furnishing.
Before that, Martin on strategic issues.
She is also a non-executive director had been Chief Financial Controller of Debenhams, of the Alliance Trusts, HMV Group and Hays.
Finance Director of Evans and had worked within Burton Debenhams for nine years.
Martin started his Ian Smith age 50 Non-executive Director career with Deloitte, Haskins & Sells.
Ian is Chief Executive for Exel Europe, Middle East and Africa one of the worlds largest logistics and freight Mark Horgan age 37 Executive Director MFI Retail forwarding businesses and a member of the Board.
He Mark joined MFI in September 1999 from Mars was previously Group Commercial Director of Ocean Confectionery Europe where he was effectively Group before its merger with NFC to form Exel and, responsible for the global marketing of the Mars bar.
prior to that, Managing Director of Monitor Company In 1996 he took up the position of Joint Marketing Europe, a strategy consulting rm.
Ian began his Director of McVities UK responsible for corporate business career with Royal Dutch Shell Group of communications, marketing and product development.
companies, working with Shell UK Oil in various Matthew Ingle age 49 Managing Director Howdens commercial sales roles and then moving to the Middle Matthew, previously Managing Director of the Magnet East: first as Marketing Director of Shell Oman and Trade operation, joined MFI in 1995 to set up the then setting up and managing the Shell joint venture in successful Howden Joinery business.
Ian received an MA from Oxford University and to the Board of MFI in 1998 and is responsible for the received an MBA with high distinction from Harvard growth of the Howdens business.
Ian was appointed non-executive director in September 2001.
Gordon MacDonald age 46 Chief Operating Officer Gordon worked as a consultant with MFI prior to Peter Wallis age 56 Non-executive Director becoming Chief Operating Officer in 1999.
Prior to Peter is Senior Partner and founder of the respected SRU this, he held a number of positions at Safeway between strategy and market research consultancy.
Before joining Safeway, Gordon worked is advice to CEOs on strategic direction.
Peter was for a number of leading consumer goods and retail appointed a non-executive director in January 2001. companies, including Grand Metropolitan, Associated British Foods, Levi Strauss UK and Cadbury Schweppes.
Bob Wilson age 50 Manufacturing and Purchasing Director Bob has been with Hygena since 1977, a member of its Board since 1982 and became Managing Director in 1993.
He was appointed to the Board in 1998, and has been largely responsible for directing the investment program that has confirmed MFI as one of the most efficient furniture manufacturers in the world.
