RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Responsible business continued Some highlights The efficient use of energy in buildings is a major driver for our Examples of IMI community involvement: Indoor Climate business, where our unique service proposition IMI plc was this year selected for inclusion in both the FTSE4Good All IMI global graduates are required during the UK placement delivers substantial energy savings while improving personal Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
of their training period to undertake a six-month community comfort in hotels, public buildings and offices.
In the past year projects have included business During 2003 we expanded the role of the HQ environmental recycling and biodiversity assignments, work with young An important element of Cornelius retail drinks-dispense advisor to include health and safety - further strengthening the offenders at a secure unit, and the UK Imagineering initiative equipment is the refrigeration system.
All the refrigerants we use resource which supports those working on health, safety and promoting engineering in schools.
Graduates also raised money are CFC free and have minimal environmental impact both in use environment within IMI Group companies worldwide.
for Birmingham Focus on Blindness.
In addition, Cornelius is working closely with IMIs risk control advisors conducted visits to the vast majority of customers to develop alternative refrigeration techniques.
For the sixth year in a row Display Technologies contributed significant IMI sites worldwide, where they addressed a variety of money and services to Queens Child Guidance Centre in New CCIs expert knowledge of valve design technology provides topics including health, safety and environment.
York, a non-profit community organisation promoting the well reliable and environmentally safe operation in petrochemical, being of children, adolescents and their families.
The 2003 Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement survey power generation, oil and gas and other sectors where the conducted by Business in the Environment amongst the FTSE 350 control of hazardous fluids is vital.
Our Norgren business partnered with Detroits International companies, gave us an excellent overall rating with an average Academy, sponsoring and assisting its winning team at a national Norgren supplies clients with pneumatic products score of 87% and ranked us as second in the general industrial robotics competition, encouraging the young engineers of the characterised by the efficient management of leakage, sector.
which simultaneously minimises noise pollution and We are deploying innovative  energy maximises energy efficiency.
CCI continued its contribution to the education of saving technologies in our facilities and operations.
To reduce employees families, offering scholarships for their university Our development of an innovative scheme for the treatment of energy consumption our Norgren plant in Connecticut in the US, education and summer internships to provide insight and foundry gases has led to the use of a biological filtration system for example, retrofitted lighting fixtures with reflectors and energy practical experience of the workplace.
at Heimeier, resulting in odourless and dust free emissions.
efficient lamps significantly reducing energy consumption.
In Germany at another Norgren facility old air compressors were TA, part of our Indoor Climate business, is participating in a major Corporate governance replaced to save energy and reduce maintenance costs.
The project to improve health, employment, and quality of life in its The Companys commitment to best practice in all aspects of expected return on investment through reduced energy local community in the Herrljunga district of Sweden.
corporate governance and details of the standards it adheres to consumption is less than two years.
Information is also available on the These examples demonstrate how, throughout IMI, our businesses Companys website www.
New plants in China and Mexico have been built with are working to make a positive contribution to their local Community involvement technologically advanced water treatment facilities.
The mutual benefits and rewards Community involvement takes place at many levels across all IMI programmes not only reduce the water utilised but also enable are appreciated wherever IMI has a permanent presence.
businesses, ranging from IMI plcs role as a founder patron of the plants to meet increasingly rigorous international regulations on City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra and Symphony Hall to a the discharge limits in waste process water.
large number of local charitable, health, educational and other Bulk product-dispensing systems from our Cannon business initiatives at our facilities around the world.
help to preserve increasingly scarce resources by encouraging consumers to buy in bulk and to avoid wasteful packaging.
26 Responsible business IMI plc Annual Report 2003 27 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Ex Executiv ecutive e direc direct tors ors pictur pictured right left to right during an ex ed right left to right during an executiv ecutive meeting in Shanghai, e meeting in Shanghai, C China hina T J Slack Finance Director D C Nicholas Executive Director W R Whitney Executive Director M J Lamb Chief Executive Age 57: joined IMI in 1976: Age 54: joined the IMI Board in Age 54: joined IMI in 1987, and Age 44: joined IMI in 1985: appointed to the Board in 1997.
He is responsible for Fluid was appointed to the Board in appointed to the Board in 1996 Mr Slack has broad experience of Controls, which comprises Fluid 2004.
He is responsible for Retail and as Chief Executive in operational and financial Power, Indoor Climate and Severe Dispense, which comprises IMI's January 2001.
Mr Lamb has management and accounting Service.
His recent past Beverage Dispense and extensive experience of matters.
As Finance Director he is directorships include Tyco Flow Merchandising Systems engineering and managed also responsible for the company Control Europe.
Appointed President, several major businesses within secretarial, legal, investor relations, experience in managing Cannon Equipment in September the Group before his present human resources, risk management engineering businesses.
Dispense in October 2003. director of Spectris plc.
Non-ex Non-executiv ecutive e direc direct tors ors pictur pictured abo ed abov five e G J Allen CBE DL Chairman BLStaples T M Gateley J W Leng Age 59: joined IMI in 1965: Age 58: non-executive: joined the Age 50: non-executive: joined Age 58: non-executive: joined appointed to the Board in 1978, Board in 2000.
He was a the IMI Board in December as Chief Executive in 1986 and as experience of industry and service senior partner for KPMG until 2002.
He has extensive Chairman in 2001.
He is a member of the experience in international over 30 years experience in UK Ltd and Effective Solutions Industrial Advisory Board of manufacturing industry.
He is engineering with IMI.
He is also a Alchemy Partners LLP and his currently non-executive awarded a CBE in 1991. non-executive director of Mining other current directorships Chairman of Corus plc and nonNon-executive directorships Scotland Ltd and Chief Executive include Open and Direct executive director of Pilkington include The London Stock of Scottish BioPower Ltd. Limited Chairman and plc, J P Morgan Fleming Mid Exchange, N V Bekaert Belgium Jennings Holdings Limited.
Cap Investment Trust plc and and the National Exhibition His recent past directorships Alstom.
Centre Ltd. include Pressac plc and United Assurance plc.
28 Board of directors IMI plc Annual Report 2003 29
