BOARD OF DIRECTORS Ex Executiv ecutive e direc direct tors ors pictur pictured right left to right during an ex ed right left to right during an executiv ecutive meeting in Shanghai, e meeting in Shanghai, C China hina T J Slack Finance Director D C Nicholas Executive Director W R Whitney Executive Director M J Lamb Chief Executive Age 57: joined IMI in 1976: Age 54: joined the IMI Board in Age 54: joined IMI in 1987, and Age 44: joined IMI in 1985: appointed to the Board in 1997.
He is responsible for Fluid was appointed to the Board in appointed to the Board in 1996 Mr Slack has broad experience of Controls, which comprises Fluid 2004.
He is responsible for Retail and as Chief Executive in operational and financial Power, Indoor Climate and Severe Dispense, which comprises IMI's January 2001.
Mr Lamb has management and accounting Service.
His recent past Beverage Dispense and extensive experience of matters.
As Finance Director he is directorships include Tyco Flow Merchandising Systems engineering and managed also responsible for the company Control Europe.
Appointed President, several major businesses within secretarial, legal, investor relations, experience in managing Cannon Equipment in September the Group before his present human resources, risk management engineering businesses.
Dispense in October 2003. director of Spectris plc.
Non-ex Non-executiv ecutive e direc direct tors ors pictur pictured abo ed abov five e G J Allen CBE DL Chairman BLStaples T M Gateley J W Leng Age 59: joined IMI in 1965: Age 58: non-executive: joined the Age 50: non-executive: joined Age 58: non-executive: joined appointed to the Board in 1978, Board in 2000.
He was a the IMI Board in December as Chief Executive in 1986 and as experience of industry and service senior partner for KPMG until 2002.
He has extensive Chairman in 2001.
He is a member of the experience in international over 30 years experience in UK Ltd and Effective Solutions Industrial Advisory Board of manufacturing industry.
He is engineering with IMI.
He is also a Alchemy Partners LLP and his currently non-executive awarded a CBE in 1991. non-executive director of Mining other current directorships Chairman of Corus plc and nonNon-executive directorships Scotland Ltd and Chief Executive include Open and Direct executive director of Pilkington include The London Stock of Scottish BioPower Ltd. Limited Chairman and plc, J P Morgan Fleming Mid Exchange, N V Bekaert Belgium Jennings Holdings Limited.
Cap Investment Trust plc and and the National Exhibition His recent past directorships Alstom.
Centre Ltd. include Pressac plc and United Assurance plc.
28 Board of directors IMI plc Annual Report 2003 29 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors report The years results Corporate social responsibility been given suitable training for employment within the Group or Directors interests The Group profit and loss account is shown on page 46.
The Board has adopted a code of business principles and policies elsewhere.
The Group also supports charities for assisting disabled The interests of the persons including the interests of their Group profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation reflecting the high standards of conduct it expects of itself and people into work.
families who were directors at the end of the year in the amounted to 136.9 million 2002: 99.3 million and profit before employees across the Group.
The code is available from the share capital of the Company, and their interests in the Health, safety and the environment taxation amounted to 117.2 million 2002: 74.3 million.
Earnings Company Secretary and on our website www.
Companys share option schemes, are shown on pages It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working conditions applicable to shareholders of IMI plc amounted to 71.0 million Further information on corporate social responsibility matters is set 40 and 43. and to operate in a responsible manner with regard to the 2002: 55.4 million.
Directors responsibilities for the financial statements environment.
A summary of the relevant Group policies and The directors are required to prepare financial statements for Dividends Employment policies performance is set out on pages 24 to 27 and further information is each financial period which comply with the provisions of The directors recommend a final dividend at the rate of 9.5p per The Group continues to support employee involvement at all levels available on our website www.
the Companies Act 1985 and give a true and fair view of the share on the ordinary share capital payable on 25 May 2004 to in the organisation.
Formal joint consultative machinery is operated Policy and practice on the payment of trade creditors state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 April in all except the smallest units where it is strongly encouraged on an Operating units are responsible for making their suppliers aware of of the accounting period and of the profit or loss for that 2004.
Together with the interim dividend of 6.0p per share paid on informal basis.
During the year consultative arrangements, including the terms of payment and agreeing such terms with their suppliers period.
Suitable accounting policies, consistently applied, 20 October 2003, this final dividend brings the total distribution for formal committees and team briefings, were used to consider and for each business transaction.
It is Group policy that payments to supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and the year to 15.5p per share 2002: 15.5p per share.
discuss employees views, to develop understanding of business suppliers are made in accordance with these terms.
The Company is estimates, have been used in the preparation of the financial aims, to increase awareness of financial and economic factors Shareholders funds not a trading entity.
statements and applicable accounting standards have been affecting performance, and to improve effectiveness.
The Group has Shareholders funds increased from 527.9 million to 539.4 million Donations followed.
a European Works Council which meets at least once a year to at 31 December 2003.
323,000 was given during 2003 for community and similar The directors are responsible for maintaining adequate exchange views on trans-national issues facing the Group in the Principal activities purposes including 231,000 for charitable purposes.
The Group accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the European Union.
During 2003 the Groups businesses were organised under the supports a range of selected national charities and smaller charitable Company and the Group, and for taking reasonable steps The Annual Report is available to all employees.
The company following main classes: Fluid Controls, Retail Dispense and Building organisations operating in communities where the Group has a for the prevention and detection of fraud and other operates an All Employee Share Ownership Plan covering all UK Products.
Subsidiary companies operating within these classes of presence.
A sizeable proportion of total donations went into irregularities.
employees of certain operations, under which an annual bonus business are listed on pages 74 and 75.
The turnover, profit and education including establishments in engineering and technology.
worth up to 3,000 can be awarded to employees in shares and Annual general meeting capital employed attributable to each of these classes of business In the arts, IMI is a founder patron of Symphony Hall, Birmingham, employees can invest their own money to acquire additional shares The annual general meeting will be held at the Hilton are shown in note 1 on page 53.
Notwithstanding the disposals in and sponsors the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra and the in a tax efficient manner.
A savings-related share option scheme, Birmingham Metropole Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, 2002 of its Copper Tube and Copper Fittings businesses, the Birmingham Royal Ballet.
IMI also supports numerous community which is available to the majority of UK employees, has operated Birmingham on Friday 14 May 2004, commencing at noon.
Company retains responsibility in relation to the European art and welfare groups.
No donations to political parties were made since 1984.
An executive share option scheme, available to selected Notice of the meeting will be sent to shareholders as a Commissions investigations into the copper tube and fittings during the year.
executives, including executive directors, has operated since 1985 separate circular.
industries see note 27 on page 73. and a long term incentive plan for senior executives was introduced Directors Auditor in 2002. Review of activities The persons who were directors throughout the year were Resolutions for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as A number of management development initiatives are co-ordinated The activities of the Group in 2003, together with indications of Mr G J Allen, Mr M J Lamb, Mr J W Leng, Mr R B Pointon, Mr T J Slack auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to across the Group, including the IMI Academy and senior talent likely future developments, are reviewed on pages 8 to 19.
Mr T M Gateley was appointed as a nondetermine the auditors remuneration are to be proposed at management programme.
The Group encourages its operating of acquisitions and disposals are given in notes 1 to 3 on pages 53 executive director on 1 November 2003 and Sir Chips Keswick was a the forthcoming annual general meeting.
units to train and develop employees at all levels and a wide range and 54. non-executive director until his retirement on 31 October 2003. of business-related education and training opportunities are made Changes in executive directors were announced in December 2003: By order of the Board Research and development available.
Mr D C Nicholas and Mr W R Whitney joined the Board on 1 March John OShea Company Secretary Expenditure on research and development in the year was 28.0 It is Group policy to promote equal opportunities in employment 2004 and Mr R B Pointon will retire on 31 March 2004.
8 March 2004 million compared with 28.0 million in 2002. consistent with the requirements of the countries in which the Under the Companys articles of association, Mr G J Allen and Share capital Group operates.
The policy extends to employees and applicants for Mr T J Slack retire by rotation and are recommended for re-election During the year 1,107,667 new ordinary shares were issued under employment and requires companies in the Group to eliminate at the annual general meeting to be held on 14 May 2004.
In employee share schemes: 959,767 under the all employee share discrimination and communicate and promote the policy to all addition, Mr T M Gateley, Mr D C Nicholas and Mr W R Whitney will ownership and save as you earn plans and 147,900 under executive employees.
Chief executives of operating units have responsibility be standing for re-election at that meeting, being the first annual share options.
The Company has been notified of the following for complying with the policy and each employee is required to general meeting since they were appointed.
Biographical details substantial interests 3% or more in its issued share capital: participate in the policy.
Every effort is made to ensure that appear on page 28.
Mr G J Allen and Mr T M Gateley are applications for employment from disabled persons are fully and non-executive directors and do not have a service contract.
Legal and General Investment Management Ltd 4.12 % fairly considered and that disabled employees have equal Mr D C Nicholas and Mr W R Whitney are executive directors and Standard Life Investments 3.99 % opportunity in training and promotion.
As a matter of longstanding have service contracts terminable on one years notice.
policy, where appropriate, employees who become disabled have 30 Directors report IMI plc Annual Report 2003 31
