ACCOUNTS FOR 2003 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors submit their report together with the audited consolidated financial statements for the Group for the year to 30 September 2003. Review of activities and future developments The Group remains highly focused on its core business - the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products.
A review of the various activities and future developments is included on pages 17 to 33.
Note 1 to the financial statements gives an analysis of turnover, duty in turnover, operating profit and capital employed.
The principal operating subsidiaries within the Group are shown on pages 99 and 100.
Financial results and dividends The profit attributable to shareholders for the financial year was 421 million as shown in the consolidated profit and loss account set out on page 58.
An operating and financial review is included on pages 17 to 29.
The Directors have declared dividends as follows: In s million 2003 2002 Ordinary shares Interim paid, 12.0p per share 2002: 10.0p 87 62 Proposed final, 30.0p per share 2002: 23.0p 217 167 Total ordinary dividends, 42.0p 2002: 33.0p 304 229 The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 20 February 2004 to shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at the close of business on 23 January 2004.
Share capital Details of the share capital are shown in note 17 to the financial statements.
At 13 November 2003 the Company has been notified that the following persons had interests in 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital.
Number of Percentage of ordinary shares issued share millions capital Legal & General Investment Management Limited 22 3.01 The Company has not received notification that any other person holds 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital.
Board of Directors Mr D Cresswell and Dr F A Rogerson joined the Board as Manufacturing Director and Corporate Affairs Director respectively on 1 June 2003.
Mr B C Davidson also joined the Board subsequent to the year end as Sales and Marketing Director on 1 October 2003.
On 9 July 2003, the Board accepted the resignations from the Board of Directors of Messrs M A Hussler and L W Staby.
The current Directors of the Company are shown on pages 34 and 35.
In accordance with Articles 106 and 110 of the Companys Articles of Association, Messrs S Huismans, I J G Napier, D Cresswell, B C Davidson and Dr F A Rogerson retire at the Annual General Meeting and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
ITG 37 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Employees The Groups employment policies are designed to attract, retain and motivate the very best people, recognising that this can be achieved only through offering equal opportunities regardless of gender, race, religion or disability.
To ensure employees can share in our success, the Group offers competitive pay and benefit packages and, wherever possible, links rewards to individual and team performance.
Employees are encouraged to build a stake in the Company through ownership of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares.
A further opportunity to join the Sharesave Scheme was offered during the year and 73 per cent of eligible UK employees now participate.
International employees were also offered a further opportunity to join the International Sharesave Plan and 23 per cent of eligible international employees now participate.
The Group is committed to providing an environment which encourages the continuous development of our employees through skills enhancement and comprehensive training programmes.
Each of the Groups businesses is encouraged to make its employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of their employing company using their own consultative and communication methods.
To progress this aim further, employee representatives are briefed on pan-European issues through a European Employee Forum.
Information concerning employees and their remuneration is given in note 4 to the accounts.
Charitable and political donations During the year the Group made charitable donations in the UK of 464,000 2002: 663,000, much of which was distributed through the Charities Aid Foundation in accordance with the Groups charities policy.
No political donations or expenditure were made or incurred by the Company or its subsidiaries during the year 2002: 10,200.
Creditor payment policy The Companys current policy concerning the payment of the majority of its trade creditors is to follow the CBIs Prompt Payers Code copies are available from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU.
For other suppliers, the Companys policy is to: a settle the terms of payment with those suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction: b ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts: and c pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations.
The payment policy applies to all payments to creditors for revenue and capital supplies of goods and services without exception.
Wherever possible, UK subsidiaries follow the same policy and international subsidiaries are encouraged to adopt similar policies, by applying local best practices.
The number of days purchases outstanding as at 30 September 2003 for Imperial Tobacco Group PLC was 31 days.
Research and development The Group recognises the importance of investing in research and development, which brings innovative improvements to the Group, both in the products supplied to the consumer and in production and marketing techniques.
Auditors Our Auditors,  became a Limited Liability Partnership LLP during the year, following which  resigned and the Directors appointed the new partnership  LLP, as Auditors.
A resolution to reappoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting Full details of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 February 2004, and explanations of the resolutions to be proposed at the Meeting, appear in the Notice of Meeting enclosed with this report.
By order of the Board R. C. HANNAFORD, Company Secretary 17 November 2003 ITG 38
