DAVID CRESSWELL C Eng, MIEE, AGED 58 9.
SIPKO HUISMANS BA, AGED 62 Chairman and a Member of the Remuneration Committee Manufacturing Director Non-Executive Director and a Member of the Remuneration Committee Appointed Non-Executive Chairman on our Joined Imperial Tobacco in 1961 and was Appointed a Non-Executive Director in London Stock Exchange Listing in 1996.
He appointed to the Board in June 2003.
He joined Courtaulds in Southern is currently Non-Executive Chairman of electrical engineer by background, he has Africa in 1961 and moved to the UK in CamAxys Group plc and a Non-Executive undertaken a number of senior roles and has 1968.
He became a Director of Courtaulds in Director of TXU Corp USA.
He has a previously held the position of Managing 1984 and was responsible for the Chemical wide range of managerial and financial Director for each of Imperial Tobaccos major and Industrial business from 1986 until the experience gained as a former Executive operating divisions namely Cigarette, Rolling demerger of Courtaulds Textiles in 1990, Chairman of The Energy Group PLC, NonPaper and Roll Your Own Tobacco.
when he became Managing Director.
He was Executive Chairman of Cadbury Schweppes appointed Chief Executive of Courtaulds plc and Marconi plc and Deputy Chairman 6.
FRANK ROGERSON BSc, PhD, AGED 50 from 1991 until his retirement in 1996. of Hanson PLC, having previously held a Corporate Affairs Director number of senior management and financial positions.
Appointed to the Board in June 2003, having 10.
IAIN NAPIER ACMA, AGED 54 joined Imperial Tobacco in 1977, he has held Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration a number of senior management positions 2.
ANTHONY ALEXANDER FCA, AGED 65 Committee and a Member of the Audit Committee including Managing Director of Cigar and Vice Chairman, Senior Independent Director and a Appointed a Non-Executive Director in Roll Your Own Tobacco.
He was Business Member of the Audit Committee 2000.
He is currently Group Chief Executive Development Director at the time of the of Taylor Woodrow plc.
As a former main Appointed Vice Chairman on demerger and Reemtsma acquisition.
board Director of Bass PLC, he was Chief acts as senior independent Non-Executive Executive of Bass Leisure and then Chief Director.
He also serves as a Non-Executive 7.
BRUCE DAVIDSON B COM, AGED 47 Executive of Bass Brewers and Bass Director of Misys plc, Cookson Group plc Sales & Marketing Director International Brewers.
Following the sale of and Platinum Investment Trust plc.
He is a the Bass beer business in 2000, he became former Executive Director of Hanson PLC Appointed to the Board in October 2003, Vice President UK and Ireland for Interbrew and as Chief Operating Officer he had he has been part of the senior management SA until his resignation in August 2001. responsibility for all their UK operating team transforming the scale and reach of the companies.
Groups international business, since joining Imperial Tobacco in 1998.
PIERRE JUNGELS Ing Geol, PhD, C Eng, Imperial Tobacco he held a number of senior Fellow El, AGED 59 3.
GARETH DAVIS BA, AGED 53 management positions with British American Non-Executive Director and a Member of the Chief Executive Tobacco and Inchcape plc, including as Chief Remuneration Committee: appointed to the Audit Joined Imperial Tobacco Limited in 1972 Executive of Timberland Asia Pacific.
Committee in October 2003. and has held a number of senior positions Appointed to the Board in August 2002. including Manufacturing Director of He has held numerous senior international 8.
SIMON DUFFY MA, MBA, AGED 53 Cigarette and Roll Your Own Tobacco from positions within the oil industry with Shell Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the 1987 and Managing Director, International, International, Petrofina SA.
and British Gas Audit Committee from 1988.
He was appointed Chief PLC.
He became CEO of Enterprise Oil in Executive on demerger in 1996.
He has wide Joined the Board in 1996 as a Non- 1996, leading the business to substantial experience across all aspects of Imperial Executive Director and Chairman of the geographic and financial growth until his Tobaccos business and has played a key role Audit Committee.
Currently Chief retirement in November 2001.
He is a Nonin the development of both general strategy Executive Officer of ntl Inc, he was formerly Executive Director of Woodside Petroleum and the ongoing expansion programme.
In Chief Executive Officer of End2End Ltd. and of Offshore Logistics Inc.
He is also 2003 he was appointed as a Non-Executive Holdings Limited and of World Online the President of the Institute of Petroleum.
International BV and Chief Financial Officer of Orange SA and of EMI Group plc, where he was also Deputy Chairman.
ROBERT DYRBUS BSc, FCA, AGED 50 Operations Director of United Distillers, COMPANY SECRETARY Finance Director he is a Non-Executive Director of GWR Appointed Finance Director of Imperial Group plc.
RICHARD HANNAFORD BSc, FCA, AGED 56 Tobacco Limited in 1989 and was one of the Joined Imperial Tobacco in 1973.
Appointed three-man Hanson team involved in the Company Secretary in 1988 and Company strategic reorganisation of the Group.
He Secretary of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC became Finance Director of the Group on in 1996.
Prior to this he held a number of demerger in 1996 and has since played an management posts in finance and internal integral part in shaping the strategic audit functions.
Previously he was financial controller with Hanson PLC, responsible for Imperial Tobacco, Ever Ready and Allders.
