20 Corporate social responsibility continued Working for Inchcape We want all our colleagues at Inchcape to be proud of who they Learning and development work for and to take pride in their contribution to the Company.
We We are dedicated to facilitating the advancement of our colleagues have therefore built a clear set of statements defining what it means in every market we operate in, and consequently we have a number to work for Inchcape.
These statements outline our values, learning of development schemes, for all levels of staff, in operation across and development, communication and our employment policy.
One such programme is the Inchcape university.
This is a Our values virtual university, which all our colleagues can access via the Group Inchcape recognises that its success depends on maintaining intranet.
Once online, employees can find information on courses the quality, motivation and commitment of its employees in run with affiliated institutions, download their personal development every market it operates in and at every level of the Company.
plan and discover how to apply for financial assistance with The Groups employment policies and practices are therefore professional training.
purposely designed to support and achieve this goal.
Reinforcing this commitment to our peoples development, Underpinning this commitment are the Inchcape values.
Group Chief Executive, Peter Johnson has been appointed as We are very proud of our values, which are central to the way Chairman of the Automotive Skills Council in the UK.
This body we work, and they remain fundamental to our relationship with oversees the development of training and development customers, principals and employees.
They are as follows: programmes for the automotive sector in the UK, and is part of the UK Governments initiative to improve sector skills across all Service We constantly seek to enhance our service standards UK industries.
for our customers and for the companies we represent.
Teamwork We work as a team within our individual The Mount Eliza Business School partnership Our business businesses, across the Group as a whole and with our principals in Australia has had a partnership with the Mount Eliza Business and partners.
School since 2002, when they initially started working together to identify management and leadership development needs in senior Innovation We strive to remain at the forefront of our industry employees across the business.
by anticipating market changes and developing new products This work resulted in the development of the Entrepreneurial and services.
Leader Programme, an initiative designed to educate managers on Respect We respect all our stakeholders: our customers, a number of topics whilst building their leadership and mentoring principals, partners, colleagues, shareholders and we work hard skills.
Participating employees join the programme, which is to earn their respect.
residential, for four two day workshops, which are focused on themes of customer focus and excellence, understanding and Results We set ourselves challenging targets and endeavour managing, leadership and high performance, best practice and to pass them.
benchmarking, negotiation, change and the future.
Our values are introduced to all our new colleagues upon joining Inchcape and are regularly reinforced through all employee communications.
Appraisals are largely based on the five principles and individuals are asked to provide examples of how they have demonstrated the values in their work.
Right: Right: Apprentice with a bright future Pleasing the customer Crown Motors mechanical apprentice, At our business in Singapore, Borneo Ng Kwok Wai, has a lot of reasons to believe Motors, all service engineers and hes got a bright future.
Mr Ng, who is just engineering assistants participate in the twenty years of age, is the grand Service Engineer Engineering Assistant champion of the 2003 Best Apprentice Programme, which has been designed Competition, which is held by the to deliver ultimate customer satisfaction.
Automobile Training Board of Hong Offering classroom and practical training Kongs Vocational Training Council.
in customer relations and vehicle technical Competing against over ninety final year knowledge, the programme registered vehicle apprentices, who were has been running for over three years and nominated by fifteen different companies, ensures technicians are competent and he demonstrated an outstanding confident in providing customer service.
performance that won him the coveted Every new sales engineer must attend top prize in the annual skills competition.
a mandatory two week orientation and Mr Ng, pictured with Ted Lau, Director training course before working of Service on left, and Wilson Lau, in a dealership.
There are currently Lexus Service Manager on right, has two current customer service training been with Crown Motors for three programmes, entitled The Art of Wow and a half years and completed his and Optimising Performance Through apprenticeship in February 2004.
He says Coaching, offering advanced training for that winning the competition was quite employees in direct customer relations unexpected and comments: I would really positions.
By first developing a customer like to thank my supervisor who allowed mindset, the course then equips them me the time to study and my colleagues with the communications skills required who have all been very supportive.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2003 21 Inchcapes employment philosophy is simple: we want to attract, motivate and retain the best people for our business.
Individuals are then required to complete a work based project UK wide induction As we employ over c. 5,000 members of as part of the process, which is presented to senior management.
staff in the UK alone, the induction process to Inchcape is very The results so far have been significant and approximately sixty important.
All our colleagues in the UK are invited to attend a UK managers, including the Chief Executive and Finance Director, have Group one day orientation event within two months of joining the completed the course to date.
A new intake for the programme is Company.
This is in addition to their local induction.
The event is planned for 2004. based at the National Motor Museum at Gaydon, Warwickshire, and is designed to give employees a thorough overview of the Communication Group, providing details on the constituent parts of the UK Inchcape is always looking for ways in which it can improve business, an insight into the overall automotive market and a feel communication with employees across the Group, regarding the for the culture and style of the business.
business and issues affecting them.
Employees then have an opportunity to mix with their new We currently have a number of formal and informal channels colleagues, before ending the day on a fun note with a tour of to do this but one of the most effective methods is our worldwide the Museum and use of the Land Rover 4x4 track.
The latest version of the intranet was launched in February 2004, and has a number of improved Employment policy services for staff.
Dedicated areas for employees to access Inchcapes employment philosophy is simple: we want to attract, details of benefits and advantages available to them have proved motivate and retain the best people for our business.
In addition the real time share price data Our remuneration and benefits policies have been designed is useful for those members of staff who hold shares in to do this, and the framework for these are overseen by the Board the Company.
The Committee regularly reviews our policies in the context of market best practice and consults, where Bridging the language gap Being an international Company, appropriate, with our major shareholders on remuneration for the which operates across six core markets, language skills can prove senior executive team.
to be particularly valuable and are an important asset for the We offer a range of attractive share based incentive schemes majority of our colleagues.
and, at 31 December 2003, c. 1,100 of our colleagues were This is even more so in our Belgium businesses where three shareholders in the Company.
different languages: Flemish, French and English, are spoken.
Inchcape carefully observes best practices in employment To help colleagues perfect these languages, Toyota Belgium has policy and legislation and is committed to providing a workplace employed a variety of internal and external training programmes.
free of discrimination that gives equal opportunities to all our These initiatives enable staff to improve their language and employees.
All vacancies are made available to internal candidates associated computer skills either online or on a one to one basis.
first, via the intranet, so as to encourage career opportunities and advancement for our colleagues.
We also consult extensively with our colleagues via employee opinion surveys.
Colleagues We employ c. 10,000 members of staff within the Group worldwide.
On average the geographic distribution On average the distribution of male and of our colleagues worldwide in 2003 female colleagues, in our core markets, was as follows: in 2003 was as follows: Market % of employees Market % Male % Female UK 50.2 UK 74.0 26.0 Greece Belgium 9.7 Greece Belgium 70.0 30.0 Australia New Zealand 7.5 Australia New Zealand 72.0 28.0 Hong Kong 13.3 Hong Kong 81.0 19.0 Singapore Brunei 7.3 Singapore Brunei 74.0 26.0 Other 12.0 Total 100.0 Inchcape plc Annual report 2003
