40 Informa Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Directors report The Directors present their annual report and audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Principal activities Informa provides business information and education through multiple distribution channels.
Review of activities The business and future developments of the Group are outlined in the Chairman and Chief Executives review on pages 3 to 5, and the Operating and Financial review on pages 6 to 11.
Results and dividends The results for the year are shown in the consolidated profit and loss account on page 14 and the related notes.
The Directors announced on 1 March 2004 that a final dividend of 4.94p per share would be payable.
Due to the timing of the proposed merger with Taylor & Francis Group plc, instead this dividend will be declared as a second interim dividend.
The second dividend will be paid on 20 May 2004 to shareholders whose names are on the register of members on 23 April 2004, and which makes a total of 7.6p 2002: 7.6p per share for the year.
Going concern After reviewing the Groups budget for 2004 and its medium term plans, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore they continue to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Directors who have served on the Board of the Company during the year are: P S Rigby D S Gilbertson J H Wilkinson E A Barton R Hooper S M Watson Directors interests Directors interests as at 31 December 2003 were: 2003 2003 1st 31st Ordinary shares January Acquired Sold December P S Rigby 462,068 627 461,441 D S Gilbertson 481,680 6,388 488,068 J H Wilkinson 10,025 10,025 E A Barton 7,500 7,500 R Hooper 6,508 6,508 S M Watson 2,250 7,000 9,250 The Directors interest in share options are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report.
The Companys Register of Directors interests contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe.
Since 31 December 2003 none of the Directors have sold or acquired additional shares in the Company.
S M Watson will retire from the Board in accordance with the Companys articles of association, and being eligible offer himself for re-appointment.
Biographical details of all Directors of the Company are set out on page 12.
Share capital Details of the share capital are set out in note 24.
As at 24 February 2004 notifications of interests at or above 3% in the issued share capital of the Company have been received from the following: Date Company % Holding informed Legal & General Investment Management Limited 7.12% 4-Feb-04 Morley Fund Management Limited 3.97% 26-Jan-04 Fidelity International Limited 11.62% 12-Dec-03 Standard Life Investments 3.7% 8-Dec-03 Henderson Global Investors Limited 10.64% 9-Sept-03 Aegon UK Plc 6.07% 16-Jul-03 Corporate governance report In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority the following statement sets out how the Board has applied the principles of the Combined Code.
The Board has complied with all the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the year.
The appropriate additional disclosure required by the Revised Combined Code issued in July 2003 will be made in the 2004 Annual Report and Accounts when a full statement detailing the Companys compliance with the Revised Combined Code will be made.
It is the aim of the Group to comply with all material aspects of the Revised Combined Code during the course of 2004.
Directors Directors are appointed based on their level of competence and experience and have access to professional advice in carrying out their duties.
Directors also have access to training courses, to ensure their knowledge is up-to-date and their skills developed as required.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that new Directors receive appropriate training where necessary.
41 Informa Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Throughout the period all Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary, who is normally present at Board meetings and is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive relevant, timely information.
There is a procedure for Directors to take independent advice in the course of their duties, if considered appropriate, at the Companys expense.
The Company maintains a clear division of roles at the Board level with the Chairman being separate from the Chief Executive.
The composition of the Board throughout the period has represented a balance between Executive and Non-Executive elements, with three Executive and three Non-Executive Directors.
All of the Non-Executive Directors who held positions during the year are considered by the Board to be independent within the meaning of the Code.
The senior Non-Executive Director is R Hooper who can be contacted at the Groups registered office, the address for which is set out at the back of these accounts.
Biographical details of the Non-Executive Directors can be found on page 12.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of regular dialogue with the shareholders as a means of communicating the Companys direction and strategy and to respond to their concerns.
All shareholders are invited to the AGM at which the annual report is presented and Directors, including the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, are present to answer any questions that may arise.
The number of proxy votes received for and against each resolution is disclosed at the AGM and a separate resolution is proposed on each item.
In addition to the preliminary and interim results presentations and the AGM, a series of meetings between institutional shareholders and Executive Directors are held throughout the year.
Financial and other information about the Company is available on the Companys website www.
Non audit services provided by external auditors In order to maintain the independence of the external auditors, the Board has determined that non-audit work will not be offered to the external auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and value added benefits to the Company.
Accountability and committees The Boards assessment of the Companys position and prospects is set out in the main body of the report on pages 3 to 11. i.
The Audit Committee consists of the Non-Executive Directors and has written terms of reference detailing its authority and duties.
The Audit Committee is responsible for considering the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal controls and risk assurance function, reviewing the scope and conclusions of the work performed by the internal and external auditors and reviewing the financial statements and related policies.
The committee has met three times during the year.
R Hooper, E A Barton and S M Watson attended all three meetings.
The Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and consists of a senior group of management.
The committee reports its findings and recommendations to the Audit Committee.
The Committee is responsible for assessing Informas financial and operational risks and ensuring adequate controls are in place to manage those risks.
The Committee has met twice during the year.
Internal control The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement.
In accordance with the guidance published by the Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales the Turnbull Report, the Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the material risks faced by the business, which have been in place throughout the year under review, and up until the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and has taken account of material developments, which have taken place since 31 December 2002.
This has been performed through the Risk Committee as described above.
It has considered the major business and financial risks, the control environment and the results of the internal auditors work.
Steps are being taken to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the Group and to deal with areas of improvement which have come to managements and the Boards attention.
Any significant control weaknesses identified are brought to the attention of the Board on a timely basis and investigated by management, assisted by the internal audit and risk assurance function.
Any action taken is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee and the results reported to the Board.
Key procedures which the Directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control, and which have been in place throughout the year, are as follows: Investment appraisal The Board and business Group managers consider proposals for the acquisition of new businesses and the launch of new products.
Proposals beyond specified limits are put to the Board for approval and are subject to due diligence by the Groups finance team and independent advisors.
Capital expenditure is regulated by strict authorisation controls.
For expenditure above specified levels, detailed written proposals must be submitted to the Board and reviews carried out to monitor progress against budget.
Accounting and computer systems controls and procedures Accounting controls and procedures are regularly reviewed and communicated throughout the Group.
Particular attention is paid to authorisation levels and segregation of duties.
Computer systems controls and procedures include a specific focus on data security and business continuity, and are reviewed periodically.
Internal audit The responsibilities of internal audit include the monitoring of non-financial controls as well as controls over the assets of the business: monitoring of the accuracy of divisional financial reporting and adherence to Group accounting policies.
Operating units and central departments are selected for an internal audit review based on an assessment of risk.
The internal audit department reports their findings to both management and to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the scope of, the resources allocated to, and the authority of, the internal audit function during the year and is satisfied that it currently meets the requirements of Informa.
42 Informa Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Directors report continued The Board of Directors The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
The Board has met seven times during the year to consider Group strategy, policy and financial performance, business development and Group management issues.
P S Rigby, J H Wilkinson, R Hooper and E A Barton attended all seven meetings.
S M Watson and D S Gilbertson attended six meetings throughout the year.
Directors of key operating companies meet regularly to manage their respective businesses.
In addition where necessary the approved sub committees of the Board met between meetings, on an ad hoc basis: Each Executive Director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups affairs: The Board seeks assurance that effective control is being maintained through regular reports from business Group management, the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and various internal and external monitoring functions: The Board approves the annual budget after performing a review of key risk factors.
Performance is monitored regularly by way of variances and key performance indicators to enable relevant action to be taken.
Quality and integrity of personnel The integrity and competence of personnel is managed through high recruitment standards and a commitment to management and business skills training.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment and the high ethical standards expected are communicated by management leadership, through the employee handbook provided to all employees and are also available on the Groups intranet.
Social responsibility The Group is aware of its social responsibility and has core procedures embedded in its internal systems and controls to ensure that the Groups set social standards are not breached.
The Group is a keen supporter of local initiatives and regularly sponsors a number of charities.
Environmental responsibility The Group does not directly operate in industries where there is the potential for serious industrial pollution.
However it does take its environmental responsibility seriously and complies with all relevant environmental laws and regulations in each country in which it operates.
Wherever economically feasible, account is taken of environmental issues when placing contracts with its suppliers of goods and services.
The Group manages sensibly its energy requirements.
Employee Involvement The Group operates share option schemes, details of which are disclosed in note 24.
The Group aims to achieve open and effective communications with all employees.
The companies within the Group have different practices for achieving this, reflecting their particular size, structure and geography.
Equality of Opportunity The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment.
We strive to make full use of the talents of our employees, provide a healthy environment, and encourage good and productive working relationships throughout the organisation.
Employment of Disabled Persons It is the Groups policy to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment from people who are disabled, to continue wherever possible the employment of employees who become disabled and provide equal opportunities for the career development of disabled employees.
Health and Safety It is the objective of the Group to ensure the health and safety of its employees and any other persons who could be affected by its operations.
It is the Groups policy to provide working environments which are safe and without risk to health and provide information, instruction, training and supervision to ensure the health and safety of its employees.
Creditor payment policy The Groups policy, in relation to all of its suppliers, is to settle the terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction and to abide by those terms provided that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Company does not follow any code or statement on payment practice.
The Group has 25 days billings from suppliers outstanding at the year-end 2002: 31 days.
The Company has no trade creditors at 31 December 2003 2002: nil.
Charitable and political contributions There were no political contributions made by the Group in the past year.
The Group made 6,733 of charitable donations in the year.
Annual general meeting The Annual General Meeting Notice will be sent out separately following completion of the proposed merger with Taylor & Francis Group plc which is expected to be completed on 10 May 2004.
Auditors A resolution is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc.
By order of the Board Andrea Wilson FCIS Company Secretary 1 March 2004
