12 Informa Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 3 1,2, 3 Peter Rigby Richard Hooper Board of Directors Chairman of the Board and Senior Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Nominations Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, aged 48 Committee, aged 64 After qualifying as an accountant Peter Rigby Richard Hooper became a Non-Executive joined Metal Box.
In 1981 he moved into the Director of LLP in December 1997 and became media industry joining Book Club Associates the Senior Non-Executive Director on the Informa which was the joint venture between WH Smith Board following the merger of LLP and IBC.
In 1983 he joined Stonehart has 40 years experience in the information and Publications which was acquired by IBC communications industry, having worked in in 1986 becoming Finance Director of the broadcasting, telecommunications, publishing combined group two years later.
He is also Chairman of the appointed Deputy Chief Executive and later Content Board of the newly established UK Chief Executive, and led the expansion of communications regulator, and Deputy Chairman the Group into North America, Asia and of the Office of Communications Ofcom and a Australia.
He became Chairman of Informa member of the advisory board of Terra Firma at the inception of the Company following Capital Partners.
1,2, 3 Eric Barton David Gilbertson Non-Executive Director and Chief Executive, aged 47 Chairman of the Audit Committee, David Gilbertson has some 25 years experience aged 58 in the information industry having held editorial Eric Barton became a Non-Executive Director and management positions with Metal Bulletin, of LLP in December 1995 and continued as a Reuters and Reed Elsevier.
He joined Lloyds Non-Executive Director on the Board of of London Press in 1987 as Editor of Lloyds Informa after the merger.
He was a Director of List, joining the LLP Board in 1992.
He was 3i plc, the venture capital group, from 1986 to a member of the management buy-out team 1999 and is currently a Non-Executive Director which bought LLP from Lloyds of London of Morse plc, Telecity plc and Acal plc.
in 1995, becoming Chief Executive in 1997.
1,2, 3 He took the Company to flotation on the Stock Sean Watson Exchange in early 1998 and became Chief Non-Executive Director, aged 55 Executive of Informa following the merger Sean Watson is a Solicitor and a Senior with IBC.
Corporate Finance Partner at CMS Cameron McKenna.
He has extensive experience in all Jim Wilkinson areas of corporate law.
He was appointed to Finance Director, aged 38 the Board in May 2000.
Jim Wilkinson joined IBC in 1994 after eight 1 years with Deloitte & Touche in London and Member of the Audit Committee 2 South Africa.
Appointed Financial Controller of Member of the Remuneration Committee 3 IBCs UK Publishing division, he subsequently Member of the Nominations Committee became responsible for the Groups operations in South Africa, Singapore and Australia.
In 1997 he was appointed Deputy Finance Director, becoming Finance Director a year later.
Peter Rigby David Gilbertson Jim Wilkinson Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Richard Hooper Eric Barton Sean Watson Senior Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Director
