DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report for the 15 months ended A European Forum brings together senior managers and 31 December 2003. employee representatives from EU countries to discuss pan-European issues.
ACTIVITIES OF THE GROUP The principal activities of the Group are in hotels and INVESTORS IN PEOPLE resorts, with worldwide interests through ownership, leasing, The Group continues to support Investors in People IIP.
management and franchising, and in the manufacture of A number of UK and European hotels have accreditation soft drinks in the United Kingdom.
against the rigorous IIP standard set for communicating goals and objectives to employees and for ensuring that they BUSINESS REVIEW AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS are given the skills required to deliver business strategies.
The Operating and Financial Review on pages 1 to 13, and the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review and HEALTH AND SAFETY the Business Reviews presented in the Annual Review and The Group strives to provide and maintain a safe environment Summary Financial Statement provide information about the for all employees, customers and other visitors to its premises Groups businesses, their financial performance during the and to comply with relevant health and safety legislation.
In addition, all Group companies: FORMATION OF THE COMPANY AND SEPARATION aim to protect the health of employees with suitable, specific, OF SIX CONTINENTS work-based strategies: InterContinental Hotels Group PLC IHG PLC or the seek to minimise the risk of injury from company activity: Company was incorporated on 2 October 2002 and became ensure that through senior management participation, the holding company for the Group on completion of the sufficient resources and information are made available Separation of Six Continents PLC and the listing of IHG PLCs and suitable management systems are in place to address shares on 15 April 2003.
Details of the terms for shareholders health and safety matters: and of the Separation, including the return of capital, are provided encourage the involvement of employees and aim for in the Investor Information section of the Annual Review and continual improvement in health and safety matters through Summary Financial Statement.
a formal structure with a reporting and review process.
DIVIDENDS An interim dividend of 6.6p per Six Continents PLC share was Compliance with Group policy is monitored and audited centrally paid on 9 April 2003 prior to implementation of the Separation.
and an annual health and safety report is included within the risk management reports which are produced for the Board.
An interim dividend of 4.05p per IHG PLC share was paid CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY on 14 October 2003.
The directors are recommending a final IHG respects the communities in which it operates.
Respect dividend of 9.45p per IHG PLC share to be paid on 7 June for the environment is a core value and the Group is a founder 2004 to shareholders on the Register at close of business member of the International Hotels Environment Initiative.
Total dividends for the period will amount to 156 million.
IHGs commitment to developing its people and the communities EMPLOYEES in which it operates is described more fully in the Annual Review IHG employed an average of 29,809 people worldwide in the and Summary Financial Statement.
IHG Environmental and Social period ended 31 December 2003.
Responsibility policies are published on the Companys website.
EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all IHG encourages employee participation in the success of its employees without discrimination and continues to be supportive businesses through share ownership.
of the employment and advancement of disabled persons.
Great emphasis is placed on employee communication, FORMER SIX CONTINENTS SHARE SCHEMES particularly on matters relating to the Groups business and Under the terms of the Separation, holders of options under its performance.
Communication channels include global the Six Continents Executive Share Option Schemes were management conferences, team meetings, informal briefings, given the opportunity to exchange their Six Continents PLC in-house publications, and intranets.
Regular feedback is options for equivalent value new options over IHG PLC shares.
obtained through employee focus groups and employee As a result of this exchange 23,195,482 IHG PLC shares were opinion surveys, the results of which are utilised in developing put under option at prices ranging from 295.33p to 593.29p.
management policies and best practice.
14 InterContinental Hotels Group 2003 Options held under the Six Continents Savings Related Share No IHG PLC shares were purchased during the period and Option Schemes became exercisable for a period of six the authority granted by shareholders to purchase up to months from 11 April 2003.
Options exercised during this 110,095,835 IHG PLC shares remained unutilised as at the period resulted in the issue of 1,659,515 IHG PLC shares.
The authority remains in force until the The remainder of these options lapsed on 11 October 2003.
Annual General Meeting and a resolution to renew the authority will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
In February 2003, the Six Continents Employee Profit Share Scheme released 1,408,292 Six Continents PLC shares out of SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS profits appropriated to them by the Six Continents PLC Board in As at 10 March 2004, the Company has been notified 2000.
Following Separation, the Six Continents PLC shares held by shareholders of the following substantial interests by the Trust on behalf of beneficiaries were exchanged for IHG 3% or more in its ordinary share capital: PLC and Mitchells & Butlers plc shares.
At 31 December 2003, Dodge & Cox Funds 3.4% 1,549,907 IHG PLC shares were held by the Trustees on behalf FMR Corp and Fidelity International Ltd 3.1% of 1,803 participants.
Legal & General Group Plc 4.1% Under the terms of the Six Continents Special Deferred POLICY ON PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS Incentive Plan 246,355 IHG PLC shares were transferred IHG PLC is a holding company and has no trade creditors.
to 21 employees in December 2003, reflecting entitlements existing prior to the Separation.
GOING CONCERN The financial statements which appear on pages 28 to 55 No awards were made during the period under the have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after Six Continents Long Term Incentive Plan, which ceased making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable to operate on Separation.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP SHARE PLANS continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
A number of IHG Share Plans were established on Separation.
CODE OF ETHICS Under the Sharesave Plan, options were granted in December The Board has agreed the adoption of a specific Code 2003 to 1,374 employees over 1,374,559 IHG PLC shares at of Ethics for senior financial officers, consistent with the 420.5p per share, a 20% discount to the market price.
Companys existing guidelines for proper business conduct.
Between June and December 2003, 661,867 IHG PLC shares CHARITABLE DONATIONS were awarded under the Britvic Share Incentive Plan to be IHG continues to support community initiatives and charitable retained in Trust by Hill Samuel ESOP Trustee Limited as free causes and during the period donated 1.42 million.
In addition and partnership shares on behalf of 2,421 eligible employees, to these cash contributions, employees are encouraged to give subject to the Plan rules.
their time and skills to a variety of causes and IHG makes donations in kind, such as hotel accommodation.
In May and September 2003, options were granted under the Executive Share Option Plan to 170 employees over 7,375,272 POLITICAL DONATIONS IHG PLC shares at 438p and 491.75p per share respectively.
The Group made no political donations during the period and proposes to maintain its policy of not making such payments.
In June 2003, conditional rights over 5,281,020 IHG PLC shares were awarded to 46 employees under the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Performance Restricted Share Plan.
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held at 3.30pm on Tuesday, 1 June 2004 is contained in a circular A number of executives participated in the Short Term sent to shareholders with this Report.
Deferred Incentive Plan during the period but were not eligible to receive an award.
AUDITORS Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue Neither the Hotels Group Share Incentive Plan nor the in office as auditors of the Company and their reappointment US Employee Stock Purchase Plan were operated during will be put to members at the Annual General Meeting.
SHARE CAPITAL By order of the Board During the period, 4,902,352 IHG PLC shares were issued under employee share schemes and the ordinary share capital Richard Winter at 31 December 2003 consisted of 739,364,254 IHG PLC Company Secretary shares of 1 each.
