CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMBINED CODE COMPLIANCE set out above, which accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The The Board is committed to compliance with the principles set system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and Code and, in the opinion of the Board, the Company, since it must be recognised that it can only provide reasonable and its listing, and Six Continents PLC prior to the Separation, have not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
complied with the Code requirements as they apply for the In that context, the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not 15 month period to 31 December 2003. indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory.
Revisions have recently been made to the Code for companies To comply with the Groups US obligations, arising from the with a financial year beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, a project has been established Although compliance with the revised Code is not yet required, to identify, evaluate and test critical internal financial controls it has been decided to present this report having regard to the across all our business units.
This should enable representations changes, as far as possible.
to be made regarding the effectiveness of internal financial controls in time for the 2005 deadline for compliance.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to effectiveness.
In order to discharge that responsibility, the insure against every risk to the fullest extent.
The insurance Board has established the procedures necessary to apply market remains difficult both as to breadth and cost of coverage the Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of and in some cases external insurance is not available at all or responsibility and delegated authority.
The Group regularly reviews both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys, bearing in Business performance is managed closely and in particular, mind the availability of such cover, its price and the likelihood the Board, the Executive Committee and the Regional and magnitude of the risks involved.
Executive Committees have established processes, as part of the normal good management of the business, to monitor: BOARD AND COMMITTEE STRUCTURE To support the principles of good corporate governance, the strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive Board and Committee structure operates as set out below.
The series of Group and regional strategic reviews: structures and method of operation of all the main IHG PLC financial performance, within a comprehensive financial Committees reflect the practices of Six Continents PLC prior planning and accounting framework: to Separation.
capital investment performance, with detailed appraisal THE BOARD and authorisation processes: and The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the good risk management, through an ongoing process, which has standing of the Company, the management of its assets been in place up to the date of the accounts providing for optimum performance and the strategy for its future assurance through reports from both the Head of Risk development.
Seven regular Board meetings are scheduled Management and the Head of Internal Audit that the each year and further meetings are held as needed.
Six Board significant risks faced by the Group are being identified, meetings were held during 2003 since the Company was listed evaluated and appropriately managed, having regard in April 2003.
These were attended by all directors with the to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
exception that Messrs Kugler, Larson, Prosser and Webster could not attend one meeting each and Sir Howard Stringer In addition, the Audit Committee receives: could not attend two meetings.
The fact that a number of reports from the Head of Internal Audit on the work carried non-executive directors were unable to attend all scheduled out under the annual internal audit plan, including an annual Board and related Committee meetings throughout the period report on the operation of the monitoring processes set out was unavoidable during the first year of the Companys above to support the Boards annual statement on internal operations and in no way detracts from the level of commitment control: and of those individuals to the Company.
It did not prove possible reports from the external auditors.
during the Companys first year to schedule certain meetings on dates available to all concerned, as a result of the The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness appointment of new directors with existing commitments.
of the system of internal control during the period ended 31 December 2003, taking account of any material All directors are briefed by means of comprehensive papers in developments which have taken place since the year end.
advance of Board meetings and by presentations at meetings.
The review was carried out through the monitoring process Their understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by regular business presentations outside Board meetings 16 InterContinental Hotels Group 2003 and visits to the regions.
At least one Board meeting a year CHAIRMAN is held overseas.
Sir Ian Prosser was Chairman throughout the period.
He relinquished his executive responsibilities in July 2003 Although no formal performance evaluation of the Board took but retained his external directorships of BP p. l. c. and place during the period, it is intended that such a review of the GlaxoSmithKline plc and his roles on the Presidents Committee Board and of individual non-executive directors will take place of the CBI and on the World Travel and Tourism Council.
in early 2005 and that the process to be adopted will be reported in next years Annual Report.
David Webster was appointed non-executive Chairman on 1 January 2004.
This appointment was subject to his planned The following were directors of the Company during the period retirement as a director and Chairman of Safeway plc, on since listing: completion of the sale of that company to Wm Morrison Date of Supermarkets Plc.
This condition was fulfilled on 8 March 2004.
Position appointment The Chairman carries responsibility for ensuring the efficient Sir Ian Prosser Chairman 10.2.
03 operation of the Board and its Committees, for seeing that Richard North Chief Executive 10.2.
03 corporate governance matters are addressed, and for Richard Solomons Finance Director 10.2.
03 representing the Company externally and communicating Richard Hartman Managing Director, 15.4.
He also ensures that all Europe, Middle East & Africa directors are fully informed of relevant matters, working Stevan Porter President, Americas 15.4.
03 closely with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
03 CHIEF EXECUTIVE Richard North is the Chief Executive, with responsibility for David Prosser Non-executive director 15.4.
03 recommending to the Board and for implementing the Companys Sir Howard Stringer Non-executive director 15.4.
He is responsible for the executive David Webster Deputy Chairman and 15.4.
senior independent director SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Retired on 31 December 2003.
No family relationship between Sir Ian Prosser and David Prosser.
David Webster was Deputy Chairman and senior independent Appointed non-executive Chairman on 1 January 2004. director of the Company following his appointment in April 2003.
The following were directors of the Company prior to listing.
Following David Websters appointment as Chairman, David They received no remuneration in respect of their appointments.
Prosser is now the Companys senior independent director.
Appointed Resigned COMMITTEES Hackwood Directors Limited 2.10.02 10.2.
03 Executive Committee This Committee is chaired by the Chief Hackwood Secretaries Limited 2.10.02 10.2.
It consists of the executive directors and senior executives from the Group and the regions and The following served as directors of Six Continents PLC during usually meets monthly.
Its role is to consider and manage a the period, but resigned prior to the Separation: Roger Carr, range of important strategic and business issues facing the Tim Clarke, Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy, Thomas Oliver and Bryan Group.
It is responsible for monitoring the performance of the Sanderson.
regional Hotels businesses and the Britvic business and is Current directors biographical details are set out on page 20 authorised to approve capital and revenue investment within of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003. levels agreed by the Board.
All IHG PLC directors who were not previously employees or Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by David directors of Six Continents PLC Ralph Kugler, David Prosser Webster who has financial experience.
He will relinquish and David Webster have participated in induction programmes his role as Chairman of the Committee when a suitable designed to meet their individual needs and intended to replacement independent non-executive director has been introduce them to, and familiarise them with, the principal identified.
The Committee consists of all the non-executive activities of the Group.
The updating of all directors skills directors and is scheduled to meet at least four times a year.
and knowledge is a progressive exercise.
The Committee has met four times since listing.
The Committee assists the Board in observing its responsibilities for ensuring All members of the Board will retire and offer themselves for that the Groups financial systems provide accurate and up to reappointment at the Annual General Meeting on 1 June 2004. date information on its financial position and that the Groups Details of the executive directors service contracts are set published financial statements represent a true and fair out on page 22.
The Chairman and the four independent reflection of this position.
non-executive directors have letters of appointment.
17 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE It also assists the Board in ensuring that appropriate accounting administration of matters, the principles of which have been policies, internal controls and compliance procedures are in agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate Committee.
The external auditor attends its meetings as does the NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Head of Internal Audit, who has direct access to the Chairman The Company has a team of experienced independent of the Committee.
non-executive directors who represent a strong source To ensure that the independence and objectivity of the of advice and judgement.
There are four such directors, external auditor is not compromised, the Audit Committee excluding the current non-executive Chairman, each of has introduced a policy whereby all proposals for the provision whom has significant external commercial experience.
of non-audit services by the external auditor must be The Boards current composition meets the requirement of pre-approved by the Audit Committee or its delegated member.
the revised Code for at least half the Board, excluding the At all times, the overriding consideration is to ensure that the Chairman, to be independent non-executive directors.
In the provision of non-audit services does not impact the external Boards view, all of the current non-executive directors satisfy auditors independence and objectivity.
the tests set out in the Code for independence.
Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee, chaired RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS by the Groups Financial Controller, and comprising the The Company ensures that directors submit themselves Company Secretary and other senior executives, reports to for re-election at least every three years.
the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, and to the Audit Committee.
Its duties include ensuring that information required INDEPENDENT ADVICE to be disclosed in reports pursuant to UK and US accounting, There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board statutory or listing requirements, fairly represent the Groups may take independent professional advice in the furtherance position in all material respects.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, COMPANY SECRETARY chaired by David Prosser, consists of all the non-executive All directors have access to the advice and services of the directors and meets at least three times a year.
Its role is Company Secretary.
His responsibilities include ensuring good described on page 19.
The Committee has met four times information flows to the Board and its Committees and between since listing.
senior management and the non-executive directors.
He facilitates the induction of directors, assisting them in fulfilling Nomination Committee The Nomination Committees quorum their duties and responsibilities and, through the Chairman, he comprises any three non-executive directors although, where is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance.
possible, all non-executive directors are present.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company and is responsible for SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for The Company has a programme of meetings with its major appointment to the Board.
The Committee generally engages institutional shareholders, which provides an opportunity to external consultants to advise on candidates for Board discuss, on the back of publicly available information, the appointments, and did so in connection with the appointments of progress of the business.
The Chairman, the senior independent Messrs Kugler, Prosser and Webster.
The Committee also assists director and other non-executive directors are available to meet the Board in identifying and developing the role of the senior with major shareholders to understand their issues and concerns independent director.
The Committee has met formally once and to discuss governance and strategy.
Annual General Meeting provides a useful interface with private shareholders, many of whom are also customers.
The Chairmen The selection and appointment of David Webster as the new of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are Chairman of the Company was carefully considered by both available at those meetings to answer questions.
The availability the Nomination Committee and the Board.
Consideration was to shareholders of information about the Group is maintained also given to other possible suitable persons.
The decision to through the website: www.
com appoint David Webster was unanimous.
FURTHER INFORMATION General Purposes Committee The General Purposes The terms of reference of the Audit, Disclosure, Remuneration Committee comprises any two executive directors or any one and Nomination Committees, and of the Companys remuneration executive director together with a senior officer from an agreed consultants, are available from the Company Secretarys office and restricted list of senior executives.
It is always chaired by on request.
The terms and conditions of appointment of a director.
It attends to business of a routine nature and to the non-executive directors are also available on request.
