Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2003 The directors of Interserve Plc present their report and the audited five business days immediately preceding the date on which the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Company agrees to buy the shares concerned.
This authority expires on the date of the forthcoming AGM or 14 August 2004, whichever shall be the earlier.
Shareholders will be asked to renew Principal activities and business review the authority, which will include the purchase of shares for Interserve Plc is the holding company of a group of integrated treasury, for a further period of up to 15 months at the AGM.
businesses providing facilities services, industrial services, project services and equipment services in the United Kingdom and The Companies Act 1985 requires that any shares issued wholly for overseas and with a range of PFI investments.
The principal cash must first be offered to existing shareholders in proportion companies of the Group, together with details of their individual to their existing holdings unless authorised to the contrary by a activities and their locations, may be found on pages 71 to 74 resolution of the shareholders.
Resolutions giving such authority and in the Chief Executives review on pages 10 to 15 of this Report were passed in 2003.
Authorities to renew for one year the power and Accounts.
Prospects for the future appear in the Chairmans of directors to allot shares pursuant to sections 89 and 95 of the statement on pages 8 and 9.
Companies Act 1985 will be sought from shareholders at the AGM.
Group results and dividends Directorate and directors interests The Group loss from ordinary trading activities before taxation The following unless otherwise noted have been directors and after exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill was throughout the year: 2.9 million 2002: profit of 37.2 million.
The detailed results of the Group are given in the Accounts on pages 46 to 70 and M C Bottjer Group Chairman further comments on divisional results are given in the Chief J M F Padovan Deputy Chairman Executives review.
An interim dividend of 4.2p per 10p ordinary A M Ringrose Chief Executive share was paid on 3 November 2003 and the Board recommends G P Balfour a final dividend of 9.3p per 10p ordinary share, making a total C J Groom retired from the Board on 31 December 2003 distribution for the year ended 31 December 2003 of 13.5p per S B Hagerty 10p ordinary share 2002: 13.0p.
A R Hannah T C Jones appointed to the Board on 11 August 2003 Subject to approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting N F Keegan appointed to the Board on 11 July 2003 AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 9 June 2004 to D C Keys Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business on Director, retired from the Board on 14 May 2003 19 March 2004.
The directors recommend that the retained loss of M S Lee retired from the Board on 30 September 2003 23.3 million be transferred from reserves, as indicated in note 26 D A Trapnell appointed to the Board on 11 July 2003 to the Accounts on page 69.
J H Vyse Senior Independent Director Share capital Appointed Deputy Chief Executive on 1 January 2003 and Chief Executive The authorised share capital of the Company is 150,000,000 on 1 July 2003 ordinary shares of 10p each.
During the year 792,344 shares were Non-executive director allotted as follows: As required by the Companys Articles of Association, 95,000 ordinary shares of 10p to participants in the Executive Messrs Hagerty, Ringrose and Vyse retire by rotation and, being Share Option Scheme on the exercise of options at a price of eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Messrs Jones, Keegan and 212p per ordinary share: and Trapnell, who were appointed as additional members of the Board, 697,344 ordinary shares of 10p to participants in the Sharesave retire in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association Scheme on the exercise of their options at a price of 199.2p per and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
At the date of this report the unexpired period of Messrs Hagerty, Jones, Ringrose and Vyses service contracts are one year.
As a result of the forgoing allotments, the issued share capital at Messrs Keegan and Trapnell do not have service contracts with the end of the year stood at 113,756,332 ordinary shares of 10p the Company.
The issued share capital at the date of this report stands at The directors beneficial interests in, and options to acquire 113,756,332 ordinary shares of 10p each 11,375,633.20. ordinary shares of, the Company and Company loan stock at the year end are set out in note 6 to the Accounts on page 55 and in Details of outstanding options over shares in the Company as at the Directors remuneration report on pages 41 and 42 of this 31 December 2003 are set out in note 25 to the Accounts on Report and Accounts.
There have been no changes in the directors beneficial interests in The Company has authority under a shareholders resolution and options to acquire ordinary shares of the Company and Company passed at the AGM held on 14 May 2003 to purchase up to loan stock between the year end and the date of this report.
11,303,941 of the Companys ordinary shares at prices ranging between the nominal value for each share and 105 per cent of the The directors do not have any interest in any other Group company.
average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares for the 32 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003 Directors report continued For the year ended 31 December 2003 No director has, or has had, a material interest, directly or The Board is responsible, amongst other things, for overall Group indirectly, at any time during the year under review in any contract strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major significant to the Companys business other than Mr Groom and capital expenditure projects, approving both material contracts Mr Ringroses interest in the sale and purchase agreement and loan and contracts otherwise than in the normal course of business of notes issued in connection with the acquisition of Building & all subsidiary companies, employee issues and key appointments, Property Holdings Limited prior to their appointment as directors risk management strategy including Group insurances, health and and Mr Hagertys interest in loan notes issued in connection with safety, and social, environmental and ethical matters.
the acquisition of Fincham Industrial Services Limited by Bandt Below the Board is the Executive Committee, comprising the Holdings Limited prior to the acquisition of Bandt plc by the executive directors, Mr S Maroli, Mr B Melizan and the Company Company see notes 1, 3 and 8 respectively in the Directors Secretary, which has its own terms of reference.
Each operating company has regular board meetings chaired by an executive director, save for the smaller overseas subsidiaries in the Substantial shareholdings Equipment Services division, which are visited from time to time As at 9 March 2004 the Company has been notified of the by the relevant executive director and on a regular basis by the following interests in shares: divisional and regional managing directors, divisional financial 12,618,443 11.09% Aviva plc director and regional financial controllers.
11,348,673 9.98% Henderson Global Investors Ltd Directors may, after consultation with the Deputy Chairman, take 3,888,459 3.42% Legal & General Investment Management Ltd independent legal advice in furtherance of their duties at the 3,691,424 3.25% Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd Companys expense up to a limit of 10,000 in relation to any one 3,622,350 3.18% Prudential plc M&G Investment Management Ltd event.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the There are no other notifiable interests, so far as the directors are Company Secretary, whose appointment or removal is a matter aware, comprising material interests of 3 per cent or more, or an reserved for the approval of the Board or any duly delegated aggregate of material and non-material interests of 10 per cent or committee thereof.
more, in the issued share capital of the Company.
The individual directors have different skills, experience and qualifications with certain of their number presently or previously Corporate governance working in other sectors of the economy, and are able to bring In June 1998 the Combined Code the Hampel Code was issued independent judgement to bear on matters for consideration by by the London Stock Exchange.
This Hampel Code is based on the the Board.
Report of the Hampel Committee and sets out Principles of Good Corporate Governance and Hampel Code Provisions which Executive directors may be permitted to take a limited number of consolidate the work of the earlier Cadbury and Greenbury outside non-executive directorships in non-competing companies, Committees and introduced certain new Principles and Provisions.
subject to the approval of the Remuneration Committee.
Section 1 of the Hampel Code is applicable to companies.
Every director receives appropriate training on or before A narrative statement on how the Company has applied the appointment to the Board and thereafter as necessary.
Principles and a statement explaining the extent to which the provisions in the Hampel Code have been complied with Group Chairman and Chief Executive appear below.
The posts of Group Chairman and Chief Executive were combined in June 1996 and remained so until 1 July 2003 when Mr Ringrose Narrative statement took up his appointment as Chief Executive, with Mr Bottjer The Hampel Code establishes 14 Principles of Good Governance continuing as Group Chairman.
which are split into the four areas described below.
All operational activities report through the executive directors who focus on co-ordinating the Companys businesses and Directors implementing Group strategy.
The Board The Board comprises five executive directors seven during the The Board considers its non-executive directors to be of sufficient period under review, save for between 11 August and calibre and number that their views may be expected to be of 30 September 2003 when there were eight, four independent sufficient weight that no individual or small group can dominate non-executive directors three from 1 January until 15 May, two the Boards decision-making processes.
from 15 May until 11 July and four thereafter and a Chairman The non-executive directors have no financial or contractual from 1 July 2003, when the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive interest in the Company other than by way of their fees and were split, whose biographies are set out on page 7 of this shareholdings as disclosed in the Directors remuneration report.
They do not participate in the Groups share option schemes and The Board normally meets monthly throughout the year, their service is not pensionable.
excepting August, and has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its approval.
There are also Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, PFI, Treasury and Allotment Committees with defined terms of reference.
Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003 33 Directors report continued For the year ended 31 December 2003 Supply of information Internal control The Group Chairman and the Company Secretary prepare detailed The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control agenda papers for each meeting of the Board, which are normally and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to circulated in advance of each meeting.
The agenda papers include manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve sufficient information from management on financial, business and business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not corporate issues to enable the directors to be properly briefed on absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
issues to be considered at Board meetings.
The principal features of the system of internal control are: The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial An established management structure comprising the Board results, cash flows and projections to the Board on a monthly with its various committees and an Executive Committee.
These are compared with budgets approved by the Board prior to the commencement of each financial year.
The financial A comprehensive system for reporting financial results to the summaries are accompanied by a written report explaining Board.
Each company prepares monthly results excepting operating and financial performance, and the cause and effect January with a comparison against budget or forecast, of variance from the agreed budgets.
together with certain key performance indicators, which are also presented in a consolidated form on a divisional basis.
The Board reviews these for the Group as a whole and Appointments to the Board determines appropriate action.
Nominations for appointments to the Board are made by the Nomination Committee, which comprises the Group Chairman, All proposals for capital expenditure below 200,000 are who is chairman of the Committee, the Deputy Chairman, the submitted for approval to the Executive Committee.
Larger Chief Executive and at least one other non-executive director.
value proposals and company acquisitions and disposals are The Committee has its own terms of reference.
Manuals setting out Group policy and financial and operating Re-election procedures are in place, with which all Group companies must All directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association comply.
These manuals set out the necessary levels of to submit themselves for re-election every three years.
authorisation applicable for different transactions.
The Group has certain key areas which are subject to central Directors remuneration management or control, which include management information The Remuneration Committee, under the chairmanship of systems, safety, legal, insurance, treasury and company Mr Keys 1 January until 14 May 2003, Mr Padovan 14 May until secretarial.
These functions report to executive directors and 31 December 2003 and Mr Balfour from 1 January 2004, considers operate within defined limits and levels of authority.
and determines the remuneration, whether by way of salary or During the course of each year members of the Executive otherwise, of the executive directors.
The remuneration of the Committee or other senior operational and financial management non-executive directors is determined by the Board within limits visit all trading companies, including those located overseas, to set out in the Articles of Association.
The Directors remuneration discuss and monitor performance of those businesses.
report is set out on pages 37 to 43 of this Report and Accounts, and includes details of directors service contracts.
The Audit Committee receives and considers a report from the Auditors setting out their material findings on the audit of individual companies.
These findings are also considered by the Relations with shareholders Executive Committee and matters arising are discussed in depth The Company encourages two-way communication with both with each company.
The Group Chairman and the Chief Executive, accompanied in the majority of cases by the The Board confirms that it has established the procedures Finance Director, attended between them 93 meetings with analysts necessary to implement Internal Control: Guidance for Directors and institutional investors in the year ended 31 December 2003. on the Combined [Hampel] Code.
A risk management policy document is available to operating companies staff as appropriate All shareholders are given at least 20 working days notice of the comprising an introduction from the Group Chairman on behalf of AGM at which all directors and committee chairmen are introduced the Board, the Boards own risk management matrix, the risk and are available for questions.
management matrix applicable to their division and their own company internal controls in order that they understand the Accountability and audit significant risks which are relevant to the tasks which they Financial reporting perform, apply control strategies which are relevant to those risks Detailed reviews of the performance and financial position of the and carry out the fundamentals of good risk management.
Companys operations are included in the Chief Executives review An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the and Finance Directors report.
The Board uses these, together with significant risks faced by all companies within the Group has been the Chairmans statement and this Directors report, to present a in place for the period under review and until the date of approval balanced and understandable statement of the Companys position of this Report and Accounts.
The directors responsibility for the financial statements is described on page 44 of this Report and Accounts.
34 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003 Directors report continued For the year ended 31 December 2003 Internal controls are reviewed in September and March by the appointment of Messrs Keegan and Trapnell as non-executive Board, which accords with the Internal Control Guidance for directors on 11 July 2003 their appointment to the Audit Committee Directors on the Combined [Hampel] Code produced by the did not become effective until close of business on 10 September Turnbull Working Party.
The Board considered that it was appropriate that Messrs Keegan and Trapnell should attend at least one Board There is an ongoing process to embed internal control and risk meeting before becoming members of the Audit Committee.
management further into the operations of the business, to deal However, Messrs Keegan and Trapnell were invited and did attend with areas of improvement which are identified from time to time the only Audit Committee meeting during this period of and to derive the maximum benefit to the business through the non-compliance, which took place on 10 September 2003. use of risk management procedures.
In July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council published a revised Code the 2003 FRC Code based on the reports of the Higgs and Smith Audit Committee and Auditors Committees, which were published in January 2003.
The 2003 FRC The Audit Committee is comprised solely of non-executive Code is not applicable to the Company for the year under review, directors: the Deputy Chairman, Mr Padovan Mr Keys from but the Company has begun the process of reviewing and revising its 1 January to 14 May 2003 who is its chairman, Mr Balfour, procedures to enable the Board to report, as required, on compliance Mr Keegan from 11 September 2003 and Mr Trapnell from with the 2003 FRC Code for the year beginning 1 January 2004.
11 September 2003, and has written terms of reference which deal clearly with its authority and duties.
It meets at least three times a year with the Auditors, the Group Chairman, the Chief Executive Charitable and political donations and the Finance Director attending by invitation.
The Committee Charitable donations made during the year amounted to 27,500 overviews the monitoring of the adequacy of the Companys 2002: 26,670.
No political donations were made in the period.
internal controls, accounting policies and financial reporting and provides a forum through which the Companys external Auditors Creditor payment policy report to the non-executive directors.
Part of the Audit Committee It is the Groups normal practice to agree payment terms with its meetings are held between the non-executive directors and suppliers and abide by those terms.
Payment becomes due when it external Auditors in private.
can be confirmed that goods and or services have been provided During the course of the year an internal audit department was in accordance with the relevant contractual conditions.
Trade established and an internal audit policy and plan for 2004 were creditors for the Company at 31 December 2003, calculated in agreed with the Audit Committee.
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, were 5 days 2002: 9 days.
This represents the ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts invoiced to the Company in the year Going concern basis by its suppliers and the amounts due, at the year end, to trade After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, creditors falling due for payment within one year.
As figures for at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a the Company alone are not representative, trade creditors for the reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources Group calculated on the above basis at 31 December 2003 were to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Health and safety Health and safety issues continue to occupy a prominent priority Compliance statement in all business operations as the goal of continual improvement in The Listing Rules require the Board to report on compliance with safety performance is pursued.
45 Hampel Code provisions throughout the accounting period.
Save for the limited exceptions outlined below, the Company has The policy of the Group is that accountability for health and safety complied throughout the accounting period ended 31 December performance is managed within the operating divisions.
During the 2003 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Hampel Code.
year the Group Health and Safety Policy Statement was reviewed and reissued under the signature of the Chief Executive.
All executive directors have service contracts terminable on one years notice save for Mr Hannah and Mr Lee, both of whom had At Group level, an executive director is appointed with service contracts with two-year notice periods.
On 27 June 2003 responsibility for health and safety.
All executive directors are Mr Hannah was given two years notice of the termination of his accountable for health and safety performance in areas under service agreement, effective from 1 July 2003, with a view to his their control and within each operating company senior managers being offered a new service agreement in July 2004, terminable are also appointed with health and safety responsibilities.
Mr Lee retired from the Board on Performance is monitored by the Board by using monthly safety 30 September 2003. reports together with more detailed quarterly reviews.
During the period 1 January until 11 July the Board comprised less The range of risks to which employees of the Group are exposed than one-third non-executive directors.
are all assessed and managed in accordance with legislative For the period 15 May until 11 September 2003 the Audit Committee requirements using documented company procedures.
Notwithstanding the Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003 35 Directors report continued For the year ended 31 December 2003 OHSAS 18001 is used as the model for the development of formal Disabled employees safety management systems within each operating company.
The Group has an established policy that disabled persons, Project Services have maintained accreditation of their especially should they become disabled in the course of their management arrangements to this standard.
Development and employment with the Group, be employed where circumstances implementation of management systems are supported by the permit.
The Group endeavours to ensure that disabled employees employment of more than 52 full or part-time qualified safety benefit from training and career development programmes in line professionals.
During the year, various initiatives have been taken to improve Social, environmental and ethical policies health and safety performance.
These included: A Board director is appointed to be responsible for the Group Industrial Services established a training facility to meet the social, environmental and ethical policies.
A separate report on requirements of both in-house and external clients.
Courses Corporate Social Responsibility is contained on pages 24 to 29 accredited by IOSH, CIEH and IPAF are offered and during of this Report and Accounts.
the year over 80 managers attended the IOSH Managing Safety course: Auditors a programme by Project Services focusing on vehicle and plant On 1 August 2003, Deloitte & Touche, the Companys Auditors, management arrangements which reduced the incidence of transferred their business to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited non-conformance recorded during inspections: and liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability a pilot programme run by Facilities Services using the stress Partnership Act 2000.
The Companys consent has been given to management tools provided by the HSE on their website.
treat the appointment of Deloitte & Touche as extending to Deloitte & Touche LLP with effect from 1 August 2003 under the Operating companies have continued to receive recognition for provisions of section 26 5 of the Companies Act 1989.
A resolution their safety performance through the achievement of national to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys Auditors will safety awards: be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Interserve Industrial Services RoSPA Highly Commended Engineering Construction Annual General Meeting resolutions Sector The resolutions to be presented at the AGM to be held on 13 May 2004, together with the explanatory notes, appear in the separate Interserve Defence RoSPA Gold Medal Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to all shareholders.
Interserve Facilities Services Slough RoSPA Merit Award Interserve House Approved by the Board of Interserve Project Services RoSPA Gold Award Ruscombe Park directors and signed on BSC National Safety Award Twyford behalf of the Board 4 years Reading Interserve Engineering Services RoSPA Gold Award Berkshire RG10 9JU Other organisations and clients also provide recognition of safety standards achieved with awards to individual contracts or sites.
During the year this has included awards from ECIA and the Considerate Constructors Scheme.
T Bradbury The Group sets targets and objects as a focus for health and safety Company Secretary and, for 2003, progress can be reported in all areas.
9 March 2004 The number of RIDDOR reportable injuries to employees and sub-contractors reduced by 12 per cent over the year with a corresponding reduction in the annual incidence rate of just over 1 per cent, the third successive year of reduction.
Employee involvement Within the bounds of commercial confidentiality, management disseminates information to all levels of staff about matters that affect the progress of the Group and are of interest and concern to them as employees.
Information on the Groups strategy, performance, range of activities, training developments and charitable activities was given within the February, June and September editions of Focus, the Group newsletter produced on behalf of the Executive Committee.
