Case studies Defence Army Training Estate PPP Working in a dynamic environment In February 2003 the Interserve subsidiary, competition to find a long-term strategic support activities not directly related to Landmarc Support Services, won one of partner to assist in the management and the training itself.
It runs the built estate, the largest outsourcing contracts ever running of the ATE.
camps and accommodation, the rural awarded by the MOD.
It was also one of training areas and training ranges and a the largest Public Private Partnerships to Landmarcs selection for the 600 million booking and management information have been signed at the time.
contract was the result of a number of system.
It also provides support to factors including Interserves experience Defence Estates on environmental and The Army Training Estate ATE comprises in working at a strategic level with the other issues.
In addition to the initial 10 some 130 training areas and ranges in MOD for many years, giving it a solid years of the contract Landmarc will be England, Scotland and Wales and covers understanding of the requirements of the eligible for a five-year extension if it approximately 1 per cent of the British modern military environment.
The maintains the successful performance land mass.
It is used by the armed forces company also had a proven track record delivered so far.
to train soldiers and give them experience of handling TUPE transfers effectively in in a wide variety of terrains under diverse many other public-sector contracts and operational conditions.
Having brought maintains a philosophy of obtaining the the management of all this land together best from its staff by investing in training for the first time, the MOD recognised and development.
that the skills required to control a large, complex landholding are different from The ATE contract mobilised in April 2003 those of running modern armed forces.
It and is now fully operational.
The services therefore undertook an extensive Landmarc provides include almost all 16 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003 Custodial police Metropolitan Police Service Freeing the client to deliver its services Interserve Facilities Services contract document reprographics As the five-year contract came to a close with the Metropolitan Police Service the MPS awarded the company a two-year mobile handyman force MPS began in 1999.
It is large, diverse extension worth approximately 60 radio masts and towers added during and complex, involving the delivery of a million.
Not only did this include all the the contract term number of related support functions services originally provided, it was also uninterruptible power supply systems throughout the MPSs operational territory increased in scope through the addition within the M25.
This covers 350 separate of several mainly managerial and special events sites and more than 1,200 buildings technical services such as statutory including New Scotland Yard, the police inspections and surveys, traffic census Special events covers a multitude of training college at Hendon, offices, support and an extended help-desk planned and reactive activities such as garages, premises for housing and training facility.
These were previously supplied by creating and setting up notices for events dogs and nearly 300 police stations.
a third party and are worth in the region such as Wimbledon, the London Marathon of 5 million each year.
As David Hill, and the Boat Race, providing and The main services provided across this estate Director of Facilities Management for the deploying barriers, spotlights and other under the initial five-year contract were: Metropolitan Police, commented, Weve temporary equipment at incidents and developed a partnership of trust with making signage including witness appeal planned and reactive mechanical and Interserve over the last five years.
It even includes supplying and electrical maintenance, managed company has shown its commitment and using body bags and incident tents.
through a dedicated help-desk its ability to deliver a high level of service Interserve personnel can travel anywhere security access systems and across our estate, which is why were in the country when the MPSs expertise security services happy to award this extended contract.
is called upon by other forces.
messenger services Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003 17
