Chief Executives review continued Working in partnership High voltage overhead power Industrial Services transmission work has also grown Divisional operating profit from and new relationships have been continuing activities was ahead of formed with United Utilities, expectations at 11.6 million 2002: Yorkshire Electricity Distribution and 11.6 million on turnover of 148 Balancing the business mix Scottish Power.
We now hold in million 2002: 110 million.
excess of 50 substantial term Following an above-trend result in Work winning in existing maintenance contracts, with our 2002 the operating margin of 7.8 per sectors client retention rate remaining in cent 2002: 10.5 per cent is more excess of 90 per cent.
closely in line with that expected Client retention over 90% from the new profile of the business During the year we accelerated our after the restructuring that has Exits from townwork tube & plan for withdrawal from townwork taken place.
fittings scaffolding and lowtube & fittings access scaffolding, voltage power distribution with the closure announced in July.
In addition to benefiting from the This, together with the exit from improving market conditions within low voltage power distribution, is our traditional petrochemical sector, enabling increased concentration on we have made good progress in developing the business in areas with developing the balance of the better long-term potential.
The exit business across different market programme has proceeded well, sectors and in concentrating on yielding accelerated positive cash maintenance-led growth.
flow from asset disposals and working capital recovery.
With regard to our client mix, the division has continued its 2003 was the third year of our expansion into the marine approach to the industrial market engineering defence sector as an integrated supplier of a broad through a growing relationship range of services and we believe with BAe Systems in the Royal Navy that the benefits this approach shipbuilding and refurbishment brings to both client and service programmes at Govan, Barrow and provider are proven.
In the nuclear sector of this, our future workload has our term maintenance contracts risen to 571 million 2002: 544 with BNFL have been expanded at million, representing both an overall Sellafield and Dounreay and our increase and greater certainty of relationship with this client was work during the year ahead, with extended through recent contract around 75 per cent of 2004s awards at Dungeness and, latterly, expected turnover secure at the Springfield.
These developments have year end.
Looking further ahead, enabled us to position ourselves well there are opportunities available for the substantial nuclear plant both to expand our share of our decommissioning programme that is traditional market sectors and to expected to begin in earnest in the extend our offering progressively coming years.
See final paragraph of Overview on into new growth areas.
page 10 for definition 12 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003
