Case studies continued Industry BP Petrochemicals, Hull Delivering safety, efficiency and teamwork With an annual production capacity of insulators, joiners and many others.
integration with BPs own managers, over 1.5 million tonnes and covering 370 Each of these would have had its own such that the two companies now work acres, BPs Hull site is a strategic part of interface with the companys managers together as a single team.
It and would have worked with its own manufactures seven petrochemical priorities and schedule in mind.
BP In 2003 Interserve won a three-year products on a global scale and is Europes wanted a different approach and, in extension to its contract with two largest producer of acetic acid 700,000 Interserve Industrial Services, found its further one-year options.
Services tonnes a year and the worlds secondideal partner.
include project management, design largest producer of vinyl acetate and procurement, plant repair and monomer 250,000 tonnes a year.
Interserves management approach, the maintenance, mechanical and pipework Processing such volumes of chemicals breadth of its service capabilities and its fabrication and installation, electrical safely and efficiently requires an exceptional safety record were critical and instrumentation installation, civil extensive ongoing maintenance and factors in BPs choice.
It won a threeengineering and construction, building renewal regime of considerable scale.
year contract for the provision of several services, scaffolding, thermal insulation services in the highly complex, timeand industrial coatings.
Traditionally the diverse services critical environment and took on the necessary to support the site would have role of project co-ordinator, giving BP a been provided by individual specialist single point of contact instead of having organisations such as instrument to manage multiple interfaces.
The technicians, pipefitters, welders, relationship has since developed to electricians, scaffolders, painters, include more services and a deeper 18 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003
