Case studies continued Infrastructure Boadilla Tunnel reconstruction Madrid, Spain Exceeding customer expectations When disaster struck the newlywas during this last stage that things carefully-controlled operations, the constructed Boadilla Tunnel outside went wrong: part of the tunnel collapsed equipment being moved along the Madrid, Spain, the contractor, a joint under the weight of the earth on top freshly-created tunnel between venture of the four biggest Spanish of it.
construction companies, needed a fast, high-quality and cost-effective way of The contractor called in specialist This approach, using largely standard rebuilding it.
Interserves Equipment engineers from Interserve Equipment materials and avoiding the need for Services division provided the solution.
Services to devise a method of rebuilding a rail-mounted system, reduced the the damaged section.
Although amount of equipment needed and saved The M50 motorway will, when complete, Interserve had not been involved in the team valuable time on site with circle Madrid in much the same way as the original project, its design offered the result that this section of the M50, the M25 circles London.
A section of this significant savings in construction time carrying approximately 80,000 cars a outer ring road passes through the compared to the alternatives considered.
day, will be open some two to three residential community of Boadilla, some The design began with building a months earlier than would otherwise 9 miles to the west of Madrid.
In order falsework frame outside the tunnel then have been possible.
to maintain the communitys integrity placing curved formwork panels on top an artificial tunnel, 225 metres long and on lengthways steel beams.
The whole designed to carry three lanes of traffic, structure was towed into the tunnel in was constructed by excavating the modules and the new section of tunnel ground, creating a tunnel shell and shell was then created by pouring finally covering the shell with soil.
It concrete around the form in three 22 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003 Central and local government Inland Revenue PFI, Newcastle Managing change while the client works on In the late 1990s the Inland Revenue and After the initial phase of works wide range of services across the the Department of Social Security later Interserve Project Services negotiated different sites until 2029.
Valued at a to become the Department for Work and two supplementary design and build total of 135 million over the life of the Pensions decided to consolidate projects as part of the NEDFAR contract, these services include: operations at 12 sites in the north-east of Newcastle Estate Development Further Estate management England into just four.
They selected an Accommodation Requirement Engineering & technical services Interserve joint venture with AMEC to programme.
The first of these was the Building fabric repair & maintenance deliver the PFI project.
creation of a fast-track office building and associated facilities housing about Grounds maintenance The redevelopment of the Newcastle 600 call-centre staff at Tyne View Park Window cleaning Estate began in February 1998 with major shown in the picture.
The second, Pest control refurbishment and remedial works by worth 45 million and awarded on the Fire protection systems Interserve at two existing sites at Durham strength of its performance on the Tyne House, Washington, and Tyne View Park, View project, was the construction on 24-hour help desk Newcastle.
Meanwhile AMEC undertook the Benton Park site of a stand-alone Project management two new developments at Benton Park, restaurant and four three-storey office Newcastle, and Waterview Park, 2 miles buildings to accommodate 2,400 staff.
In tandem with this, Interserve managed the staged The four sites, when complete, will house transfer of over 12,000 staff and a variety approximately 16,000 people and cover of equipment from their old locations to over 1.5 million square feet.
Interserve temporary and permanent offices.
Facilities Services is responsible for a Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003 23
