Education Southampton Schools PFI Combining skills to deliver whole-life services Having determined that three new The first school to be completed, on as well as outdoor sports facilities secondary schools were needed to schedule in April 2003, was the 900-place including floodlit all-weather pitches.
replace and augment existing facilities, Redbridge Community School, which has Southampton City Council saw PFI as the been awarded specialist sports status.
It All three schools have a wing serving route which would deliver the schools offers state-of-the-art facilities and the local community, including nurseries most efficiently and with the greatest equipment including a new sports hall and crches.
Interserve Investments and gymnasium and first-class ICT rooms managed the Groups bid and was and learning areas.
The school also has Once the new schools were open we successful in securing the contract, worth a dedicated Hearing-Impaired Unit for began demolition of the old buildings and 37 million to Interserve Project Services children with hearing difficulties.
transferred operations from these in design and construction turnover and to the new facilities, where we have 25 million to Interserve Facilities Services The other two schools, Woodlands responsibility for a broad range of over the contracts 28-year lifetime.
Community School shown in the services such as caretaking, cleaning, picture, 1,050 places and Cantell School catering, building maintenance, Financial close was reached in October 1,300 places, also opened on schedule grounds maintenance, energy services 2001.
The next month our Facilities for the Autumn term 2003.
Services division began providing interim classrooms, Learning Resource Centres, services at the existing schools while our laboratories for Science, Design & Project Services division started the Technology, Food Technology and construction of the new buildings Languages, offices, kitchen and dining adjacent to these sites.
facilities, gymnasia and sports halls, Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003 19 Case studies continued Health NHS ProCure21 Working in close partnership In 2002, aiming to improve efficiency and the tendering process but also brings better patient care is now available to value for money in capital procurement, the best of the construction industry over 600 NHS trusts without the need NHS Estates inaugurated the pilot of a together to deliver better value for to tender in the traditional way.
sophisticated framework programme money and better clinical facilities known as ProCure21.
South Tees Hospitals NHS Trust became Services won its place as one of only five the first beneficiary when, just as it had Principal Supply Chain Partners PSCPs, Interserve Project Services won the first in the pilot, Interserve won the first demonstrating the strength of its supply two projects to be released under the contract to be awarded in the national chain and its ability to deliver good pilot programme: the creation of programme: the construction of new quality projects reliably on time and to Withington Community Hospital and the facilities and the refurbishment of budget the fundamental drivers behind strategic redevelopment of St Helens existing buildings at Friarage Hospital the programme.
Hospital shown in the picture.
On the in Northallerton, North Yorkshire.
strength of its performance here and in ProCure21, covering all publicly-funded a number of further projects, and after construction projects with a capital cost an exhaustive assessment process, the greater than 1 million, has been company was selected as one of developed following comprehensive 12 PSCPs in the national ProCure21 consultation from within the NHS and roll-out announced in September 2003, with experts from the private sector and estimated to be worth an aggregate in academia.
The partnering programme 7 billion over five years.
Interserves not only removes duplication of effort in expertise in helping the NHS deliver 20 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003
