Chief Executives review continued Managing on a global basis quarter associated with the Iraq Equipment Services conflict.
The operation made good Market conditions were mixed in 2003, progress in developing cross-border reflecting the stages of the underlying revenues in the region, with contribueconomic cycle in each global region tions achieved in Qatar, Bahrain, and the lifecycle of key infrastructure Business reorganised on Kuwait, Oman, Syria and the Lebanon.
functional lines Our European operations experienced We reorganised the division during Management Information quieter market conditions.
In the UK the year along functional lines.
Business System implemented in UK we achieved notable successes on a and customer-base development are worldwide in 2004 number of major infrastructure now the key responsibilities of local projects.
Overall, though, the scale management in each country, with Progressive improvement and duration of these projects was design, fleet logistics, procurement, through second half of 2003 not comparable with those available marketing, systems and finance in 2002, affecting volume and organised and managed globally.
Management new management information system changes in the UK operation, effected was successfully implemented in the towards the end of the year, are UK, with worldwide rollout planned expected to lead to operational for 2004.
This, combined with the new efficiencies and a broadening of the management structure, will significantly client base in the future.
improve the visibility and management of key business dynamics, supporting In the Far East there was a slower margin recovery as we re-establish the pick-up in the pace of activity than long-term profitability and growth we had hoped.
However, design pattern of the division.
activity and tendering on major projects in Hong Kong improved in Overall, we achieved a divisional the second half, with orders operating profit of 12.6 million beginning to be secured during 2002: 13.6 million on sales of 74.8 December and since the year end.
The full year operating margin of 16.8 per Equipment Services future workload cent benefited from progressive is generated on a short lead-time, with improvement through the second contract duration for hire usually being half.
Within this result profit from less than 12 months.
Nevertheless, hire revenue grew, compensating in the projected infrastructure and part for a sharp reduction in export building programmes for a particular sales to the Far East during the year.
country or region provide a basis for establishing our expectations for Strong performances were achieved growth.
Our current analysis indicates in Australasia, where record profits the opportunity of substantial growth were delivered in buoyant markets by and margin improvement in most of extending the customer base and our established operational locations, introducing a broader product range.
with further prospects in due course The UAE-based Middle East operation for expansion into new territories.
increased operating profits over its See final paragraph of Overview on page 10 for definition strong 2002 result despite a quiet first 14 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003
