Left to right Power Transmission Industrial Services offers a comprehensive service for high-voltage power transmission and sub-stations Garrick Theatre, Lichfield Interserve Project Services produced an innovative design for the theatre with external walls made of terracotta, zinc, cedar and brickwork HM Prison Birmingham A framework agreement project with HM Prison Service.
This project comprises the design and construction of 2 housing blocks, each of which provides a total of 208 identical cells.
Construction uses pre-cast concrete cell modules further 20 million in the development relationships in the region are an Project Services stage.
In addition to the examples effective channel for business Following the exceptionally strong mentioned above, we have continued development and differentiation.
UK performance in 2002 we to deliver substantial volumes of produced a satisfactory result, work through our framework As a result of the divisions reporting 15.8 million divisional agreements with clients such as BT, concentration on framework operating profit from continuing Barclays Bank, British Energy, agreements and other long-term activities 2002: 17.7 million.
Somerfield, Vodafone, Mapeley and sources of revenue, more than 90 per Within this result our international the Department of Work and Pensions.
cent of our expected turnover for operations contributed 3.6 million 2004 is already secured, and we have 2002: 3.6 million, achieved despite The continuing Infrastructure contracted revenues and framework an adverse foreign exchange impact operations made excellent progress, agreements extending out to 2009. of 0.3 million.
The UK operating securing three Early Contractor Overall, Project Services future margin returned to trend at 2.6 per Involvement schemes for the workload at the end of 2003 was cent 2002: 3.3 per cent.
Highways Agency the A5, A1 and 1,025 million 2002: 764 million, A30 38, which provide predictable an increase of 34 per cent, with a The business is now more clearly workflow from 2004 to 2009.
The significant and growing proportion focused following several years of programmes to exit rail cabling comprising work from long-term realignment and deliberate reduction and signalling and foundation contracts.
of traditional high-risk, low-margin engineering Westpile are well construction activities.
As a result, advanced and have proceeded to turnover from continuing operations plan since their announcements in rose by 11.2 per cent to 476 million July and November respectively.
Although Westpile made a small positive contribution to operating Our Building operations made good Principal Supply Chain Partner profit, the closures enable even progress in all market sectors.
We on NHS ProCure21 framework greater management attention to completed and handed over the developing the core operations and buildings on the Hattersley and 3 Early Contractor Involvement remove significant risks and capital Southampton schools PFI contracts schemes with Highways Agency expenditure requirements from the and began the construction of the Group going forward.
Defence Sixth Form College, Strong international scheduled to open in 2005.
In the performance Internationally, the division operates custodial sector we completed in the UAE, Qatar and Oman.
framework projects at Hull and Exits from rail cabling & Performance was good during 2003, Winson Green prisons and have signalling and Westpile with strong market demand driven commenced new projects at by increased US military presence in Wymott, Wealstun and Ranby Qatar compensating for a temporary prisons.
The key development in the dip in confidence in Dubai associated health sector was our selection as a with the Iraq conflict.
Towards the Principal Supply Chain Partner for end of the year significant contract the national roll-out of the NHS wins in both Dubai and Oman the ProCure21 framework programme.
Mall of the Emirates and Sohar Having won the first contract to be Refinery respectively will provide a let under this programme, we now sound platform for these operations have secured projects to date worth See final paragraph of Overview on in 2004 05.
Increasingly, cross-border page 10 for definition in excess of 60 million with a Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003 13
