Directors report The Directors of Intertek Group plc have pleasure in presenting their Other than employment contracts, none of the Directors of the Annual Report and the audited Financial Statements for the year Company had a material interest in any contract with the Company ended 31 December 2003. or its subsidiary undertakings, other than W Hauser who has a consultancy agreement with the Group to provide support to assist PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND REVIEW OF BUSINESS the Group in its expansion within Europe.
The terms of the The Groups principal activities are the testing, inspection and Directors service contracts and the Directors interests in the shares certification of products and commodities against a wide range of and options of the Company are disclosed in the Remuneration safety, regulatory, quality and performance standards.
A review of report on pages 15 to 20. the Company and its subsidiaries businesses and likely future developments is given in the Description of business and the EMPLOYMENT POLICY Operating and financial review.
The Groups employment policy is to ensure that all employees are assessed solely in terms of their ability irrespective of their race, On 15 May 2003, the Company changed its name from Intertek religion, colour, age, disability, gender or sexual orientation.
Testing Services plc to Intertek Group plc.
In accordance with the Groups equal opportunities policy, people DIVIDENDS with disabilities are given the same consideration as others when An interim dividend of 2.9p 2002: nil per ordinary share was paid they apply for jobs.
Depending on their skills and abilities, they on 18 November 2003.
A final dividend of 5.9p 2002: 5.2p per enjoy the same career prospects as other employees.
Where ordinary share has been proposed, which subject to shareholder employees become disabled, every effort will be made to retain approval, will be paid on 18 June 2004, to shareholders on the them in their current role or to explore possibilities for retraining or Register at 4 June 2004. redeployment within the Group.
Where necessary, the Group aims to provide such employees with facilities, equipment and training SHARE CAPITAL to assist them in doing their jobs.
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share The Company is committed to offering its key employees the capital during the year, are shown in note 19 to the opportunity to align themselves more closely with the interests financial statements.
of shareholders and the Companys performance, through the ownership of the Companys shares.
The Company operates two PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES share option schemes for key employees and details are contained The Company is, until the date of the forthcoming Annual General in the Remuneration report.
Meeting, generally and unconditionally authorised to buy back a proportion of its own ordinary shares.
Although no such purchases The health and safety of the Groups employees is a matter of have been made to date, pursuant to this authority, the Directors primary concern.
Accordingly, it is the Groups policy to manage its will seek to renew this authority for up to 10% of the Company's activities so as to avoid any unnecessary or unacceptable risks and issued share capital at the Annual General Meeting to be held on to have in place procedures that conform to best practice in 14 May 2004. this area.
DIRECTORS A small number of the Groups employees are members of trade The Directors of the Company who served during the year are set unions and work councils, mostly in continental Europe.
Short biographies are set out in the Annual Review.
communicates regularly with the union representatives and aims to maintain good labour relations with all its employees.
five Treves Non-Executive Chairman RC Nelson Chief Executive Officer POLICY AND PRACTICE ON PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS W Spencer Chief Financial Officer The Group does not follow any code or standard on payment DP Allvey Non-Executive Director practice but has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers.
W Hauser Non-Executive Director Payment terms are agreed at the commencement of business with RE Sayers Non-Executive Director each supplier and it is the policy of the Group that payment is made accordingly, subject to the terms and conditions being met.
The W Spencer, DP Allvey and RE Sayers retire by rotation and being Company has no trade creditors.
eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
13 Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 www.
com Directors report SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records As at 1 March 2004, the Company has been notified in accordance which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial with sections 198 to 210 of the Companies Act 1985, that the position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the following were interested in 3% or more of the Companys ordinary financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They share capital: have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably Number open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent of shares Percentage and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Deutsche Bank AG 23,041,819 14.95% ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING FMR Corp. and The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on Friday Fidelity International Ltd 22,661,794 14.70% 14 May 2004, is enclosed with this Annual Report and Accounts.
Prudential plc 8,612,625 5.59% The Notice details the business to be conducted at the meeting.
8,514,218 5.52% Lazard Asset Management 6,881,140 4.46% Legal & General Group plc 5,401,647 3.50% By order of the Board Save for the above, no other person has reported an interest, which is notifiable under the Companies Act 1985, being an interest of 3% or more in the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
F EVANS Group Company Secretary CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Groups statement of corporate governance is set out on pages 8 March 2004 21 to 24 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Registered Office 25 Savile Row CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS London The Group made no political or charitable donations during the year.
W1S 2ES AUDITORS Registered Number: 4267576 The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
14 Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003
