Description of business GENERAL The Labtest division tests and inspects products against applicable Intertek is a leading international testing, inspection and certification safety, regulatory, quality and performance standards which are organisation which assesses products and commodities bought or either set by regulatory bodies such as standards bodies or are sold by customers against a wide range of safety, regulatory, quality specified by retailers or importers.
Customers include retailers, distributors, manufacturers, traders, industrial bodies, oil and Labtest provides a wide range of testing services near the points of chemical companies and government bodies.
The products and product manufacture and design, and buying offices.
Labtest has a commodities tested, inspected and certified include textiles, toys broad range of accreditations from standards bodies which mean and other consumer goods, electrical and electronic goods, that it is able to test products to the safety and performance building and heating, ventilation and air conditioning products, requirements of different markets around the world.
This, together crude oil, petroleum products, chemicals and agricultural produce.
with quick turnaround times and Labtests reputation for service Products are tested against safety standards decreed by excellence, ensures that performance and quality needs of retailers governmental or regulatory bodies or recognised standards and other customers worldwide are met.
authorities and also against quality and performance standards that are established by recognised standards bodies or Demand for testing and inspection is driven by a number of factors.
European and North American retailers and importers are increasingly sourcing products from less developed countries, Testing, inspection and certification services are performed around especially China and other parts of Asia, and the countries on the world near the points of manufacture, design and other forms the Mediterranean rim.
This increase in overseas sourcing in turn of sourcing.
Intertek has a broad range of accreditations, approvals increases the need for testing and inspection in order to ensure and certifications to assist customers in qualifying their products that products sourced abroad are compliant with standards in the and commodities for sale in the principal markets of the world.
retailers home market and also meet the retailers own internal standards.
There is also a growing demand for testing and Intertek also reviews and certifies the systems of customers inspection as customers become more quality conscious and in conformity with their requirements and the requirements retailers and manufacturers wish to improve or protect their of regulators.
reputations and reduce returns of sub-standard products to manufacturers.
Shorter product life cycles, new fabrics, a greater Intertek operates in a large number of different market segments number of designs and more own brand merchandise also and the business is organised into four operating divisions, each increase the need for Labtests services.
involved in the testing, inspection and certification of particular goods or commodities.
New safety standards help drive the demand for toys, hardline and textile testing.
For example, the European Union established a new GROUP STRATEGY EU Directive restricting azocolourants dyes in textiles and leather Interteks businesses operate across a broad spectrum of consumer effective from September 2003 and other safety standards were and industrial markets, and across a wide geographic spread.
introduced on a variety of consumer goods including some juvenile Its strategy is to be an industry leader in creating value for its products, bedding items and hardlines such as furniture and customers and shareholders in its chosen markets.
GEOGRAPHIC FOCUS Labtest divides its activities into the following sub-divisions for Intertek operates a decentralised management structure with a management purposes: Textile testing, Toys and Hardline testing, small corporate head office in London.
Operations are conducted Inspection of consumer products, Systems Certification, RAM through subsidiary companies located in 100 countries throughout Consulting and Social Compliance Audit.
It is Interteks policy to recruit local management whenever possible.
An analysis of turnover, operating profit and Textile testing is carried out to provide retailers and importers net operating assets by geographic area is given in note 2 to the with confidence that they are buying merchandise that meets their financial statements.
requirements with respect to fibre composition, colourfastness, shrinkage, flammability and other performance, quality and legally OPERATIONS required safety standards, and it also helps manufacturers to meet Interteks four operating divisions are as follows: these standards.
Labtest has the largest and most comprehensive network of textile testing laboratories located near retailer buying LABTEST offices and manufacturers premises.
Business overview and growth prospects Labtest is a leading international service provider that tests and Toy testing is carried out during both the design and manufacturing inspects textiles, toys and other consumer products.
The Labtest processes to evaluate toys against the mandatory safety standards of brand name has been established since 1973.
2 Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 the countries in which they will be sold.
Tests carried out include environmental protection abuses.
The development of the business testing for sharp edges, choking hazards, toxicity of paint, has resulted from consumers and pressure groups being flammability and electrical safety.
Labtest has one of the largest increasingly concerned about the social conditions and safety of networks of laboratories located near design centres and workers in factories.
manufacturers and has the certifications and approvals needed for testing toys to meet relevant safety standards in all the major Labtests other services include Validation and Monitoring work markets in the world.
which is undertaken in France and China for customers operating under ultra-clean or sterile manufacturing conditions in industries Hardline testing is carried out on various products, such as such as the pharmaceutical, biotech, cosmetic and electronics ceramics, bicycles, cosmetic products, sporting goods, juvenile sectors and Equipment Services which includes the supply of products, furniture, fireworks and other products against retailers specialist testing equipment, primarily in Hong Kong and China.
performance standards and, where applicable, mandatory safety standards.
Divisional strategy Labtest aims to capitalise on the continuing strong growth in its Inspection of consumer products involves the inspection market by organic growth and by acquisitions, whilst maintaining of goods, mainly the same type that it tests, carried out at its operating margins.
Labtest intends to continue to build its manufacturers plants in order to verify that the goods meet the network of laboratories, grow its inspection network to expand buyers specifications during manufacturing and when they are its international coverage and adapt its service range to meet shipped.
The goods are statistically inspected to check such matters customer needs.
as sizing, quantities, colours, packing and labelling.
Labtest has built a network of inspectors in China and other Asian and Labtest also aims to continue strengthening its relationship with developing countries, around the Mediterranean rim and in Latin retailers, especially in North America and Europe, building trust and America who are located close to the manufacturers and who have confidence in the excellence of its services.
The relationships with the skills necessary to carry out this inspection work.
manufacturers and retailers local buying offices of consumer products are important both for the direct testing and inspection Systems Certification involves the certification of a customers work they create and for the influence they exert over manufacturers processes and systems to external standards such as ISO 9000 and and retailers for Labtest to be appointed.
Labtest is well positioned ISO 14000 or to customers own standards.
Certification involves to sell to these manufacturers and buying offices as it has strong Labtest checking that a company has properly defined and local management in Asia and other developing countries which is documented its business processes and standards of service.
constantly being strengthened and expanded.
Companies receiving certifications are subject to regular audits over time as a condition of continuing certification.
Labtest expects Systems Certification to be an area of growth, particularly in Asia and believes that Interteks strong position and RAM Consulting works with customers to assess and reduce extensive customer base in product testing will assist it to penetrate the hazards associated with products before the products are this market.
RAM has built injury databases containing details of more than four million injuries, including information on product Operations characteristics, which it uses to develop safety processes that are Labtests principal testing facilities are located near the point of implemented into the customers business process.
RAMs major manufacture and design of a product or the buying offices of customer is McDonalds and its suppliers of promotional items such retailers.
They range from the Hong Kong laboratory, the largest as toys.
However, as safety standards become more rigorous, RAMs textile testing laboratory in the world, and major laboratories in client base is growing and the range of products it evaluates is Shanghai and Guangzhou in China, India and Turkey to small widening to include such items as childrens clothes.
RAM services operations in territories such as Morocco and South Africa.
Labtest include safety training, supply chain management and total quality employs highly skilled technicians and managers in a number of assurance within the manufacturing process.
specialist fields such as textile analysis and toy testing.
Social Compliance Audit is the audit of the social and safety Geographic coverage conditions of workers.
It includes factory inspections, document Labtest operates in 30 countries and has 36 laboratories and 75 review and employee interviews.
Retailers and distributors mainly offices worldwide.
The head office is located in Hong Kong.
commission the audits and Labtest works closely with both manufacturers and retailers to outline problems that have been Customers identified.
The main focus of these audits is to detect the use of Labtests customers are retailers, based mainly in North America child labour, involuntary labour, coercion and harassment, health and Europe but who often have buying offices in Asia, and and safety breaches, excessive working hours, compensation and manufacturers, mainly in Asia.
Labtests top 10 global customers 3 Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 www.
com Description of business represented approximately 21% of its turnover in 2003 and the Resonance and Scanning Electron Microscopy.
Further advances are largest customer accounted for 5.6% of its turnover in the same planned for 2004. period.
Inspection services help to safeguard the commercial interests Market and competition of clients during the transfer of high value oil and chemical cargoes.
Labtest has approximately 45% of the textile testing market and is Offices and laboratories are located in key locations around the the market leader.
It has about 27% of the toys and hardline world to determine the quantities of cargoes, sample them and testing market and about 32% of the inspection of consumer then analyse the samples.
In this way, Caleb Brett certifies the goods market.
SGS and the Bureau Veritas group compete with quantity and quality of shipments and both buyers and sellers rely Labtest in textile, toys and hardline testing, inspection, social on these certificates to complete transactions, and use Caleb Brett compliance audit and systems certification.
reports to assess the composition of cargoes, as well as their quality and compliance with commercial and regulatory standards.
Employees At 31 December 2003, Labtest had a total of 3,948 employees, Caleb Brett also performs agricultural cargo testing and surveying with 3,159 in Asia, 549 in Europe, and 240 in the Americas.
in major markets across the world.
This involves the physical sampling, testing, quantification, inspection and certification CALEB BRETT of commodities such as cereals, vegetable oils and cotton for Business overview and growth prospects organisations and government agencies trading in them.
Caleb Brett was founded in 1885 and is a leading international service provider of testing and inspecting services, mainly for Divisional strategy petroleum, refined products, chemicals, consumer products and The main opportunity for growth continues to be the outsourcing agricultural products.
Caleb Brett also performs analytical testing for of testing activities to Caleb Brett on a global scale.
Significant oil and chemical companies on an outsourced basis.
opportunities exist in the oil, chemical, healthcare, food and pharmaceutical sectors.
Caleb Brett has experienced project teams Caleb Brett has a global reputation for reliability and confidentiality, who work with clients on a global basis to implement laboratory both in certifying the quantity and quality of petroleum, chemical outsourcing and create optimal service solutions.
and agricultural product cargoes, and in carrying out the testing work outsourced to it.
The strategic acquisition of attractive independent laboratories serving key market and geographical niches is another avenue for Caleb Brett divides its activities into the following sub-divisions for growth.
The market for cargo inspection and inspection related management purposes: Laboratory services and outsourcing and testing in geographic sectors such as Europe and the United States Inspection services.
is not expected to grow significantly.
Caleb Brett intends to maintain and expand its share of the global inspection business Laboratory services and outsourcing involves the provision of by continually improving its service to customers and further testing and laboratory analytical services to supplement or replace extending its network of inspection offices and laboratories into these activities carried out mainly by oil, chemical and healthcare areas where there are long term strategic growth opportunities, companies.
The division provides a wide range of analytical testing including China, Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union.
work for a diverse and growing range of companies.
Caleb Bretts share of the global agricultural commodity inspection Significant laboratory outsourcing projects were obtained and and testing market is small and its strategy is to expand in niche started in 2003, and 2004 promises to bring more projects as segments both organically and through acquisitions.
global companies continue to streamline operations and focus on their core activities.
This trend is expected to continue.
Operations Caleb Brett employs experienced chemists in its laboratories, Testing activities include the analysis and testing of crude oil many of whom hold Ph.
D. MSc and BSc level qualifications.
and petroleum products, chemicals, consumer products, Professionally trained field and coordination personnel perform pharmaceuticals, food and other products.
Laboratory outsourcing inspection, sampling and other operations seven days a week provides customers with access to an extensive global network of around the world.
scientific expertise and technology available from Caleb Brett laboratories.
Outsourcing offers customers a value-added service Computerised laboratory information systems allow for enhanced with enhanced quality, and at a lower total cost.
reporting accuracy, reduced operating costs and faster turnaround times.
Caleb Bretts testing facilities are ISO 9000 certified and a Caleb Brett continually extends the range of analytical services it growing number are ISO 17025 accredited.
Developments in 2003 included Nuclear Magnetic 4 Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Geographic coverage Asian network of testing and inspection capabilities, especially in Caleb Brett offers its services in 117 countries through its China.
In addition, manufacturers are increasingly becoming global, network of 356 offices and 197 laboratories.
The division has exporting products to many markets, forcing them to comply with its headquarters in Houston, Texas and is organised into two a wide range of varied regulations and having to test products to geographic regions with headquarters located in the United different country standards.
Further, the demand for testing and Kingdom for Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia and in certification is increasing in developed countries as they become Houston, Texas for the Americas.
more focused on safety and performance.
Customers Retailers require performance testing of electrical and electronic Caleb Brett has well established, long term relationships with products so that they can compare the products of different customers including companies in the petroleum, chemical, manufacturers, especially when they are sourcing own-brand food, healthcare and other industry sectors.
Caleb Bretts top ten domestic appliances from Asia.
Performance testing is also used to customers represented approximately 35% of turnover in 2003 verify data in advertisements.
Retailers also want products they buy and its largest customer accounted for 9.2% of turnover in the to be inspected during and after manufacture to ensure that the same period.
merchandise being shipped to them meets their specifications.
A further growth opportunity arises in the United States, where Market and competition retailers have typically preferred that consumer and home The outsourcing of analytical laboratories and testing work to electronic products are safety labelled by Underwriters Laboratories independent companies such as Caleb Brett is still in its early UL, a not-for-profit organisation in the United States, which both stages.
Caleb Brett is one of the first companies to have started writes standards and provides testing and certification services.
a major strategic industry shift in how such laboratory services From a legal and regulatory standpoint the Intertek owned ETL are provided.
label is equal to that of UL, and ETL SEMKO is using its increasing contact with retailers on performance and inspection business to The global market for traditional oil and chemical inspection gain acceptance of the ETL mark in the United States.
and testing is estimated to be about 500m.
Caleb Brett has approximately 25% of this market.
Competition is expected to European legislation requires products with potential safety be relatively stable due to the high start up and fixed costs involved hazards to have a CE mark.
This requires a self-declaration by the in maintaining a global network of facilities and the importance manufacturer that the product complies with all relevant European of a well-recognised brand name.
Caleb Bretts in-house expertise, standards and directives.
In order to confirm that this declaration brand name recognition and solid reputation are competitive has been properly made, retailers and buyers of products are strengths in the marketplace.
increasingly demanding that manufacturers submit their products to independent laboratories such as ETL SEMKO.
Despite the Employees national mandatory marking schemes in member countries in At 31 December 2003, Caleb Brett had a total of 5,232 employees many cases being replaced by the CE marking scheme, there still worldwide with 1,823 in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, 1,823 remains a significant demand for marks which are controlled by in the Americas and 1,586 in Asia.
government authorities and which can only be applied by properly accredited independent laboratories.
ETL SEMKO Business overview and growth prospects ETL SEMKO divides its activities into the following sub-divisions for ETL SEMKO tests, certifies and inspects electrical and electronic management purposes: Safety testing and certification of electrical products, telecommunications equipment, heating, ventilation and and electronic products, Performance testing of electrical and air conditioning HVAC equipment, building products and other electronic products, Testing and certification of building products products, against safety and performance standards and then and materials, Risk assessment and regulatory compliance testing issues safety labels and certificates in respect of those products.
and certification of semiconductor manufacturing equipment and Inspection of electrical and electronic goods.
The ETL brand name is long established in the United States and Canada and can trace its origins back to 1896 from Thomas Safety testing and certification of electrical and electronic Edisons Electrical Testing Laboratories.
SEMKO is the name of the products involves the testing of products in ETL SEMKO former state owned certification body in Sweden that was acquired laboratories against internationally recognised safety, electroin 1994. magnetic compatibility EMC, or telecom-specific standards.
The laboratories are, in most cases, accredited or recognised by national Manufacturing has increasingly migrated from Europe and North government bodies, for example, UKAS UK Accreditation Service America to developing countries in Asia.
ETL SEMKO is well in the United Kingdom and OSHA Occupational Safety and Health positioned to take advantage of this migration due to its extensive Administration in the United States.
The test results demonstrate 5 Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 www.
com Description of business conformity with the standards and are used either as part of the equipment to semiconductor industry standards as well as product technical file for verifying conformity with regulations or used as safety testing in order to comply with regulatory requirements in the basis for a certificate to be issued to the manufacturer, which the United States and Europe.
Based in California, these activities in turn means that the manufacturer may apply a mark to the are conducted worldwide.
product to demonstrate that the product meets the appropriate safety standards.
In some cases certificates or marks are owned by Inspection of electrical and electronic goods is carried out at and are unique to ETL SEMKO, for example, the ETL mark in the manufacturers plants in order to confirm that goods meet the United States and the S mark in Europe.
In other cases, ETL buyers specifications.
The goods are inspected to check quantities, SEMKO may be one of a number of organisations authorised to act electrical specifications, packing and labelling.
ETL SEMKO has a as an agent in issuing the certificate or mark on behalf of another network of inspectors in China and other Asian and developing body such as the GS mark on behalf of the German government.
countries who are located close to the manufacturers and who In still other cases, ETL SEMKO will work closely with a third party have the skills needed to carry out this work.
certification body, which will issue a certificate on the basis of the ETL SEMKO test results, such as BEAB British Electro-technical Divisional strategy Approvals Board in the United Kingdom.
Certification schemes ETL SEMKOs objective is to increase its market share and obtain may be mandatory or voluntary depending on product type a higher profit margin.
It aims to achieve this by continuing to and geography.
promote and provide manufacturers with local testing and give them global market access by testing and certifying their products Performance testing of electrical and electronic products to the standards of different countries.
ETL SEMKO aims to help includes performance testing and verification of energy, capacity, customers reduce the time it takes to bring their products to market acoustics, reliability, power, durability and usability parameters by working with them through the design stage and achieving fast and comparison evaluation on a wide range of products.
In particular, ETL SEMKO intends to continue to is carried out against international, national, industry associations expand its presence in Asia, especially in China.
These services are provided to manufacturers, distributors, retailers and consumer associations ETL SEMKOs growth strategy includes increasing the level of of heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment, domestic business undertaken for retailers.
This includes inspection work appliances, consumer electronic products, industrial machinery, and developing the performance testing business for retailers in ETL components, personal protective equipment, lighting, power SEMKO.
Strengthening the Groups relationship with key retailers systems and equipment for use in explosive atmospheres.
should help to promote greater acceptance of the ETL safety mark Major third party testing programmes are operated for the Air in the United States which will lead to an increased market share of Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute ARI, Association of Home the North American domestic appliance, consumer and home Appliance Manufacturers AHAM, Gas Appliance Manufacturers electronics safety markets for ETL SEMKO.
Association GAMA, Pool Heat Pump Manufacturers Association PHPMA, Safety Equipment Institute SEI, US Department of In addition to the above initiatives, ETL SEMKO will broaden Transportation DOT and the US Federal Aviation Administration its geographic spread by making strategic bolt-on acquisitions, FAA.
These activities are mainly conducted in the United States or opening laboratories in regions where there are growth Cortland, New York and Columbus, Ohio and the United opportunities.
ETL SEMKO can add value to these developments Kingdom Milton Keynes.
by making available its safety labels and other accreditations and approvals for markets around the world and by transferring its Testing and certification of building products and materials testing and certification skills.
includes testing for fire resistance, structural, mechanical, physical, and accelerated ageing of materials as well as electrical and gas As more countries become focused on safety standards, there are testing.
ETL SEMKO is the market leader in the testing of fire doors opportunities to enter into co-operative arrangements with their and it also tests other products such as hardware, hearth products, standards bodies with a view to testing and certifying products glazing, plumbing, roofing, manufactured wood, fenestration, to their standards and having them issue safety compliance gypsum board and insulation materials.
ETL SEMKO owns the certificates.
ETL SEMKO has entered into such arrangements Warnock Hersey certification mark in North America which in countries such as Belarus, Brazil, Argentina and Singapore.
demonstrates product compliance to standards referenced in These arrangements position Intertek strongly with respect to building codes.
manufacturers wanting to gain access to these emerging markets.
Risk assessment and regulatory compliance testing and Operations certification of semiconductor manufacturing equipment ETL SEMKO has experienced technicians and extensive equipment is carried out under the brand Global Semiconductor Safety and facilities to test and certify a wide range of products against a Services GS3 and involves the inspection of manufacturers large number of performance and safety standards.
facilities to provide comprehensive evaluations of manufacturing 6 Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Geographic coverage Standards programmes are contracted by the governments and ETL SEMKO operates in 14 countries and has 43 offices and 40 standards bodies of client countries such as the Saudi Arabian laboratories worldwide.
The division has its headquarters in the Standards Organisation SASO and the government of Kuwait.
United Kingdom and there are regional head offices in the UK FTS is appointed to ensure that imports are assessed for compliance for Europe, in Shanghai, China for Asia, and Chicago, Illinois for with the safety and other standards of the importing country.
The testing and inspection takes place in the country of export, and applies to a specified range of imported goods.
Following Customers a successful assessment, FTS issues a certificate which enables ETL SEMKOs customers include manufacturers, retailers, industry the goods to be cleared through customs.
ETL SEMKOs top ten customers represented about 10% of its turnover in 2003 and the Standards bodies appoint FTS to help ensure the safety of imports, largest customer accounted for 2.5% of such turnover in the same and to support the implementation of security and ethical import period.
ETL SEMKO also has long-standing relationships with policies and legislation.
FTS also provides client standards bodies various industry organisations including the Air Conditioning and with support in the development of standards, training, and safety Refrigeration Institute ARI in the United States, which has been a related information.
To deliver standards programmes, FTS makes extensive use of the Market and competition laboratory facilities of other Intertek divisions.
Market information is difficult to obtain due to the non-public reporting of ETL SEMKOs main competitors.
Based however on Pre Shipment Inspection PSI programmes are provided by internally generated information, ETL SEMKO has about 10% FTS to client governments to maximise import duty revenues.
FTS market share in the United States, with a wide range of market inspects shipments destined for the client country, in the country share for individual segments.
Market share in Europe varies, with of export.
The service helps ensure that import duties are properly over 80% in the Nordic countries, 30% in the UK and a small calculated and paid, and that goods being imported meet the legal percentage elsewhere.
In Asia, market share is estimated to be requirements of the client country.
30% in Hong Kong, 15-20% in Greater China and 8% in Taiwan.
FTS inspections are used to confirm the quantity and quality of ETL SEMKO has few direct competitors with a similar market goods to be shipped.
FTS assigns the correct tariff code for the profile.
Underwriters Laboratories, which is primarily engaged in goods, verifies the declared value and certifies the import duties safety testing and certification, has the major share of the market payable.
The FTS certificate is needed in order to clear the shipment in the United States, especially in domestic appliances, home and through customs in the client country.
By developing new products consumer electronic products, but a smaller presence in Europe.
and services, the division has expanded the range of value added The German Technische berwachungsvereine TVs have the services provided to customs departments.
These include training major market share in Germany and smaller operations in the and consultancy, and software products for risk management and United States.
FTS can also provide client governments with local Customs Support Teams, to provide immediate valuation advice Employees and on-the-job training support.
At 31 December 2003, ETL SEMKO had a total of 1,805 employees, with 464 in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, 641 in Asia and Exporters of goods to client countries may use FTS certificates as 700 in the Americas.
part of the documentation needed to draw down on letters of credit.
The FTS certificate also provides importers with a degree of FOREIGN TRADE STANDARDS FTS protection against exporters delivering goods which do not meet Business overview and growth prospects the importers specifications or are of low quality.
The Foreign Trade Standards division works for the standards bodies of different countries helping to ensure that imports comply Technical inspection services are provided to a wide range with national safety and other requirements and for Finance of industrial clients.
The range of inspection, expediting and Ministries and Customs Departments providing services that ensure outsourced project management activities is usually focused on import duties are properly declared and paid.
FTS also uses its larger engineering plants and projects.
The service covers the inspection resources to provide services to major industrial and review of specifications sent to suppliers and technical inspection commercial clients to ensure that equipment and goods they buy activities, including the witnessing of tests on finished products meet all their specifications.
FTS divides its activities into the following sub-divisions for management purposes: Standards programmes, Pre Shipment Inspection PSI programmes and Technical inspection.
7 Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 www.
com Description of business Divisional strategy payment from the exporter, who is then reimbursed once payment FTS focuses on increasing its market share while maintaining both is received from the government concerned.
a satisfactory operating margin and a rigorous compliance programme.
The division has developed new products and services Market and competition that can support client customs departments.
These services mean Four companies dominate the PSI market.
The high cost of entry that FTS can provide a more comprehensive customs support caused by the requirement to have an extensive worldwide package to client governments.
The division will also work to inspection and pricing network creates a barrier to newcomers.
increase its turnover in standards programmes, building on the Based on the number of programmes in existence and FTS success of the Saudi Arabian and Kuwaiti programmes.
knowledge of the main competitors, FTS has approximately 16% of the PSI market with 70% held by three competitors.
FTS is reducing operating costs and improving its service through a project to redevelop its core IT systems.
The roll out of new webThere are currently four major standards programmes in the world, based technology will be completed for all FTS offices worldwide three in the Middle East and one in the Russian Federation.
Intertek during 2004. operates two of the contracts in the Middle East.
Operations Employees Inspection requirements typically involve verification of shipment At 31 December 2003, FTS had 929 employees and approximately quantity, quality, product specification and value.
As well as its own 1,200 sub-contractors.
full time inspectors, FTS uses the services of sub-contractors around the world who operate on a pay-per-job basis, minimising the fixed CENTRAL FUNCTIONS cost of FTS worldwide inspection capability.
Intertek operates a decentralised structure where the majority of support functions are provided at the level of the individual Geographic coverage divisions and are co-ordinated and monitored by the Group head FTS has 47 offices worldwide and its head office is located in the office.
The operating divisions have financial, human resources, United Kingdom.
information technology and compliance personnel who report to their respective divisional directors.
In addition to providing central Customers support to these specialist areas, the Groups head office is FTS customers include the Saudi Arabian Standards Organisation responsible for centralised functions such as group finance, and the governments of Bangladesh, Ecuador, Egypt, Iran, Kuwait, treasury, tax, group information technology, compliance and Malawi, Mexico, Mozambique, Nigeria, Rwanda, Venezuela and company secretarial services.
These customers represented about 87% of the divisions turnover in 2003.
The Companys corporate head office is in London, United Kingdom and consists of 34 people.
In addition, there are a total of 6 head In any given year, approximately 50% of FTS contracts by number office employees based in the United States.
FTS manages the renewal of contracts through its relationship managers for each major contract.
The SASO contract is automatically renewed annually unless three months notice of termination is given by SASO each year.
The contract with SASO is expected to continue in its present form until at least 31 August 2004.
After that, the Saudi Arabian authorities have confirmed that a new contract is being planned which is expected to include more local testing in Saudi Arabia.
In 2003, the government of Kenya cancelled its contract with FTS.
The Nigerian PSI programme was suspended towards the end of 2003, but restarted after a short period.
The future of this contract, which is significant to the FTS division, is being discussed with the Nigerian authorities.
About 45% of FTS turnover is generated by contracts where FTS is paid by the client government.
FTS has in the past, and may in the future, experience delays in receiving payment for its services from certain governments.
Where this occurs, FTS may seek to obtain 8 Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003
