Report of the independent auditors to the shareholders of Invensys plc We have audited the Groups accounts for the year ended 31 March We read the other information contained in the annual report 2003 which comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
consolidated balance sheet, Company balance sheet, consolidated This other information comprises the directors report, unaudited cash flow statement, consolidated statement of total recognised part of the remuneration report, the financial summary and the gains and losses, reconciliation of movements in consolidated other information listed on the contents page.
We consider the shareholders funds, accounting policies and the related notes implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent 1 to 29.
These accounts have been prepared on the basis of the misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information in the remuneration report that is described as having information.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent of the remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, have formed.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the information and explanations which we considered necessary in remuneration report and the accounts in accordance with applicable order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the assurance that the accounts and the part of the remuneration report statement of directors responsibilities.
to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal information in the accounts and the part of the remuneration report and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards to be audited.
and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a In our opinion: true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in the Company and of the Group as at 31 March 2003 and of the accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, loss of the Group for the year then ended: and in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the the accounts and the part of the remuneration report to be accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the if we have not received all the information and explanations we Companies Act 1985. require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions Ernst & Young LLP with the Company is not disclosed.
Registered Auditor We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the London Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined 28 May 2003 Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
29 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003
