Board of directors Board of directors Lord Marshall of Knightsbridge Martin Jay Sir Philip Beck Chairman Non-executive director Non-executive director Joined the Siebe plc Board in January 1998 Appointed to the Siebe plc Board in Appointed non-executive director of and appointed Chairman in June 1998.
Non-executive director of Invensys plc in January 2003.
Chairman Chairman of British Airways Plc and Delta plc.
Formerly Chairman of Railtrack of VT Group plc and prior to that Chief non-executive director of HSBC Holdings PLC, Chairman of John Mowlem and Executive for 13 years.
Formerly President of the Confederation Company PLC and non-executive director range of leadership positions at GEC and was of British Industry.
aged 69 of Kitigawa Europe Limited.
aged 68 a member of the GEC Management Board.
Member of Nominating Committee and Mr Jay will succeed Lord Marshall of Remuneration Committee.
Knightsbridge as Chairman of Invensys plc Richard Haythornthwaite at the annual general meeting in July 2003.
Rolf Brjesson Chief Executive aged 63 Member of the Nominating Committee.
Joined the Invensys plc Board in July 2001 Non-executive director and appointed Chief Executive in October Appointed to the Siebe plc Board in Andrew Macfarlane 2001.
Non-executive director of Imperial July 1998.
Chief Executive and Managing Chemical Industries PLC and, until 30 June Director of Rexam PLC.
Non-executive Non-executive director 2003, Lafarge SA.
Formerly Chief Executive director of Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget Appointed non-executive director of Officer of Blue Circle Industries plc until SCA and Copenhagen Airports A S. Formerly Invensys plc in March 2003.
Group Finance the company was acquired by Lafarge SA, Chief Executive of PLM AB.
aged 60 Director of Land Securities Group plc and Senior Independent Director.
formerly non-executive director of Cookson previously Chief Financial Officer of the Group plc and held senior positions with Chairman of Remuneration Committee and hotels division of Bass plc subsequently BP and Premier Oil.
aged 46 member of Audit Committee.
Prior to this, Director of Corporate Finance of Bass plc.
aged 46 Larry Farmer Chairman of Audit Committee.
Adrian Hennah Chief Financial Officer Non-executive director Simon Robertson Joined Invensys plc as Senior Vice President, Appointed non-executive director of Finance in October 2002, appointed to the Invensys plc in March 2002.
Non-executive Non-executive director Board in October 2002 and became Chief director of Digital Steps Energy Limited and Appointed non-executive director of Financial Officer on 1 January 2003.
Formerly Chief Invensys plc in February 1999, having joined Formerly Senior Vice President, Finance and Executive of Halliburton Brown & Root the BTR plc Board in 1997.
Managing Operations with GlaxoSmithKline Plc, R&D.
aged 63 Director of Goldman Sachs International and Member of Audit Committee and Prior to this he was the Chief Financial President of Goldman Sachs Europe Ltd.
Officer for Glaxo Wellcome Inc USA.
Non-executive director of Inchcape plc and aged 45 Berry Bros. & Rudd Limited.
Former Jean-Claude Guez Chairman of Kleinwort Benson Group plc.
Non-executive director aged 62 Appointed non-executive director of Invensys plc in January 2003.
Non-executive director of Exel plc and Eurostar Group Ltd and a former management consulting partner at Accenture, where he remains as a part-time adviser to senior management.
Advisory partner with Rocket Ventures LP.
aged 59 Member of the Remuneration Committee.
17 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003
