Amec Front Wace 3 31 04 4:02 PM Page 16 AMECs UK business has a strong position in strategically important sectors where barriers to entry are high.
Our United Kingdom UK-led oil and gas business is expanding internationally from a mature base in the North Sea.
We also see growth prospects in the UK defence and nuclear markets.
Nuclear clean-up prospects Following the government Energy White Paper published in February 2003, the UK will be focusing on nuclear clean-up, an area where AMEC is a leading player.
With 50 billion of We have excellent growth spend allocated to this over the next few decades and with restructuring expected to encourage new entrants prospects in defence, nuclear to compete alongside the nuclear companies, we see a significant opportunity for AMEC, which already and oil and gas has a five-year partnering relationship with BNFL.
400 An AMEC joint venture will provide property services to around 400 Ministry of Defence facilities in Scotland 16 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec Front Wace 3 31 04 4:03 PM Page 17 At the same time, we expect to alliance for delivery of its new aircraft We have integrated our upstream see our proprietary nuclear waste carriers.
We are well placed to benefit and downstream business, a move management process, Geomelt, from the real growth potential in this that not only provides a one-stop shop find commercial application in the sector in the coming year and beyond.
for customers in markets like China UK, following the first contracts in and Russia, where the two sectors the US in 2003 and the licensing of Pharmaceuticals expansion are linked, but also reduces our the technology in Japan.
We continue to concentrate on growing cost base.
our business in the relatively recessionDefence offers opportunities proof pharmaceuticals sector where we Our continuing role as a partner to Since 9 11, defence spending has become provide wide-ranging services to global Shell in its offshore project in Sakhalin, a priority for Western governments.
We companies such as AstraZenca, Russia, will provide an important income expect more opportunities across the GlaxoSmithKline and Pfizer.
Sakhalin is a groundbreaking defence sector and have also strengthened good prospects in both North America project in terms of its complexity and size our own position in the UK market.
and Continental Europe as well as in and AMEC, which has forged excellent the UK and are increasingly being relationships in Russia, is well placed to During 2003, we won in joint venture selected as a global service provider be involved in some of the half dozen or a major long-term contract to manage by companies in the sector.
so further projects expected in Sakhalin.
the whole of the UK Ministry of Defences At the same time, we continue to localise MoD Scottish estate and a contract Oil and gas changes our oil and gas business by sourcing and to provide a submarine berthing facility Recent changes to our oil and gas training on the ground, a strategy that in Scotland.
We also acted as an adviser business are designed to help us will improve our efficiency and further to the MoD on how to structure an achieve more growth.
