Amec Front Wace 30 3 04 10:12 pm Page 2 Why AMEC?
Our diversity is our strength No ordinary company During 2003 we acquired the balance A reputation as an exceptional company AMECs client list demonstrates that of SPIE S. A. SPIE, our France-based It is also important to build recognition it is no ordinary company.
We enjoy the European business.
Now, we are truly of the value in our company.
We work for confidence of government departments, international.
We have also transformed some of the worlds top companies and cities and communities across the our business, so that today around twofulfil major challenges across the world, globe.
The worlds most demanding thirds of our profit is generated from from the reconstruction of infrastructure companies oil and gas majors, services and investments, as opposed in Iraq, through the development of international pharmaceutical companies to traditional construction activities.
Bonga one of the worlds largest floating and other high-performance organisations oil and gas facilities and the delivery trust us to perform and deliver to the Our corporate goals of the first section of the Channel Tunnel highest standard.
Our overall goal is the delivery of high-speed rail link, to having led the sustainable earnings growth and the consortium to build Hong Kongs Our work ranges from landmark projects creation of value for all stakeholders.
such as the Chad-Cameroon pipeline to customised, local projects such as a video By working more selectively, we can Now that we have established an surveillance system that meets the needs continue reducing the uncertainty international presence, we need to widen of a French town.
associated with poor-quality, sharply and deepen our reach and reputation cyclical work or unforeseen events.
and extend our franchise to become the Globally, we work for national and local natural choice in all our markets.
No UK government and major corporations Focus on services company and few worldwide can rival on demanding, complex projects, from Specifically, we want to grow the proportion our breadth of experience in designing, rebuilding the Pentagon to illuminating of our earnings generated from services.
These earnings are typically more reliable, and play to our competitive strengths, Acquisitions and disposals in 2003 Locally, we resolve challenging technical unlike traditional contracting earnings, We made some important moves to fulfil problems for clients who need an which carry more risk and have these goals during 2003.
We design and commodity characteristics.
of Ipedex, the French specialist oil and install customised systems, within local gas services company, allows us to offer regulatory and environmental constraints, More work for key clients more value-added services in this sector, making towns and buildings safer.
We also want to win more business from our whilst bringing us important new client existing clients, where there is clear headroom relationships, including that with Total.
We have been chosen to work with local for growth.
Many of our clients only work Buying the US assets of Kamtech means cities or communities from providing with part of our company and there is real we can offer a more integrated service to Bordeaux in France with a new light-rail scope for us to do more for them.
clients in the North American industrial system to helping the city of Lethbridge, market, where we previously focused on Alberta, combat landslide risk.
We find Top three in our chosen markets design activity.
The disposal of a majority creative solutions that also cause At the same time, we want to be rigorous stake in Spie Batignolles together with minimal disruption to a company or about exiting businesses that fail to perform downsizing of the US Construction communitys life.
or do not fit our strategy, while investing in Management business confirmed our those that have the potential to be market strategy to reduce at-risk and low-margin Large or small, our clients choose us leaders.
This will help us move towards construction activities.
for our promise of reliable delivery to our goal of being one of the top three exceptionally high standards.
companies in each of our chosen markets.
2 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec Front Wace 30 3 04 10:12 pm Page 3 Trusted to deliver, globally or locally Sir Peter Mason KBE Chief Executive 3 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec Front Wace 3 31 04 2:19 PM Page 4 World Skills on your Doorstep AMEC spans the world: few companies in our sector have our reach 4 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec Front Wace 30 3 04 10:12 pm Page 5 Extreme environments Algeria 1 Iran 1 Romania 1 Working from the Australian outback to the Arctic wastes, AMEC spans the world.
Angola 1 Russia 2 Italy 2 Our geographical reach has given us experience of diverse and extreme Australia 19 Saudi Arabia 3 Japan 1 environments.
Clients choose us for challenging projects from oil and gas Azerbaijan 1 Singapore 2 Kazakhstan 1 operations on remote Sakhalin Island off the east coast of Russia, to diamond South Korea 1 Belgium 12 Kuwait 1 mines in an inhospitable and hard-toaccess part of the Northwest Territories Spain 5 Brunei 1 Luxembourg 1 in Canada.
Sudan 1 Canada 80 Malaysia 2 Tropics to tundra We work in regions that are swept by Switzerland 1 Chile 2 Morocco 3 extreme climate changes, from sub-zero temperatures in winter to almost Taiwan 1 China 5 Netherlands 11 unbearable heat in the summer, drilling through permafrost or laying pipeline Thailand 3 Colombia 1 New Zealand 2 in fragile environments from swamp to savannah.
UAE 1 Congo 2 Nigeria 4 Our experience of many different UK 111 Egypt 1 Oman 1 environments worldwide and our ability to pool the skills of the AMEC teams US 77 Peru 2 France 315 across many markets provide a real advantage to our clients, who will find Venezuela 4 Portugal 13 Gabon 2 that, whatever the challenge, we have the experience to help them succeed.
Yemen 1 Qatar 1 Germany 12 Zambia 1 Reunion 1 Indonesia 4 700 We operate in over 700 locations the world over from the Australian outback to the Arctic wastes 5 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec Front Wace 3 31 04 3:56 PM Page 6 Safe Delivery Managing risk and reputation with confidence 77 We have an established seven-step Total Risk Management process 6 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec Front Wace 3 31 04 3:56 PM Page 7 Safe delivery is an essential part of the Taking care of a range of risks identify and address risks across AMEC in AMEC service.
Our clients rely on us for Managing risk and reputation is critical a structured way.
As part of this, we have our experience and expertise to manage to any business, but nowhere more so risk sponsors in all our businesses and their risk and reputation.
than in a company like AMEC, with its also have a corporate risk register which history in challenging environments like documents risks and determines how they Technical and commercial expertise the North Sea.
AMECs workforce includes thousands of specialists who are committed to We take care of a range of risks that Our risk management forum, made solving client problems.
could affect our clients business, from up of risk sponsors from across AMEC, financial and commercial risk to broader meets at least twice yearly and reports Among our 45,000 people worldwide reputation risk.
to the board on significant or new risks.
are wildlife and aquatic biologists, meteorologists, geologists, chemists, Rigorous health and safety standards The forum also reviews the embedding geo-technical, process, mechanical, We have rigorous health and safety standards of risk management within the businesses, electrical and environmental engineers.
and training programmes throughout the dissemination of best practice in processes Alongside them, we employ commercial organisation and continually strive towards and communication of lessons learned.
and project managers with a wide range our goal of zero safety incidents.
This is Our main businesses also carry out an of experience.
critical for us and for our clients.
annual control risk self-assessment exercise, which is reviewed by the board.
The combination of technical expertise An embedded risk management culture with project management skills and We have an established, seven-step Total Because risk management is embedded efficient execution means we can deliver Risk Management process, which is in our culture in this way, clients can trust with confidence and this is an important incorporated into our Management and us to think and act carefully and in their differentiator for AMEC.
This allows us to best interests.
7 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec Front Wace 30 3 04 10:13 pm Page 8 Growth We will keep moving up the value chain and will exit any business that does not add value In recent years, we have reshaped our Project management is a core AMEC We also acquired Waste and Water business, exiting low-margin businesses or skill.
Today, many of our people have Engineering, a Denver-based specialist those that did not fit with our strategy, long track records as successful water resources engineering company whilst investing in areas that help us project managers.
Additionally, we which will help extend our environmental provide a more intergrated service in our train AMEC people in our proprietary consultancy capability in the region.
Now, we are focusing on project management system, Convero, improving the value of the services we offer, and also at the University of Manchester We will continue to pursue this acquisition while continuing to fine-tune our portfolio Institute of Science and Technology strategy and, in particular, aim to identify to ensure all our businesses contribute where we helped develop its MSc in and buy value-adding businesses where fully to the company.
barriers to entry are high.
Drawing board to decommissioning: A partner with our clients Driving the business harder moving up the value chain Partnerships and alliances draw on AMECs Every business in our portfolio must We design, deliver and support our growing skill and reputation as a consultant.
make sense strategically and financially.
clients infrastructure assets, from Increasingly, we are forming long-term All our businesses must drive us forward, conception and funding to maintenance, relationships with key clients.
offering growth opportunity and shut-down and any clean-up activity.
Whether it is a local hospital, or the We offer industrial training services worlds largest oil platform, we can from classroom to online and from We will invest in those businesses that are provide a life of asset service.
health and safety and environmental clearly leaders by expanding organically and awareness to operator and equipment by acquisition, consolidating relationships An important way of creating growth today training.
We have provided these services with clients and business partners to is to do more work along this life of asset which include providing tailored achieve a stronger market position.
value chain, while also increasing the manuals and demonstration materials proportion of high value-added work.
to over 200 clients, from oil and gas We will exit low-value or non-core clients like ExxonMobil and BP to businesses, where there is a poor riskA consultant and project manager industrial clients such as Bowater or reward balance, or limited fit with our In the past, like many companies in our sector, Procter & Gamble.
Demand is growing design, delivery and support value chain.
we generally worked as a construction-only as other industries adopt the high contractor, providing a stand-alone service standards established in the oil and gas We will set tougher management and to a client.
Today, our industry is different.
We will pursue this strategy financial targets for our businesses.
Increasingly, clients want to work with a actively in 2004 and beyond.
partner who will deliver value over the long We will tighten commercial discipline across term rather than just the easiest or cheapest Acquiring businesses that complete the company, to further reduce at-risk or solution: who will manage a project in its the value chain low margin contracts and projects.
totality and provide specialist consultancy.
We are investing in businesses that help Our high levels of expertise allow us to us provide a more integrated service in benefit from this trend.
During 2003, we acquired the US assets of Kamtech, which Specialist consultancy is already embedded enables us to provide our clients in many of our businesses from Ipedex, in the forest industry and power sectors the oil and gas business, to our Earth and with a more integrated project delivery Environmental operations.
More broadly, service, whilst improving our position consulting is an essential part of the in the area of maintenance and repair overall service we provide.
8 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec Front Wace 30 3 04 10:33 pm Page 9 Investing in quality Stuart Siddall Finance Director 9 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec Front Wace 3 31 04 3:59 PM Page 10 Identifying our potential Growth Many of our businesses are already leaders in their field, giving them a platform for expansion: Our global oil and gas business is among the top three in its field in the UK North Sea and is expanding internationally.
Our Regional Services business is one of the top five or six companies in its sector in Continental Europe, and in the top three in France.
We are a leading player in the UK wind Increasingly, we are forming energy business.
Our rail business is in the top three long-term relationships with across Europe.
Our forest industry business in North key clients America is a leading player in its sector.
66 Six Regional Services businesses were acquired in Continental Europe in 2003 10 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003
