Amec Front Wace 3 31 04 4:01 PM Page 12 For tens of thousands of clients across Europe, AMEC SPIE provides highquality multi-technical services Continental Europe electrical engineering, mechanical, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, environmental, and telecommunications services to their doorstep.
Whether big or small, our European client is essentially local.
We have over 300 offices across Europe, which assess an individual clients need and deliver a tailor-made solution.
Local people are then on hand to deliver it and to provide Low-risk, steady back-up, be it to a nuclear plant or an office facility.
growth across the An expanding network This low-risk, steady growth business is extending its network across Continental continent Europe.
By acquiring businesses that extend its specialist skill set and by opening new Jean Monville offices, we expect to fulfil growth targets Chairman and CEO, AMEC Continental Europe well in excess of GDP.
During 2003, we moved into Spain, acquiring IMISA, a Spanish company comprising four businesses, and setting 12 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec Front Wace 3 31 04 4:01 PM Page 13 up a Spanish holding company, AMEC the related substations.
In the UK, we power supply system and so avoids SPIE Iberica, to manage these and future completed the first section of the Channel overhead wires.
Other lines are well under Spanish businesses.
We bought Ipedex, Tunnel Rail Link and put this into service.
way and we have subsequently won the the specialist oil and gas services contract to work on the Mulhouse tramway company, which complements our previous While Network Rail in the UK took the near Strasbourg.
This follows our delivery acquisition of Foraid.
We can now offer oil decision to take all maintenance work inearlier in 2003 of a tramway system in the and gas companies a more complete house, we remain confident of our central French town of Caen.
In the UK earlier this solution internationally, with strong bases role in the UK rail market.
During the year, year, AMEC with its partners won an in West Africa, the Middle and Far East.
we were awarded preferred bidder status important long-term contract to extend for a high-output track renewals contract the Docklands Light Railway to London For 2004 and beyond, we will continue plans and our move, early in 2004, to establish City airport.
We expect opportunities in for expansion into neighbouring markets, regional offices across the UK better Germany, Italy and Romania in the near such as Switzerland, Italy and Germany positions us to support Network Rail in future.
Further afield, we have two where we already have a small presence, future.
In particular, AMEC is one of the important ongoing light rail contracts: the following the same model of small add-on, few companies able to provide a full range extension of the Metros in Cairo, Egypt easily-incorporated acquisitions.
of design, build and equipment-leasing and Caracas, Venezuela.
Our outstanding services to Network Rail, as well as working expertise and experience in this field Rail: high-speed in France, on infrastructure renewals and upgrades.
positions us well for the future.
continuing opportunity in UK We also see growth opportunities from our Light rail: an important growth area Finally, our market share in the France-based rail business, where we saw An important growth area for us is light telecommunications sector is growing.
a good level of activity in 2003 and are well rail systems, including Metros, both in We have built strategic relationships positioned for growth, as one of Europes Continental Europe and further afield.
In with key companies such as Cisco and top three rail engineering companies.
France, we won the mandate to deliver a Siemens as well as our existing global customised light rail system for the city of alliance with Nortel that should give During the year, we won two major contracts Bordeaux and put the first line into service us increased product distribution and for work on the new TGV East high-speed in December.
The system, developed with maintenance opportunities.
line in France, and continue to work on Alstom, uses an innovative ground-level 13 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003
