Amec Front Wace 30 3 04 11:08 pm Page 18 Investments A growing contribution from regeneration and renewable energy AMECs investments business, mainly extension to the Vancouver Rapid Transport operating in the UK, allows us to Project in Canada.
Overall, we see strengthen our partnering experience opportunities in Europe and the Americas, and enter projects early.
Through it, as we export our UK experience.
we do not just deliver infrastructure but provide consultancy and finance.
Renewable wind energy Our wind energy business has established Development and regeneration itself as one of the leading companies in Our investment in development and the UK market, with a strong track record regeneration projects will give us access onshore and offshore and a good pipeline to a range of interesting opportunities of projects.
During 2003, it made its first in coming years.
We have two multi-site important contribution to our profits.
major partnerships in this area, with 10 British Waterways to develop canal and Our business covers all aspects of design, riverside land, and with the English Cities delivery, finance and operations and our Fund to regenerate urban areas both of portfolio of 17 developments should deliver We have 10 PPP which will give us access to a stream of more than 1,000MW of wind power by the development opportunities with limited end of the decade.
projects to date risk and attractive returns.
We were delighted to win two licences in Public Private Partnerships PPP the recent government round of offshore We also operate in the PPP sector, where awards and we will develop these with we have financially closed 10 projects Centrica, to whom we recently sold our to date.
These include major UK road, Lynn offshore licence.
hospital and rail projects as well as the Cross Israel Highway.
We expect a steady We have seen growing momentum in this flow of projects in the UK in future as sector since the introduction, in April 2002, this remains an important route for of the Renewable Obligation.
With the UK procuring infrastructure.
government considering taking the current target for renewable energy from 10 per In 2004, a higher level of overseas activity cent of total UK power by the end of the is expected.
We are preferred bidder on the decade to 15 per cent by 2015 and 20 per Incheon Bridge project in South Korea and cent by 2020, we can look forward to an are one of three consortia bidding for an increasing level of activity.
18 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec Front Wace 30 3 04 11:08 pm Page 19 We do more than deliver: we make ithappen John Early Development and Investments Director 19 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003
