Amec back WACE 3 31 04 11:56 AM Page 44 Following the acquisition of the outstanding 54 per cent interest Report of the Directors in SPIE S. A. on 5 March 2003, AMECs risk management processes are being introduced into the SPIE group of companies, where continued practicable.
This exercise will be complete by the end of 2004.
Management and Policy Framework AMECs businesses are managed on a decentralised basis.
Whilst the board has retained reserve powers, the day to day management has been passed to the business leaders, within defined authority limits.
The management philosophy is to empower the business leaders to take the actions necessary to deliver the companys operational business objectives within the AMEC Management and Policy Framework, which establishes the standards AMEC employees and contracting staff are expected to meet.
Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders Mr J M Green-Armytage, chairman, wrote to all major shareholders shortly after his appointment in January 2004 informing them that he and the senior independent director, Ms E P Airey, were available for meetings or telephone calls with them if required.
Both the chairman and Ms. Airey will attend preliminary and interim results presentations.
Ms Airey will also be available to attend, Combined Code Compliance 2003 if requested, one-on-one meetings with major shareholders The company complied throughout the year ended 31 December as a silent observer.
2003 with the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, published in June 1998, and with the recommendations of An in-depth annual perception study of investors views, prepared Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code by an independent third party, is presented to all board members, the Turnbull guidance except as follows: who also receive unexpurgated feedback reports following shareholder meetings or events together with all material The company has interests in a number of joint ventures, brokers research notes on the company.
Controls within these entities may not be reviewed as part of AMECs formal The Board corporate governance process because of the joint management During 2003, the board comprised the non-executive chairman, responsibilities but are reviewed as part of the normal internal seven executive directors including Mr G E Payne, until his audit process.
retirement on 31 March 2003, Mr D Robson, until his retirement on 31 July 2003 and Mr C A Riva since his appointment on Up to 5 March 2003, AMEC owned 46 per cent of SPIE S. A. a 1 August 2003 and five other non-executive directors company incorporated in France.
During this period, the board see pages 24 and 25 for biographical details.
did not specifically review the effectiveness of SPIEs systems of internal control, but received reports detailing the methods for This board structure creates a balance of power such that no the identification, assessment and control of risks within the SPIE individual or small group of individuals can dominate the boards group of companies.
Following the acquisition of the outstanding decisions.
The company does not combine the role of chairman 54 per cent interest in SPIE S. A. on 5 March 2003, further work and chief executive.
The chairman is responsible for the running has been done in this area and a special exercise has been carried of the board, with the chief executive being responsible for out to review the effectiveness of SPIEs systems of control.
This running the group and implementing board strategy and policy.
has been performed to comply with the French Loi n 2003-706 This ensures a clear division of responsibilities at the head du 1er aot 2003 fide scurit financire.
However, this work also of the company, so that no individual has unfettered powers provides assurance that the requirements of the Combined Code of decision.
in this area have been complied with as at 31 December 2003.
The non-executive directors are all considered to be independent Combined Code Compliance 2004 by the board.
Mr J M Green-Armytage was the boards senior Following the issue in January 2003 of the reports by Derek Higgs independent director until his appointment as chairman on on Review of the Role and Effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors 21 January 2004, when he was replaced in that role by Ms E P Airey.
and by Sir Robert Smith on Audit Committees Combined Code The senior independent director is available to shareholders if they Guidance, a new Combined Code was issued in July 2003.
The new have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Combined Code will apply for reporting years beginning on or after chairman, chief executive or finance director has failed to resolve 1 November 2003.
Consequently the first year for which the company such concerns or for which such contact is inappropriate.
is required to comply is the year ending 31 December 2004.
The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that board AMEC has carried out a detailed review of the impact of the new procedures are followed and all directors have access to his Combined Code on the way its board and committees carry out advice and services.
The board considered that, as at 1 January 2004, it had taken the necessary steps to put appropriate processes The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval, in place and accordingly it intends to be compliant with the revised covering areas such as company strategy, the appointment of Combined Code throughout 2004.
As referred to above, the key executives, approval of accounts, approval of the business company has interests in a number of joint ventures, associates plan, budget and financial policies, review of operating results, and joint arrangements.
Controls within these entities may not be risk management strategy, ensuring the effectiveness of governance reviewed as part of AMECs formal corporate governance process practices, succession planning and significant capital expenditure.
because of the joint management responsibilities but are reviewed The board is supplied in a timely manner with information which as part of the normal internal audit process.
enables it to discharge its duties.
44 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec back WACE 3 31 04 12:03 PM Page 45 A formal process exists for the directors to take independent Full details of the constitution and remit of the audit committee professional advice and receive appropriate training in the course can be found under corporate governance on www.
of their duties, at the companys expense, via the company secretary and the corporate head of human resources.
Nominations Committee Makes recommendations to the board concerning the appointment or termination of a director or the Board Committees company secretary and, in the case of a non-executive director Under AMECs Management and Policy Framework, the board has and the chairman, the extension of an existing appointment.
formally delegated specific responsibilities to various committees, all of which have written terms of reference.
The remit of each As from 1 January 2004, it will regularly evaluate the structure, committee is set out below.
The quorum is generally three directors.
size and composition of the board, including its skills, knowledge and experience, and its overall effectiveness, and make The committees chaired by non-executive directors are as follows: recommendations to the board with regard to any changes considered necessary.
Audit Committee Reviews the integrity, including the material financial reporting judgements, of the companys accounts, It will also commence regularly reviewing board succession including the annual and interim results, related report and planning, in conjunction with a report from the chief executive accounts and Stock Exchange announcements and any other and corporate human resources director on senior management formal announcements in connection with the companys financial succession planning, so as to ensure that an appropriate balance performance, and recommends their approval to the board.
of skills is maintained both within AMEC and on the board.
It also reviews the companys internal financial controls and, The nominations committee appointed the executive selection in conjunction with the risk review committee, the internal firm, Spencer Stuart, as its external professional advisers to assist control and risk management systems.
it in the recruitment of a new chairman.
This process included the determination of a detailed job specification and qualification criteria for the post and involved a full external market search The committee has unrestricted access to company documents which resulted in a shortlist of several external and one internal and meets with the internal and external auditors, and any other candidate being prepared by them.
After full consideration by the member of staff, without the executive directors being present, committee, it agreed to recommend to the board the appointment as required.
The head of internal audit formally reports to the of Mr J M Green-Armytage.
The then chairman did not participate committee chairman.
in the final decisions of either the committee or the board, being specifically excluded on corporate governance grounds.
It reviews the head of internal audits regular reports and, from 1 January 2004, will also formally assess the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
During 2004, this assessment will Full details of the constitution and remit of the nominations be carried out by the audit committee primarily by way of a selfcommittee can be found under corporate governance on assessment by the head of internal audit, following guidance www.
set out by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England &Wales ICAEW in Evaluating the Effectiveness of Internal Remuneration Committee Sets, and reviews as necessary, Audit, published in November 2003.
The audit committee the overall contractual and remuneration framework for the will commission an independent review of the internal audit chairman, the executive directors and the company secretary, function in 2005, once SPIEs audit group has been more fully including pension rights and annual bonus incentives.
aligned with the existing function.
It considers and determines such other matters relating to the The committee considers the appointment, re-appointment, engagement of the chief executive and other executive directors removal, remuneration and terms of engagement of the external including matters relating to the enforcement of their service auditor and makes recommendations to the board.
It discusses the contracts and payments on termination as the chairman, in scope and planning of the external audit and reviews the outcome respect of the chief executive, and the chief executive, in respect of the external audit and any formal communications from of the other executive directors, refer to the committee.
the external auditors, including internal control reports.
It agrees the terms to be offered to a proposed new chairman As from 1 January 2004, it will also formally review and monitor or executive director.
the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration It reviews the salaries of executive directors annually and the relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements, and make chairman biennially, or more frequently as is deemed necessary recommendations to the board.
This review will be co-ordinated by the committee chairman.
on behalf of the committee by the head of internal audit.
It agrees the performance targets of executive directors and During 2003, the audit committee developed and implemented the levels of bonus to be paid to them under the annual bonus a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply incentive scheme.
This new policy follows the guidelines set out by the ICAEW and clearly defines what work can and cannot be It determines and agrees with the chief executive the remuneration performed by any group companys statutory auditor.
It also sets policy and structure, including annual bonus, for corporate functional out the necessary approval process for those that are acceptable.
executives and deputy operational executives immediately below board level.
All non-statutory audit or non-compliance tax services provided by the auditor are reported to the audit committee.
During 2003, It approves performance targets, participation and level of awards the fees paid to the companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its for any executive share based incentive scheme.
associates, for non-audit work were 0.8 million 2002: 1.3 million, which comprised 0.6 million primarily relating to taxation and Full details of the constitution and remit of the remuneration 0.2 million for other work 2002: 0.6 million and 0.7 million.
committee can be found under corporate governance on www.
In addition to the above, fees of 1.2 million were paid to KPMG Audit Plc in connection with due diligence undertaken on the SPIE acquisition.
AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 45 Amec back WACE 3 31 04 11:07 AM Page 46 Risk Review Committee Approves the AMEC plc risk register, Report of the Directors the AMEC plc risk transfer policy and proposals to enter into contractual commitments that fall outside the delegated continued authority limits of the executive directors.
Risk Management Processes Through the committees described above and at their regular meetings, the board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the company, including the groups strategy, major projects to be undertaken by the group, significant acquisitions and disposals, as well as entry to and exit from different markets.
Where appropriate, business decisions are reached following a structured and documented review of potential opportunities and threats, taking steps designed to manage or mitigate the risk exposure resulting from the decision.
AMECs generic seven-step Total Risk Management process has been used within the company since January 2000 and is incorporated into the Management and Policy Framework.
The process involves the identification of risks to the business at the gross and net level, recording the information in risk registers and pro-actively managing the net position.
The risk The following table is a record of the directors attendance at management process also accommodates mergers, acquisitions board and principal board committee meetings during the year and disposals as well as entry to and exit from different markets.
Risk management within AMEC is coordinated via the risk AMEC plc Audit Nominations Remuneration management forum, which meets at least twice yearly.
The forum, Board Committee Committee Committee which consists of business risk sponsors for each of the businesses and certain heads of corporate function, has a remit to report to Number of meetings 85 6 5 the risk review committee of the board on significant or new risks S Gillibrand 8 5 6 5 at least annually.
It also reviews the embedding of risk management Sir Peter Mason 8 6 within the businesses, dissemination of best practice in processes and communication of lessons learned.
J D Early 8 D Robson The risk management and internal control processes are to 31 July 2003 4 complemented by an annual control risk self-assessment exercise which is carried out by the principal businesses.
This covers risks G E Payne in the areas of safety, health and environment, legal, commercial to 31 March 2003 1 and contractual, financial, information technology and human J M Green-Armytage 73 3 3 resources.
The results are reviewed by the board, through the audit committee, and as part of the ongoing internal audit process.
J A Monville 8 E P Airey 7 4 5 4 Going Concern J A Dallas 8 5 6 5 The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational M O Hesse 8 4 6 4 existence for the foreseeable future and, therefore, it is appropriate S J Siddall 8 to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
J-P Jacamon 8 3 5 5 C A Riva Creditor Payment Policy from 1 August 2003 3 Businesses are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions under which transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
It is Charities Committee Makes commitments and donations in group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance support of charitable, educational and cultural causes.
with these terms and conditions, provided that the supplier complies with all of its obligations in this regard.
Compliance and Ethics Committee Considers and approves the codes of business conduct and related compliance arrangements The company had 42 days purchases outstanding as at and takes responsibility for management of investigations of 31 December 2003 based on the average daily amount violations, as required.
invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Share Transaction Committee Provides clearance or denies Donations permission to relevant employees to deal in AMEC plc shares.
Donations to United Kingdom charities amounted to 69,000 for the year ended 31 December 2003.
The committees chaired by executive directors are as follows: Auditors Banking Committee Reviews and approves borrowing, guarantees, A resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting for bonds, indemnities, employee bridging facilities and interest rate the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company.
and foreign exchange hedging strategies within authority limits set by the board.
By order of the board Corporate Transactions Committee Considers acquisitions P J Holland and disposals of businesses and provides guidelines in respect Secretary of such transactions within authority limits set by the board.
11 March 2004 Pensions and Retirement Benefits Committee Reviews proposals Note relating to new arrangements, amendments, discontinuance, funding There were no changes in either the directors interests or in the or any other matters relating to pension and retirement benefits.
substantial interests in the share capital of the company between 11 March 2004 and 26 March 2004.
