Amec Front Wace 3 31 04 4:01 PM Page 14 Americas We have reshaped our business and are poised to benefit from the US recovery Carlos Riva Chief Executive AMEC Group Limited, Chairman AMEC Americas 14 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec Front Wace 3 31 04 4:02 PM Page 15 Industrial markets poised to recover in Vancouver, Canada.
We entered this established in 2002 to develop their Growth in our US business will benefit project at an early stage, providing Canadian diamond-mining interests, from recovery in US industrial markets, support for the bid and now have the by taking on environmental assessment which have experienced a slump over opportunity to pursue a range of work for the company and providing the last two years.
We are in good shape to benefit from Oil sands leadership Increasingly, we are providing new this.
We have reduced the amount of We continue to lead the industry in services to help clients plan capital at-risk work we undertake and have the development of oil sands projects projects, as well as training and also implemented a reorganisation and in Northern Alberta.
These are yielding attractive cost cutting programme which is now on almost every significant oil sands returns and helping to differentiate us.
development in Canada, we have played a major role in the execution of large More scale and capability Entering the project earlier upstream oil sands projects, via both We expect to grow scale as well as quality We are also generating better quality project alliance and conventional in the Americas, building the AMEC brand earnings.
Increasingly, our Earth and contracting strategies.
Projects have and pursuing our goal of achieving a top Environmental consultancy business is ranged in capital value from CDN$750 three market position in all our markets.
opening doors for our other businesses million to CDN$2 billion for clients such and enabling us to enter the clients as Syncrude Canada and Albian Sands.
In particular, we plan to grow our delivery decision-making process earlier.
AMEC's relationship with Syncrude has capabilities in industrial markets.
This spanned over seven years of continuous was the thinking behind the acquisition We expect to benefit from our increasing oil sands work.
during 2003 of the US assets of Kamtech, focus on new business initiatives that draw which gave us strong delivery capability in on our experience of alliances and our Alliances and new client services the industrial sector.
We expect to make special project skills, for example our In a similar way, during 2003, we more of this kind of strategic acquisition.
work on the 2010 Olympic Winter Games extended our alliance with fide Beers, 15 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003
