Amec Front Wace 31 3 04 8:51 pm Page 22 Our Board of Directors Our directors have wide-ranging industrial and commercial experience John Early Stuart Siddall James Dallas Carlos Riva Jean Monville Martha Hesse 22 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec Front Wace 31 3 04 8:52 pm Page 23 Jock Green-Armytage Sir Peter Mason KBE Liz Airey Jean-Paul Jacamon 23 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec Front Wace 4 1 04 9:06 AM Page 24 Our Board of Directors Jock Green-Armytage Stuart Siddall Chairman 3 Finance Director Jean Monville Age 58, was appointed a non-executive Age 50, was appointed finance director Age 59, was appointed an executive director in June 1996 and became nonin June 2000.
He was previously finance director in February 1997.
He is the executive chairman on 21 January 2004. director of Alpha Airports Group PLC director responsible for the Continental He is the chairman of the nominations and of MANWEB plc.
He is chairman of both JZ International Limited and JZ Equity Partners plc and is also a director of several other companies.
Sir Peter Mason KBE Chief Executive 3 James Dallas 123 John Early Age 57, was appointed chief executive Age 48, was appointed a non-executive Age 58, was appointed an executive in March 1996.
He was previously director in October 1999.
He is the director in March 1986.
He is the an executive director of BICC plc and chairman of the remuneration committee director responsible for the chairman and chief executive of Balfour and is the chairman of law firm Denton Investments operations.
He was appointed a nonWilde Sapte.
executive director of BAE SYSTEMS plc on 22 January 2003.
Key to principal committee membership 1 Audit 2 Remuneration 3 Nominations 24 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec Front Wace 4 1 04 6:27 AM Page 25 Balancing the board AMEC has long been conscious of the Recent appointment of chairman need for a well-balanced board and has Recently, one of our non-executive directors, addressed this in recent appointments.
Jock Green-Armytage, was appointed our As an international company, we aim for chairman.
Mr Green-Armytage, for many a balance of nationalities in our directors years a director and then non-executive and currently have two American, one director of NM Rothschild & Sons Limited, Canadian and two French nationals in has a long track record in the investment addition to our UK directors.
We believe banking and private equity sectors and it is important, within the constraints also held positions at the highest level in of finding a quality candidate, to aim business and industry including chief for diversity.
executive of Guthrie Corporation PLC, joint chairman and chief executive of the oil and Relevant industry experience gas exploration company Kelt Energy plc, Our directors have wide-ranging industrial and chief executive and non-executive and commercial experience and we have director of William Baird plc.
He was also aimed in particular to appoint some a non-executive director of the UK directors with a track record in key electricity company Norweb.
industrial sectors, notably oil and gas and power.
We will keep the need for relevant Having made this appointment, we will be industry experience in mind as we make seeking a new non-executive director to future appointments.
ensure a continuing balance to the board.
Liz Airey 12 3 Carlos Riva Age 45, was appointed a non-executive Age 50, was appointed an executive director director in May 1999.
She is the senior on 1 August 2003.
He is responsible for independent director and chairs the United Kingdom and Americas operations.
boards of the AMEC Staff and AMEC He was previously CEO of Intergen, Executive Pension Scheme companies.
a United States-based power generation She was previously the finance director company jointly owned by Shell of Monument Oil and Gas plc.
is currently a director of Harrison Lovegrove & Co Limited and is also a non-executive director of several other companies.
Jean-Paul Jacamon 12 3 Martha Hesse 12 3 Age 56, was appointed a non-executive Age 61, was appointed a non-executive director on 27 November 2002.
She was president chairman of the audit committee.
He was of Hesse Gas Company until the end of previously vice-chairman and chief 2003 and is the former chairman of the operating officer of Schneider Electric US Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and is now an independent consultant.
and assistant secretary for management He is also a non-executive director of and administration of the US Department several other companies.
She chairs the Americas Advisory board and the compliance and ethics committee and is also a director of several other companies.
