24 SECTION SEVEN PAGE TWENTY FOUR REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS a software products business, licensing proven application software to healthcare provider organisations 25 Principal activities Business review and future developments The Group is a software products business, licensing proven application The Group will continue to enjoy growth software to healthcare provider for the foreseeable future.
The organisations from an established Chairmans Statement on page 07, product portfolio.
It also provides the Chief Executives Report on application product packaging, page 11, the Operating Review on development, installation, system page 15 and the Financial Review on configuration, training and customer page 21 provide further details of the support services in respect business during the year and of of its applications.
Results and dividends The results of the Group are set out in the consolidated profit and loss account on page 47.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 1.5m to the holders of the ordinary shares, which together with the interim dividend of 0.7m, gives a total equity dividend payment for the year of 2.2m.
After payment of dividends, the retained profit for the financial year was 11.1m.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS SECTION SEVEN PAGE TWENTY FIVE 26 Directors Digby Jones 47, Senior non-executive Graham Wilson 39, resigned on director, was appointed to the Board on 5 July 2002.
Details of the directors of the Company 19 May 2000.
He is Director General of serving during the year were as follows: The Board considers that Digby Jones, the Confederation of British Industry Eurfyl ap Gwilym and Geoff White were Roger Dickens 55, Executive CBI, a director of Business in the independent throughout the year and Chairman, was appointed to the Board Community and Chairman of etrinsic plc.
that they remain independent at the of iSOFT Group plc on 28 April 1999.
Eurfyl ap Gwilym 58, Non-executive date of this report.
He is currently non-executive Chairman director, was appointed to the Board of West Bromwich Building Society and All directors are subject to election by on 19 May 2000.
He is a director of a non-executive director of Carillion plc.
the shareholders at the first opportunity Principality Building Society and was after their appointment, and to Patrick Cryne 52, Chief Executive formerly a director of The Terence re-election thereafter at intervals of no Officer, was appointed to the Board of Chapman Group plc.
In accordance iSOFT Group plc on 28 April 1999.
It Geoff White 50, Non-executive with this, the directors retiring by was announced in November 2002 that director, was appointed to the Board rotation are Steve Graham, Digby Jones he will take on the executive role of on 19 May 2000.
He is Chairman of and Geoff White, who being eligible Director, Corporate Development from SMP Group and Chairman of Tekdata offer themselves for re-election at the 23 July 2003.
He was formerly Chief Annual General Meeting.
In addition, Tim Whiston 35, Group Finance Executive of Pressac plc and a Rene Kern will stand for election at the Director, was appointed to the Board of non-executive director of Derby City Annual General Meeting, it being the iSOFT Group plc on 14 April 2000 and NHS Trust.
has acted as Company Secretary since Rene Kern 39, Non-executive director that date.
It was announced in was appointed to the Board on November 2002 that he will be 14 March 2003.
He is a senior executive appointed to Chief Executive Officer with General Atlantic Partners who at from 23 July 2003. the balance sheet date owned 12.8% of Steve Graham 39, Chief Operating the shares of iSOFT Group plc.
Officer, was appointed to the Board of Members of the Groups Audit Committee and iSOFT Group plc on 28 April 1999.
Appointments and Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
SECTION SEVEN PAGE TWENTY SIX REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS the Group has developed specific policies and codes of practice in relation to environmental and employment practices 27 Directors share interests Social, Environmental and Ethical matters statement The beneficial share interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company of those As its business is wholly in the persons who were directors at the balance sheet date were as follows: computer and software support arena, it is considered that iSOFTs Ordinary % issued Ordinary % issued business activities have minimal shares at capital shares at capital environmental impact.
The Eurfyl ap Gwilym 45,454 0.04% 45,454 0.04% directors believe that it is possible to Digby Jones 25,000 0.02% 25,000 0.02% align the Groups objectives with social, environmental and ethical objectives, without necessarily compromising the Beneficial holdings include the Donations primary objective of maximising directors personal holdings and those No charitable or political donations shareholder return.
Indeed, it is of their spouse and minor children as were made during the year.
believed that these objectives are well as holdings in family trusts of complementary, as operating in an which the directors spouse or their environmentally and socially sustainable minor children are beneficiaries or manner provides a stronger basis potential beneficiaries.
Included in the for future development of the business totals shown above for Patrick Cryne operations, financial performance, are 450,000 of such holdings.
protection of reputation and There have been no changes in the market valuation.
above interests between 30 April 2003 With operations in four continents, and 26 June 2003. iSOFT is committed to, as a minimum, operating in accordance with the relevant local best practice.
In recognition of these matters, the Group has developed specific policies and codes of practice in relation to environmental and employment practices.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS SECTION SEVEN PAGE TWENTY SEVEN 28 Environmental matters Employees Employees are typically educated to degree standard and, as a Microsoft In recognition of the importance of During the year the Group continued to Certified Solution Provider Partner, environmental responsibility an communicate and consult with iSOFT actively promotes Microsoft environmental policy has been employees using a variety of traditional accreditation for staff engaged in the developed in the Group to raise and new media channels.
Priority is development and support of the awareness, establish standards, assess given to ensuring that employees are software application portfolio.
The the impact of its business activities on aware of significant matters relating to directors are proud of the Groups the environment, set improvement the Groups trading performance and record in respect of staff retention objectives and monitor performance organisational changes.
recognise the importance of individual employee contributions in delivering the A significant number of employees have Examples of the Groups commitment Groups successful performance to shareholding interests in the Company to this policy are as follows: date.
They further recognise that either directly or under share option and sustaining the Groups competitive the continuing promotion of remote share save schemes.
The directors advantage over the longer term is working to reduce the environmental actively encourage this level of dependent on employees realising their burden of commuting and business employee equity participation, subject full potential.
travel: always to the Groups employee share It is Group practice, therefore, to ensure dealing code rules.
Details of the investing in technology solutions that personal development, reward and current employee share option schemes such as upgrading remote promotion is determined with direct and the options granted during the year connectivity links to promote direct reference to ability, commitment and are provided in Note 22 to the financial electronic information processing and individual contributions to the collective statements on page 69. exchange and teleconferencing: and achievements.
Disabled individuals are Our July 2002 Sharesave Scheme has enhancements to the Groups afforded the same opportunities as been widely participated in, with 53% intranet site such that employee others, and the Group actively supports of eligible employees in iSOFTs bulletins and communications can be the employment of disabled persons world-wide locations joining the distributed electronically.
The both during the recruitment process Scheme.
The success of the Scheme Groups philosophy is to establish a and in the retention of employees who was recognised by the receipt of two paperless environment wherever become disabled whilst in the ProShare Awards in December 2002 as appropriate.
well as being highly commended at the The responsibility for maintaining The Group is an equal opportunities Employee Benefits Awards ceremony in and enforcing the policy resides at employer and has established policies April 2003.
Given the success of the Board level.
A copy of the current to promote an employment environment original scheme, the directors are environmental policy is available on that is free from discrimination and proposing to introduce a new offer the Group website.
The iSOFT policy ensures under the existing Sharesave scheme that no employee, or applicant, is in the coming year.
treated less favourably on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, colour, disability or sexual orientation or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements that cannot objectively be justified.
SECTION SEVEN PAGE TWENTY EIGHT REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS a significant number of employees have shareholding interests in the Company either directly or under share option and share save schemes 29 Research and development Share capital Auditors The Group has a continuing Full details of changes in share capital On 3 May 2003, RSM Robson Rhodes, commitment to a significant level of in the year are shown in Note 21 to the the Groups auditors, transferred application development investment.
financial statements on page 68. substantially the whole of their business to RSM Robson Rhodes LLP, a limited During the year, development In the year, the Company issued liability partnership incorporated under investment totalled 7.9m 5,886,240 ordinary shares which were the British Limited Liability Partnerships 2002: 5.3m, representing 8.6% of purchased by General Atlantic Partners Act 2000.
The directors have appointed turnover 2002: 8.8%.
All research and at a price of 215p.
In addition, 211,417 RSM Robson Rhodes LLP to fill the development expenditure is charged to ordinary shares were issued as part casual vacancy arising and propose a the profit and loss account as incurred.
of the consideration for the purchase resolution to re-appoint RSM Robson of Revive Group Limited in Rhodes LLP as auditors to the Group This expenditure ensures that the November 2002. at the forthcoming Annual application portfolio benefits from the General Meeting.
latest technologies and continues to Other than the directors, the Company address the current and emerging has been notified of the following Approval customer business needs, thus interests in more than 3% of the issued The Report of the Directors was protecting the market position of the share capital of the Company at the approved by the Board on 26 June 2003 application offering and the potential for date of this report: and signed on its behalf by: future revenue generation.
The Boards commitment to development is General Atlantic Partners L. P. 12.8% demonstrated by an average of 233 Fidelity International Limited employees having been dedicated to and FMR Corporation 11.1% this area in 2003 2002: 150 out of a total employee base of 580 2002: 430.
Annual General Meeting Tim Whiston The Annual General Meeting will be Payments to creditors Company Secretary held at the iSOFT offices in Faraday Whilst the Group does not follow any Wharf, Aston Science Park, Birmingham specific external code or standard on B7 4BB starting at 3.00pm on payment practice, the policy for all Wednesday 23 July 2003.
The suppliers is to fix terms of payment resolutions to be proposed at the when agreeing the terms of each Annual General Meeting, together with business transaction and to ensure that explanatory notes, appear in the the supplier is aware of those terms.
separate Notice of Annual General The Group seeks to abide by those Meeting sent to all shareholders.
The terms whenever it is satisfied that the proxy card for registered shareholders supplier has met the contractual is distributed with the Annual Report obligations.
At 30 April 2003 the and Accounts.
number of days of trade creditors for the Group, calculated by reference to the total amounts invoiced by suppliers, was 46 days 2002: 67 days.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS SECTION SEVEN PAGE TWENTY NINE
