Directors, officers and advisers Tim Martin Executive Chairman, aged 48 Registered Office Tim founded the business in 1979, having previously Wetherspoon House studied law at Nottingham University and qualified as Central Park a barrister.
Reeds Crescent Watford WD24 4QL John Hutson Managing Director, aged 38 John joined the company in 1991 and was appointed to Company Number the board in 1996.
He is a graduate of Exeter University and previously worked with Allied Domeq.
1709784 Jim Clarke Finance Director, aged 43 Registrars Jim joined the company and was appointed to the board Computershare Investor Services plc in 1998, having previously worked with David Lloyd PO Box 82 Leisure a division of Whitbread plc and HP Bulmer The Pavilions Holdings plc.
He is a graduate from Stirling University Bridgwater Road and qualified as a chartered accountant in 1984.
Bristol BS99 7NH Suzanne Baker Commercial Director, aged 40 Registered Auditors Suzanne joined the company in 1992 and was appointed to the board in 1997.
She has previously worked with  LLP Grand Metropolitan plc.
Valuers John Herring Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Christie & Co aged 45 John was appointed to the board in 1997 and is chairman Solicitors of the audit committee, the remuneration committee and the nomination committee.
A chartered accountant, Macfarlanes he is an associate of Corbett Keeling Ltd.
He is a non-executive director of Kensington Group plc and Bankers Workplace-Systems plc and is a former director of Kleinwort Benson Securities Ltd.
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Bank of Scotland Tony Lowrie Non-Executive Director, aged 61 National Australia Bank Ltd Scotiabank Europe plc Tony was appointed to the board in 1987 and is a member Allied Irish Banks plc of the audit committee, the remuneration committee and Dresdner Bank AG the nomination committee.
He is a managing director of ABN AMRO Bank NV and a former chairman of ABN AMRO Asia Securities.
Financial Advisers Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Limited Brian Jervis Non-Executive Director, aged 68 Brian was appointed to the board in 1991 and is a member Stockbrokers of the audit committee, the remuneration committee and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Securities Limited the nomination committee.
A chartered secretary, Brian is a former director of John Govett and Co Ltd. 8 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
