Directors report for the year ended 27 July 2003 The directors present their report and audited accounts Insurance against the liabilities of directors and officers of for the year ended 27 July 2003. the company was in place throughout the year in respect of their duties as directors and officers of the company.
Principal activities and business review The principal activities of the company are the development Companys shareholders and management of public houses.
Details of progress and Details of the companys shareholders, including those future developments are given on pages 2 to 4. beneficial interests notified to the company as accounting for over 3% of the issued share capital, are given on page 36.
Results and dividends The profit on ordinary activities including exceptional Statement of directors responsibilities items for the year, after taxation, was 34,044,000.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and On 28 November 2003, the company proposes to pay a fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the final dividend for the year ended 27 July 2003 of 2.33 profit or loss of the company for that period.
The directors pence per share to shareholders on the share register are required to prepare the financial statements on a as at the close of business on 31 October 2003. going-concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
Profit retained for the financial year amounted to 26,610,000 and will be transferred to reserves.
The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently.
They also Return of capital confirm that reasonable and prudent judgements and At the Annual General Meeting of the company held on estimates have been made in preparing the financial 7 November 2002, the company was given authority to statements for the year ended 27 July 2003 and that make market purchases of up to 21,461,670 of its own applicable accounting standards have been followed.
In May 2003, the company commenced a programme of purchasing its own ordinary shares for The directors are responsible for keeping proper cancellation.
A total of 8,245,000 shares has been purchased accounting records which disclose, with reasonable at an average cost of 243p per share, representing accuracy at any time, the financial position of the approximately 4% of the issued share capital.
Accordingly, company and enable them to ensure that the financial as at 27 July 2003, the authority given to the company at the statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They last Annual General Meeting remained outstanding in are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the relation to 13,216,670 shares.
The aggregate consideration company and, hence, for taking reasonable steps for the paid for these purchases was 20,058,790, of which prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
17,369,000 was settled during the financial year.
As a result of the share buyback programme, the company expect The directors are responsible for the maintenance and earnings per share to be enhanced, in both the current and integrity of the companys Web site: future years.
It is stated clearly on the Web site that information published on the Internet is The company has decided, in light of the share buyback accessible in many countries and that legislation in the programme, to terminate its scrip dividend scheme.
United Kingdom, governing the preparation and Shareholders will continue to be entitled to receive full dissemination of financial information may differ from cash dividends.
Cash balances carried forward under the legislation in other jurisdictions.
scrip dividend scheme will be paid to shareholders with the final dividend for the year under review.
Auditors Following the conversion of our auditors, Directors , to a Limited Liability Partnership The directors listed on page 8 served throughout the LLP on 1 January 2003,  resigned financial year.
Mr Hutson, Mr Clarke and Mrs Baker retire on 10 February 2003, and the directors appointed its by rotation and offer themselves for re-election.
Details successor,  LLP, as auditors.
of the terms under which the directors, who were in A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as office during the year, serve and their remuneration, auditors to the company having previously been together with their interests in the shares of the company, appointed by the board of directors to fill the casual are given in the directors remuneration report on pages vacancy arising by reason of the resignation of 12 to 15.
 will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
No director has any material interest in any contractual agreement, subsisting during or at the end of the year, which is or may be significant to the company.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 9 DIRECTORS REPORT Employment policies Business at the Annual General Meeting Only through the skill and commitment of the companys On pages 37 and 38 is a notice convening the Annual employees will its objectives be met.
All staff are encouraged General Meeting of the company for 11 November 2003, at to make a real commitment to the companys success and to which shareholders will be asked, as items of special progress to more senior roles as they, themselves, develop.
business, to give power to the directors to allot shares, to give power to the directors to disapply the pre-emption A heavy emphasis is placed on training programmes for requirements of section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 and all levels of staff: this highlights the importance placed by to give power to the directors to make market purchases the company on providing service to its customers.
of ordinary shares in the capital of the company, subject to certain conditions.
The notice also sets out details of In selecting, training and promoting staff, the company the ordinary business to be conducted at the Annual has to take account of the physically demanding nature of General Meeting.
The company is committed to equality of opportunity and to the elimination of discrimination in Approval of the directors remuneration report employment.
The company aims to create and maintain a Under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations working environment, terms & conditions of employment 2002, which became law in August 2002, listed companies and personnel & management practices which ensure are now required to put a resolution to shareholders at that no individual receives less favourable treatment on each Annual General Meeting to approve the directors the grounds of his or her race, religion, nationality, ethnic remuneration report.
origin, age, disability, gender, sexual orientation or marital status.
Employees who become disabled will be retained, Resolution 2 in the notice of Annual General Meeting, where possible, and retrained, where necessary.
which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, asks shareholders to approve the directors remuneration The company has established a range of policies, covering report, set out on pages 12 to 15. issues such as diversity, employees well-being and equal opportunities, aimed at ensuring that all employees are Re-election of Mr J Hutson, Mr J Clarke and Mrs S Baker treated fairly and consistently.
as directors The companys Articles of Association require one-third of Internal communications seek to ensure that staff are the directors to retire from office at each Annual General well informed about the companys progress, through the Meeting.
In addition, any director who has, at the Annual use of regular newsletters, monthly videos and briefings General Meeting, been in office for more than three years at staff meetings, at which employees views are since his or her last appointment or re-appointment should discussed and taken into account.
also retire and may offer him or herself for re-election.
All staff participate in incentive bonus schemes related to Brief biographical details of each of the directors standing profitability and or service standards.
for re-election may be found on page 8.
The re-election resolutions are set out as resolutions 4 to 6 in the notice Policy on payment of suppliers of Annual General Meeting.
The company agrees on terms and conditions with all suppliers before business takes place and has a policy Re-appointment of  LLP as of paying agreed invoices in accordance with the terms auditors of payment.
Trade creditors at the year end represented Resolution 7, set out in the notice of Annual General 44 2002: 46 days purchases.
Meeting, proposes that  LLP should be re-appointed as the companys auditors and Political and charitable contributions authorises the directors to determine their remuneration.
Contributions made by the company during the year, for charitable purposes, were 40,320 2002: 10,999.
Authority to allot No political contributions were made.
The general authority previously given to the directors to allot relevant securities will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting, convened for 11 November 2003.
10 J D WETHERSPOON PLC DIRECTORS REPORT Accordingly, resolution 8, set out in the notice of meeting, Repurchase of ordinary shares will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to authorise the In common with many other listed companies, the directors pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 company proposes, once again, to seek an authority from to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the company up to shareholders to permit the company to purchase its own a maximum nominal amount of 1,350,000, being shares.
Accordingly, resolution 10 will be proposed as a approximately 33% of the nominal value of the ordinary special resolution to authorise the company to make shares currently in issue.
The authority unless previously market purchases of up to 15% of the companys current varied, revoked or renewed will expire on the earlier of 15 issued ordinary share capital at prices not less than the months from the date of the passing of the resolution or the nominal value of an ordinary share and not exceeding 105% conclusion of the Annual General Meeting held to approve of the average of the middle market quotations for the five the report and accounts for the year ending 25 July 2004. business days before each purchase exclusive of expenses.
The authority will last until the earlier of 30 April 2005 and The directors will exercise such authority to allot shares the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the only when satisfied that it is in the interests of the company.
The directors envisage that purchases would be company to do so.
They have no present intention, however, made only after considering the effects on earnings per of exercising the authority, except in connection with the share and the benefits for shareholders generally.
issue of shares under the companys share option schemes.
As at 22 September 2003, there were outstanding options Disapplication of pre-emption rights over 9,666,633 ordinary shares, representing 4.7% of the The provisions of section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority which confer on shareholders rights of pre-emption in under resolution 10 were to be exercised in full, this respect of the allotment of equity securities which are or percentage would increase to 5.5%.
are to be paid up in cash, other than by way of allotment to employees under an employees share scheme apply to By order of the board the authorised, but unissued, ordinary shares of the company to the extent that they are not disapplied, Jim Clarke pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985.
Company Secretary 5 September 2003 The existing disapplication of these statutory pre-emption rights will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting convened by the notice of meeting.
Accordingly, resolution 9, as set out in the notice of meeting will be proposed as a special resolution to permit directors to allot shares without the application of these statutory pre-emption rights, first, in relation to rights issues and, secondly, in relation to the issue of ordinary shares in the capital of the company for cash up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 207,000 representing approximately 5% of the nominal value of the ordinary shares of the company currently in issue.
The authority unless previously varied, revoked or renewed will expire on the earlier of 15 months from the date of passing of the resolution or the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting held to approve the report and accounts for the year ending 25 July 2004.
