Engineering & Production Facilities Engineering & Production Facilities continued to extend its capabilities and expertise, and delivered strong growth in 2003.
CAD work for brownfield modifications.
Engineering & Production Facilities continued to extend project is progressing well.
In West Africa, detailed its capability and expertise, and delivered strong growth engineering for a compliant piled tower in support of in 2003.
ChevronTexacos Benguela-Belize development in offshore Angola is underway.
In Asia Pacific, Mustang and Engineering & Production Facilities provides a broad J P Kenny continue to work on Murphys Kikeh range of life-of-field engineering, modifications, discovery the deepest development to date in Asia maintenance and operations services to oil & gas Pacific.
Alliance provided conceptual and detailed customers worldwide.
2003 saw revenues increase 10% engineering, plus fabrication and commissioning to US$1,095.2 million 2002: US$992.8 million and support, to the Su Tu Den FPSO project offshore EBITA increase 4% to US$95.8 million 2002: US$91.7 Vietnam, which delivered first oil two weeks ahead of million.
the original schedule and received the ConocoPhillips Spirit award for excellence.
Engineering As we have previously indicated, a number of the larger We offer a broad range of engineering services in the deepwater engineering projects worldwide are design of oil & gas production, transportation and experiencing longer than anticipated delays before processing facilities, with expertise in: sanction.
Notwithstanding this, the economics of upstream engineering: including deepwater topsides deepwater projects remain very compelling.
Deepwater facilities: lightweight topsides: subsea engineering and is expected to account for in excess of 20% of the onshore processing facilities worlds production that comes on stream between now and 2010.
This will require a deepwater capital spend, midstream engineering: including offshore & onshore including engineering, of around US$50 billion during pipeline engineering: compression and LNG liquefied the period.
We believe that our strong market position natural gas GTL gas to liquids and leading independent engineering capability will win downstream engineering: including refining and us a significant share of the engineering work to be petrochemicals.
In North America, Mustang Engineering Mustang and In mid and shallow water, there were some important Alliance Engineering Alliance had a strong year awards during the year.
In Venezuela, Alliance and Vepica working on more than 60% of current deepwater are working together to provide engineering and project projects in the Gulf of Mexico.
This includes 'pre' Front management services for the ConocoPhillips offshore End Engineering Design FEED work on GulfTerras Corocoro development.
We provided engineering Atwater Valley project.
In the North Sea, BPs Clair services to BPs Tangguh pipeline in Indonesia and on John Wood Group PLC 13 the Phu My to Ho Chi Minh city pipeline in Vietnam.
design: life-of-field modifications engineering, planning Leading on from this, in 2004, we will begin the & execution: operations and maintenance support engineering construction management of the Phu My and: in conjunction with our Gas Turbine Services division, rotating equipment repair & maintenance.
Ionik - the Group's materials engineering specialists - was awarded a materials integrity assurance We enjoyed high overall activity levels in the North Sea programme on ChevronTexaco's existing pipelines in throughout the year.
Our major contracts with Shell Angola.
Additionally, J P Kenny won the initial FEED through Sigma 3, a joint venture company and BP work, followed by the construction management, for a successfully undertook significant modifications on a new offshore pipeline system to transport gas from number of the key North Sea oil & gas fields.
During the year we were awarded a five-year 250 With the anticipated significant growth in gas million contract with Talisman to provide engineering, production, and LNG and GTL processing, we are construction, operations and maintenance services to all growing our midstream capabilities and have worked of their nine UK assets and the Flotta terminal.
We are with Syntroleum in the detailed design and construction now supporting Apache on the former BP Forties field of their greenfield GTL demonstration plant in Tulsa.
assets and we were awarded a major five-year contract In downstream, we are working on a number of clean by TOTAL for the provision of engineering, procurement, construction and ancillary services for all its UK North fuel projects in the US and expect to see further work as Sea assets.
the 2006 date for implementation of new clean fuel legislation approaches.
In addition, we are growing our The North Sea is continuing to evolve with new asset activities in the Pharmaceutical sector.
owners looking to reinvigorate production both through incremental exploration and production enhancement.
Production Facilities We now have the capability to take on the Safety Case duty holder role taking operational responsibility for We offer a broad range of production facilities support the production assets with the client benefiting from to our clients around the world, with expertise in: world-leading maintenance and operations performance production enhancement: water injection: gas and access to supply chain leverage through a reward injection and gas compression: debottlenecking and based contract.
maintaining high operational uptime of facilities In the Gulf of Mexico we are carrying out field maintenance management: maintenance systems management for in excess of 35 offshore manned 14 John Wood Group PLC Engineers conducting a FEED study for a new offshore facility.
facilities for a number of local operators, including Brunei, a Wood Group-led joint venture entered into a Unocal, Apache and Forest.
In Colombia, we five-year US$160 million contract with Brunei Shell commenced new five-year contracts to expand, operate Petroleum for the management and execution of and maintain two early production facilities on the engineering, fabrication, offshore construction and Florea and Recetor fields.
In Venezuela, the Wood maintenance services to upgrade some of its offshore Group-managed SIMCO consortium has continued to facilities in Brunei Darussalam.
provide water injection services to PDVSA.
In Brazil, we continue to provide maintenance and modifications Senior management succession services to Petrobras offshore facilities in the Campos Bill Edgar will retire in May after nine very successful basin and recently secured a four-year contract to years as Group Director for Engineering & Production support four offshore drilling installations.
He will be replaced by two new Executives - and Tobago, our new joint venture, NM Wood Group, Trevor Noble and Les Thomas who have just joined us now has the capability to provide engineering, and will both join the main board in May.
Trevor will operations and maintenance services.
lead the engineering activities and Les the production facilities activities.
Both have very significant experience We are also developing our production facilities from highly successful careers in the industry and will activities in the Eastern Hemisphere.
In West Africa, we play a key role in driving the growth of the division.
entered into a major two-year contract with Marathon to provide operations support to the companys offshore production & gas re-injection and its onshore gas processing & export facilities in Equatorial Guinea.
