Repair and overhaul being carried out at TransCanada Turbines new LM6000 test facility.
Gas Turbine Services The world-leading independent in the repair and overhaul of industrial gas turbines.
Re-engineered turbine parts incorporate the latest technical innovations.
The world-leading independent in the repair and are technology and the broad range of services that we overhaul of industrial gas turbines.
provide, positioning us to win longer-term contracts across multiple engine types and across a wide range of Gas Turbine Services is a world-leading independent provider of maintenance, repair and overhaul services activities.
for industrial gas turbines and related high speed 2003 revenues increased by 29% to US$455.4 million rotating equipment, used for power generation, 2002: US$352.0 million, but EBITA decreased by 26% to compression and transmission in the oil & gas and power generation industries.
Our market differentiations US$31.9 million 2002: US$43.1 million.
18 John Wood Group PLC Laser fusion weld technology is applied by Wood Group during gas turbine blade repair.
In aero-derivative gas turbines, we have three businesses Our Light Industrial Turbine LIT activities include the that are either original equipment manufacturer OEM repair and overhaul of the Siemens Ruston and Solar joint ventures or OEM approved.
Rolls Wood Group, our turbine range.
Contracts awarded included a six-year joint venture with Rolls-Royce, opened two new state-ofservice agreement with British Nuclear Fuels BNFL to the-art facilities for Rolls-Royce RB211 and Avon gas provide maintenance services to certain of their turbine overhaul and repair in Aberdeen.
Long-term generating equipment and controls at the Westinghouse contract wins included Statoil in Norway for their fleet UK Fuel Business at Springfields, Preston, and a five-year of Rolls-Royce engines on both the onshore gas terminal contract from Talisman in the North Sea to provide at Krst and on the offshore Heidrun platform.
maintenance services for 45 gas turbines covering a TransCanada Turbines, our Calgary-based joint venture range of manufacturers on seven of their North Sea with TransCanada Pipelines, secured a US$50 million, facilities.
eight-year, long term service agreement with a leading Our Heavy Industrial Turbine HIT activities delivered a US power utility, for the maintenance of General Electric disappointing EBITA performance, particularly in the and Rolls-Royce gas turbines, drawing on our ability to second half.
They were negatively impacted by service multiple engine types.
Wood Group Pratt & increased pricing pressure, resulting from the continuing Whitney, our joint venture with Pratt & Whitney, power market overcapacity and weak financial condition continued to perform satisfactorily despite the difficult of some of the North American independent power North American power market.
This is unlikely to improve materially in 2004, but we believe will provide a good market growth John Wood Group PLC 19 opportunity in the medium term.
Power markets in the In gas turbine accessories and components, we have a number of businesses with strong niche market rest of the world continue to grow.
The component repair business in Dundee, We extended our HIT service capability with the UK, has retained its contract with the UK Ministry of opening of a Center of Excellence in Connecticut for Defence for the repair of engine components for component repair and rotor overhaul, and new Tornado fighter aircraft.
In the US, Fuel Systems won a generator repair facilities in the US and the UK.
Our three-year order with Dominion Energy for the overhaul new contracts included an estimated US$11.5 million and repair of GE engine fuel nozzles at its Chesterfield long-term maintenance services contract with GWF power station in Virginia.
Energy in the US, that covers field service, component repair and parts supply and is expected to run until 2013.
Our continuing investment in field services is providing pull through opportunities for component repair and the supply of parts, and our recent Z. TEC acquisition will provide a strong foothold for the growth of field services in Europe.
We continued to invest in extending our range of re-engineered parts using advances in technology to generate improvements in reliability and functionality for our customers.
We have extended our services to include turbine controls retrofits and have also expanded into power station operations and maintenance.
Wood Group Power Solutions, a business providing packaged power solutions, won a major contract with Drummond Limited for the design, procurement and installation and commissioning of a 65 MW power plant, consisting of one General Electric LM6000 and one General Electric LM2500 industrial gas turbine, for the company's expanded coal mining operations in northern Colombia.
