Well Support In 2003, we continued the development of our international business, added long-term contracts and further enhanced our product range.
Enhancing clients production around the world.
In 2003, we continued the development of our The drive to penetrate new markets continues.
Wood international business, added long-term contracts and Group ESP has just won its most significant contract to further enhanced our product range.
date in the Russian market and is entering new markets in the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
Well Support supplies solutions, products and services to increase production rates and recovery from oil & gas An important factor for customers in choosing our reservoirs.
It is among the market leaders in artificial lift services and products is the efficiency and run lives of using electric submersible pumps ESPs, in the our ESPs.
During the year we received six US patents for provision of surface wellheads and valves, and in the novel technologies related to electric submersible and provision of electric and slickline services in the Gulf of surface pumping systems.
The innovations are designed Mexico and South America.
to increase run lives, reduce total operating costs and Well Support achieved an improved performance in provide maximum serviceability of the systems, all of 2003 with revenues of US$412.6 million 2002: which can improve the performance and profitability of US$360.0 million and EBITA of US$31.4 million 2002: pay-for-performance contracts.
Joe Brady, who led Centrilifts very significant growth in the electric submersible pump sector, has joined us to Wood Group ESP lead Wood Group ESPs business.
As the worlds oilfields mature there is an increasing need for artificial lift to drive production, and ESPs are Wood Group Pressure Control the fastest growing form of artificial lift.
We are the third largest global provider of ESPs for use in artificial lift.
Wood Group Pressure Control maintained its position as the second largest US and fourth largest worldwide We believe that the Groups service focus is important in supplier of surface wellheads and valves.
In 2003, we were awarded a five-year, US$50 million, pay-for-performance In the first half of 2003, Wood Group Pressure Control contract to supply electric submersible pumping acquired the assets of Barber Industries Barber for systems and services to Repsol YPF in Argentina.
Barber is an established manufacturer contract includes the maintenance and repair of pumps and supplier of wellhead equipment, valves and safety currently owned by Repsol YPF, together with the systems to oil & gas production and pipeline industries installation, maintenance and repair of new units to be in Canada.
The acquisition will help Wood Group supplied by Wood Group ESP.
Together with our other Pressure Control grow its market share in Canada, and pay-for-performance contracts, including those with PD the expansion of the customer base plus the integration Oman and Joint Operations in Kuwait, we are now of the product lines is providing further opportunities supporting approximately 2,000 wells around the world on a long-term basis.
16 John Wood Group PLC Wood Group ESP monitoring the performance of one of its pumps in the field.
A number of important contract wins in 2003 enabled Wood Group Logging Services Wood Group Pressure Control to continue to grow, both Wood Group Logging Services provides services and in the US market and in the international arena.
Among products focused on well monitoring and mechanical these was an extension to our ConocoPhillips contract downhole operations including electric and slickline and increasing levels of activity with a number of US well logging and the supply of permanent monitoring independents.
In addition, in the international arena, gauges.
During the year, we continued to extend our contracts were secured in Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, service offering throughout the Gulf of Mexico, Texas Australia and Oman.
Wood Group Pressure Control, like Wood Group ESP, Wood Group Production Technology continues to make provides a combined product and service offering.
good progress and introduced the 25,000 psi-rated Apache North Sea has recently awarded us the contract TM version of its ROC family of downhole permanent for the provision and maintenance of surface wellheads monitoring gauges, offering greater reliability and the and valves on the Forties Field in the North Sea.
ability to operate in higher pressure, higher temperature environments.
An early example of the success of this product is the contract from Shell for installation of 12 of these gauges in the Princess and Llano field wells in the Gulf of Mexico.
Wood Group Logging Services in Argentina delivered good growth in the year and continues to benefit from a relatively strong local market.
