12 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 CATALYSTS In recognition of significant changes in the composition of prices and overcapacity in subdued markets and profits were down.
Catalysts & Chemicals Division, particularly following the acquisition PGM catalyst sales were good, particularly to the pharmaceutical and of Synetix from ICI in November 2002, we have renamed it Catalysts fine chemical sector.
PGM catalyst sales in China grew well and during Division.
This better describes the divisions key markets and reflects 2002 03 we established a pgm chemicals manufacturing facility in its strategic direction.
Catalysts Division encompasses three Shanghai.
The markets of India and the Pacific Rim offer excellent businesses: Environmental Catalysts and Technologies ECT, growth opportunities.
We have started construction of a process formerly Catalytic Systems: Process Catalysts and Technologies catalyst plant in Taloja, India, which complements our presence in PCT, previously Chemicals, which incorporates the former Synetix China.
The Research Chemicals business, continued to achieve strong growth including a good contribution from Avocado Research Environmental Catalysts and Technologies Chemicals, acquired in February 2002.
During the year the business expanded its sales and distribution facilities in both the USA and ECT had a strong year in the face of worldwide economic Germany and doubled manufacturing capacity at Avocado in the uncertainty.
In North America, vehicle sales fell and our catalyst UK.
Good progress was also made on growing its presence in China volumes fell slightly as a result.
However, despite the well publicised and Japan.
problems of the US car industry, our business grew, driven by the The acquisition of Synetix from ICI in November 2002 has benefits of our new technology and a more than doubling of sales into brought leading base metal process catalyst technology that the heavy duty diesel vehicle retrofit market.
In Europe, vehicle sales complements our strong position in precious metal catalysts.
It has also fell slightly during the year.
However, we were able to grow our elevated Johnson Matthey to a strong number two in the global market share following the introduction of advanced products that catalyst market and also brings with it important growth opportunities more cost effectively meet emission regulations and both volumes in the emerging markets for gas to liquids GTL and chiral catalysts and sales were well up on 2001 02.
During the year we further see the feature on pages 14 and 15.
In the five months since expanded our plant near Johannesburg to meet growing demand for acquisition, the business has performed very much in line with our catalysts made in South Africa.
In Asia, our new manufacturing facility expectations and we have now fully integrated the former Synetix in China is fully operational and profitable.
We also achieved businesses into the division.
significant new heavy duty diesel retrofit business in Japan.
Asia has grown to become the largest producer of light duty vehicles, ahead of both North America and Europe.
Johnson Matthey is well positioned Fuel Cells to benefit from this growth and our share of the Asia market is The Fuel Cells business continued to make excellent progress in increasing.
Production lines incorporating our new Precision Coating 2002 03, taking several important steps towards establishing itself as technology have now been installed in all our plants around the world, a supplier of choice to the leading companies in the emerging fuel cell and additional capacity has been added in Asia.
In order to maintain industry.
Critical to this has been success with supplying Membrane our technological leadership we have begun a major expansion of the Electrode Assembly MEA development samples for durability and business European technology centre, including additional engine performance testing in customers early commercial products.
This and vehicle testing facilities.
This investment will allow us to develop validation phase is expected to be followed over the next few years by new, more advanced products to meet forthcoming emission commercially available products for premium stationary, back up and legislation for both gasoline and diesel vehicles.
This will lead to mass produced products for the transport sector at the end of this decade and into the next.
Process Catalysts and Technologies The first phase of our dedicated MEA factory at Swindon, UK was PCTs businesses experienced mixed fortunes in 2002 03.
Sales completed during the year.
This is the initial stage in transitioning fuel cell technology from research and development into commercial were well up on prior year, reflecting five months contribution from the Synetix businesses.
Underlying sales however were flat with difficult manufacturing and will enable the Fuel Cells R&D facility at Sonning Common, UK to concentrate on supporting technology development conditions in many markets.
Margins in the platinum group metal pgm refining business were impacted by lower palladium and rhodium for the future.
Operating Profit 2003 104.4m 2002 94.7m Turnover 2003 1,083m 2002 1,303m RESEARCH Catalysts Division, DEVELOPMENT & In ECT we continue to invest in research and development and testing formerly Catalysts & capacity to cost effectively meet ever tightening emissions legislation and retain market leadership.
This year, R&D activities have continued to focus on improved three way catalysts for petrol vehicles and the development of Chemicals Division, products for lean burn engines, especially diesels.
We are working in partnership with many of the worlds leading heavy duty diesel engine manufacturers to prepare for emissions regulations coming into effect performed well in 2002 03 over the next five years.
In PCT excellent opportunities are being identified to leverage the benefits from integration of the former Synetix businesses with operating profits 10% and our complementary portfolios of pgm and base metal catalysts.
Good progress is being made in GTL both in synthesis gas generation, via customer demonstration of Advanced Gas Heated Reformer technology ahead of last year at and pgm promoted catalyst development, and in custom manufactured Fischer Tropsch catalysts.
During the year we have developed a range of polymer based Smopex metal scavengers, which remove trace metal 104.4 million.
contaminants in pharmaceutical and fine chemical manufacturing.
14 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 CATALYSTS Process Catalysts and Technologies - Catalysts for Growth The PCEO business also supplies process and purification Within Catalysts Division the Process Catalysts and Technologies catalysts for the chemicals sector.
These catalysts are used in PCT business brings together Johnson Mattheys former Chemicals manufacturing processes for a wide range of specialised chemical activities with those acquired with Synetix in November 2002.
PCT thus products and in environmental applications to treat a range of consists of the groups precious metal based heterogeneous and gaseous and liquid streams.
homogeneous catalysts business, which predominantly uses the unique catalytic properties of the platinum group metals, and the Chiral Catalysis leading base metal copper, nickel, cobalt, titanium, etc process catalyst technology acquired with Synetix.
It also encompasses our One exciting area is the application of chiral catalysis in the pharmaceutical industry.
This is a field in which both the groups platinum group metal refining and chemical products businesses, the precious metal process catalyst business and the acquired Tracerco diagnostic services business and our Research Chemicals businesses have a strong position.
Both have extensive catalyst business which supplies products to academic and industrial research technology, expertise and research resources that complement each organisations via its Alfa Aesar and Avocado catalogue operations.
other and place us in a strong position to serve this growing market.
The acquisition of Synetix brought to Johnson Matthey a global The US Food and Drug Administration and regulators around the catalyst business that serves a range of market segments including world are increasingly requiring pharmaceutical companies to identify ammonia, methanol, chemicals, fine chemicals, edible oils, and produce a specific chiral version of a drug.
This is where the oleochemicals, oil and gas and polymerisation.
These activities pharmaceutical ingredient can exist in two different forms, which are complement the groups strong position in precious metal catalysts for mirror images of each other but only one of which has the desired a wide range of markets including emission control and process activity.
The use of specialised catalysis is one of the main ways of catalysts for the fine chemicals and pharmaceutical industries.
The manufacturing chiral drugs, another being chiral separation using former Synetix business consists of two strategic business units: simulated moving bed SMB technology, an area in which PCEO Polymers, Chemicals and Edible Oils and AMOG Ammonia, Pharmaceutical Materials Divisions Pharm-Eco business has a strong Methanol, Oil and Gas, reflecting the major global markets that they position.
serve and in which they have market leading positions.
AMOG PCEO Within the AMOG strategic business unit, its KATALCO and Within PCEO, we are a leading supplier of polymerisation PURASPEC ranges of catalysts are to be found in over half of the catalysts for the manufacture of plasticisers, acrylates, inks and worlds methanol production plants.
In addition the Polymers segment also provides polyester building block in the chemical industry and is a feedstock for a wide manufacturers with innovative titanium based catalysts, which, as part range of products.
It is presently used in the manufacture of lead free of a tailored package, can increase output by up to 15% without the gasoline and is tipped as a replacement for oil based fuels and as a need for investment in new plant.
These catalysts also have significant carrier of hydrogen, for example for use in fuel cells.
environmental advantages over antimony based catalysts that are Ammonia is another important building block for the worlds commonly used in polyester production.
It is a crucial product for the global food chain as For the inks segment, the business is the industry leader in it is extensively used in synthetic fertilisers that ensure the productive adhesion promoters, catalysts that are added to inks to enable them growth and improved yields of crops around the world.
The AMOG to stick to flexible packaging.
The VERTEC range of adhesion business provides high performance catalysts, specialist applications promoters sees widespread application in packaging where designs knowledge and services technology to ensure optimum performance are commonly printed on flexible plastic films, for example for crisp in the highly competitive ammonia industry.
Without these products, the In oil refineries, AMOGs products and technologies are brightly coloured designs that are so vital to the marketing of many extensively used in the production of hydrogen via the steam consumer products would not be possible.
reforming process as well as for the purification of both liquids and In the coatings industry, the PCEO business is the industry leader gases produced by the refining process.
Catalyst technology is in thixotropic agents, additives that go into paints and other products playing an increasingly important and valuable role around the to modify their flow characteristics.
For example these additives are refinery, helping to meet growing market demand for its wide range of used in water based paints enabling them to be almost a solid gel in products, improving the industrys environmental performance and the pot but to flow smoothly when applied to a surface and not to run enabling it to meet legislation requiring cleaner, greener fuels.
In the once the paint has been applied.
natural gas industry, the business has a strong position in For the edible oils and oleochemicals sectors, PCEO technologies to remove impurities such as sulphur, utilising its manufactures high performance catalysts that are used in the research and testing expertise to supply packages that are tailored to manufacture of products such as margarine, chocolate, cooking oils meet individual customer needs.
and other foodstuffs edible oils and of soap, cosmetics and Hydrogen rich gases are also used in a wide range of industrial lubricants, for example those used in shaving foams oleochemicals.
processes, including oil refining, chemical production, iron ore An interesting example of the application of catalysis in the food reduction and the production of Towns Gas.
AMOG produces a range industry is in modifying the melting point of chocolate products so that of innovative catalysts to serve the hydrogen market.
they melt in the mouth and not in your hands.
15 Johnson Matthey Gas to Liquids Tracerco Another exciting opportunity for future growth is in the new, high In addition to providing advanced catalysts to customers technology gas to liquids market.
Gas to liquids GTL is a rapidly worldwide, PCT provides applications knowledge and services expanding sector manufacturing ultra clean diesel fuel from natural technology through its Tracerco business.
This is an area that has strong environmental as well as energy of process diagnostic services and specialist instruments used in security drivers.
It provides a means to use the worlds massive enhanced hydrocarbon recovery, enhanced hydrocarbon separation reserves of stranded natural gas to make sulphur free diesel fuel.
This and in non-intrusive inspection areas of the upstream oil and gas extremely pure fuel can be blended with diesel produced via the market.
These products and services are used to increase production traditional oil refining route to make the ultra low sulphur diesel that is rates, lower overall production costs and increase environmental increasingly mandated to help meet ever tightening vehicle emission compliance by most oil and gas producers.
It also provides unique standards around the world.
taggant technologies to the process industry, which are used in GTL is a multi stage catalytic process and, prior to the acquisition various applications from reservoir assessment to fuel antiof Synetix, Johnson Matthey was involved in providing catalysts to adulteration schemes.
Tracerco was awarded the 2003 Queens some of these stages.
However, Synetix has brought catalysts and Award for Enterprise for the TRACERCO Profiler, an instrument that expertise that enable the group to supply the full range of catalysts to uses advanced measurement technology to determine and control the GTL process and to work in partnership with leading energy the contents of oil and gas production separators.
companies to develop cost effective technologies for this growing market.
It is estimated that the market for catalysts for the GTL process could be worth over $400 million per annum by 2010.
