16 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 PRECIOUS METALS Platinum The divisions Noble Metals manufacturing business continued to Platinum and palladium prices showed sharply diverging fortunes in 2002 03.
The price of platinum rose steadily for most of the perform well despite difficult economic conditions affecting many of its traditional customers.
A further increase in revenues was in part year with solid demand, a widening deficit in supply and lack of physical liquidity supporting successive rallies.
The price peaked at a due to technical innovation which generated income from new products and technology licensing.
Our medical components 23 year high of $705 oz in March 2003 before falling back as investors and speculators took profits on long positions.
business, based in California, continued to grow, operating at full capacity for much of the year.
With further growth forecast, the Consumption of platinum in autocatalysts rose in 2002 03 with continuing growth in the diesel sector and efforts to thrift palladium business will relocate to a larger facility in the summer of 2003.
Our nitinol operation, also located in California, finished its second full year through greater use of platinum based catalysts, underpinning demand.
Platinum sales to the Chinese jewellery market continued to under Johnson Matthey ownership.
With the completion of investment in new manufacturing and information systems, it now boasts industry rise, although high platinum prices at the end of the year put pressure on profit margins, dampening to some extent enthusiasm for platinum leading product quality and delivery times.
Supplies of platinum increased only moderately, as higher output from South Africa was Gold and Silver balanced by a drop in sales from Russia.
Trading conditions for Johnson Mattheys worldwide gold and Apart from some sharp but fleeting spikes, the price of palladium silver refining operations remained difficult.
Although the higher gold fell steadily throughout the year.
Demand from most market sectors price increased secondary supplies, primary gold production fell was weak, with the auto and electronic industries making substantial slightly and, with an excess of worldwide refining capacity, margins use of inventories.
In addition, the switch away from palladium in remained under pressure.
In October 2002, we announced the merger response to the high prices of earlier years continued: auto of our Australian business with that of AGR headquartered in Perth, manufacturers increased the use of platinum catalysts on gasoline Western Australia.
The formation of AGR Matthey, in which Johnson vehicles and electronic component manufacturers continued to Matthey holds a 20% stake, will allow the rationalisation of the substitute palladium with base metals in certain applications.
Despite combined refining and product operations.
Elsewhere, the North sharply lower sales from Russia, supplies exceeded demand for the American refineries had a reasonable year but profits from our Royston second successive year.
refinery were impacted by weak demand for gold bars.
Hong Kong The average price of platinum for the year was $586 oz, an again benefited from a series of gold price spikes which prompted the increase of 17% on 2001 02.
Conversely the average price of dishoarding of secondary scrap across the Asian region.
Weak prices and poor demand for palladium and rhodium reduced profits in the divisions marketing and trading operations from the level seen in 2001 02.
Operating Profit 2003 50.1m 2002 55.9m Turnover 2003 2,857m 2002 3,167m 17 Johnson Matthey RESEARCH Precious Metals Divisions DEVELOPMENT & The divisions global research and development programmes are targeted to operating profits were generate innovative new products and solve customer problems.
Work continues at the groups Technology Centre to design new catalysts for ammonia oxidation which will not only improve conversion efficiencies but 10% down on last year at minimise the production of undesirable by-products such as greenhouse gases.
This work has been greatly enhanced by the acquisition of Synetix, which has brought world leading base metal process catalyst technology to 50.1 million reflecting Johnson Matthey.
Other development programmes are designed to leverage our extensive metallurgical expertise on pgm alloys.
The division has active declining palladium and collaboration programmes with several of the worlds largest ignition companies who require novel alloys to improve the efficiency of spark plugs in high performance engines.
In addition, new alloys and composite materials rhodium prices and are in constant demand by customers in the rapidly developing medical components industry.
In support of this, we have commissioned an extensive development facility at our West Chester, Pennsylvania site during the year.
