11 Johnson Matthey DIVISIONAL STRUCTURE Johnson Matthey has operations in 34 countries and employs around 7,500 people worldwide.
It is organised into global divisions: 4 Catalysts Precious Colours & Pharmaceutical Metals Coatings Materials 01 02 03 04 o o C Pm C &C Phm Catalysts Precious Metals Colours & Coatings Pharmaceutical Materials 2003 2003 2003 2003 Our Precious Metals Division is Colours & Coatings Division is ranked Pharmaceutical Materials Division is a Environmental Catalysts and organised into two groups: Platinum among the worlds top integrated global, integrated supplier of active Technologies ECT and Gold and Silver, and incorporates suppliers of decorative products and pharmaceutical ingredients, which ECT comprises Johnson Mattheys Johnson Mattheys precious metals associated raw materials for ceramics provides services to pharmaceutical global autocatalyst, heavy duty diesel marketing, fabrication and refining and glass.
The division is structured companies through every phase of the and stationary source emission control activities.
into three businesses: Glass, Structural development of a new product.
We are the worlds leading Ceramics and Speciality Coatings, Serving their respective markets in the manufacturer of catalysts for vehicle which are organised around the key Platinum US and Europe, the divisions West exhaust emission control and a leader markets that we serve.
Deptford and Macfarlan Smith in catalyst systems for the reduction of Consists of our worldwide platinum operations provide customers with bulk volatile organic compound emissions marketing and fabrication activities.
Glass manufacturing services from Phase from industrial processes.
Marketing is headquartered in London Three clinical trials through Manufacturing takes place in the USA, with support facilities in Philadelphia Based in the Netherlands, our Glass commercialisation of a patented or UK, Belgium, Mexico, Argentina, South and Hong Kong.
We are the worlds business manufactures black generic drug.
The division has leading Africa, Malaysia, India and China.
R&D leading distributor of platinum group obscuration and silver conductive positions in the manufacture of facilities are in the USA, UK, Sweden, metals and the sole marketing agent enamels for automotive glass.
It also controlled substances and platinum Japan and Brazil.
for Anglo Platinum, the worlds largest makes enamels and decorative based anticancer drugs.
Our platinum precious metal products for other glass fabrication business makes a wide applications such as bottles and Process Catalysts and The divisions Pharm-Eco Laboratories range of platinum group metal architectural glass.
Technologies PCT business provides contract research products primarily in the UK and USA.
and development and small scale PCT manufactures base and precious Structural Ceramics manufacturing services from pre-clinical metal process catalysts, fine chemicals Gold and Silver through to Phase Three clinical trials.
Our Our Structural Ceramics business platinum group metal pgm refining Comprises our worldwide gold and manufactures colours, glazes and frits Its Cascade Biochem business is business recovers spent catalysts and silver refining and bullion for the tile and sanitaryware industries, focused on the manufacture of other secondary material and also manufacturing operations.
Johnson and includes our zircon business.
prostaglandins and other complex refines primary pgms from global Matthey is the market leader in the molecules as active pharmaceutical mining operations.
Manufacturing refining of gold and silver.
The Speciality Coatings ingredients for the pharmaceutical facilities are in the UK, USA, Germany, business serves the worlds mining industry.
Speciality Coatings supplies colours, India and China.
Our Research industries and recycles secondary glazes, decals and decorative precious Chemicals business is based in the scrap material.
We are also a leading metal products to manufacturers of fine USA and UK.
manufacturer of high purity small gold china in the UK and around the world.
bars for investment and jewellery It also produces a wide range of manufacture.
Gold and silver refining Fuel Cells inorganic pigments and pigment operations are located in the UK, USA, Johnson Matthey is the world leader in dispersions for use in printing inks, Canada and Hong Kong.
catalysts and catalysed components paints, automotive finishes, woodstains for fuel cells.
