20 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 PHARMACEUTICAL MATERIALS Pharmaceutical Materials Division provides process development particularly good in specialist opiates and other controlled drugs, where and manufacturing services for active pharmaceutical ingredients APIs the market for key products continues to grow due to the launch of new throughout the entire life cycle of a drug.
The Pharm-Eco business, dosage forms and therapeutic applications.
Several key new controlled located in the USA, provides contract chemistry and manufacturing drug products are in late stages of development and will provide sales services for drugs in the early and middle phases of their development growth in future years.
The programme of investment in facilities at cycle.
As products reach late stages of development and commercial Macfarlan Smith has continued, with projects to add new reactors approval, both West Deptford USA and Macfarlan Smith UK provide specially configured for hydrogenation reactions.
In addition significant commercial scale manufacturing services along with regulatory support investments were made in site infrastructure and regulatory compliance for active pharmaceutical ingredients.
These businesses manufacture initiatives during the year.
products for both branded and generic drugs.
In October 2002 Johnson Pharm-Eco Matthey purchased Cascade Biochem, a world leader in the chemistry of prostaglandins which are a class of very complex, high value Pharm-Eco, based near Boston, USA, is a leading provider of molecules with increasing therapeutic applications.
contract chemistry services and small scale manufacturing in support of the development of new drugs.
Outsourcing of chemistry by West Deptford pharmaceutical companies continues to grow and Pharm-Eco continues The West Deptford business manufactures high value APIs, to broaden its range of services to the industry.
Pharm-Ecos sales in including controlled substances and metal based pharmaceuticals.
2002 03 were well up on prior year with both of its service areas of These are used in both generic and proprietary drugs to treat cancer, contract chemistry and contract manufacturing achieving strong growth.
chronic pain and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD.
In In support of this growth, additional laboratory facilities were added at its 2002 03 West Deptfords sales grew by 17%, primarily due to the full Devens, Massachusetts facility.
The business has also begun a project year benefit of several new products launched late in 2001 02, sales of to install reactor suites in the production area at Devens.
The first two which were strong throughout the year.
In anticipation of this and future suites will be completed in the third quarter of 2003 04.
During the year growth, new manufacturing facilities on the site were completed and Pharm-Eco also acquired the interest of its joint venture partner, UOP, in commissioned during the year.
This expansion has increased Universal Pharma Technologies UPT.
UPT develops equipment and manufacturing capacity by 40% and provides space for additional provides contract separation services using simulated moving bed laboratories and reactor capacity.
In June 2002 West Deptford chromatography, a very advanced technology for purification of organic received approval from the US Drug Enforcement Administration to chemicals.
This novel separation technique complements Johnson import the key raw materials used in the manufacture of morphine and Mattheys pharmaceutical manufacturing capabilities, especially for codeine.
This approval, along with technology transferred from complex and chiral molecules.
Macfarlan Smith, will enable West Deptford to fully participate in this Cascade Biochem market in the US, which is currently only open to three other companies.
A project to install facilities for morphine and codeine Cascade Biochem, with facilities in Reading, UK and Cork, Ireland, production on the site is underway and these are expected to be is a world leader in the chemistry of prostaglandins and related commissioned during the first half of 2004. compounds.
Cascade has performed well since its acquisition in October 2002.
Prostaglandins are very complex, difficult to synthesise molecules Macfarlan Smith that are mainly used in cardiovascular, gastrointestinal and ophthalmic Macfarlan Smith, located in Edinburgh, UK, is a world leader in the medicine.
The Cork facility has been approved by the US FDA and manufacture and marketing of controlled drugs.
Macfarlan Smiths currently manufactures misoprostol, a prostaglandin product for the business continued to grow well during the year despite the cessation generic drug market.
Cascade has a strong development pipeline, of its contract for the extraction of galantamine from daffodil bulbs.
Its including many products that are due to become generic in the future.
purpose built galantamine extraction facility has been successfully Market interest in prostaglandin products is high and the business is in converted to the extraction of concentrated poppy straw, enabling the process of negotiating commercial relationships for key products.
In important cost savings in the manufacture of Macfarlan Smiths key support of the commercialisation of Cascades product pipeline, a opiate products.
The business sales of bulk opiate products, programme of capacity expansion has begun at the Cork facility.
The first particularly codeine and morphine, remain strong.
Sales growth was stage of this expansion will be completed by mid 2003 04.
Operating Profit 2003 36.9m 2002 31.3m Turnover 2003 128m 2002 106m 21 Johnson Matthey RESEARCH DEVELOPMENT Pharmaceutical Materials & Pharmaceutical Materials Divisions research and development is focused on commercial products to be manufactured and marketed by the West Division produced strong Deptford, Macfarlan Smith and Cascade Biochem businesses, as well as early stage R&D performed directly for pharmaceutical companies by Pharm-Eco.
Technology required for the manufacture of commercial scale results with operating products includes primarily the development of chemical manufacturing processes and methods for the analysis of these products.
This technology is essential to achieve competitive market positions and to obtain regulatory profit 18% up on 2001 02 approval for products.
Contract drug development services offered by Pharm-Eco include medicinal chemistry, process development and initial scale-up of potential new drugs.
Given the wide variety of products in R&D, at 36.9 million.
Pharm-Eco has developed expertise in a broad range of chemistry.
Each of Pharmaceutical Materials Divisions businesses has developed substantial chemical know-how in their respective market niches and they collaborate All of its business units closely on new technical challenges.
Combined with Johnson Mattheys core expertise in catalysis, chiral catalysis and organometallic chemistry, performed well.
the division offers the pharmaceutical marketplace a unique and broad spectrum of R&D capabilities.
