18 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 COLOURS & COATINGS Glass The Colours & Coatings Division is organised into three market The Glass sector chiefly supplies glass enamels, liquid precious facing sectors: Structural Ceramics serving the tile, sanitaryware and metals and other coating materials for a wide range of applications related construction markets: Glass serving specialised applications onto glass.
With manufacturing and marketing based in the in the automotive, architectural and container glass markets: and Netherlands, the sector reaches all major markets through a centrally Speciality Coatings supplying the tableware and plastics industries as administered sales and distribution network.
During the year the well as a range of niche markets for pigments and surface coatings.
business sales grew substantially despite flat market conditions.
New All business sectors serve the full range of international markets and improved product ranges introduced during the year, including the division has a presence in all major geographical regions, with recyclable, lead free products, have been well received by customers main production sites in Spain, the Netherlands, Italy, Brazil, UK, around the world.
The business has also seen expansion into new Malaysia, India, China and the USA.
geographic markets particularly in the Middle East and Latin America, Fiscal year 2002 03 has seen the completion of the rationalisation which contributed to strong revenue growth.
Operating profits were of the divisions activities announced in January 2002, the principal ahead of last year.
element of which was the closure of its major UK site at Meir in North Following last years successful completion of the Glass Staffordshire.
Production capacity has been relocated to other sites masterplant expansion programme at Maastricht, 2002 03 has seen a both within the UK and in Europe.
This project has been a great continued focus on improvements in manufacturing processes.
While success, considerably reducing the cost base of the division and major markets, such as automotive, are expected to remain relatively allowing the operations to sharpen their focus on the structure and flat, continuous new product development and investment in new needs of the markets that they serve.
technology provides an encouraging outlook for the Glass sector.
Structural Ceramics Speciality Coatings The Structural Ceramics sector is focused on the production and Speciality Coatings serves two broad market segments: the marketing of base products including frits, colours and glazes.
surface coatings and plastics industries, to which it supplies pigments Primarily located in the major tile producing areas of Italy and Spain, and pigment dispersions, and the tableware market, which consumes the business continues to expand in the key developing markets of its pigments, glazes, decorative precious metals and decals.
The Asia and South America.
Structural Ceramics achieved sales in line market for finished tableware has been relatively flat in recent years.
with 2001 02 despite continued fragile conditions in its principal However, the value of the market for decorative materials for European markets.
Margins improved during the year, partly due to tableware has been declining due to the continuing trend towards the strength of the euro but also through an improved product mix, casual dining which has resulted in the predominance of less highly with good growth in sales of higher added value products.
The outlook for the tableware Consequently, the business achieved encouraging growth in industry in Stoke-on-Trent, which remains the highest margin market operating profits.
for the business, continues to look particularly bleak and the decision The first phase of Structural Ceramics new, state of the art frit to close the major UK site at Meir was taken last year in response to manufacturing facility in Spain is now fully operational.
Following the closure of Meir, the business is leaner and more manufacturing plant was completed in Brazil during the year and is focused on the requirements of the industry and profits have improved already producing benefits through improved margins.
The pigments and dispersions area achieved good growth manufacturing plant has been added in Spain to serve demand in both sales and profits during the year.
Further expansion is following the closure of the Meir factory and additional capacity also underway in pigments with investment in a new plant for Micraflo added in Italy.
Prospects for the future focus on continued expansion products and further state of the art production facilities for cadmium in Northern Asia and increased opportunities from growing markets in pigments.
Turnover 2003 256m 2002 253m Operating Profit 2003 28.5m 2002 25.5m 19 Johnson Matthey RESEARCH Colours & Coatings DEVELOPMENT & The Colours & Coatings Division continues to place great emphasis on the Division produced a development of new products.
Research and development, both into fundamental chemistry and product development, is key to growth and increased margins and thus the future profitability of the divisions strong performance in businesses.
To this end considerable resources are dedicated to R&D both at the Johnson Matthey Technology Centre at Sonning Common and at the divisions major European facilities in the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and in 2002 03 with operating the UK.
This research structure continues to deliver innovative solutions for the profits 12% up on prior market with new products and processes being developed based on the application of novel material technologies.
This year these have included recyclable glass enamel systems, novel pigments based on new chemical year at 28.5 million.
compounds and new screen printable liquid gold products.
A number of exciting opportunities are nearing conclusion and management are keenly aware of the importance of keeping the pipeline of research and product development charged and driven by market opportunities.
