26 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 H M P Miles J N Sheldrick H R Jenkins C R N Clark Chairman Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Chief Executive C D Mackay M B Dearden N A P Carson D W Morgan Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director I C Strachan A M Thomson R J W Walvis Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 27 Johnson Matthey BOARD OF DIRECTORS H M P Miles OBE N A P Carson BSc Chairman, age 67: joined Johnson Matthey as a non-executive Executive Director, Catalysts and Precious Metals, age 46: joined director in March 1990: appointed Chairman in June 1998.
Johnson Matthey in 1980: appointed Division Director, Catalytic Currently Chairman of Schroders plc and a non-executive director Systems in 1997 after having held senior management positions of BP plc and other companies.
Previously Chairman of Cathay in the Precious Metals Division as well as Catalytic Systems in Pacific Airways, Swire Group Hong Kong, a director of HSBC, both the UK and the US.
Appointed Managing Director, Catalysts John Swire & Sons Limited and ING Baring Holdings Limited, and & Chemicals in August 1999 and additionally assumed board a Vice President of the China Britain Business Council.
A, M, N level responsibility for Precious Metals Division in August 2002.
Currently a non-executive director of Avon Rubber plc.
C R N Clark MIM, CIMgt D W Morgan MA, ACA Chief Executive, age 61: joined Johnson Matthey in 1962: headed Johnson Mattheys platinum marketing operations before Executive Director, Group Corporate Development, Central assuming responsibility for Catalytic Systems Division in 1988, Research and Colours & Coatings, age 45: joined Johnson and, additionally, Colour and Print in 1990.
Appointed an Matthey in 1988 as a Division Finance Director.
Appointed an executive director in March 1990 and Group Managing Director in executive director in August 1999.
Responsible for the groups September 1995.
Became Chief Operating Officer in July 1996 Corporate Development activities and Legal and Secretarial and appointed Chief Executive in June 1998.
In addition, assumed board level responsibility for Colours executive director of FKI plc and Rexam PLC.
& Coatings Division and the companys central research activities in August 2002.
Currently a member of the International Advisory Board of Conduit Ventures Limited.
Previously a non-executive J N Sheldrick MA, MSc, FCMA, FCT director of RiverSoft plc.
Group Finance Director, age 53: joined Johnson Matthey as Executive Director, Finance in September 1990 and assumed I C Strachan current job title in September 1995.
Additionally responsible for Pharmaceutical Materials from July 1999.
Previously Group Age 60: appointed a non-executive director in January 2002.
Treasurer of The BOC Group plc and a non-executive director of Currently Chairman of Instinet Group Inc. and a director of API Group Plc.
Reuters Group plc, Transocean Inc. Xstrata plc and Harsco Corporation.
Previously Deputy Chairman of Invensys Plc, Chief Executive of BTR plc and Deputy Chief Executive of Rio Tinto plc.
H R Jenkins CBE A, M, N Age 69: appointed a non-executive director in January 1996 when he retired as a director of The Prudential Corporation plc where he A M Thomson MA, CA was Chairman and Chief Executive of Prudential Portfolio Managers.
Latterly Chairman of Thorn plc and currently Chairman Age 56: appointed a non-executive director in September 2002. of Development Securities Plc.
He chaired the property advisory Currently Finance Director of Smiths Group plc.
He was previously group at the Department of the Environment from 1990 to 1999.
Finance Director of the Rugby Group PLC and a non-executive Previously Group Investment Director, Allied Dunbar Assurance director of Laporte PLC.
Prior to that he had held a succession of and Director General of Investments, British Coal Pensions.
A, M, N senior financial positions with Courtaulds, Raychem Ltd. and Rockwell International.
A, M, N C D Mackay MBA, MA R J W Walvis Age 63: appointed a non-executive director in January 1999.
Currently Chairman of the Eurotunnel Group and of TDG plc and a Age 56: appointed a non-executive director in September 2002. member of the board of INSEAD.
Previously Group Chief Executive Currently a non-executive director of Balfour Beatty plc, an and Deputy Chairman of Inchcape plc and has also served on a Adviser to Amerada Hess Corporation Inc. and a Council member number of boards including those of HSBC Holdings plc, British of the Royal Institute of International Affairs.
He was previously Airways plc, Gucci Group NV and Thistle Hotels plc.
A, M, N Chairman, Global Corporate Centre, Shell International Limited and prior to that held a series of senior management positions within the Royal Dutch Shell Group.
A, M, N M B Dearden MA Age 60: appointed a non-executive director in April 1999.
Currently Chairman of Minova International Limited, a nonCommittees of the Board executive director of The Wier Group Plc and Travis Perkins plc.
A Audit Committee Previously Chief Executive of Castrol International and a main M Management Development and Remuneration Committee board director of Burmah Castrol plc.
