Board of directors ABD 01 John Napier 60 Chairman Joined the Board in June 1999.
Chairman of Yorkshire Water Services Limited and a non executive director of Waste Recycling Group plc.
He was recently appointed Chairman of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc.
He has formerly held senior posts as Chairman of Booker plc and Group Managing Director of Hays plc.
He is also Chairman of Yorkshire and Humber Rural Affairs Forum and a member of the Yorkshire Forward Board.
D 02 Kevin Whiteman 46 BSc, CEng, MIME Chief Executive Appointed to the Board in September 2000 and appointed Chief Executive in September 2002.
Joined Yorkshire Water Services Limited in 1997 as Business Director, Waste Water.
Formerly Chief Executive and Accounting Officer of the National Rivers Authority and Regional Director of the Environment Agency.
Previously held senior positions with British Coal.
03 Martin Towers 50 BA, FCA Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board in March 2003.
Formerly Finance Director of Boots The Chemist, McCarthy & Stone plc, The Spring Ram Corporation plc, Allied Textiles Group plc and Yorkshire Group plc.
04 Richard Schmidt 59 BSc, MSc, Phd, MBA President and Chief Executive of Aquarion Company Appointed to the Board in September 2002.
Formerly President and Chief Operating Officer of Mechanical Technology Inc, President and Chief Executive Officer of Gundle Environmental Systems and held senior positions in Ecodyne Corporation.
ABC 05 Ken Jackson 63 Non Executive Director Joined the company in October 2000.
Formerly Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive of Carbo plc and a non executive director of Nightfreight plc, Motorworld Group plc Denotes and Ring plc Chairman.
A 01 02 Member of the audit committee B Member of the nominations committee ABC C 06 Derek Roberts 60 FCII, FCIB, CIMgt Member of the remuneration committee 03 04 D Member of the environment and Non Executive Director community committee Joined the company in September 1996.
Non executive director 05 06 of Yorkshire Water Services Limited, Chairman of Kelda Group Pension 07 Trustees Limited.
Formerly Chairman of Yorkshire Building Society, and a non executive director of BWD Securities plc.
BC 07 David Salkeld 47 BSc Econ, DipPM Non Executive Director Joined the company in October 2000.
Group Chief Executive of the Grampian Country Food Group.
Formerly Chief Executive of Arla Foods plc and held senior posts in Grand Metropolitan plc and Northern Dairies.
