Operating and financial review Yorkshire Water A strong financial performance, underpinned by unprecedented levels of operational and customer service, has given the company a strong platform on which to grow by exporting its expertise further afield.
01 Cleaner rivers To raise greater public awareness 02 Landholdings To promote greater awareness of 01 02 of Yorkshire Waters ongoing work to clean up the its landholdings, Yorkshire Water is currently running an regions rivers and watercourses, a special Valentines internet based photographic competition.
Customers are Day competition was staged to give one lucky couple the being encouraged to capture the stunning beauty of the opportunity to win a dirty weekend with a difference companys reservoirs which will be turned into a calendar.
at the companys biggest sewage treatment works!
For further details visit www.
com Winners Nikki and Wayne Beazley from South Yorkshire were joined by the media on a tour of Esholt Sewage Treatment Works in Bradford where they learned all about the sewage treatment process and the companys environmental stewardship role.
08 Financial performance Ofwats report was published in August 2002.
The highlights Following an increase in charges in line with inflation of included: 1.2% on 1 April 2002, regulated turnover increased by 1.3% to 567.0m 2002: 559.8m, just ahead of the 1.1% increase Further reductions in the number of properties experiencing reported at the interim stage.
Revenue growth from new inadequate water pressure, which has been reduced to 189. customers largely offset the effect of domestic metering This is ahead of the commitment to reduce this to 400 in the full year.
The continuing emphasis throughout the business on Significant reductions in the number of properties affected operating efficiency was demonstrated by the 3.6% increase by unplanned interruptions to supplies caused by, for in operating profit to 233.7m 2002: 225.5m, of which example, bursts and leaks.
This was as a result of better 49% 2002: 47% accrued in the second half year.
Operating incident handling by field teams and contractors.
cost savings are now expected to secure outperformance Drinking water quality in Yorkshire was the best it had ever of 100m in the current price determination period.
been, largely as a result of an ongoing mains improvement Yorkshire Water was awarded an interim price programme.
As a consequence customer Security of water supplies was reported as the best ever, prices will rise by 3.4% and 3.5% previously 1.0% above with leakage from the companys and customers pipes inflation in 2003 04 and 2004 05, respectively.
The interim continuing to fall.
The extension of the Grid Zone into rural determination allows Yorkshire Water to fund additional North Yorkshire allows more flexibility and increased security investment of around 53m and to recover the additional of supply to customers in these areas.
The improvements cost of bad debts arising as a consequence of the loss of were endorsed by the Environment Agency in its December the ability to disconnect customers.
The additional investment 2002 report, the third Annual Review of Water Company will be used principally to reduce the number of incidents Water Resource Plans.
of sewer flooding and upgrade our sludge incinerators to The number of properties flooded with sewage also reduced.
meet the requirements of the Waste Incineration Directive.
The companys water supply service was ranked in first place Operational performance for operating cost efficiency in Ofwats report Water and Yorkshire Water is now ranked second in Ofwats Overall Sewerage Service Unit Costs and Relative Efficiency 2001-02 Performance Assessment which compares the levels published in December 2002. of service provided by the UKs ten major water and sewerage companies.
This is a significant improvement from the companys ranking of tenth in 1996 97.
Kelda Group plc Annual report & accounts 2003 09 Yorkshire Water Water quality The volume of calls from customers is down by 25%, repeat The Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI, in its annual report on customer calls are down by 10% and 98% of appointments drinking water quality in England and Wales for 2001, reported offered within a two hour time band have been met.
that 99.91% of all samples had complied with the relevant An external review recently conducted by Trinity Horne, regulations.
The quality of Yorkshires tap water is the best a firm of management consultants working within the water it has ever been.
industry, concluded that the implementation of ICOM has At the same time as the DWIs report, Yorkshire Water delivered a class leading system which can enable [Yorkshire Water] launched a campaign designed to encourage customers to to achieve step change improvements in business performance bottle their tap water and take it with them wherever they and customer experience.
The promotion saw 100,000 water bottles distributed In October 2002 Yorkshire Water extended its opening to customers, contractors, sports clubs, schools and other hours to ensure that water customers can now receive visits community organisations.
The DWIs Chief Inspector urged until 9pm from Mondays to Fridays and between 8am and 6pm other water companies to adopt similar techniques to on Saturdays and Sundays.
This new business as usual service promote their product.
is in addition to the traditional out-of-hours emergency Further improvements in the quality and reliability of service provided by the company.
customers supplies are expected to be delivered as a result Quarterly research shows that overall customer satisfaction of the companys ongoing programme of mains renewal levels are now consistently around 90%.
By 2010, a further 4,000km of pipes business customers is equally as high, according to a survey will be upgraded, leading to better quality drinking water published in September 2002 by the Energy Information Centre and a reduction in the number of bursts and leaks.
The EIC - a business customer trade body that merged recently with the Utility Buyers Forum - canvassed the views Improvements to customer service of 150 water and waste water business customers across the Significant progress has been made over the past year to UK, with Yorkshire Water ranked as the top performer.
improve not just the level of service afforded to customers, but also the feel of the service.
The new Integrated Customer and Operations Management ICOM system which became fully functional in April 2002 is now firmly embedded in the business and has delivered improvements in operational performance.
10 03 01 03 Changing image Yorkshire Water has unveiled 02 Health promotion During the summer four Tap Idols 01 02 a new corporate logo to reflect the significant changes that were recruited to tour the Yorkshire region and promote the have taken place within the company over recent years.
health benefits of drinking tap water.
More than 100,000 bottles The unveiling was performed by Mr Freddie Drabble, the were distributed to local sports clubs, community groups, schools chairman of a well known local environmental pressure group, and the companys contractors.
The initiative was praised by the The Sons of Neptune.
For many years the group had campaigned Chief Inspector of the Drinking Water Inspectorate, Mr Michael for Yorkshire Water to clean up its discharges into the North Sea.
Rouse, who urged other UK water companies to adopt a similar The company responded with a 120m improvement high profile approach to promoting their product.
programme which has resulted in the cleanest ever bathing waters along the entire length of the regions East Coast.
Kelda Group plc Annual report & accounts 2003 11 Yorkshire Water 01 Sporting Chance Yorkshire Water sponsored the Yorkshire Post newspapers Give Kids A Sporting Chance 01 Campaign aimed at promoting sport in schools as an aid to childrens physical and social development.
A mini World Cup involving some 250 primary school children was staged in May 2002, with Sports Minister Richard Caborn on hand to referee one of the quarter final matches.
Every child that took part was presented with an official replica kit of the nation their team represented.
12 Environmental performance A substantial part of the work being undertaken during the current In March 2003, Kelda was confirmed as the water industrys asset management programme AMP3 is either to replace or reline leading performer in the Business in The Environment BiTE Index old cast iron mains, which can cause discolouration, or to upgrade of Corporate Environmental Engagement.
Yorkshire Waters score sewer overflows deemed unsatisfactory either because of the of 97% made Kelda eligible for a place in BiTEs new Premier frequency at which they discharge or the impact they have on local League, an accolade shared by only 17 of the UKs largest 250 watercourses.
For example, by 2005 the company will have invested companies.
The survey measured the extent to which companies more than 40m in Bradford.
This fundamental overhaul of the water understood and managed their impacts on the environment and and waste water infrastructure in Bradford will involve the cleaning examined whether environmental issues were an integral part and relining of approximately 125km of trunk main, improvements of their business strategy.
Yorkshire Water scored full marks to the citys biggest water treatment works and the upgrading of in almost every category.
The report also pointed to the significant improvements The company is also undertaking work on behalf of the made by the company over the past few years in all areas of Passenger Transport Executive to enable the construction of a new its environmental performance.
For example in the autumn Supertram system in Leeds.
In supporting this project, Yorkshire of 2002, the Environment Agency reported that local bathing Water will make more than 500 changes to the water and sewerage waters and rivers were becoming even cleaner and acknowledged system which are expected to take four years to complete.
the role played by Yorkshire Water in achieving this success.
As a direct result of the companys recent investment in Project Aquatrine new waste water treatment works on Yorkshires East Coast, In April 2003 Brey Utilities, a consortium in which Yorkshire Water last year 14 bathing waters surpassed the EUs most stringent has a 45% interest and including Earth Tech Engineering Ltd and guideline quality standards.
The result is that for the first time Halliburton KBR, was confirmed by the Ministry of Defence MoD Bridlington can now apply to fly its own Blue Flag alongside those as the service provider for Project Aquatrine, Package A. of the neighbouring tourist resorts of Scarborough and Whitby.
Project Aquatrine is one of the most significant Public Private By working in partnership with local authorities, the target for Partnership projects in the MoD, and the largest Private Finance 2003 04 is to see 16 bathing waters attain guideline standards.
Initiative water project in the UK.
It involves the award of three The agency also referred to the continuing revival of the packages A, B and C which will transfer the responsibility for the regions inland waterways and to the contribution made by operation and maintenance of the MoDs water and waste water Yorkshire Waters massive investment in sewage treatment assets and infrastructure in the UK to private sector providers.
and the companys success at tackling pollution caused by This will enable the MoD to focus its resources and expertise its assets and operations.
The Environment Agency confirmed on delivering military capability.
in September 2002 that the company was one of only four Under the terms of the 25 year contract for Package A, companies in the sector to reduce incidents of pollution Brey Utilities will provide water and waste water services to over year-on-year.
1,000 MoD sites in the Midlands, Wales and South West England.
As a result for example, the River Don in South Yorkshire The 1bn contract is expected to go live in December 2003. has seen substantial improvements in water quality, and in Brey Utilities is the only consortium that has also been the River Calder in West Yorkshire, fish populations are on short listed for Packages B and C covering Scotland and the the increase according to recent studies.
During 2002, the number of Category 1 and 2 pollution incidents involving the companys assets was reduced by Customer communications more than a third.
The number of Category 3 incidents was To reinforce the significant financial, operational and service also significantly reduced.
By the end of 2003 04 we aim improvements made by the company in recent years, in July 2002 to report an overall reduction of 50% in the number Yorkshire Water unveiled a new corporate logo.
of pollution incidents reported in 2000.
The old Yorkshire Water logo has been replaced with a landscape design which presents a more modern image of the Capital investment company and better reflects the environmental stewardship role at Regulated capital investment for the year was 319.5m, the heart of its activities.
Customers and employees were consulted a slight decrease on the previous years figure of 324.7m.
It is now expected that capital cost outperformance in the To coincide with the launch of the new logo, a series of current price determination period will be around 10%.
new, customer led communications campaigns were also unveiled.
The success of these campaigns resulted in the companys External Communications Department being voted the regions In-House Team of the Year at the Institute of Public Relations Cream Awards in November 2002.
The team won seven out of the 14 awards presented on the night.
Kelda Group plc Annual report & accounts 2003 13
