Directors report The directors present their report for the year to 31 March 2003.
The directors service agreements and letters of appointment are described in the remuneration report on page 34.
Additional information Result and dividends relating to directors who served during the year, including remuneration The profit attributable to shareholders for the year was 126.1m.
and interests in the companys shares is contained on pages 35 to 37.
After dividends totalling 100.8m, 25.3m was transferred to the The details of directors interests in the companys shares form part groups reserves.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 18.19p per share to be Corporate and social responsibility paid on 1 October 2003, to those shareholders on the register at the There are group policies for the Environment, Health and Safety, close of business on 29 August 2003.
An interim dividend of 7.86p Human Resources, as well as a Code of Ethics, and related policies.
per share was paid on 28 February 2003.
The total dividend for the The internal control processes described on page 32 take account of year will amount to 26.05p per share 2002: 25.50p.
social, environmental and ethical risks.
In addition, the board receives information as part of the normal reporting process to identify and Principal activities assess such significant risks where they are relevant to the nature of The directors report should be read in conjunction with the operating the companys business.
Further details are included in the following and financial review, which includes information about group businesses, sections of the directors report and in the Corporate & social the financial performance during the year and future developments.
responsibility section on pages 20 to 27.
The principal activities of the group are the supply of clean water and Employees and employment policies the treatment and disposal of waste water.
Yorkshire Water Services The group strives to create a positive working environment for its Limited Yorkshire Water, the groups regulated utility business in the employees.
The company is committed to increasing employee UK, is responsible for both water and waste water services.
Aquarion involvement and places great emphasis on open two way communications.
Company Aquarion the groups US subsidiary provides water services There is an extensive consultation and communication process with and waste water contract services in the states of Connecticut, New York, employees and trade unions to keep employees informed and involved.
The groups other businesses are Employees have opportunities to express their views including regular KeyLand Developments Limited, a company which primarily develops face to face sessions with senior management, and are kept informed surplus property assets of Yorkshire Water and Loop Customer via regular briefings and in-house publications.
Management Limited which provides managed customer services.
In addition, the group holds 45.5% of the issued share capital of The groups employment policies go well beyond current legal requirements.
Waste Recycling Group plc, a leading waste management company.
The company recognises that work life balance is a key factor and offers a range of part time working opportunities, flexible working for some Acquisitions and disposals jobs, and a formal jobshare policy.
UK based employees also have the In April 2002 Aquarion acquired the New England operations of the opportunity to acquire a direct stake in the success of business through American Water Works Company for $120m in cash and the assumption a sharesave scheme which has been operating since 1989. of $104m of debt.
Further details of the acquisition are given on page 64.
Timco, Aquarions small timber business is being closed.
The group is committed to treating job applicants and employees in the same way, regardless of their ethnic origin, gender, disability, race, Directors colour, religion, sexual orientation or age.
An active approach to keeping The directors are: John Napier, Chairman: Kevin Whiteman, Chief employees who become disabled in employment, and a commitment to Executive: Martin Towers, Group Finance Director: Richard Schmidt, equal opportunities for less able job applicants has been recognised with President and Chief Executive, Aquarion: Ken Jackson, Derek Roberts the double tick accreditation from the UK employment service.
and David Salkeld, non executive directors.
The companys approach to equal opportunities and diversity applies Richard Schmidt and Martin Towers have been appointed since the to advertisements for jobs, recruitment and selection, training, conditions companys 2002 annual general meeting, on 2 September 2002 of work, pay and to any other aspect of employment.
The company and 1 March 2003 respectively.
In accordance with article 82 of the continues to build links with ethnic minority groups, and monitors the companys articles of association they will retire at the forthcoming composition of the workforce to track the effectiveness of actions annual general meeting and offer themselves for election, which in relation to issues of diversity.
is recommended by the board, in accordance with article 111.
Details of their service contracts appear in the remuneration report Kelda continues to be committed to high levels of training on page 34.
In accordance with article 105, Derek Roberts will and employee development through a wide range of in-house and retire at the forthcoming annual general meeting and will offer accredited programmes.
Employees are encouraged to seek out the himself for re-election, which is recommended by the board in information, development and training needed to carry out their role accordance with article 109.
Mr Roberts has no service contract to its full potential and to share learning, expertise and information with the company.
Details of the unexpired term of his letter with colleagues.
The company recognises team and individual of appointment appear in the remuneration report on page 34. achievements via business excellence events and presentations.
Kelda Group plc Annual report & accounts 2003 29 Directors report Health and safety Purchase of own shares The company is committed to achieving high health and safety At the forthcoming annual general meeting, the company will standards throughout its businesses.
The management of health be seeking authority to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
and safety issues operates in the context of the policy adopted Authority was previously granted at the annual general meeting by the board and the system of internal control.
The company in 2002 in respect of 10% of the companys issued ordinary share has put in place a number of safety policies and procedures, and capital but expires at the close of the forthcoming meeting.
provides such information, instruction, training and supervision as is appropriate.
In addition, the company provides occupational Auditors health, safety and welfare advisory services.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the companys auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration Health and safety goals are set annually in relation to numbers will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The of accidents, working time lost as a result of accidents, training company has adopted an auditor independence policy.
It establishes delivery, internal safety audits and the health surveillance programme.
procedures and guidance under which the companys relationship These are monitored and reported monthly to senior managers with its external auditors is governed so that the audit committee and directors.
The use of stretching goals, the effective provision is able to satisfy itself that there are no factors which may, or may of training and advice, and the continued emphasis by all parties be seen to, impinge upon the independence and objectivity of the on the importance of health and safety matters has resulted in audit process.
The key features of the policy are: significant reductions in reportable accidents, all accidents, and working days lost.
By the nature of accidents, there can be no Clear accountability of the auditors to the audit committee guarantee that they will never occur.
The measures taken by and the chairman of the board of the company the company are intended to place emphasis on prevention The audit committee considers annually its recommendation and continuing vigilance.
to reappoint the auditors The auditors are required to disclose the safeguards and steps In 2002, 14 senior managers were awarded the Institute of taken to ensure independence and objectivity Occupational Safety and Health accredited Safety for Senior Rotation of audit partners and appropriate restrictions on Executives certificate.
Yorkshire Water has been awarded a appointment of employees of the auditors National Safety Award 2002 from the British Safety Council Specific restrictions and procedures in relation to the and a Silver Award for Occupational Safety 2002 from the allocation of non audit work to the auditors, which is Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents.
controlled and monitored by the audit committee The company consults with all employees via area and functional Payment terms to suppliers health and safety forum groups and subsidiary company safety The companys normal terms are to make payment in accordance committees.
Local safety issues are discussed and resolved with suppliers terms of trade or within 30 days from the receipt within these groups.
of services or invoices subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier.
Kelda Group plc is a holding company and, at 31 March Environment and community 2003, had no trade creditors outstanding.
The payment terms of The environmental policy of the company recognises that individual operating subsidiaries are disclosed in their accounts.
a sustainable water and waste water business is dependent on environmentally sustainable operations.
It is, therefore, Major shareholdings committed to integrating environmental best practice and As at 4 June 2003 the company had been notified of the following continuous improvement in environmental performance interests amounting to 3% or more of the companys issued through the efficient, effective and proper conduct of ordinary share capital: its business.
M & G Investment Management Ltd 4.76% Environmental performance is reported through the companys Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 3% web based environment and community report which is regularly updated and independently verified.
This can be Annual general meeting viewed at www.
com environment The notice convening the companys 2003 annual general meeting at the Barbican Centre, York on 31 July 2003 at 11am The company contributes actively to the communities which is set out in a separate document issued to shareholders.
One in five employees has volunteered to take part in a wide range of community activities.
These include a community By order of the board ambassadors scheme, a speakers panel, and support to local Philip Hudson education ranging from Right to Read in junior schools through Group Company Secretary to coaching at senior schools, and mentoring university students 5 June 2003 from diverse ethnic backgrounds.
Registered office: Western House Charitable and political contributions Halifax Road Charitable contributions totalling 0.6m 2002: 0.6m were Bradford made during the year.
No political contributions were made.
BD6 2SZ Research and development During the year 3.9m 2002: 3.3m was committed to research Registered in England and development including 3.0m 2002: 2.3m on fixed assets.
