DIRECTORS' REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2003 The Directors present their report for the year to 31 March 2003.
Financial Results for the year Profit on ordinary activities was 115.1m.
Share Capital There has been no change during the year to the companys issued share capital of 775 million in shares of 1 each fully paid, all of which is held by Kelda Group plc.
Principal Activities The principal activities of the company are the supply of clean water and the treatment and disposal of waste water in Yorkshire, for which the company is the water and sewerage undertaker.
Directors The directors who served during the year, including any changes, are shown below.
John Napier Chairman Kevin Whiteman Managing Director Richard Ackroyd Allison Bainbridge Charles Firlotte Graham Dixon Alan Harrison John OKane Michael Smith Paul Wynn Non-executive Directors Elizabeth Kerry Derek F Roberts John OKane resigned with effect from 30 September 2002.
Allison Bainbridge and Michael Smith were both appointed as directors on 27 November 2002.
All other directors held office at 1 April 2002 and throughout the year.
Additional information relating to directors who served during the year, including interests in shares, is disclosed in Note 5 of the accounts.
5 Dividends The total dividend for the year payable to the parent company, Kelda Group plc, of 100.8m comprises the following: m Interim Dividend 30.4 Proposed Final Dividend 70.4 Total Dividend for the year 100.8 The companys dividend policy is to deliver real growth in dividends recognising the management of economic risks, the continuing need for investment of profits in the business and to pay additional dividends which reflect efficiency improvement, and particularly improvements beyond those assumed in the determination of price limits.
The directors believe that the dividends payable for the year are in accordance with these principles.
Reserves An amount of 14.3m has been transferred to reserves, bringing the balance held in reserve to 793.2m.
Research & Development The company undertakes a major programme of research in pursuit of improvements in service and operating efficiency.
In 2002 03 3.9m was committed to research and development including 3.0m on fixed assets.
Fixed Assets The directors are aware that the value of certain land and buildings in the balance sheet may not be representative of their market value.
However, a substantial proportion of land and buildings comprises specialised operational properties and structures for which there is no ready market and it is not, therefore, practicable to provide a full valuation.
Movements in fixed assets are shown in Notes 10-12 to the accounts and include transfers to KeyLand Developments Limited, which have all been made on the basis of independent external valuations obtained specifically for the purpose and approved by the Office of Water Services.
With effect from 1 April 1996, only those transfers with a value of over 500,000 have been subject to approval by the Office of Water Services.
Capital and Infrastructure Renewals Expenditure Total expenditure on regulated activities during the year amounted to 319.5m.
6 Payment of Suppliers The companys policy on the payment of suppliers is to ensure that all payments are made in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed with suppliers.
For construction contracts, payment terms are covered by the appropriate Conditions of Contract, such as NEC Form of Contract, ICE 6th Edition and Model Form of Conditions of Contract for Process Plants IChemEng.
The payment day ratio the figure, expressed in days, which bears the same proportion to the number of days in the year as the amount owed to trade creditors at the year end bears to the amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year is 44 days.
Instrument of Appointment Condition F of the companys Instrument of Appointment as a water and sewerage undertaker requires the company to publish regulatory accounting information in a prescribed format in addition to that required for the statutory accounts.
This additional information is included on pages 33 to 56.
Further copies of these statements can be obtained, free of charge, by writing to Kelda Group plc, Company Secretary's Department, Western House, Halifax Road, Bradford, BD6 2SZ.
Employees and employment policies The company strives to create a positive working environment for its employees.
The company is committed to increasing employee involvement and places great emphasis on open two way communications.
There is an extensive consultation and communication process with employees and trade unions to keep employees informed and involved.
Employees have opportunities to express their views including regular face to face sessions with senior management and are kept informed via regular briefings and in-house publications.
The companys employment policies go well beyond current legal requirements.
The company recognises that work life balance is a key factor and offers a range of part time working opportunities, flexible working for some jobs, and a formal jobshare policy.
Employees also have the opportunity to acquire a direct stake in the success of business through a sharesave scheme which has been operating since 1989.
The company is committed to treating job applicants and employees in the same way, regardless of their ethnic origin, gender, disability, race, colour, religion, sexual orientation or age.
An active approach to keeping employees who become disabled in employment, and a commitment to equal opportunities for less able job applicants has been recognised with the double tick accreditation from the UK employment service.
The companys approach to equal opportunities and diversity applies to advertisements for jobs, recruitment and selection, training, conditions of work, pay and to any other aspect of employment.
The company continues to build links with ethnic minority groups and monitors the composition of the workforce to track the effectiveness of actions in relation to issues of diversity.
The company continues to be committed to high levels of training and employee development through a wide range of in-house and accredited programmes.
Employees are encouraged to seek out the information, development and training needed to carry out their role to its full potential and to share learning, expertise and information with colleagues.
The company recognises team and individual achievements via Business Excellence events and presentations.
7 Environment and community The environmental policy of the company recognises that a sustainable water and waste water business is dependent on environmentally sustainable operations.
It is therefore committed to integrating environmental best practice and continuous improvement in environmental performance through the efficient, effective and proper conduct of its business.
Environmental performance is reported through the companys web based environment and community report which is regularly updated and independently verified.
com environment The company contributes actively to the communities which it serves.
One in five employees has volunteered to take part in a wide range of community activities.
These include a Community Ambassadors scheme, a Speakers Panel, and support to local education ranging from Right to Read in junior schools through to coaching at senior schools, and mentoring university students from diverse ethnic backgrounds.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation, given the nature of the regulated water services business, that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Auditor A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Company's auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD S D McFARLANE, COMPANY SECRETARY, 24 JUNE 2003 REGISTERED OFFICE: Western House, Halifax Road, Bradford BD6 2SZ REGISTERED IN ENGLAND NO 2366682 8 STATUTORY ACCOUNTS 9 10
