Directors report The Directors present their Report and the audited financial Service contracts statements for the year ended 31 December 2003.
The executive directors have service contracts that are terminable on 12 months notice by the Company and by the director.
Principal activities As non-executive directors, Norman Askew, Richard Gillingwater, The principal activities of the Group are the supply of fire and The Rt Hon.
John Gummer, Michael Kirkwood and John Poulter safety products, systems and services.
do not have service contracts with the Company.
Review of business future developments Directors interests and related party transactions Details of the progress made in the financial year under review The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company are set and the Groups prospects are contained in the Chairmans out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 12 and 13.
Statement, the Chief Executives Review and the Business Review on pages 1 to 7 and 10 to 17 of the Annual Review.
The Apart from their service contracts, none of the directors had, Operating and Financial Review on pages 2 to 5 of this Report during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any provides an analysis of the overall performance of the business.
contract of significance to the Groups business.
Post balance sheet events During the year, Sir Nigel Rudd was involved in two arms length The conditional sale of the Companys investment in Baxi was transactions with the Company in respect of the acquisition of announced on 28 January 2004 and is expected to complete in certain of the Companys surplus assets.
Net cash proceeds of 87m are expected.
furniture for 2,000 and debentures for 10,000.
The consideration paid was based on in-house valuations at deemed market rates.
Dividends The valuations were reviewed by the Auditors.
The Directors propose a final dividend for the year of 1.81p per share which, subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on Substantial shareholdings 21 May 2004 to shareholders on the register on 30 April 2004.
At the date of this Report, the Company has received notifications Total dividends paid and proposed in the year under review of the following interests in 3% or more of its issued ordinary amount to 22.6m, representing 2.7p 2002 2.55p per share.
share capital: The retained profit for the year of 36.8m has been transferred No.
shares Notified Franklin Resources, Inc 117,533,830 14.03 Research and development Standard Life Investments 42,516,517 5.12 Legal & General Group Plc 25,153,170 3.00 The Group has one of the leading technology teams in the fire protection industry, enabling the Group to provide customers with a wide portfolio of existing and new products.
The profit and loss Share capital account charge for the year for research and development was Details of the share capital of the Company are set out in note 22 18.7m 2002 18.4m.
Directors Employees The names of the Directors are set out below.
Biographies of the Our most valuable assets are our people.
We know that our first directors, including details of membership of Board Committees duty is to provide good working conditions and equal and their main commitments outside the Company, are set out on opportunities for all.
We believe that training, consultation, pages 20 and 21 of the Annual Review.
communication and involvement are the best ways to make the most of our employees abilities.
N B M Askew, non-executive Chairman, appointed 10 February 2003 Kidde is committed to ensuring the protection of our employees R D Gillingwater, non-executive director, from risks to their health and safety.
We aim to set and maintain appointed 1 February 2004 standards of health and safety performance across the Group The Rt Hon.
J S Gummer, non-executive director which will ensure health and safety at work and the health and and Senior Independent Director safety of others who may be affected by our work activities.
The J M Harper, Chief Executive health and safety policy is set out on the Companys website at M J Kirkwood, non-executive director www.
J E Nicholas, Group Finance Director J W Poulter, non-executive director The Group sets and maintains high standards of ethical and moral Sir Nigel Rudd, retired 31 December 2003 behaviour and complies with anti-discrimination laws in the as non-executive Chairman territories in which we operate.
Our aim is to find the best-qualified person for each job and to make sure that training and promotion In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, Mr possibilities are open to all our employees.
Applications for Kirkwood and Mr Poulter will retire at the Companys AGM and, employment from disabled people are given full and fair being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Gillingwater will consideration and we make sure they are reviewed when suitable retire and offer himself for election.
Information relating to the opportunities arise.
If a Kidde employee becomes disabled, we will election and re-election of directors to enable shareholders to take make arrangements wherever possible to continue his her an informed decision is set out on pages 16 and 17 of this Report.
6 Kidde plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Staff are kept up to date with the Groups activities, performance to authorise the Company to purchase its own shares, as and if and future plans through a wide range of internal communications appropriate, and to amend the Companys Articles of Association.
including our quarterly newspaper Kidde Newsline, email, video, noticeboards, individual business communications and conferences.
Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements We recognise trade unions and the role of union representatives in for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of orderly staff consultation and communicate with them regularly.
affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements In the UK and US, approximately 53% and 24% respectively of the directors are required to: our employees have taken the opportunity to be involved in the performance of our business by joining savings schemes linked to Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently the Companys shares.
Over 70% of Kiddes employees globally Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent are eligible to participate in an all employee share scheme.
The State whether applicable accounting standards have been Company has authority and, where appropriate, will consider followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and introducing further share plans for its overseas employees in order explained in the financial statements to provide them with the opportunity to purchase shares where Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, permitted by local legislation.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
A Share Incentive Plan has been approved by shareholders but has not yet been implemented.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Charitable and political donations During the year, in addition to its fundraising activities and The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records donations of products, the Group made charitable donations that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial totalling 203,000 2002 150,000 principally to charities and position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to organisations connected to fire safety.
No political donations ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies were made.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps Our policy is to promote corporate giving through charitable for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
donations built principally on partnerships with local organisations that are relevant to our business.
We work closely with fire The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of services around the world to increase awareness and raise the Kidde plc website.
Legislation in the UK concerning the money to support their training and development programmes.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Further information about the Groups community involvement from legislation in other jurisdictions.
initiatives is set out in a separate Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Report which is available on request and at www.
Auditors The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their Policy and practice on payment of creditors willingness to continue in office, and resolutions relating to their The Group has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers.
re-appointment and remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Payment terms are agreed at the commencement of business with each supplier and it is the policy of the Group that payment is By Order of the Board made in accordance with those terms.
The Company has no trade creditors in its balance sheet.
D Quinlan Company Secretary Environment 3 March 2004 The Groups environmental report is set out on page 19 of the Annual Review and in a separate CSR Report, available on request and at www.
Corporate governance The Groups statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 14 to 21 of this Report.
AGM The fourth AGM of the Company will be held on Wednesday, 28 April 2004 at 2.30pm at 100 New Bridge Street, London EC4V 6JA.
The notice convening the AGM is enclosed with this document.
At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed to renew the directors authority to allot relevant securities and to allot equity securities for cash other than on a pre-emptive basis, 7 Kidde plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
