Notes to the accounts continued 1Accounting policies continued Goodwill Goodwill arising on all acquisitions prior to 31 January 1998 remains eliminated against reserves.
On the subsequent disposal of the business to which it relates, this goodwill is charged in the profit and loss account.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions since 31 January 1998 is included in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provisions for impairment.
Goodwill related to joint ventures and associated undertakings is included in the carrying value of the investment.
Goodwill, which represents the difference between the purchase consideration and the fair values of the net assets acquired, is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over a period which represents the directors estimate of its useful economic life.
The converse, negative goodwill, is amortised to the profit and loss account in the periods in which the non-monetary assets acquired are recovered whether through depreciation or sale.
Where goodwill is regarded as having an indefinite life, it is not amortised.
The estimated useful economic life is regarded as indefinite where goodwill is capable of continued measurement and the durability of the acquired business can be demonstrated.
Where goodwill is not amortised, an annual impairment review is performed and any impairment charged to the profit and loss account.
In estimating the useful economic life of goodwill arising, account has been taken of the nature of the business acquired, the stability of the industry, the extent of continuing barriers to market entry and expected future impact of competition.
With the exception of Castorama Dubois Investissements S. C. A.
BUT S. A. and Hornbach Holding A. G. all acquisitions since 31 January 1998 are considered by the directors to have an estimated useful economic life of up to 20 years.
During the year, goodwill of 2,373.6 million arose on the acquisition of the remaining minority interests in Castorama Dubois Investissements S. C. A.
In previous years, goodwill of 135.4 million arose on the acquisition of BUT S. A. and goodwill of 13.2 million arose on the purchase of the Groups initial equity investment in Hornbach Holding A. G. The directors consider that each of these businesses have a proven ability to maintain their market leading positions over a long period and will adapt successfully to any foreseeable technological or customer-led changes and that barriers to entry into their markets exist, such that the businesses and their related goodwill will prove to be durable.
Hornbach has been a leading German Home Improvement warehouse retailer since the opening of its first store in 1968.
Castorama Dubois Investissements S. C. A. was the owner of the Castorama brand in France and B&Q in the UK.
Since 1978 and 1970 respectively, these brands have demonstrated consistent growth.
Similarly, BUT S. A. has demonstrated consistent growth in both turnover and operating profits since its formation in 1972.
Each of these businesses operate through established store networks and the directors believe that restrictions in the availability of prime retail space will continue to act as a significant barrier to entry in their respective markets.
In addition, each of the businesses has demonstrated an ability to adapt to new retailing channels.
Accordingly, the goodwill in relation to Castorama Dubois Investissements S. C. A.
BUT S. A. and Hornbach Holding A. G. is not amortised and, in order to give a true and fair view, the financial statements depart from the requirement of amortising goodwill over a finite period, as required by the Companies Act.
Instead annual impairment tests are undertaken and any impairment that is identified will be charged to the profit and loss account.
It is not possible to quantify the effect of the departure from the Companies Act, because no finite life for goodwill can be identified.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are included in the balance sheet at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment.
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is provided to reflect a reduction from book value to estimated residual value over the estimated useful life of the asset to the Group.
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is calculated by the straight line method and the annual rates applicable to the principal categories are: Freehold buildings 2% Long leaseholds 5% Short leaseholds over remaining period of the lease Tenants fixtures between 10% and 15% Computers and electronic equipment between 25% and 50% Motor cars 25% 1 Commercial vehicles 33 3% Freehold land is not depreciated Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill Tangible fixed assets and goodwill are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable and each year in respect of goodwill that is not subject to systematic depreciation.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant income generating unit or net realisable value if higher.
The discount rate is applied based upon the Groups weighted average cost of 6 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
com Notes to the accounts continued 1Accounting policies continued In the Groups overseas companies, any defined benefit arrangements are generally funded by way of annual premiums to group pension arrangements managed by insurance companies.
The impact of the phased implementation of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits on these financial statements is discussed in Note 33 to the accounts.
Deferred taxation Provision is made for deferred taxation using the incremental provision approach and is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date subject to the following: a Deferred tax is not recognised on the revaluation of non-monetary assets such as property unless a binding sale agreement exists at the balance sheet date.
Where rollover relief is available on an asset then deferred tax is in any case not recognised.
b Deferred tax is not recognised on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures unless dividends have been accrued as receivable or there is a binding agreement to distribute past earnings at the balance sheet date.
c Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Assets are regarded as recoverable when it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
d Deferred tax is not recognised on permanent differences.
Derivative financial instruments Financial assets are recognised on the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Discounts and premia are charged or credited to the profit and loss account over the life of the asset or liability to which they relate.
Derivative financial instruments are accounted for using hedge accounting to the extent that they are held to hedge a financial cash flow, asset or liability.
Where such instruments do not hedge an underlying cash flow, asset or liability, they are accounted for using fair value accounting.
When a financial instrument ceases to be a hedge, either as a result of the underlying asset or liability being extinguished, or because a future event is no longer likely to occur, the instrument will thereafter be marked to its fair value in the financial statements.
Termination payments made or received in respect of derivatives are spread over the life of the underlying exposure in cases where the underlying exposure continues to exist, and taken to the profit and loss account where the underlying exposure ceases to exist.
Outstanding contracts used to hedge against cash flows which themselves will be accounted for in the profits or losses of a future period are not recognised, or are deferred when they mature, and are carried forward against corresponding gains and losses when they occur.
Income and expenditure arising on financial instruments held for hedging purposes is recognised on an accruals basis, and credited or charged to the profit and loss account in the financial period in which it arises.
Gains or losses on financial instruments accounted for on a fair value basis are reflected in the profit and loss account as they arise.
For the purposes of notes 21, 22 and 24 to 27, short term debtors and creditors have been excluded.
Narrative disclosures required by FRS 13 are set out in the financial review on pages 44 to 45 in the Kingfisher Annual Review 2003.
Employee Share Ownership Plan The Groups Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP is a separately administered trust.
Liabilities of the ESOP are guaranteed by the Company and the assets of the ESOP mainly comprise shares in the Company.
In accordance with UITF 13, the assets, liabilities, income and costs of the ESOP have been included in the consolidated and Companys financial statements.
Changes in presentation of financial information The Company launched a one-for-one rights issue of 1,293,642,792 new Kingfisher shares at 155 pence per share in connection with the offer for Castorama Dubois Investissements S. C. A. which closed on 2 August 2002.
The weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of earnings per share has been adjusted for the bonus element of the rights issue.
Prior year earnings per share figures have been restated accordingly.
Discontinued operations In the year ended 1 February 2003 the financial statements relate entirely to continuing operations.
In the comparative period ended 2 February 2002, discontinued operations include the results of the activities of the demerged Woolworths Group, the disposed Superdrug business and the high street property portfolio, including the interest and taxation attributable to these operations.
8 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
