Notes to the accounts 1 Accounting policies Accounting conventions The financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries are made up to the nearest Saturday to 31 January each year.
The financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for land and buildings that are included in the financial statements at valuation, and are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
However, compliance with SSAP19 Accounting for Investment Properties relating to depreciation on investment properties and FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets relating to the capitalisation and amortisation of goodwill both require a departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 as explained below.
Accounting policies have been consistently applied.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings.
Subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year are recorded under the acquisition method and their results are included from the date of acquisition.
Associated undertakings are accounted for using the equity method and joint ventures are accounted for using the gross equity method.
The results of subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings which have been disposed during the year are included up to the effective date of disposal.
Kingfisher plc has not presented its own profit and loss account as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Foreign currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at contracted rates or, where no contract exists, at average monthly rates.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies which are held at the year end are translated into sterling at year end exchange rates.
Exchange differences on monetary items are taken to the profit and loss account.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are expressed in sterling at year end exchange rates.
Profits and losses of overseas subsidiary undertakings are expressed in sterling at average exchange rates for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of opening shareholders funds are recorded as a movement on reserves, and are reported in the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses.
The Groups share of net assets or liabilities of associated undertakings and joint ventures are expressed in sterling at year end exchange rates.
The share of profits or losses for the year are expressed in sterling at average exchange rates for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of opening net equity are recorded as a movement on reserves.
Exchange differences arising on borrowings used to finance, or provide a hedge against, the Groups net investment in foreign subsidiaries are recorded as movements on reserves to the extent of exchange differences arising on the equity investments.
Other exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Principal rate of exchange Euro 2003 2002 Year end rate 1.531 1.642 Average rate 1.583 1.614 Turnover Turnover represents retail sales and services supplied, interest receivable and other income from the provision of credit facilities, rental income and turnover from property development activities.
Turnover excludes transactions made between companies within the Group, Value Added Tax, other sales-related taxes and is net of trade discounts.
Cost of sales Cost of sales is the expenditure incurred in the normal course of business in bringing the product to the point of sale, including warehouse and transportation costs.
