managing the group 1 Sir Ian Robinson BSc FREng 4 Christopher Bell 7 Ian P Livingston BA ACA Chairman Chief Executive, Ladbrokes Worldwide Independent Non-Executive Director Sir Ian was appointed Chairman of the Christopher Bell was appointed to Ian Livingston was appointed non-executive Board on 1 October 2001.
He joined the the Board on 1 June 2000.
He joined director on 1 June 2003.
A qualified Board as a non-executive director and Ladbrokes in 1991 and became Managing chartered accountant, he was appointed Deputy Chairman of the Board on 22 Director in 1995.
Prior to joining Ladbrokes Group Finance Director of BT Group plc February 2001.
He was Chief Executive he held a number of senior positions with in 2002.
He previously held a number of Scottish Power plc from 1995 to 2001.
He is also Vice Chairman of financial roles with Dixon Group plc, He is a fellow of the Royal Academy of the Association of British Bookmakers, becoming Group Finance Director in 1997. of Engineering and a member of Vice Chairman of the Bookmakers He previously worked with Bank of America The Takeover Panel.
Committee, a member of the Horserace and 3i and his experience extends beyond Betting Levy Board, a director of Satellite finance to IT, strategy and property.
2 David M C Michels Information Services and a Board member Chief Executive of the British Institute of Sport and Leisure.
8 L Patrick Lupo He was also appointed non-executive Independent Non-Executive Director David Michels was appointed Group Chief director with Game Group plc in January Executive of Hilton Group on 1 June 2000.
Patrick Lupo was appointed non-executive 2003.
He joined the Board in March 1999 and director on 26 January 2001.
He is a was appointed Chief Executive of Hilton former Chief Executive of DHL Worldwide, 5 Stephen Bollenbach International in April 1999.
A graduate of where he held a number of senior positions Non-Executive Director the London Hotel School, he was formerly from 1975.
He is also a non-executive Chief Executive of Stakis plc and is an Stephen Bollenbach was appointed director of WH Smith Group plc.
He retires Honorary Fellow of the Academy of Food non-executive director in January 1997. as a non-executive director of WH Smith & Wine Service.
He is also a non-executive He is President and Chief Executive Officer Group plc in March 2004.
He became director of British Land plc and Hilton of Hilton Hotels Corporation.
He is also Senior Independent Director in May 2003.
Chairman of Park Place Entertainment Age 52. and is on the board of AOL Time Warner 3 Brian Wallace MA ACA and Catellus Development Corporation.
9 Christopher J Rodrigues Deputy Group Chief Executive Age 61.
Independent Non-Executive Director and Group Finance Director Christopher Rodrigues was appointed a non- 6 Nicholas Jones MSc FSA Brian Wallace became Deputy Group executive director on 1 September 2003.
Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Executive on 1 June 2000.
He has been appointed President and Chief He was appointed Group Finance Nicholas Jones was appointed a nonExecutive of Visa International with effect Director and joined the Group Board executive director on 22 July 2002. from June 2004.
In March 2004 he leaves in April 1995.
He was formerly Group He is a qualified chartered accountant Bradford & Bingley plc which he joined Finance Director of Geest and has and business school graduate.
He is a in 1996 as Group Chief Executive.
Prior held financial appointments with APV, distinguished corporate financier and to that he was Group Chief Executive Schlumberger and PriceWaterhouse.
is Vice Chairman of Lazard Brothers, of Thomas Cook and held several senior He is also a non-executive director a position he has held since 1999. management positions with American of Hays plc.
His other interests include horseracing Express.
Christopher is a member of the and from 1991-2000 he was chairman Executive Committee of the National Trust, of the National Stud.
Age 57. a Visiting Professor of Cranfield University and a Steward of Henley Royal Regatta.
Age 54. senior management Mike Ashton Jrgen Fischer John OReilly Senior Vice President Marketing, President Hilton International, Managing Director, Ladbrokes eGaming Hilton International Europe & Africa and Telephone Betting Ros Barker Patrick Fitzgibbon Alex Pagett HR Director, Ladbrokes Worldwide Managing Director, LivingWell Group Corporate Affairs Director Adrian Bradley Howard Friedman Steve Roberts Senior Vice President Real Estate, President Hilton International, Managing Director, Vernons Hilton International The Americas Alan Ross Tim Davis Koos Klein Managing Director, Senior Vice President Distribution President Hilton International, Ladbrokes European Retail and eCommerce, Hilton International Middle East & Asia Pacific Andy Scott Roger Devlin Colin Miles Finance Director, Ladbrokes Worldwide Corporate Development Director Trading Director, Ladbrokes Worldwide Bryan Taker Wolfgang Neumann Head of Group Human Resources President Hilton International, and Legal Services UK & Ireland 16 Hilton Group plc Annual Report 2003 1 2 9 7 3 5 6 8 4
