24 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC Board of Directors Nigel Keen Peter Hill Jonathan Silver Geoffrey Drabble John McDowall CBE David Morton Chairman.
Appointed a BSc, MBA, Chartered BA, Chartered Aged 44.
A member of the in 1993 and Chairman Appointed Managing Joined Laird in 1986 and Director of Laird Security Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee, in June 2000.
A member Director in 2001 and appointed to the Board Systems.
Appointed and a member of the also a member of the Audit of the Nominations Chief Executive in March as Finance Director in a director in 2001.
Nominations and Audit Committee during 2003. and Remuneration 2002.
Previously Group Previously held senior Committees.
Chairman Mr Morton will become Committees, also a senior management Treasurer and Corporate management positions of Techniquest and a the senior independent member of the Audit positions with Invensys Development Manager.
member of the Council non-executive director Committee during 2003. plc and BTR plc.
of the University of in May 2004.
Formerly Chairman of Axis-Shield Non-executive director Glamorgan.
Formerly Chairman and CEO of plc, Oxford Instruments of Meggitt plc and an executive director Alcan Aluminium Limited.
plc and Deltex Medical Oxford Instruments plc.
of British Steel plc and Non-executive director Group plc.
Chairman of Avesta of Methanex Corporation, Sheffield AB.
Canadian Overseas Packaging Industries and the Trust Companies of the Bank of Nova Scotia.
Sir Geoffrey Owen Mark Smith Dr William Spivey Non-executive director.
Deputy Appointed in September the Remuneration and Chairman, Chairman of 2002.
A member of the Audit Committees.
the Audit Committee and Remuneration Senior Fellow at the the senior independent Committee, also a Institute of Management, non-executive director of member of the Audit the London School of the Board: also a member Committee during 2003.
Formerly of the Remuneration and Formerly President and Editor of the Nominations Committees.
CEO of Luminent, Inc. Financial Times.
Previously Executive having previously held Director and Vice senior management Chairman of S. G. Warburg positions with AT&T & Co. Non-executive Corporation and director of Renold plc.
As announced last year Non-executive director of Mr Smith will be retiring the Raytheon Company, at the 2004 Annual Novellus Systems, General Meeting.
Lyondell Chemical and Cascade Microtech.
