Business overview 10 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 One of todays major financial threats is that posed by international fraud and money laundering.
Dutch financial services giant ABN AMRO is using a detection software solution for LogicaCMG solutions handle its global operations to combat money laundering.
LogicaCMG more than half the worlds will maintain the programme management software.
foreign exchange traffic Financial services LogicaCMG now provides In 2003, LogicaCMG continued to pressure to provide more frequent and solutions to more than 250 strengthen its global presence in financial detailed reporting to regulators and the financial services services, delivering repeatable solutions investment community.
Our rFRAME organisations, ensuring they in mission-critical environments.
Our full regulatory reporting tool is helping our deliver accurate and timely service provision of consultancy and customers tackle this issue head-on.
outsourcing, as well as the delivery of IT systems and products combined LogicaCMG now provides solutions to more with the expertise of 3,200 sector than 250 financial services organisations, professionals benefited customers in ensuring they deliver accurate and timely more than 30 countries.
These solutions have been extended to meet the additional The challenges at the heart of financial legislative demands of risk management data services provision in 2003 were twofold: and fraud detection.
In July, LogicaCMG dealing positively with the waves of joined forces with partner Mantas, the regulation sweeping national and financial risk adviser, to deliver a detection international markets as well as ensuring software solution to Dutch giant ABN AMROs continued profitability.
global operations, as part of the banks overall programme to combat money laundering.
Regulation placed an emphasis on improving companies capacity to manage Income streams from short-term cash risk, underpinned by sound capital ratios reserves are in decline as electronic, real-time and transparent reporting.
Directives such and automated banking takes over.
In the as Anti-Money Laundering, the Basel II face of increasing competition, revenues Capital Accord and International remain under pressure, causing non-interest Accounting Standards IAS impose revenue and fee-based relationships to substantial data management burdens.
grow in popularity as a means of deriving Institutions are, as a consequence, under maximum return.
Business overview 11 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 New and growing regulatory requirements are impacting financial institutions the world over.
More than 150 international banks use LogicaCMG systems to transmit funds, The way we use payments and 250 European banks cards is being transformed by use LogicaCMGs marketnew technologies.
leading services for risk and regulatory reporting.
LogicaCMG is driving the standardisation and exploitation of SMART card and EMV chip card technology with Visa Billions of payment transactions and Mastercard.
are processed every year, and are forecast to grow to 400 billion by 2010.
LogicaCMG has provided national payment clearing and settlement infrastructures for 25 countries including Ireland, Turkey, Hungary, India and Sri Lanka.
Customer relationships have become more During 2003, LogicaCMG built on its and international clearing and settlement complex.
In consumer banking and heritage in financial services, providing systems.
For example, we have implemented insurance, the need to retain customers, solutions and developing new smart multi-million euro, mission-critical, real-time increase the number of financial products sourcing methods for customers, whether gross settlement systems to minimise per customer and target resource for the onshore or offshore, through our Indian settlement risk in India and Sri Lanka.
best return have remained key priorities.
In centre of operations in Bangalore.
January, a multi-million euro contract with These solutions enable our customers to Luottokunta will see LogicaCMG provide a Our professional services support, gain competitive advantage and embrace multi-application smart card programme to management and range of world-leading new operating disciplines from the erosion help Finnish financial services companies outsourcing models are complemented by of physical and internal borders.
They are get closer to their customers.
our technical expertise and industry helping them manage profitable revenue knowledge.
As the sector moves to streams, using applications and services In wholesale and business banking, outsource back office functions, we are for product pricing, customer life cycle companies have started to focus on more helping administration departments to management, fee and tariff setting, cost-effective customer transactions, develop manufacturing-style facilities with billing, electronic document delivery, ensuring fees and charges are calculated multi-occupation, shared service, low unit invoice presentation and connected and billed accurately and preventing costs and high and consistent service levels.
Our contract with a global financial services provider is helping For example, LogicaCMG provides an In 2004, LogicaCMG is confident that its it to address these challenges through applications management service to Polaris role as a trusted partner will advance further delivery of a related solution for its UK, which develops market standards and and its solutions will continue to work at the payments infrastructure.
software to improve efficiency and reduce heart of the financial services industry.
costs in general insurance electronic trading.
We have created new, and integrated existing, consumer and inter-bank payment infrastructures across institutional, national Business overview 12 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 Telecommunications companies around the world have created communications networks which bring people and business together.
LogicaCMG has delivered one out of every four multimedia messaging centres installed by wireless service providers across the globe.
The cashless society is fast becoming a reality.
LogicaCMG helped Vodafone launch the m-Pay cards service, enabling customers to purchase items like theatre tickets, books and holidays over the fixed and mobile Internet without the need to enter credit card details.
Telecoms LogicaCMG solutions allow The fixed and wireless telecoms arena content technologies directly related to operators to bring new data provided significant opportunities and revenue generation.
and content services to challenges for LogicaCMG in 2003. market quickly, LogicaCMG is a global leader in the supply Companies fully embraced offshore and economically and of mobile messaging and intelligent charging nearshore outsourcing, with businesses in greater volume than solutions, with more than 250 customers in mitigating the risks of remote, missionever before.
Throughout the year, we critical operations through primary continued to serve the major players.
Bangalore and the Czech Republic are In 2003, telecoms companies focused on the focus for LogicaCMGs offshore generating sustainable revenues from and nearshore outsourcing centres.
India gaining and retaining higher value is the centre for the helpdesk and customers.
This was addressed through partner support services we provide to creating new payment methods and T-Mobile.
Meanwhile, for KPN Mobile, developing, delivering and reducing time to we are providing operational support market for innovative services, such as systems to help the company reduce and broadband, picture messaging and video.
Operators sought solutions that minimised Many telecoms companies are moving capital and operating expenditure as toward generating revenue through competition drove down revenues from enabling third-party content rather than traditional services just as funding was developing it in-house.
The IT-intensive required to roll out 3G networks.
To nature of such activity is encouraging reduce costs, many telecoms companies companies to build more strategic turned their attention to outsourcing costly relationships with technology and IT and complex back office IT functions services companies.
The big challenge for and business processes, to focus on these partnerships is full integration, from Business overview 13 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 Telecommunications provider SingTel has selected LogicaCMGs multimedia messaging centre for all its mobile subsidiaries in Singapore, the Philippines, Australia, Indonesia, Thailand and India.
The centre offers advanced multimedia services to subscribers, enabling it to grow its wireless data revenues.
LogicaCMG systems process two out of every three text messages sent in the world service delivery to billing, content and solution has allowed operators to encourage both in SMS, with a large pre-delivery digital rights management.
content providers to offer multimedia service agent PSA system delivered to services and enables operators to charge Saudi Telecom Company, and LogicaCMG solutions allow operators to users for these services according to the increasingly in MMS, with 14 new PSA bring new data and content services to value of content.
The PSA market quickly, economically and in enables operators to charge for all greater volume than ever before.
Our Another breakthrough in 2003 was our current and next-generation data services service delivery suite comprises short delivery of a uOne unified messaging in real-time, improving the performance message services SMS, multimedia solution to Time Warner, complementing and reliability of pre-paid services.
This is messaging services MMS, mobile Internet its cable broadband offering.
With particularly important for highly interactive and IP voicemail, videomail, unified implementations of uOne in cable, fixed services like SMS TV voting.
All these and mobile networks, LogicaCMG is products combined have been delivered in helping operators worldwide lead the race Reinforcing our position as global leader a total messaging solution to 3 Hutchison towards converged network services.
in SMS, LogicaCMG received a dozen 3G in all seven 3G networks in which they orders in 2003 to provide next-generation provide their service.
During the year, LogicaCMG systems SMS infrastructure to our customers, helped operators increase revenues by such as Telenor in Norway and Dobson LogicaCMG is one of the top three global automating order capture and fulfilment Communications in the US.
We have been gaining and improving inter-operator accounting.
market share by providing worldwide mobile Our solutions for always on broadband LogicaCMGs focused portfolio of operators with a scaleable multimedia mediation and billing, a very different consultancy, best-of-breed partners and messaging service centre, able to cope with proposition to traditional time and market-leading products and solutions increasing demand for reliability and high distance billing, are helping operators will enable our telecoms customers to volume.
LogicaCMG has been instrumental drive new revenues in the market.
continue to lead the market in 2004. in driving the MMS user experience by transcoding MMS messages to match the Pre-delivery data and message charging display capabilities of mobile devices.
Our continued to offer a growing opportunity, Business overview 14 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 Energy and utilities service providers supply power to millions of businesses across the world every day.
LogicaCMG, in partnership with ICF Energy Solutions, LogicaCMGs systems is supporting the electricity transmission charging and have been fundamental billing activities of National Grid Transco in the UK.
to the regulatory transformation of energy markets around the world Energy and utilities Our capabilities enable In 2003, LogicaCMGs energy and utilities complex by the introduction of utilities to streamline their business benefited from the scale and competition.
It also reflected ongoing business processes, setting reach provided by our merger, building on consumer and regulatory pressure on new standards for the the enhanced client relationships that have utilities to improve performance, for management of energy resulted from it.
example through more accurate billing, network assets.
easier switching between suppliers and In difficult market conditions, the main reduced network outages.
challenges for customers related to regulatory change, consolidation and cost In the UK, the water industry is seeking reduction.
The introduction of competition innovative ways of managing costs as it to gas and electricity markets varied in embarks on an extensive programme of pace across the globe.
In the US, many utilities are such as Australia and the Netherlands, looking for cost reductions in their traditional liberalisation proceeded apace and asset businesses to claw back historical LogicaCMG won further central and losses in activities such as trading.
participants systems work as a result.
In other geographies, including the US and Continued consolidation combined with parts of Europe, regulatory change cost pressures has seen the emergence of remained in hiatus and the IT opportunities increasingly international businesses that came from different parts of the business.
Our blended outsourcing model, combined with our In 2003, many utilities started to revisit greater post-merger capability, allows us basic, critical processes, such as billing to meet these needs flexibly through and the management of physical assets, mixing onshore, nearshore and fastto cut costs and improve performance.
This movement stemmed partly from the LogicaCMGs geographic spread was a demands of a value chain rendered more decisive factor in winning a new Business overview 15 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 In many different parts of the world, natural gas is being extracted and transported across long distances and many borders to provide the essential energy to power countries economic growth.
Innovative energy services support global business To support this vital movement infrastructures with costof energy, LogicaCMG has effective, reliable systems.
more than 30 successful implementations of its Prodis In Australia, Woodside commercial gas and oil Energy has outsourced its management applications service management to worldwide.
This includes problem resolution, application support and administration.
Todays energy companies can trade energy as easily as other businesses trade cereals or coffee.
LogicaCMG is responsible for the IT systems that power the International Petroleum Exchange, Europes leading energy futures and options exchange, which trades more than $2.7 billion daily in underlying value.
20 million master service agreement Following a multi-million pound contract Our reputation for quality and global with Shell, where we will help to signed with us in July, National Grid delivery has grown due to our domain standardise operational processes through Transco in the UK is now successfully and industry expertise, technical skill and an SAP implementation.
addressing the complexities of its charging partnerships with the industrys leading and billing operations.
It is doing so software vendors.
This year brings fresh LogicaCMGs oil and gas business was through a solution developed and opportunities, such as new European gas bolstered by a series of additional wins delivered through our alliance with ICF and electricity directives which open more and successful implementations.
markets to competition, as well as the Germany we helped Ruhrgas with a new impact of measures to address climate gas management system to meet the In October, we signed a contract change.
LogicaCMGs strengths position regulations required for trading in the UK.
alongside global partner SAP, to help Dwr us well to meet these opportunities.
We also delivered a Prodis gas storage Cymru Welsh Water manage 14 billion in system for Nederlandse Aardolie assets at more than 30 sites.
The solution Maatschappij NAM in the Netherlands.
is helping the company to reduce waste and inefficiency.
Other targeted solutions Further wins in Australia, where we were for customers include a distribution appointed to build and maintain the IT network management system for Energy systems for a retail gas market for both Australia and the completion of version west and south Australian gas customers, one of our asset and resource highlight our continuing capacity to match management suite at Southwest Gas in solutions to demands.
These capabilities enable utilities to streamline their business processes, In 2003, we built on our strong heritage in setting new standards for the global energy and utility markets with new management of energy network assets.
or extension orders from such clients as Essent, BP, Centrica, American Electric Power, Elexon and ENECO Energie.
Business overview 16 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 Information is the life-blood flowing between todays businesses.
LogicaCMG is developing a nationwide information system for the Dutch rail infrastructure management company, including services such as systems engineering, quality and safety management and system validation.
LogicaCMG has around 2,000 SAP experts worldwide and is one of the few SAP Global Services Partners Industry, distribution Many of our key 2003 Our strong relationships, imaginative suppliers are striving to transform their contract wins were built technology and agility in meeting customer businesses and streamline processes, to on a core SAP foundation, demands enabled us to achieve notable satisfy the product and price demands of reflecting our status as a milestones across the industry, distribution customers.
Legislative changes during global partner for this and transport IDT sector in 2003.
2003, such as the removal of block leading software package.
exemption in Europe, are leading to Customers in LogicaCMGs core IDT liberalisation in sales and service, with OEM markets automotive, transport, travel supplier and dealer groups having to adapt and logistics shared common goals in to the changing competitive market.
2003: to remain competitive and grow market share.
They also faced many Our continued growth in the IDT sector common challenges.
The push for corporate reflected our strategy of delivering missionand process efficiency and shortening critical solutions that give customers product development cycles continued to tangible benefits and increase our reputation drive organisations to outsource many as the partner of choice for the worlds industrial and technological processes, to leading industries.
By exploiting our crossfocus on core competencies and to boost industry experience and expertise, we uptake of mobile technologies through enable customers to focus on their core hand-held devices and the wireless businesses.
Our offerings include a full Internet.
The growing need for greater range of services, from strategic consulting global scope, to maintain market status, through to full business process outsourcing brought the task of integrating disparate across the entire supply chain.
Our focus systems, technologies and processes remains on building long-term relationships across multiple geographies.
based on this all-embracing service and our track record of delivering complex, In the automotive industry, original innovative and business-critical programmes equipment manufacturers OEMs and on time and to budget.
Business overview 17 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 As the countries of Europe become ever more integrated, transport systems need to be harmonised.
LogicaCMG has been selected to participate in the development of the European Rail Traffic Management System, which will standardise signalling systems for high-speed train lines across EU member states.
Traffic information is becoming more important to ordinary motorists and government alike.
If staff can remotely access the information they need quickly In response, LogicaCMG and reliably, companies can has developed mobile traffic save time and money.
services, which calculates accurate traffic information LogicaCMGs award-winning based upon mobile phone wireless solution is allowing usage on the road network.
Britannia Airways cabin crew to access flight and company information via personal digital assistants PDAs.
The same system has enabled the company to automate over 50 workflow processes.
and transport Many of our key 2003 contract wins were allow us to compete for opportunities in the of Noord-Brabant, has the potential for built on a core SAP foundation, reflecting US and for global projects across the use in a wide range of applications.
our status as a global partner for this organisation.
We have also strengthened leading software package.
For an our alliances with other automotive OEMs in April saw a new mobile workforce contract international fast-moving consumer goods several areas, notably in the delivery of with Britannia Airways: a solution that has company, we signed a 4.6 million mobile-enabled in-vehicle systems.
delivered savings of 1 million by improving outsourcing contract in December 2003 efficiency.
This offering was awarded the to deliver our Global Paycare solution Other successes included, in January 2003, Sybase 2003 Innovator Award for the most for human resources HR payroll, in the first Dutch upgrade to SAP R 3 innovative application of iAnywhere collaboration with SAP.
Based on the Enterprise at the Dutch Pilot Service Solutions m-Business technology.
capabilities of the mySAP HR solution, Loodswezen.
Following a partnership the customer is benefiting from a between LogicaCMG and Rabobank, we Further wins in 2003 included Australian single LogicaCMG-managed system used our wireless networks expertise to retailer Coles Myer, Carlton & United for payroll processing across multiple create an SMS travel ticketing service for Breweries and, most recently, a win at UK national boundaries.
public transport company NoordNed, transport operator Tubelines which reinforced enhancing customer service and reducing the progress we have been making with the Recent acquisitions in Australia and the US ticket queues.
mean that more than 65% of our business in this sector is outside the UK, giving Also in the Netherlands, we built on our Across this sector, LogicaCMGs 2003 LogicaCMG the capability to support global innovative wireless solutions to develop a footprint increased as a result of our delivery programmes.
A major success was our ground-breaking traffic-monitoring system and account management capabilities.
Our December 2003 appointment as a Tier 1 based on GSM network data.
The system innovations capitalised on our unique supplier to Ford in the US.
This marked the delivers reliable information on travel times strengths in mobile and our focus on marketculmination of two years of focused effort in and vehicle speeds by tracking the volume specific outsourcing solutions, including the home country of our largest customer in and movement of GSM mobile telephone payroll and HR services.
Having been a Tier 1 supplier in units on national and secondary roads.
Europe for many years, this new position will The solution, trialled in the Dutch province Business overview 18 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 LogicaCMG has a proud history of developing, delivering and maintaining quality data sets for organisations around the world.
In conjunction with Geometry, a privately-owned Australian company, LogicaCMG will build and maintain Australias first Geocoded National Address File G-NAF the definitive set of street addresses for Australia.
Patient choice and integrated, flexible services are at the heart of healthcare in the 21st century.
LogicaCMG is providing the IT infrastructure allowing IDX Systems Corporation to create the patient records for the UKs UCLH NHS Trusts hospital of the future.
Public sector With our capabilities in In 2003, LogicaCMG continued to play LogicaCMG is working with government both enterprise resource an important role in providing services to departments, public sector agencies and planning ERP and centralised and decentralised public local authorities around the world to identify outsourcing and a track sector clients in the UK, the Netherlands and develop new sources of value.
In record of delivery, we offer and Australia.
September, the University College London an end-to-end portfolio.
Hospitals UCLH NHS Trust signed a The years biggest success was the 70 million, 10-year contract with December signing of a 100 million, LogicaCMG and IDX Systems to create 10-year contract for the UKs National the hospital of the future.
As part of a BT-led team for the NHS National Programme for IT, we will In May, the Ministry of Defence in the develop a core database application for Netherlands selected a consortium storing and updating all patient records.
The comprising LogicaCMG and Cap Gemini win builds on our track record of 30 years of Ernst & Young to enable it to migrate fully government experience in IT services.
In an eight-year, 35 million contract, the consortium is Across the world, many governments have helping the Ministry of Defence to direct the the long-term goal of establishing worldmigration process, standardise data and class public services.
Many seek to achieve processes and develop IT building blocks to best value and make optimum use of enable ministry-wide information supply.
existing assets through information and communication technology ICT.
As a For other organisations, we are providing result, growing numbers of government business information systems and agencies are now seeking to partner with technology services including a 10-year trusted IT suppliers to outsource systems contract with the Medical Research Council and services, in order to reduce, foresee worth an estimated 25 million.
consortium of originally 12, but now a Business overview 19 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 Bio-medical research is at the cutting edge of healthcare provision.
In an innovative partnership, LogicaCMG will deliver systems and services to the UKs Medical LogicaCMG is revolutionising Research Council, supporting its mission to improve the health of the nation.
the IT infrastructure of the UKs National Health Service Leading-edge technology and management processes can be harnessed to modernise government and serve local communities.
LogicaCMG is embarking on a five-year SAP-based programme to transform the back office operations of the UKs Hertfordshire County Council.
growing number of UK government During August, the UK Ministry of Defence With our capabilities in both enterprise departments and agencies, led by Her MOD announced the Lockheed Martin resource planning ERP and outsourcing Majestys Treasury, we are providing consortium, which includes LogicaCMG, as and a track record of delivery, we offer an outsourced payroll services.
This is delivered either programme will develop an electronic through specific support services or as fully In a three-year contract signed in August warfare Battlefield Information Application outsourced solutions.
We see opportunities 2003, LogicaCMG is working with System BISA.
for growing our public sector business in information management systems partner such areas as e-Government, outsourcing Geometry to develop, build and maintain In October, LogicaCMG signed a new and ERP as well as in applications, such as Australias first Geocoded National Address eight-year 25 million contract with the UK case management, that are becoming File G-NAF the definitive set of street Defence Procurement Agency for the critical to the delivery of efficient and costaddress data for the country.
provision of training services in support of effective services to citizens.
DPMT, the centre for acquisition training, With the growing threat of global terrorism, which provides technical and commercial More importantly, our understanding of asymmetric warfare and manoeuvre skills training to the whole of the MOD.
public sector systems and requirements operations, government agencies are across the globe has provided some of the focusing on improving communications During December, the European Space biggest wins of the year in central and local and intelligence as well as instigating Agency placed contracts worth over government, criminal justice, health, peacekeeping, law enforcement and 5.2 million with LogicaCMG to define education and defence.
In June, LogicaCMG and design the two main sets of ground was awarded an 80 million contract for facilities for the Galileo programme.
Skynet-5 ground management services as part of the Paradigm Secure This European global navigation satellite Communications team.
Skynet-5 will deliver programme will provide highly accurate, a highly advanced satellite communications guaranteed global positioning services.
The system for the British Armed Forces.
award of the contracts enhances our leading position in the European space industry.
Business overview 20 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 The most successful businesses in todays competitive marketplaces are those that create the right partnerships.
LogicaCMG is providing the UK Health and Safety Executive with a fully outsourced IT service including all infrastructure and applications management and support, business change consultancy and the delivery of new software applications.
LogicaCMGs HR outsourcing services process more than $90 billion of salaries globally each year Outsourcing Throughout 2003, LogicaCMG customers are seeking to minimise the risks To assist customers in cutting costs and continued to benefit from our outsourced associated with business transformation, improving service quality, LogicaCMG has services, enabling them to concentrate on growth and consolidation.
More proactive successfully adopted a blended their primary activities.
LogicaCMG is one companies are also embracing approach to outsourced service delivery, of the few global outsourcing players able outsourcing as a transformation tool, incorporating onsite, offsite, onshore, to leverage domain knowledge, crossworking with outsourcing partners who nearshore and offshore models.
This sector expertise and a proven track record provide rapid access to the proven blended strategy has reaped substantial of successful delivery.
In 2003, our processes, skills and systems necessary gains for customers over the past 12 outsourcing activity grew worldwide, rising for change.
months, with even faster growth predicted from 16% to 20% of total revenue.
Buyers of goods and services are Flat budgets meant that companies across becoming more discerning and To customers worldwide, we are providing all sectors faced a series of challenges, sophisticated.
They are looking for business process, IT, SAP and HR not least the continual pressure to reduce suppliers who can deliver a complete outsourcing, applications management costs while increasing service.
An solution that will bring real competitive and hosting as well as managed training international study conducted for advantage.
We are strongly positioned and testing all delivered via proven, LogicaCMG revealed that major European in this environment because our focus best-of-breed processes.
organisations would slash costs and is on value-based outsourcing, where increase profitability threefold by industry and business process knowledge, For example, in 2003, we provided a overcoming their perception that strong delivery and technical skills single sourced HR and payroll solution outsourcing was high risk.
across five countries, encompassing amount to 8 billion in savings for multilingual helpdesk support, integrated European companies alone.
We analyse our clients business HR management and payroll systems as requirements, resources and existing IT well as local functional and legislative Protection from and management of risk is and business systems, ensuring that they support.
The solution was backed by a critical factor in the move towards take advantage of the benefits of innovative pricing models and single outsourcing.
Companies in all industries outsourcing, while minimising risks.
contract and service level agreements.
Business overview 21 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 Companies worldwide are facing continuing pressure to reduce costs while increasing service.
In the back office, LogicaCMG helps customers achieve the goals of efficiency, cost reduction and cost transparency thanks to our technical expertise and understanding of the The Internet has saved global financial services industry.
At companies billions of dollars by ABN AMRO, LogicaCMG is providing the opportunity to ensuring that these goals are create electronic networks of met during the current global suppliers and partners.
LogicaCMG is providing 24 7 full infrastructure and application management for Wolters Kluwer in the Netherlands.
Our data centre supports a data warehouse service for financial and market analysis as well as applications for the administration, order, relationship and supply chain.
Our strong alliances with key partners here we deliver applications support, UKs Medical Research Councils strategic continue to grow.
With 1,000 SAP projects project management and full solutions partner.
Over a 10-year period and under delivered worldwide, we are one of the top development for retail banking, payments, a contract worth an estimated 25 million, five SAP partners in the Europe, Middle mobile and wireless Internet solutions.
The LogicaCMG will provide business East and Africa region and have gained centre also provides BPO services and information systems and technology global SAP partnership status.
Energy and operational technical support and call services, including outsourced IT desktop utilities giant Shell is benefiting from centres.
Our India workforce expanded to and infrastructure support.
standardised Europe-wide business more than 600 in 2003.
Our new facility processes through a LogicaCMGwill have the capacity for 2,000 people.
Outsourcing will be a vital strategic managed SAP solution covering 10 element for the future success of many countries.
Other SAP successes include a Our outsourcing facilities are also growing organisations in 2004 and, to a growing 10.2 million contract with Hertfordshire in Europe.
In order to deliver a major customer base, LogicaCMG will be the County Council in the UK.
new outsourcing contract to a Dutch trusted partner of choice.
financial institution and to target other Onshore and nearshore business process similar opportunities, LogicaCMG in outsourcing BPO and IT outsourcing the Netherlands acquired a large successes continued to create real insurance back office BPO capability in business benefits for our customers.
Signed in late 2002, a five-year, 31 million contract with Northern Electric In IT outsourcing, further key wins in 2003 now CE Electric UK is providing the included a $AUS40 million infrastructure company with transformational and management support contract with applications support.
Australian utility Hydro Tasmania and a 10-year contract with Energy Australia, for The growth of our capabilities in core database application and network Bangalore, India, provides our customers management systems.
In addition, with world-leading offshore services.
From October saw LogicaCMG selected as the
