A global network 8 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 The planet is shrinking.
Businesses need partners with global reach to support their worldwide activities.
LogicaCMG software supports Industry-leading energy and utilities giant Shell is benefiting the missions of more than 150 from standardised Europe-wide business processes through a satellites currently in orbit LogicaCMG-managed SAP solution covering 10 countries.
A global network Key facts about LogicaCMG Revenue by client location 12 months to 12 months to employs around 20,000 people worldwide 31 December 2003 31 December 2002 m m has offices in 34 countries UK Republic of Ireland 691.3 693.0 Continental Europe 744.2 847.4 has one global strategy Americas 97.6 108.5 Rest of World 173.5 174.8 operates one worldwide distribution and 1,706.6 1,823.7 support network works across international boundaries delivers repeatable global solutions is at the heart of the worlds key markets has global consistency through common systems and processes Cortex.
Cortex is LogicaCMGs business management system.
It is a set of best practice business processes which provide a framework for everything we do, anywhere in the world.
We use Cortex to maintain our core values of customer satisfaction and strong partnerships.
A global network 9 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 Guaranteed, secure communications are crucial to armed forces globally.
LogicaCMG is a key player in the UKs Skynet-5 programme, which will deliver a highly advanced satellite communications service to the British Armed Forces.
Short messaging services SMS have transformed the way the world communicates.
LogicaCMG is providing next generation SMS infrastructure to MTC-Vodafone Bahrain in partnership with Siemens Mobile Networks.
The offering allows interaction between common interfaces, increasing cost efficiency.
Location of LogicaCMG offices UK Republic of Ireland Americas Aberdeen, Altrincham, Basildon, Caracas, Dallas, Houston, Lexington, Birmingham, Brentwood, Bridgend, Bristol, Mexico, New York, Pittsburgh, Richmond, Bromley, Camberley, Cambridge, Cardiff, So Paulo, Seattle, Southfield, Toronto Cheltenham, Derby, Dublin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Leatherhead, Leeds, London, Rest of World Manchester, Norwich, Nottingham, Adelaide, Bangalore, Beijing, Brisbane, Prestatyn, Reading, Staines, Stevenage Cairo, Canberra, Dubai, Fukuoka, Hawthorn, Hobart, Hong Kong, Jakarta, Continental Europe Johannesburg, Lane Cove, Malvern, Alkmaar, Amstelveen, Arnhem, Berlin, Melbourne, Mitcham, Mumbai, Nagoya, Bordeaux, Bratislava, Bremen, Brno, New Delhi, Osaka, Pasig City, Perth, Brussels, Budapest, Den Haag, Riyadh, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Singapore, Eindhoven, Enschede, Eschborn, Sydney, Taipei, Tokyo Grenoble, Groningen, Hamburg, Hoofddorp, Kassel, Kln, Leeuwarden, , Lille, Luxembourg, Lyon, Maastricht, Madrid, Mannheim, Milan, Munich, Nieuwegein, Niort, Oslo, Paris, Pau, Pilsen, Prague, Ratingen, Rome, Rotterdam, Stockholm, Strasbourg, Toulouse, Vienna, Wolfsburg, Zoetermeer, Zurich
