Annual report and accounts 2003 Board of directors Details of the Directors of the Group are as follows: Linda Wilding Keith Hamill John R Williams Non-Executive Chairman Senior Non-Executive Director Linda, 44, was previously Managing Director of Keith, 50, was appointed Chairman and joined John, 69, commonly known as John Wills, was a Mercury Private Equity Capital, a division of the Board on 16 January 2001.
He is also Managing Partner until 1 May 1996 in Healey & Merrill Lynch Mercury, specialising in providing Chairman of Collins Stewart PLC, TravelodgeBaker with whom he remained as a consultant private equity finance.
She resigned from that Little Chef Ltd. Moss Bros Group PLC, a until May 1998.
He joined Healey & Baker in post at the end of April 2001.
She served as Non-Executive Director of Electrocomponents 1955 becoming a Partner in 1964.
His a Non-Executive Director of Luminar Leisure plc and Treasurer of Nottingham University.
specialism is retail property and from 1987 he Limited from 1990 following Mercurys original He was previously Chairman of Go Ltd. Finance was the Senior Retail Partner responsible for the investment in that company.
She resigned from Director of WH Smith, Finance Director of firms retailing activities in the United Kingdom the Board in November 1997 and was Forte, Finance Director of United Distillers, and overseas.
He was appointed to the Board re-appointed on 3 November 1998.
Director of Financial Control at Guinness PLC in April 1996. and a partner in Price Waterhouse.
Robert Wickham Non-Executive Stephen C Thomas Alan Goldman Bob, 69, was appointed to the Board on Chief Executive Non-Executive 5 September 2000 having previously served on Stephen, 50, was a founder member of Luminar Alan, 60, was appointed on 3 March 1998 the Board of Northern Leisure PLC.
He retired Leisure in 1987 and has remained Chief following his retirement from Rank Leisure from the Management Board of Bank of Scotland Executive throughout.
Prior to that he was Limited where he was latterly Development in 1998 after many years with that bank.
a regional director at a leisure subsidiary of Director responsible for the acquisition and Currently, he is also a Non-Executive Director Whitbread PLC.
He is currently a Nondevelopment of Ranks Leisureworlds.
of Rutland Trust Plc and Secure Trust Banking Executive Director of Hartford Group Plc, He also has considerable operational experience Group Plc.
Coffee Republic Plc and Saracens Ltd. of discotheques and nightclubs.
Michael Payne Non-Executive Andrew R Burns Mike, 65, was appointed to the Board on Finance Director 5 September 2000.
He was previously Managing Andrew, 39, qualified as a chartered accountant Director of Operations at First Leisure with Price Waterhouse London in 1989.
He has over thirty years moved to The Rank Group in 1990 to work in experience within the leisure industry having Business Development.
Latterly, he was the worked in a wide variety of roles for a number Finance and Commercial Director for Rank Video of large and influential operators.
He joined Luminar as Finance Director in 1997.
10 Luminar plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Board of directors continued Board Committees Nominations Committee Mr A Goldman Mr K Hamill Mr M Payne Mrs L Wilding Mr R Wickman Alistair Burford Mr J Williams Chair Director of Operations Alistair, 50, was appointed to the Board on Audit Committee 1 January 2002.
He joined Luminar Leisure Mr A Goldman Limited in 1988 having previously gained industry Mr K Hamill Chair experience at Whitbread Plc and Civil Service Mr M Payne Catering.
During his time with Luminar, he has Mr R Wickham held the positions of General Manager, Area Remuneration Committee Manager, Operations Manager and most recently Managing Director of the Entertainments Mr A Goldman Division.
Mr K Hamill Mr M Payne Mrs L Wilding Chair Mr R Wickman Mr J Williams Risk Management Committee Mr A Burns Mr A Goldman Mr J Williams Chair John Aust Group Commercial Director Mr H Willits, Company Secretary John, 42, was appointed to the Board on Mr T Steed, Health & Safety Manager 1 January 2002.
He joined Luminar Leisure Limited in 1988, having previously worked at Page & Foster, Grosvenor Leisure and Whitbread Plc.
During his time with Luminar, he has held the positions of Business Manager, Company Secretary, Development Director and most recently Commercial Director.
Brendan McLoughlin Director of Property and Developments Brendan, 42, was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2002.
He joined Luminar following the acquisition in July 2000 of Northern Leisure PLC, where he had served on the Board as an executive director.
Since joining Luminar he has held the position of Managing Director for the Midlands Dancing Division.
