DIRECTORS REPORT The directors have pleasure in submitting the statutory financial The authorised and issued share capital of the Company is also statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2003. set out in note 24 on pages 68 to 70.
This directors report should be read in conjunction with the Details of interests of 3% or more in the ordinary share capital chairmans statement, chief executives statement, operations of the Company are shown in the shareholder information section review and social responsibility report contained in the Annual of the booklet enclosed herewith.
Review and the financial review and the remuneration report contained in this Annual Report.
These include information on all the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE individual business sectors of the Group, its joint ventures and its A report on corporate governance and compliance with the associates, their performance and current and future developments.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 is set out on pages 21 to 24.
The PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW directors remuneration report as set out on pages 25 to 39 will Anglo American, with its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, be proposed for approval at the annual general meeting to be held is a global leader in the mining and natural resource sectors.
In accordance with the Directors Remuneration significant and focused interests in platinum group metals, gold, Report Regulations 2003, the vote on such resolution is advisory diamonds, coal, base metals, industrial minerals, paper and packaging and no directors remuneration is conditional upon the passing and ferrous metals as well as financial and technical strength.
The Groups business is a going concern as interpreted by the DIRECTORATE Guidance on Going Concern and Financial Reporting for directors The following directors held office during the year to 31 December of listed companies registered in the United Kingdom, published in 2003: November 1994.
The net book value of the Groups tangible fixed Sir Mark Moody-Stuart non-executive chairman assets is $24,379 million.
A J Trahar chief executive DIVIDENDS An interim dividend of 15 US cents per ordinary share was paid on A W Lea finance director 15 September 2003.
The directors recommend a final dividend of B E Davison executive director 39 US cents per ordinary share.
This will make a total for the year to 31 December 2003 of US cents per ordinary share.
Subject 54 W A Nairn executive director to the approval of shareholders at the annual general meeting to be held on Wednesday, 21 April 2004, the final dividend will be payable Sir David Scholey non-executive director on Thursday, 29 April 2004 to shareholders registered in the books until 25 April 2003 senior independent of the Company at the close of business on Friday, 12 March 2004. non-executive director D J Challen non-executive director On 26 August 1999, Greenwood Nominees Limited, as nominee for Butterfield Trust Guernsey Limited, the trustee for the Anglo Dr C E Fay non-executive director American employee share schemes, waived its right to all dividends except for 1 pence, payable by the Company.
The amount waived R M Godsell non-executive director during the year, in respect of the interim dividend, was $8,510,693.
G Lindahl non-executive director AUTHORISED SHARE CAPITAL R J Margetts senior independent non-executive director During the year there was no change to the authorised share capital from 25 April 2003 of the Company of $1,000,000,000 divided into 2,000,000 ordinary shares of $0.50 each and 50,000 preference shares of 1 each.
N F Oppenheimer non-executive director ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL F T M Phaswana non-executive director During the year a total of 7,133,375 ordinary shares were allotted Prof K A L M Van Miert non-executive director in respect of employee share schemes.
The undermentioned shares were allotted on the dates and at the prices shown to certain Dr M S B Marques non-executive director non-executive directors or their nominees by subscription of appointed 9 December 2003 their after-tax directors fees: Further details of the directors qualifications, specific Date 2003 Number of shares Price per share responsibilities and other directorships are set out on page 26 2 January 3,663 9.01 of the Annual Review.
1 April 3,991 9.62 Dr M S B Marques was appointed to the board since the last annual 30 June 4,060 9.48 general meeting and, in accordance with the Companys Articles 10 October 3,366 11.57 of Association, retires from the board at the forthcoming annual general meeting and offers herself for election.
Following performance Consequently, at 31 December 2003, the issued ordinary share reviews and with the agreement of the board, Messrs Davison, Lea, capital of the Company amounted to 1,476,304,626 ordinary shares Margetts, Nairn, Oppenheimer and Dr Fay retire by rotation at the of $0.50 each.
There was no change during the year to the issued forthcoming annual general meeting and, being eligible, offer preference share capital of the Company of 50,000 5% cumulative themselves for re-election.
As at 24 February 2004, the issued ordinary share capital of the company was 1,482,674,513 Details of the directors interests in any Group company can ordinary shares.
be found in the remuneration report on pages 37 to 39.
18 Directors report Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT prohibition of inhumane treatment of employees and any form The Report to Society 2003 will be available from the Company of forced labour, physical punishment or other abuse: in April.
This report focuses on the safety, health and environmental performance of the Companys managed operations, their continual promotion of safe and healthy working practices: performance with regard to the Companys Good Citizenship principles and the operational dimensions of their social programmes.
promotion of workplace equality and elimination of all forms of unfair discrimination: PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS Anglo American plc is a holding company and, as such, had no provision of opportunities for employees to enhance their trade creditors at the year end.
work-related skills and capabilities: Businesses across the Group are responsible for agreeing the terms recognition of the right of our employees to freedom of and conditions, including payment terms, under which business association: and transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
These terms reflect local and industry norms.
The Group values its suppliers and recognises adoption of fair and appropriate procedures for determining the benefits to be derived from maintaining good relationships with terms and conditions of employment.
Anglo American acknowledges the importance of paying invoices, especially those of small businesses, promptly.
Copies of the Good Citizenship: Our Business Principles booklet which sets out standards of conduct on a range of ethical, human POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS rights and social policy issues are available from the registered As disclosed in note 38 to the financial statements, following the office of the Company and may be accessed on the Companys announcement on 10 December 2003 of the acquisition of the website www.
co. uk corrugated paper and packaging business of Roman Bauernfeind Holding AG, the directors allotted 5,309,286 ordinary shares of During 2003, numerous employee communication and education $0.50 each on 12 February 2004 in consideration of the acquisition.
The aim, which included areas as diverse The shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and application as Talent Management, Sustainable Development and Group has been made to list them on the Johannesburg, Swiss, Namibia Strategy, was to provide employees with information on matters and Botswana stock exchanges.
The shares rank pari passu with of concern to them, to regularly consult employees for views on the other ordinary shares in issue.
matters affecting them and to make employees aware of financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Company.
On 9 February 2004, an agreement was entered into to sell the Groups 25% interest in the Nkomati Nickel joint venture to Anglovaal In addition, presentations by operating divisions took place and the Mining Limited for a cash consideration of R260 million $37 million.
results of a survey of employee communication were presented.
VALUE OF LAND The Company regularly publishes Optima and AngloWorld which Land is mainly carried in the financial statements at cost.
contain items of news, current affairs and information relevant It is not practicable to estimate the market value of land and mineral to Group employees.
A news clipping service is published on the rights, since these depend on product prices over the next 20 years Companys intranet, keeping employees up to date with developments or longer, which will vary with market conditions.
in those business sectors in which the Group is active.
EMPLOYMENT AND OTHER POLICIES DONATIONS The Anglo American Group, which operates throughout the During the year Anglo American and its subsidiaries made donations world, is managed along decentralised lines.
Each key operating for charitable purposes totalling $38.3 million.
Of that amount $1.8 business is empowered to manage within the context of its own million was donated in the United Kingdom, consisting of payments industry, and the different legislative and social demands of the in respect of community development initiatives 26%: educational diverse countries in which those businesses operate, subject to and youth charities 24%: international development 16%: health the standards embodied in Anglo Americans Good Citizenship: and HIV 9%: arts, culture and heritage 9% and other charities for Our Business Principles.
the benefit of the community 16%.
A review of charitable donations and the contribution by Anglo American companies to local Within all Anglo Americans businesses, the safe and effective communities is contained in the Annual Review.
performance of all employees, and the maintenance of positive employee relationships are of fundamental importance.
Managers Although it is the policy of Anglo American plc not to give of Anglo Americans businesses are charged with ensuring that party political donations, a policy shared by many multi-national the following key principles are upheld: corporations, the Anglo American plc board has decided that it should make an exception at this juncture in South Africas adherence to national legal standards on employment and democratic transition.
workplace rights at all times: Following debate during 2003, the board concluded in principle that adoption of fair labour practices: its major South African operating company, Anglo Operations Limited AOL, could set aside a sum of R6 million for donations to political prohibition of child labour: parties contesting the 2004 South African general election.
It further asked a sub-committee of the board headed by Sir Mark Moody-Stuart to consider an appropriate allocation of funds.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Directors report 19 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The sub-committee recommended that the African National ii allot equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal Congress as the ruling party enjoying the majority electoral support amount of $ equivalent to million ordinary 31,750,000 63.5 in the country should receive R3 million of the donation: the shares of $0.50 each, being 4.3 % of the ordinary issued share Democratic Alliance, as the official opposition and second largest capital in issue at 24 February 2004: and party, R1.5 million: the next three largest parties the Inkatha Freedom Party, the New National Party and the United Democratic Movement iii make market purchases of up to a maximum of 148 million R480,000, R240,000 and R120,000 respectively: and R60,000 each ordinary shares of $0.50 each of the Company at a price not less to the other smaller parties with representation in the South African than $0.50 and not exceeding 105% of the average middle Parliament.
These donations were made in February 2004. market closing price of such shares on the London Stock Exchange on the five dealing days prior to the date of The Anglo American Platinum board has decided to contribute repurchase.
The directors have no present intention of exercising R1 million to the total of R6 million proposed by AOL.
this authority and would only do so if they considered it were in the best interests of shareholders generally and if the purchase The Anglo American plc board has reaffirmed the policy of not could be expected to result in an increase in earnings per share.
making donations to, or incurring expenses for the benefit of, In exercising this authority, the directors may treat the shares any UK political party or any other EU political organisation, as that have been bought back as either cancelled or held in defined in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000. treasury or a combination of both, and to the extent that any such shares are held in treasury, earnings per share will only be In December 2003, AngloGold announced its policy on party increased or transferred until such time as the shares are re-sold political donations.
The policy is open to public scrutiny out of treasury.
Treating the bought-back shares as treasury www.
com and provides that AngloGold shall distribute shares gives the Company the ability to sell or transfer them the equivalent of up to 10% of the amount transferred to the quickly and cost-effectively and provides the Company with AngloGold Fund, its main vehicle for social investment.
additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
Authorisation is also sought for the Company to use any shares In February 2004, the board of Tongaat-Hulett decided to make a repurchased and held in treasury for the purposes of its donation of R500,000 in support of the democratic process in South employee share schemes.
If any such shares are used, the Africa.
The total grant will be divided between the six parties Company will, so long as required under the guidelines of the represented in Parliament in proportion to the number of seats which Association of British Insurers Investment Committee, count them they hold.
towards the limits in the schemes as if they were newly issued shares.
The total number of options to acquire shares AUDITORS outstanding at 24 February 2004 was 53,889,646 excluding On 1 August 2003, Deloitte & Touche, the Companys auditors, ordinary shares which could be issued on conversion of the transferred their business to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited liability 3.375% convertible bonds due April 2007, which represents partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnerships 3.6% of the issued ordinary share capital at that date.
The Companys consent has been given to treating Company were to buy back the maximum number of shares the appointment of Deloitte & Touche as extending to Deloitte & permitted pursuant to this resolution, then the total number Touche LLP with effect from 1 August 2003 under the provisions of options to subscribe for shares outstanding would represent of section 26 5 of the Companies Act 1989.
4% of the reduced issued share capital.
A resolution to reappoint the auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, will A poll will be held at the annual general meeting on each of the be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting in accordance resolutions set before the meeting.
with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985.
By order of the board ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The annual general meeting will be held at 11:00 am on Wednesday, Nicholas Jordan 21 April 2004 at The Conference Centre, Church House, Deans Company Secretary Yard, London SW1P 3NZ.
The notice convening the meeting is set 24 February 2004 out in the separate booklet enclosed with this report.
In addition to the ordinary business of the meeting which includes a resolution to approve the directors remuneration report, as special business, shareholder consent will be sought: a to approve a new Bonus Share Plan for executive directors and senior employees, details of which are set out in the separate booklet and referred to in the Remuneration Report on pages 27 and 28 of the Annual Report: and b to renew the directors existing authorities to: i allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of $246,500,000 equivalent to 493 million ordinary shares of $0.50 each.
This authority, which the directors have no present intention of exercising other than in relation to employee share schemes and for the allotment of ordinary shares to certain non-executive directors by subscription of their after-tax directors fees represented 33.3% of the ordinary issued share capital at 24 February 2004: 20 Directors report Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003
