Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Share Capital Report and Financial Statements for the year Details of the share capital and allotments during ended 31 December 2003. the year, which arose solely from the exercise of options, are set out in Note 21 on pages 54 to 55.
Details of outstanding options under Employee Principal Activities and Business Review and Executive Share Schemes are set out in Note The principal activities of the Group are the 21 on page 55.
As outlined in the Financial Review manufacture and supply of specialist landscape, on page 14, the cumulative redeemable clay and natural stone products.
Further details of preference shares were cancelled and repaid the principal activities of the Group are set out in during the year.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 5 to 7 and the Acquisitions Chief Executive and Financial Reviews on pages 8 On 14 March 2003, the Group acquired Stone to 16 contain a review of these activities.
Shippers Limited, a company engaged in the importation and distribution of stone products.
Details of the Groups policy in relation to employees and information on charitable and political donations are disclosed on page 19.
Payment to Suppliers The Group follows the CBIs prompt payment code Details of the Groups policies in relation to and operates and abides by a clearly defined Corporate Governance are disclosed on pages 26 to payment policy which has been agreed with all 28. major suppliers.
The Groups creditor payment period at 31 December 2003 was 47 days 2002 : 46 days.
Group Results The consolidated profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2003 is shown on page Fixed Assets 36.
A segmental analysis of the operating profit by In the opinion of the Directors, the market value of activity is shown in Note 2 to the Financial the Groups properties is not materially different Statements.
from the value included in the Group financial statements.
Dividends The Board is recommending a final dividend of Development Expenditure 7.35p per share 2002: 6.70p which, together with Development of new products is a continuous the interim dividend of 3.65p 2002: 3.30p per process and expenditure is written off as incurred.
share, makes a total for the year ended 31 December 2003 of 11.00p 2002 : 10.00p per share.
Payment of the final dividend, if approved Directors at the Annual General Meeting, will be made on 7 July 2004 to shareholders registered at the close The names of the Directors as at the date of this of business on 4 June 2004. report together with biographical details are set out on page 17.
Mr M. A. Stacey resigned as a Director on 6 January state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any 2003.
In accordance with the Articles of material departures disclosed and explained Association, Mr J. W. Footman retired by rotation in the financial statements: and at the Annual General Meeting and he did not.
prepare the financial statements on the going seek re-election.
Mr R. A. Barfield resigned on 13 concern basis unless it is inappropriate to June 2003. presume that the Group will continue in business.
Mr A. J. Allner and Mr R. T. Scholes were both The Directors are responsible for keeping proper appointed as Directors on 23 July 2003 and in accounting records which disclose with accordance with the Articles of Association offer reasonable accuracy at any time the financial themselves for re-election at the forthcoming position of the Company and to enable them to Annual General Meeting.
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general In accordance with the Articles of Association, Mr responsibility for taking such steps as are C. T. Burnett retires by rotation at the forthcoming reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets Annual General Meeting.
Mr C. T. Burnett is not of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and seeking re-election and will retire as Director and other irregularities.
Chairman at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting Full details of Directors remuneration, interests in the share capital of the Company and of their The Notice convening the Annual General share options are set out on pages 29 to 34 in the Meeting to be held at Birkby Grange at 12 noon Directors Remuneration Report.
on Thursday 10 June 2004, together with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed, is contained in a circular to be sent to Substantial Shareholdings shareholders with this Report.
As at 5 March 2004, the Company had been A Court Meeting of Shareholders and an notified of the following substantial interests of Extraordinary General Meeting will also take place 3 per cent or more in its ordinary issued share on 10 June 2004 in relation to the scheme of capital: arrangement referred to in the Chairmans % Statement on page 7.
5.03 Aviva plc 4.72 Threadneedle Asset Management Limited 3.27 Auditors Legal and General Group plc 3.09 In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985 a resolution re-appointing KPMG Audit Statement of Directors Responsibilities Plc as Auditors for the ensuing year will be proposed at the Companys Annual General Company law requires the Directors to prepare Meeting.
financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial By Order of the Board statements, the Directors are required to: Ian Burrell Director and Company Secretary.
select suitable accounting policies and then 5 March 2004 apply them consistently:.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Marshalls plc Annual Report 2003 25
