List of Advisers Secretary and Registered Ofce Solicitors Bankers John G Berry Cobbetts Barclays Bank PLC Gillibrands Road Ship Canal House City Ofce Skelmersdale King Street Water Street West Lancashire WN8 9TB Manchester M2 4WB Liverpool L69 2DM Registered Auditors Clifford Chance HSBC  LLP 200 Aldersgate Street PO Box 360 101 Barbirolli Square London EC1A 4JJ 100 King Street Lower Mosley Street Manchester M60 2HD Financial Adviser Manchester M2 3PW UBS Warburg Public Relations 1 Finsbury Avenue Weber Shandwick Square Mile London EC2M 2PP Fox Court 14 Grays Inn Road London WC1X 8WS 16 From left to right: Phil Dutton Group Finance Director, John King Group Chief Executive and John Hargreaves Group Chairman.
Board of Directors John Hargreaves David Shipley Charles Thompson Group Chairman non-executive non-executive John is aged 59.
He set up his first David is aged 59.
He joined the Board Charles is aged 46.
He joined the business at the age of 19 and has over in July 2001 and was previously a senior Board in April 1991 and is Chairman of 40 years experience in retail clothing.
He has In 1985 he founded the Matalan He is joining the board of London over 17 years experience of equity business and has been responsible for International Exhibition Centre investment in high growth companies.
He is currently an Investment Director active role in the Groups strategic with Inexion PLC, a private equity rm Robert Shrager development.
operating in the mid market.
senior independent non-executive John King Robert is aged 54.
He joined the Board John Westwood Group Chief Executive in April 1998 and is Chairman of the independent non-executive John is aged 40.
He joined the Board Audit Committee.
He is Chairman of John is aged 54.
He joined the Board in March 2003 and has more than Courts PLC and The Food Doctor in April 1998 and is Chairman of the 20 years retail and manufacturing Limited a nutrition company, and a Nomination Committee.
He joined Matalan from non-executive director of UK Coal PLC faculty member of the Manchester Delta US where he was Chief Operating and easyInternetCaf Limited.
He was, Business School he lectures officer, and has held several positions until May 1998, Corporate Finance internationally and acts as a consultant within leading retailers.
Director of Dixons Group plc.
and adviser to a wide range of companies, including several UK Phil Dutton based multi-nationals.
Group Finance Director Phil is aged 41.
He joined the Board in November 2002 and has responsibility for finance and I. T. functions.
He was previously Finance Director of Asda Stores Limited and was also director responsible for leading the successful conversion of Asdas systems following its acquisition by Walmart.
