McCarthy & Stone plc Around The Country Top from left: Paul Trofimov, Trevor Walters-Thompson, Chris Tyrer, Keith Johnson.
Bottom from left:, Mike French, Andrew Oliver, Lorena Brown, Derek Field, Steve Wiseman.
South West The land and planning departments met their targets despite the The year ended 31 August 2003 proved to be the most successful known difficulties that affect the South East.
This success has enabled ever for the South West Region.
Volumes increased by 25% pushing us to commence construction on nine new sites during the last year.
sales completions through the 500 threshold for the first time.
Stock levels are adequate and should remain so given that by the end Revenue, gross and net margins were well above expectations.
of this calendar year there will be ten sites under construction.
Stock levels at the years close were fairly low due to the high sales The region continues to focus on quality, both in terms of our volumes, however we have work in progress coming through to meet investment in Customer Service and the presentation of our our needs for the coming year.
The land and planning teams also developments.
This enhances the purchasing experience for our had a successful year and we now have a secure forward situation Customers and ensures that any remedial costs are kept to a that should enable the region to consolidate its position and minimum.
continue to sell around 500 units a year.
We have in place the foundations upon which to build another The area office in Exeter has seen an increase in key staff with a successful year.
remit to raise our penetration of Devon and Cornwall, where we see a strong market for our product.
Michael French, Regional Managing Director South East Region Despite pressures on both the labour and supply sides we have, overall, managed to contain our build costs through competitive North West tendering combined with supplier and subcontractor loyalty I am pleased to report that the region has continued to maximise agreements.
The last twelve months for the South West has generally prices and that, once again, there has been a significant increase in seen a buoyant market and, if this continues through 2004, we look turnover and profit which significantly exceeded budget.
forward to another excellent result.
We continue to trade successfully in established market areas whilst, Derek Field, Regional Managing Director at the same time, targeting opportunities in a number of new areas.
South West Region Our design team secured planning permissions on ten new projects South East in a variety of locations across the region.
We continue to work It was another exceptional year for the South East Region with unit closely with our consultants as we seek to ensure that this success is sales above budget, record profits, and an average sales price increase maintained, particularly when faced with complex and often of 20% to 167,000. exhaustive planning procedures.
Generally, the housing market was very buoyant in the first half of last With the launch of several new schemes and production year with a noticeable slowdown in the second half.
Visitor flow has continuing throughout the region, we are well placed to meet increased recently, and there appear signs that purchaser confidence expectations for future growth.
The region expects to meet it sales targets for the Chris Tyrer, Regional Managing Director coming year.
North West Region Page 22 McCarthy & Stone plc McCarthy & Stone plc Scotland North London The Scottish region completed the year on a high, breaking through During its third year of operation the region has built on the the 200 unit sales threshold and achieving a regional record.
Unit successes of previous years.
It has now developed a strong forward sales, turnover and profit before tax were all substantially ahead.
An supply of land, planning consents and sites under construction.
The excellent all round performance.
continued buoyant housing market led to an increase in unit sales, achieving an average selling price of 157,000.
The land market is becoming increasingly competitive, resulting in us having to refocus our land buying strategy.
Our objective to increase Recruitment of quality key staff has kept pace with the regions market penetration in the North of Scotland is on target, with sites in growth.
The impressive new regional office was completed at Potters Inverness and Aberdeen currently under construction producing sales Bar by the year end.
With several good sites now under for next year.
Our first venture into Inverness has now started to construction the region is confident of continuing to increase its unit produce results, with 10 sales being achieved at the year end and an sales and profits during the coming year.
Andrew Oliver, Regional Managing Director Planning delays and Affordable Housing are affecting our forward North London Region workflow.
However, on the positive side, we have a good forward sales Midlands position and we are in excellent shape.
We are as always looking The region had yet another excellent year, with sales exceeding forward to the challenges for the year ahead.
This performance was only possible due to a Steve Wiseman, Regional Managing Director tremendous effort by the construction team who managed to get five Scottish Region sites ready for first occupation in August.
North East Our design department also achieved their planning consent target The North East region delivered a strong performance this year and, after a number of difficult years in acquiring land, it was resulting in a substantial increase in the contribution to Group particularly pleasing to exceed our budget this year.
I am pleased to report that land acquisition targets were met The region is in a strong position to grow and generate more sales in and despite a frustrating planning system we achieved five consents, the future.
We look forward to opening an area office in one of which was through an appeal.
We have a very busy year Peterborough, which will give us a better opportunity to expand into ahead, with a significant increase in the construction programme for East Anglia.
Keith Johnson, Regional Managing Director This challenge, together with a good forward sales position, gives us Midlands Region a springboard for another strong performance in the coming year Assisted Living through continued controlled growth, whilst seeking to maximise revenue and controlling costs.
The division finished the year with an excellent sales performance.
We sold out our highly successful second development in Llandudno, Trevor Walters-Thompson, Regional Managing Director North Wales and following a very successful launch in March, opened North East Region the third scheme at Bingley in West Yorkshire.
Western Construction commenced early in the year at Chichester and East The region suffered from a shortage of stock during the year.
The division had a difficult year in planning with a result the region was not able to achieve its targets for unit sales or disappointing outcome at appeal at Bedford, and a refusal of its turnover.
An action plan is already underway to improve this Horley application.
Two further applications were deferred at position going forward.
Committee despite exhaustive negotiations with planning officers.
On a more positive note, the design team was successful in The division secured five sites during the year, including the transfer achieving five planning consents during the year and the land team of the Exmouth site from the South West region.
It has again secured six new sites, one ahead of its target.
These achievements strengthened its land team for future expansion, which is focused have enabled the region to improve its forward workflow significantly primarily in the South East.
and contribute to the prospective controlled growth of the business.
Paul Trofimov, Managing Director Lorena Brown, Regional Managing Director Assisted Living Division Western Region McCarthy & Stone plc Page 23 McCarthy & Stone plc PLC Board K Lovelock FRICS, FCIOB, Chairman and Chief Executive Keith Lovelock, 63, joined the Group in 1986 having worked previously with Rush & Tomkins, Wimpey and Federated Housing.
He has obtained considerable overseas experience.
He was appointed a Main Board Director in 1989, became Chief Executive in 1993 and Deputy Chairman in 2001.
In August 2003 he was appointed Chairman and continues the Chief Executive role.
S E K Purser, Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Simon Purser, 56, has a background in corporate financial advice.
He was a Director of County NatWest Limited, 1984-1989 and Chief Executive of Buckland Corporate Finance Limited, 1990-1996.
He has previously been a Non-Executive director of two listed companies.
He joined the Board in 1990 and was appointed Deputy Chairman in August 2003.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
M W J Thorne MA, FCA, Group Finance Director Matthew Thorne, 51, joined the Board in 1993.
He qualified with Price Waterhouse and worked in corporate finance with County NatWest Limited.
He was formerly Investment Director of Beazer plc and Finance Director of Ricardo Group plc.
Page 24 McCarthy & Stone plc McCarthy & Stone plc M J Jennings BSc Building, MCIOB, MBIM, Operations Director, South Mike Jennings, 56, joined the Group as a Director in 1997.
He worked previously for Tarmac, McLean Homes in the UK and the US and, prior to joining McCarthy & Stone, for Redrow Homes.
In addition to his plc responsibilities he is responsible for the South East, South West, Western and North London Regions and Assisted Living.
H P S Phillips, BSc, MBA, FRICS, Operations Director, North Howard Phillips, 43, joined the Board in 2000.
He has 15 years experience of the retirement sector with McCarthy & Stone, ten of which as a Regional Managing Director.
In addition to his plc responsibilities he is responsible for the Scottish, North West, North East and Midlands Regions.
G N Day, MRTPI, Land and Planning Director Gary Day, 45, joined the Board in October 2002.
He has over 28 years experience in planning and development matters, including 15 years experience in the retirement housing sector with McCarthy & Stone, previously heading up the Group's Planning Bureau.
He is responsible for Group Land, including legal conveyancing, Planning, Political Public Affairs and he is Chairman of the Group's Environmental Committee.
The Right Honourable Sir George Young, Bt MP, Independent Non-Executive Sir George Young, 62, is MP for North West Hampshire.
From 1990-1994 he was Minister of State at the Department of the Environment with particular responsibility for housing and planning and from 1995-7 he was Secretary of State for Transport.
He is a member of the Audit Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Company Secretary Trevor Green, 56, qualified as a solicitor in private practice with Eversheds in Birmingham.
He joined the Tarmac Group in 1975, being appointed Head of the Legal Service to the Tarmac Housing division in 1979.
He joined the Company in 1988 as Head of Legal Services and was appointed Company Secretary the following year.
