10 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Market review Meggitt benefits from a balanced portfolio.
Capability-based business units deploy Market matrix technological know-how and intellectual property across all our markets so we are not dependent on single customers, individual programmes or market segments.
Meggitt Aircraft Meggitt Control Meggitt Polymers Meggitt Sensing Meggitt Equipment Braking Systems Systems & Composites Systems Group Civil Original equipment Aftermarket Military Original equipment Aftermarket Energy Other 10% of Group revenue 310% of Group revenue 1 3% of Group revenue the global business jet fleet but order aircraft manufacturers, which extend over Market review trends suggest this will move to around seven years at current production levels, Meggitts core civil aerospace, military 60% over the next decade.
Ten years plus other manufacturers investing in the and energy markets share a common ago, the Americas represented 85% of large jet market including Bombardier, requirement for smart engineering for the globalfleet.
Over the medium term, Sukhoi and AVIC.
The high level of demand extreme environments: missionand we see deliveries continuing to recover, for new aircraft deliveries in recent years safety-critical components and sub-systems particularly at the smaller end of the has been driven primarily by high oil prices, that function without fail for many years in market, driven by an improved economic the relatively low cost of debt and the wave highly demanding operating conditions, growth outlook in developed economies and of newer, more fuel-efficient aircraft coming from suppliers capable of meeting rigorous the large number of new aircraft models.
to market including Boeings 787 and certification requirements.
Despite the recent decrease in oil Meggitt performance Civil aerospace prices, we expect no significant changes to Meggitts OE revenue grew organically by Civil aerospace accounts for 48% of Group new aircraft demand in the short term.
6% in 2014, with significant contributions revenue, with products and sub-systems from the ramp-up of the Boeing 787 and Regional aircraft deliveries of 269 in 2014 installed on almost every jet airliner, initial production revenue from the represented a 2% increase on 2013, with regional aircraft and business jet in A350XWB.
Large jet deliveries drive the growth driven by 70-plus seat aircraft.
This fleet has grown recently, majority of our OE revenues, involving the Growth looks set to continue over the totalling over 43,000 aircraft today versus supply of products and sub-systems on medium term, mirroring the increasing 31,000 a decade ago.
New aircraft engines and airframes covering thermal internationalisation of the regional deliveries drive sales of original equipment management and fluid control, fire aircraft fleet.
Regional fleets outside OE and aircraft utilisation generates protection, condition-monitoring and North America account for 55% of the demand for spare parts and repairs over high-integrity electronics.
Our largest global fleet, up from 44% a decade ago.
many decades, so the growth of our fleet is exposure to regional aircraft and a strong indication of future aftermarket business jets is through our wheels and Business jet deliveries totalled 675, a 6% revenue growth.
brakes business, which provides most increase on 2013, although deliveries original equipment free of charge to civil remain around 40% below the peak in Original equipment aircraft manufacturers.
Inventories are continuing to decline, We classify civil aircraft deliveries by seat performance is also driven by higher however, and rising corporate profitability, capacity: large jets 100 seats, regional shipset values on new aircraft a good driver of business jet demand aircraft 100 seats and business jets.
programmes, whose order books and historically, is forecast to continue.
As with Large jet deliveries in 2014 stood at a delivery forecasts lend confidence in regional aircraft, the fleet is becoming record 1,380, 8% higher than in 2013. growth prospects averaging 7 to 8% increasingly globalcustomers in the Growth is underpinned by the order books per annum for the medium term.
Americas currently comprise 75% of of Boeing and Airbus, the two major civil 93987 p10-12.
indd 10 04 03 2015 16:24 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 11 Aftermarket given the previously referenced 5.5% ASK The civil aerospace aftermarket is driven growth.
However, aftermarket revenue primarily by aircraft utilisation which, growth overall was held back to a degree by Large jet delivery forecast for large jets and regional aircraft, is the parting out of old aircraft resulting from 1,800 1,701 measured using available seat kilometres the high delivery rates of new, more 1,640 1,603 1,513 ASKs.
We use take-offs and landings fuel-efficient aircraft.
1,417 1,500 1,380 asa proxy for business jet utilisation.
1,279 Regional aircraft and business jets ASKs in the commercial aircraft fleet areimportant contributors to the Groups 1,200 grew 5.5% in 2014, above the 5% longaftermarket revenue.
The Middle East and Asia increase in fleet size and recovery in 900 saw particularly strong growth, with the regional aircraft utilisation in 2014 600 US market showing a steady recovery.
Regional aircraft utilisation picked up Ourregional aircraft aftermarket grew 300 noticeably driven by the recovery in 4% in the year, with business jet aircraft North America.
Business jet utilisation up an impressive 13%.
inthe US and Europe continued to exhibit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Aircraft utilisation remains very the gradual improvement seen for the Source: Meggitt management estimates encouraging, with ASKs now tracking above last two years, with take-offs and the long-term average.
A reduction in some landings in 2014 up 3% versus 2013. of the current cyclical factors such as We would normally expect our retirement rates and the subsequent parting aftermarket revenues to follow these out of aircraft would drive confidence in our leading indicators after a lag of a few medium-term aftermarket revenue growth months.
However, revenue can be Regional aircraft delivery forecast expectation of 8 to 9% on average.
impacted by short-term perturbations including destocking or restocking cycles 400 and excess spare part inventory arising Military 320 306 from the retirement of old aircraft and 297 Military accounts for 34% of Group 288 291 300 269 subsequent harvesting of serviceable 263 revenue.
Meggitt has equipment on over components from these aircraft.
20,000 aircraft and a variety of ground vehicles, naval vessels and training 200 Meggitt performance installations worldwide.
Meggitts organic aftermarket revenue Defence budgets in some key markets was up 5% for the year, with 2% growth in 100 remained under pressure in 2014, the first half accelerating to 7% growth in notably in the US where the effect of the second half.
The growth rate in the final the drawdown from Afghanistan and quarter was 10%, above our medium-term absence of equipment reset affected expectation of 8 to 9%.
Meggitt performance Resolution in the early part of the year Further revenue growth is supported by Meggitts energy revenue declined 3% impacted the timing and size of orders.
continuing expansion of the fleet of on an organic basis in 2014.
Sales to However, European markets were stable platforms on which we have good content power generation customers declined and parts of the Middle East and Asia such as the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and modestly, particularly in the first half saw budget growth.
Accordingly, we are targeting an of the year, as a shortage of tourmaline budget remains subject to ongoing fiscal average of 2% per annum organic impacted our ability to fulfil customer pressures, although industry forecasts revenue growth in the medium term, requirements.
We have, however, seen suggest we are moving into a more excluding the impact of sequestration.
a considerable improvement as a result benign budgetaryenvironment in US and of migrating customers onto alternative internationalmarkets.
technologies and we anticipate a return Energy to growth from 2015.
Revenue at our While we do not expect significant growth Our energy business accounted for 11% Heatric printed circuit heat exchanger in military expenditure in the near term, ofGroup revenue in 2014.
We target business also declined as a result of the opportunities remain for the reset and power generation and oil and gas markets deferral of revenue out of 2014 driven by upgrade of repatriated equipment and the with condition-monitoring hardware and financial difficulties at our local content supply of new products as a significant software, control valves and printed providerinBrazil.
tranche of military assets reach the end circuit heat exchanger technology.
Heightened demand for our printed circuit The market for condition monitoring heat exchangers from an identified project and control valves has continued to Meggitt performance pipeline totalling nearly 600 million and grow, as high input costs, particularly Meggitts military revenue declined increasing market share in conditionin the first half of 2014, drove operators organically by 7% in 2014.
The first half monitoring equipment should continue to to extract greater efficiency from decline was particularly affected by the deliver revenue growth averaging greater their assets.
As newer, more capable completion of two substantial retrofit than 10% over the medium term.
monitoring technologies come to market, programmes in 2013 and a reduction in However, in the short term we anticipate operators will maximise their asset thesale of spares and repairs on some good growth in energy control valves and utilisation and minimise unplanned helicopter and heavy-lift platforms condition monitoring to be largely offset downtime by retrofitting new conditionfollowing the withdrawal of US equipment by a decline at Heatric, reflecting the monitoring systems onto existing plant from Afghanistan.
Military revenues were impact of project deferrals resulting andmachinery.
fromthe recent decline in the oil price.
The oil and gas heat transfer market Our exposure to a broad range of fixed remained robust through 2014. and rotary wing aircraft, ground vehicles, Exploration and production companies training facilities and naval vessels have been increasingly turning to across original equipment and extraction sites which are further offshore aftermarket spares and repairs has and in deeper water, necessitating the enabled us to demonstrate resilience in commissioning of new equipment designed achallenging environment over the last to operate in these increasingly harsh few years.
We expect to continue to do so environments.
These factors have over the medium term.
We have enjoyed resulted in good growth in demand for considerable success, for example, floating, production, storage and offload securing retrofit programmes for FPSO and floating liquefied natural gas blast-proof fuel tanks for the Bradley FLNG vessels.
However, the sharp fighting vehicle fleet and fuel bladders decline in the global oil price over the last forthe KC135 tanker aircraft.
While we few months of the year is likely to have now completed these retrofit significantly dampen oil producers programmes, further opportunities exist appetite for new capital projects in the in the reset of recently repatriated short term, resulting in the deferral and equipment from Afghanistan, and we are possible cancellation of projects.
engaged with US military customers on 93987 p10-12.
