20 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 The next generation To be the best in your field, you need the ow in its third year, the Meggitt best people.
Graduate Programme has a dual Npurpose: creating a group of future leaders in the key disciplines of Our senior leadership programme ensures engineering, operations and procurement: and bringing new insight into cuttingwehave a strong global leadership team.
edge technology from the worlds leadinguniversities.
Our graduate programme attracts talent from A lot of research into areas such as the worlds top universities, adding cutting-edge additive layer manufacturing and nanotechnology is happening at places technical knowledge to the Group today and likeGeorgia Tech, Cal Tech and MIT, says ChiefTechnology Officer, Keith Jackson.
engaging technology thinking for the longer term The best graduates are ready to apply that knowledge to new and existing products.
We continue to broaden the range of training In his first assignment, Blaise Gulat, who has a PhD in microsystems, was part of the for all employees.
A recent Meggitt Production team who produced a prototype for a next System MPS initiative, for example, funnels generation inclinometer.
It replaces electromechanical technology with a expertise right through the business via  system MEMS anetworkof subject matter experts.
In his second assignment, he is developing a new algorithm for secondary flight displays to improve attitude and heading accuracy.
It uses a statistical approach known asKalman filtering to generate a more accurate estimate than you get with asingle measurement, explains Blaise.
Talent More power And itll be able to use other data sources such as magnetic data and GPS when theycome online.
1 Elsewhere, we have been working with to our people local schools and universities to develop skills and create a pipeline of talent for tomorrow.
In the UK, Meggitt sponsored Sheffield Universitys Formula Student team.
Thousands of young engineers from more than 100 universities all develop systemic thinking beyond their Flying higher over the world compete to design and functional areas, explains Robin Young, nsuring we have the right talent to manufacturea single-seat racing car Group Organisation & Development lead the organisation today and torun at Silverstone.
It gets our name as a top graduate choice Participants attend three off-site MPS continues to strengthen training at out into the fast lane, says Jackson, intensives, carrying out assignments site level with leadership standard work Andit helps us get a good look at talent in between on live strategic issues.
and a set of four competencies, such as from all over the world.
Participants develop their ideas in small leading by example and coaching.
Daily, teams, presenting recommendations weekly and monthly, leaders are held and implementation plans to our Learn, teach, learn, teach accountable for ensuring their people Executive Board.
thesmart way to embed are equipped to hit performance goals.
Each year the programme brings newknowledge We have also developed a bespoke together a peer group of very diverse s part of the second phase of MPS executive leadership programme with talent, new joiners and old Meggitt hands.
implementation, subject matter Oxford Universitys Sad Business Its a powerful networking tool, says Aexperts in many of our sites around School.
Taught by external experts Young.
The people who have taken the the world are training to become experts in from academia and business, the oneprogramme so far create the core of one of 10 critical subjects, from statistical year Oxford Leadership Programme astrong global leadership team, with analysis to project leadership.
Engineer focuses on strategy, operations and ashared sense of priorities and values.
Paul Thomson has spent this year becoming personalskills.
Wegather round and help should the going one of the first 2 problem-solving experts at get tough and we make sure everyone in Since 2008, its helped our brightest and Securaplane, our aircraft security and our respective teams understands their best develop a greater understanding of battery specialists in Tucson, Arizona.
role in the bigger picture.
Meggitt as a whole, helping them to 1 See page 8 for a full description of our strategy, articulated within three themes: Technology: Operations excellence: and Customer focus.
indd 20 04 03 2015 16:33 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 21 Left Tomorrows leaders, refreshing our technologies today: Dr Blaise Gulat, front, with fellow graduate programme participants, back L-R: Dr Yair Korenblit, John Borton, Stefan Lespezeanu and Dr Jeff LeHew.
Below First among experts: As part of the Meggitt Production System implementation, Paul Thompson Sustaining Engineering Manager is the first in a cadre of experts being developed at every Meggitt site in ten core disciplines ranging from problem-solving toprojectmanagement.
We started with offsite training in Six Sigma and presentation skillsyou need to get people on your side when it comes to solving complex problems, he says.
After that came two assignments designed to put what wed learned into practice.
The first assignment focused on quality issues with an emergency lighting system.
Some 30 possible issues were revealed, 80% of recommendations were implemented within two weeks and after one month, there was a 30% improvement in the First Pass Yield FPY.
FPY shows how well standard work is undertaken, minimising deviation from plans and theintroduction of rework into our productionprocesses.
Paul is now passing on his learning in a train-the-trainer programme that will take all 180 people at the site up to the first tier of expertise in the subject by the end of 2015.
We start with around six people, they train up another four or five and on it goes.
Once the training is complete, Meggitt experts continuously develop their own understanding, sharing best practice and benchmarking across the sector inorder to champion their subject withinthebusiness.
Model scores: Teri Samsel, Buyer Planner, reviews production scorecards for Meggitts emergency back-up battery line with Paul Thompson in Securaplanes brand-new model factory.
