18 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 The aim of the Meggitt Production System MPS is to transform performance at our sites around the world, day in, day out.
New global standards of excellence will strengthen our core, creating a solid platform for growth and innovation.
Individual improvements are sometimes small.
Together, however, they will reshape our future.
The Meggitt Production System 1 Excellence as standard Singapore: outpacing the industry With a brand-new facility designed on Lean manufacturing principles, Meggitt Aerospace Asia Pacific MAAP already had very high standards of operational performance.
In the seven months it took to implement the first stage of the MPS, however, standards rose even higher.
We believe MPS is leading the industry, says James Mariadass, Director of Operations & Continuous Improvement in Singapore.
And it looks like the industry does too: we won Silver in the Singapore Aerospace Industry Excellence Award for outpacing the industry.
Now were aiming for Gold next time round.
Everyone accountable, every day Daily Layered Accountability is a key concept within the MPS.
It starts with Above: factory floor meetings that take place The Meggitt Aerospace Asia MPS boosting performance in our Singapore facility atthe same time every day.
Issues that Pacific Aftermarket team holds cannot be solved by operators or 2014 2013 its daily functional review.
supervisors are escalated same day to L-R: James Mariadass, Safetynumber of lost time accidents 0 0 functional leaders, site leaders, general Director of Operations & managers and even divisional presidents.
Continuous Improvement, 2 QualityDPPM External All 243 1,854 Issues are visited daily through this Sharon Fan, Head of Customer process until they are solved.
3 Qualitynumber of MRO 0 4 Service, Trebas Kwek, Regional escapes workmanship Financial Controller, Adrian Plevin, General Manager, Roland 4 DeliveryMRO OTD performance 95% 84% Thia, Head of Quality & EHS, Dior Ang, Materials Manager, Mango 2 Defective Parts Per Million Tan, Inside Sales Manager and 3 Maintenance, repair and overhaul Jeanali Wu, HR Manager.
4 On-time delivery 1 See page 8 for a full description of our strategy, articulated within three themes: Technology: Operations excellence: and Customer focus.
indd 18 04 03 2015 16:33 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 19 California: closer analysis, shopfloor know-how saves US$50,000 n 2013 the main cause of internal scrap at Meggitt Control Systems Corona site Iwas stator failure on a motor production line.
About two a week were failing the final test, amounting to a loss of about US$50,000 a year.
A cross-functional team ran a root cause investigation using a range of MPS tools, revealing that shorting thermostats were a major cause of stator failure.
Based on an idea from Judy Bunch, leader of the motor-winding cell, one of the engineers on the line solved the problem by pre-impregnating the thermostats.
Judy also observed that when the stators were fitted into the motor housing, the wires would occasionally get damaged and later short.
Working with her, amanufacturing engineer developed areplica of the motor housing.
Assemblers now check for clearance issues without damaging the wires prior to fitting.
Thefailure rate has dropped tozero.
Creativity on the factory floor: These are typical examples of how more Garrett Mertz, Site Director, Business ideas are coming up from the floor, says operations, Judy Bunch, Lead Assembly Site Operations Director, Garret Mertz.
Technician and Derek Harris, Lead Test With MPS, we start the day with a set of Technician eliminating scrap at Meggitts Switzerland: better planning short, interlocking meetings which control systems facility in Corona, California.
means higher productivity, cascade information up and down the lower inventory business, escalating problems and potential solutions so they get the or the last 18 months, Helge attention they need.
Huerkamp, General Manager, Meggitt FSensing Systems Switzerland, has Its not Get it done anymore, says Judy.
been using MPS to drive more accurate Its How can we help you get it done.
sales, inventory and operations planning.
As well as driving efficiencies throughout the business cycle, the revamped process allows managers to simulate the impact of new business more accurately.
At the end of 2014, a key customer asked for 120 additional engine monitoring units, each one consisting of thousands of components.
Running the data through a more reliable planning and simulation model highlighted potential bottlenecks.
Model planning: But just as important, because key people Helge Huerkamp, General are now used to a more rigorous step-byManager, Meggitt Sensing step process of discussion, forecasting Systems Switzerland, and sign-off, theres a much more has confidence in data accurate picture of what new business run through MPSs more can be taken on and when.
reliable planning and That information is invaluable in simulationmodels.
Weknow we can trust it and, of course, the customer picks up on that too.
Wewere able to confirm this additional order, plus weve been able to ramp up production in other areas: productivity has increased by 8% over the last two years and inventory has improved by 10 days.
