76 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors report The directors present their report together with the audited Incorporation by reference consolidated financial statements of the Group prepared in Certain laws and regulations require that specific information accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards should be included in the Directors report.
The table below IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the Companies shows the items which are incorporated into this Directors Act 2006 and Company audited financial statements prepared report by reference: in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and the Companies Act 2006 for the year ended 31 December 2014.
There are no significant events affecting the Group since the end of the year requiring disclosure.
Information incorporated into the Directors report by reference Location and page Likely future developments in the Groups business Strategic report page 1 to 41 The Corporate governance report Board of Directors and Corporate governance report pages 43 to 50 Research and development activities Note 8 of the Groups consolidated financial statements page 102 and Chief Financial Officers review page 34 Policies on financial risk management, including the extent to which financial Note 3 of the Groups consolidated financial statements page instruments are utilised to mitigate any significant risks to which the Group is exposed 95 Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate responsibility report page 39 Employee information Corporate responsibility report page 41 Employee involvement Employment of disabled persons Independent auditorsdisclosure of relevant audit information Statement of directors responsibilities page 79 Statement of the amount of interest capitalised by the Group during the year with an Note 19 of the Groups consolidated financial statements indication of the amount and treatment of any related tax relief page 109 Details of long term incentive plans Directors remuneration report pages 58 to 59 Details of any arrangements under which a director of the Company has waived or agreed Nothing to disclose to waive any emoluments from the Company or any subsidiary undertaking.
Details of allotments for cash of ordinary shares made during the period under review.
Note 34 of the Groups consolidated financial statements page 125 Contracts of significance to which the Company is a party and in which a director is Nothing to disclose materially interested.
Contracts of significance between a Company and a controlling shareholder.
Not applicable, as the Company does not have a controlling shareholder Contracts for the provision of services to the Company by a controlling shareholder.
Not applicable, as the Company does not have a controlling shareholder Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive Nothing to disclose dividends.
Agreements related to controlling shareholder requirements under LR 9.2.
2 A Not applicable, as the Company does not have a controlling shareholder Statement of directors interests Directors remuneration report page 72 Interests disclosed by shareholders under DTR 5 Substantial shareholdings page 78 Going concern disclosure Chief Financial Officers review page 37 Details of shareholder authority for the purchase of the Companys own shares Share capital and control page 77 A statement of how the Company has complied with the Code and details of any nonCorporate governance report page 43 compliance.
Details of directors service contracts Share capital and control page 78 and Directors remuneration report pages 62 to 63 Share buyback disclosures Chief Financial Officers review page 35 93987 p76-79.
indd 76 04 03 2015 17:07 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 77 Dividends Conflicts of interest The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of The Company has a procedure for the disclosure, review, authorisation and management of directors conflicts of interest 9.50p net per ordinary 5p share 2013: 8.80p, to be paid on 8 May and potential conflicts of interest, in accordance with the 2015 to those members on the register at close of business on provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In deciding whether to 20 March 2015.
An interim dividend of 4.25p 2013: 3.95p was authorise a conflict or potential conflict the directors must have paid on 3 October 2014.
If the final dividend as recommended regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006. is approved the total ordinary dividend for the year will amount The authorisation of any conflict matter, and the terms of to 13.75p net per ordinary 5p share 2013: 12.75p.
authorisation, are regularly reviewed by the Board.
Dividends are paid to shareholders net of a non-refundable tax credit of 10%.
Shareholders liable to higher rates of income tax Political donations will have additional tax to pay.
No political donations were made during the year 2013: None.
Share dividend plan Share capital and control During 2014, the Company made a share dividend plan available The issued share capital of the Company at 31 December 2014 for the dividends paid in May 2014 the final dividend for 2013 and details of shares issued and cancelled during the financial and in October 2014 the interim dividend for 2014.
The cash year are shown in note 34 of the Groups consolidated financial dividend necessary to give an entitlement to one new ordinary statements.
On 31 December 2014 there were 802,330,037 share was fixed at 454.54p and 467.40p respectively.
A further 2,916,114 ordinary shares A share buyback programme was announced on 5 November were bought back and cancelled between 1 January 2015 and 13 2014.
Consistent with introducing a share buyback programme, February 2015 with an aggregate amount paid of 15.2m, all of the Board determined that a dividend reinvestment plan would which were cancelled as a result of the share buyback be offered instead of a scrip dividend in 2015.
Further details of programme, and 1,031 shares have been allotted under the the share buyback programme are contained in the Chief Sharesave Scheme.
The ordinary shares are listed on the Financial Officers review page 35.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Directors shares are set out in the Articles.
A copy of the Articles is The directors of the Company who were in office during the year available for inspection at the registered office.
The holders of and up to the date of signing the financial statements were: ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report Sir Colin Terry Chairman, Mr S G Young Chief Executive, and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Mr G S Berruyer, Mr P G Cox resigned 31 January 2015, Company, to appoint proxies to exercise full voting rights and Ms A J P Goligher appointed 30 October 2014, Mr P E Green, to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
Mr P Heiden, Ms B L Reichelderfer, Mr D A Robins retired 7 May There are no restrictions on transfer, or limitations on holding 2014, Mr D R Webb and Mr D M Williams Senior Independent ordinary shares and no requirements for prior approval of any Director.
Since the year end and up to the date of this Directors transfers.
There are no known arrangements under which report, Mr Philip Cox resigned as a director on 31 January 2015. financial rights are held by persons other than holders of the Additionally, the Board announced in December 2014 that on shares and no known agreements or restrictions on share 1 March 2015, Sir Nigel Rudd will join the Board, initially as a transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company non-executive director and Deputy Chairman, and then as share plans rank pari passu on an equal footing with the Non-Executive Chairman at the conclusion of the Annual shares in issue and have no special rights.
General Meeting AGM being held on 23 April 2015, following the retirement of Sir Colin Terry.
Rules about the appointment and replacement of Company directors are contained in the Articles which provide that All directors will be submitted for election or re-election at the a director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the AGM, except Sir Colin Terry who is due to retire at its conclusion.
shareholders or by the existing directors, either to fill a vacancy Details of any unexpired terms of the directors service or as an additional director.
Changes to the Articles must be contracts are in the Directors remuneration report.
submitted to the shareholders for approval by way of special Membership of committees and biographical information is resolution.
The directors may exercise all the powers of the disclosed on pages 44 to 45 and in the notice of AGM.
Company subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the The directors have the benefit of qualifying third-party Articles and any directions given by the Company in general meeting.
indemnity provisions for the purposes of Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 pursuant to the Articles which were in The powers of the directors include those in relation to the issue effect throughout the financial year and up to the date of this and buyback of shares.
At each AGM, the shareholders are Directors report.
The Company also purchased and maintained requested to renew the directors powers to allot securities in the throughout the year Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Company up to the value specified in the notice of meeting and to No indemnity is provided for the Companys auditors.
renew the directors powers to allot securities, without the application of pre-emption rights, up to the value specified in the notice of meeting in accordance with the Articles.
The Company can seek authority from the shareholders at the AGM to purchase its own shares.
indd 77 04 03 2015 17:07 78 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors report continued Share capital and control continued Substantial shareholdings The Group has significant financing agreements which include At 13 February 2015, the Company had been notified under the change of control provisions which, should there be a change Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the following of ownership of the Company, could result in renegotiation, substantial interests in the issued ordinary shares of the withdrawal or early repayment of these financing agreements.
Company requiring disclosure: These are a USD 900 million revolving credit agreement dated Percentage of total September 2014, a USD 600 million note purchase agreement voting rights dated June 2010 and a USD 250 million note purchase attaching to the agreement dated June 2003. issued ordinary Direct voting Indirect voting share capital of rights m rights m the company There are a number of other long-term commercial agreements that may alter or terminate upon a change of The Capital Group 120.8 15.11% control of the Company following a successful takeover bid.
These arrangements are commercially confidential and their Harris Associates L. P. 41.3 5.16% disclosure could be seriously prejudicial to the Company.
FMR LLC 40.6 5.07% Agreements with the Companys directors or employees Standard Life 22.2 3.8 3.24% providing compensation in the event of a takeover bid: Investments Ltd Legal & General Group plc 23.7 2.97% Director Contractual entitlement One voting right per ordinary share.
Mr S G Young None except that provisions in the Companys These holdings are published on a regulatory information share plans may cause options and or awards service and on the Companys website.
granted to employees under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Statement of directors responsibilities Mr D R Webb None except that provisions in the Companys The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, share plans may cause options and or awards the Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements granted to employees under such plans to vest in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Mr P E Green Mr Green may terminate his employment statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors within six months and would be entitled to have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance compensation from the Company for loss of with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as office.
The compensation would be annual adopted by the European Union, and the parent company remuneration plus the value of benefits for the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom unexpired notice period less 5%.
In addition, Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom provisions in the Companys share plans may Accounting Standards and applicable law.
cause options and or awards granted to employees under such plans to vest on a takeover.
directors All other There are no agreements that would provide employees compensation for loss of employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions in the Companys share plans may cause options and or awards granted to employees under such plans to vest on a takeover.
indd 78 04 03 2015 17:07 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 79 Under company law the directors must not approve the financial Each of the persons who is a director as at the date of this report statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and confirms that: fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: In preparing these financial statements, the directors are and required to: the director has taken all the necessary steps in order to select suitable accounting policies and apply them make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit consistently: information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Act 2006. applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in Fair, balanced and understandable the Group and parent Company financial statements The directors as at the date of this report consider that the respectively.
Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and understandable and provides the information necessary for records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time model and strategy.
The Board has made this assessment on the the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable basis of a review of the accounts process, a discussion on the them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors content of the annual report assessing its fairness, balance and Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, understandability, together with the confirmation from executive as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS management that the report is fair, balanced and Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the understandable.
assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking By order of the Board reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation M L Thomas in other jurisdictions.
Company Secretary Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in 23 February 2015 the Board of Directors on page 44 to 45, confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic report and this Directors report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
