8 8 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Group strategy Strategy We select high-growth markets where we can deploy our smart engineering Customer for extreme environments and ability to navigate the complex regulatory and focus certification environment associated with safetyand mission-critical products.
These markets must deliver long-term, predictable revenue streams in line with our business model.
GRowTH We set strategic priorities according to the dynamics of this business model.
operations Technology Today, we are addressing core technology, consolidating our resources and excellence sharpening our focus to extend our intellectual property: operations excellence from the factory floor to every function based on the Meggitt Production System: and renewed focus on customers, with dedicated management responsibility for OEM and aftermarket customer relations, underpinned by strong programme management.
Meggitts strategy by market and capability is outlined in the Market review see page 10 and under Meggitt divisions see page 13. Business model We deliver strong and sustainable Technology operations shareholder returns through leading positions in aerospace, defence and energy markets.
Throughout the business cycle, revenue comes from successfully executing original equipment programmes often sole-source and the aftermarket that flows from them.
Aftermarket demand Installed is driven by condition-based demand base caused by the wear and tear associated with the harsh environments in which our products operate.
KNowLEdGE Field knowledge enhances our intellectual property.
Aftermarket Returns Shareholders Airframers, turbine manufacturers, oil and Airlines, militaries, distributors, MRO integrators gas platforms and processing vessels 60,000-plus platforms carry Meggitt products Winning new programmes, often on Selling Meggitt content onto new platforms Supporting end-users through sales of spares asole-source basis, through technology provides aftermarket access.
and repairs for the life of programmes is a andoperations excellence.
indd 8 04 03 2015 16:24 REINVESTMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 9 Investment cycle We develop technology for applications involving product As our products are developed in line with our customers life-cycles measured in decades.
Products must perform technology goals, we have performed strongly in recent bid cycles, without fail in environmental extremes, requiring replacement securing positions on key platforms and refreshing the long-term or overhaul, generating strong returns from our initial investment aftermarket pipeline.
Our near-term business is weighted therefore towards investment Our business model requires significant cash investment in the in new development programmes and the transition of new products development phase of programmes.
For our wheels and brakes to full run-rate manufacturing, the source of sustainable growth business, this includes production.
We make strong positive over the long term.
cashflow within our civil aerospace and military end-markets during the in-service phase, resulting in cash break-even between years 11 and 18 typically, with a shorter cash break-even in the energy market.
Cumulative cash flow 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 Typical product lifecycle years Development In production Mature Wheels and brakes Civil Military Energy 93987 p08-09.
