22 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 resources: advanced workstations To continue leading the world in our chosen enableindividual operators to work onthewidest range of products.
fields, we must become even better innovators.
Although the full programme will 4 take three years, M will initially run By empowering people at every level to drive alongside existing factory operations, change themselves, the Meggitt Production using acombination of simulated and actualenvironments.
System MPS is improving the way we innovate, Were already looking at introducing freeing up capital to reinvest in technology.
findings from the scoping phase to some of our other facilities and that will continue throughout the programme, says Parker.
We are not only focusing on developing greater 4 M isnt just a one-off improvement.
maturity in next generation technologies, we Itsgiving us the tools we need to drive improvements, year on year.
arelooking at the advanced manufacturing capabilities needed to industrialise them.
Lighter, quieter, more reliable and faster to manufacture New manufacturing techniques are enabling us to improve existing product designs and create totally new ones.
Take compressor bleed valves, for example.
Theyre used to prevent stalling by controlling engine pressure.
High pressure air makes a huge amount of noise as it travels through the valve Technology Smarter geometry that has been cast or machined in a traditional way.
A team of Meggitt engineers on our Group engineering, generation graduate programme have used additive layer manufacturing ALM to create a 1 radical new component design for our after generation engine customers.
The valve will significantly cut noise over residential areas surrounding major airports, an important regulatory requirement for almost all existing jet-engined planes.
Scott Lathrope, Matt Scovell and David Skolnik, have led work on the new control creating a prototype workstation.
Laser Factories of the future valve concept which aims to be 25% and video projected guides, plus sensorlighter as well as quieter, more reliable Our focus on manufacturing high-value enabled smart assembly fixtures, allow and quicker to manufacture.
complex parts requires great expertise operators to build a wider variety of in assembling sub-components.
That Air flows much more quietly around the products, faster and more accurately.
kind of organic designs you can create Automatic cameras keep detailed records But, as the volume, variety and complexity with ALM, explains Lathrope.
And our throughout, enhancing traceability, while of these parts grows, we need to take model is simpler to assemble as there are capturing ideas for improvement.
performance optimisation up to the fewer parts.
That means less potential Starting in 2015, we will develop the other next level.
error and an increase in reliability.
technologies M4 requires in partnership Our pioneering approach, known Group Engineering and Strategy Director, with the AMRC, the Manufacturing as Meggitt Modular Modifiable Chris Allen says, We hope to use Technology Centre MTC and a leading Manufacturing M4, will do just that, optimisation techniques developed on software provider.
We have also attracted giving operators the right tools, parts, this project to create a wide range significant interest from Innovate UK, and information at the right time so they of advanced components for nextthe UKs innovation agency and Britains can radically improve performance.
At generation aero platforms, as well Aerospace Technology Institute.
site level, it will enable us to reconfigure asproducts for the medical and M4 will optimise factory performance by our factories in real time, adjusting plans energysectors.
responding to changes at the micro level, to satisfy customer requirements and such as late customer demand, and at the optimise inventory.
macro level, such as buying more efficient In 2014, we started this journey in equipment, says Steve Parker, Director partnership with the UKs Advanced of Engineering.
It supports investment in Manufacturing Research Centre AMRC, people and equipment by maximising our 1 See page 8 for a full description of our strategy, articulated within three themes: Technology: Operations excellence: and Customer focus.
indd 22 04 03 2015 16:33 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 23 Intelligent workbench above and right : AMRC Technician, John Hall examines a flexible fixturing solution, a product of Meggitts Closed Loop Adaptive Assembly Workbench CLAAW project, the aim of which is to achieve a quantum leap not only in production output but quality, repeatability and traceability using guidance via lasers and display screens and smart tools.
The sample part is Meggitts electric brake.
Below right: CLAAWs fixture includes targets to guide the calibration of an overhead laser.
A shaft is encoded to enable precise rotation measurements.
A power-on brake provides stability for torque operations.
Product assemblies can be mounted and removed swiftly using a pneumatic easy-click clamp.
Revolution: low-noise aero-engine valve, a concept enabled by Meggitt additive layer manufacturing.
