STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 1 Operations excellence at the core Meggitts smart engineering for Across the Group, MPS has strengthened the extreme environments attracted foundations for greater operations excellence, an unprecedented number of giving us a comprehensive but flexible framework programme wins in the current civil for continuous improvement.
On-time-delivery and aerospace cycle of new platform quality are up in many of our businesses as a result.
launches, making 2014 a year of MPS new global standards make our core stronger, creating a secure platform for growth.
See page 18. accelerating new product introduction ready to meet the Making more of our talent manufacturing ramp-up that will MPS is also reshaping our culture.
Our new drive financial returns for the next operating system has renewed employee decade and more.
Increasing numbers of operators, supervisors and managers have the We will continue to focus on the industrialisation of tools and processes they need to make a very new products in 2015, supported by the widening personal contribution to improving the business implementation of the Meggitt Production System and leaders now have more time to lead, spotting MPS.
This combination of tried-and-tested opportunities for growth and innovation.
business improvement methodologies tailored to See page 20.
Meggitt is fundamental to defining how we work throughout the Group.
A new wave of technology The operational savings and productivity The system consists of six demanding phases, with improvements won by MPS will allow us the final Silver and Gold certifications delineating to invest more in innovationwhat we make operations excellence as a defining, sustainable and how we make it.
While achieving gains in productivity and employee engagement wherever Were looking ahead not only to product MPS has been introduced, we are at the beginning innovation but advances in how we make products.
of a journey that will extend from the factory floor We are already investigating a new approach to into every function and that will touch every manufacturing engineering, taking the first steps Meggitt employee.
toward developing the factories of the future.
