Melrose Industries PLC 08 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Market overview Businesses within the Melrose Group operate in diverse markets around the world.
In this section, current market trends and external factors affecting the growth of each Melrose business are considered, together with individual business responses to these trends and factors.
Melrose Group Global market Manufacturing locations around the world Elster Water, a leader in water metering products and solutions.
Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC 09 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 75 million 130 countries Elster Gas metering devices use Elster Gas measurement have been deployed globally and safety control equipment Elster Gas External factors: These solutions are deployed worldwide, Elster Gas is a world leader in the competition and regulation with a strong focus on Asia, the Middle design and manufacture of gas In Europe, the EU 20 20 20 mandatory East and the US, together with a growing measurement, process heat control environmental targets remain in force, biogas sector in Northern Europe.
and gas safety control equipment, targeting an improvement in the following The US Residential and Commercial supplying a global customer base areas: 20% improvement in energy efficiency Metering Market is driven by new housing, in more than 130 countries.
It has against 1990 levels: 20% reduction in carbon meter replacement programmes, and one of the most extensively installed emissions: 20% of energy to be from Smart Grid deployments.
The downstream utility measurement bases in the renewable sources.
In addition to the distribution market surged with world with more than 75 million gas environmental drivers, the global economic government-funded projects focused on metering devices deployed globally.
situation is increasing competition and infrastructure improvement and integrity Its complete range of end-to-end pricing pressure and changing buying management.
Elsters ability to provide solutions enables customers to behaviour within key markets.
a main to meter solution has generated efficiently manage and control Recent international tensions are also strong demand which is anticipated to natural gas resources.
increasing concerns over energy security, last for the next three to five years.
Current market trends prompting changes to infrastructure The Midstream, Pipeline, and Power Global energy consumption continues investment strategies.
Markets are driven by the transition from to increase, with a growing share for China accounts for almost 50% of global steel coal-burning power plants to natural gas, natural gas away from coal and oil production, and there is international pressure and by the rapid growth of shale gas with that is forecast to continue in the long for China to adopt ISO global standards in its associated infrastructure for export as term.
This share growth reflects the terms of safety and environmental efficiency.
Increased investment in the US high environmental advantages of gas pressure transmission network is also when compared with other fossil Business response expected to drive growth.
However, in addition, supply The effect of these factors is being seen Elster has invested resources in high side growth particularly from new in the six strategic market sectors in which pressure metering and energy measurement sources of gas such as shale gas Elster Gas operates, as set out below.
gas chromatograph systems to capitalise in the US, and some demand side The European gas meter market, driven on the expected growth.
weakness from the global economy, by EU environmental legislation, is in the are helping to reduce the price of The Residential Heating Market is process of replacing existing standard gas natural gas, further enhancing its dominated by targets set by the EU meters with Smart meters.
Elster is actively attractiveness within the energy mix.
for the use of energy in home heating.
involved in major residential pilot projects It will be mandatory from 2015 to install in several countries, each with its own condensing boilers with high efficiency technical requirements.
Elster The Integrated Gas Metering Station market supplies solutions for heat generation is driven by increasing gas consumption, Safety Combustion Technology and creating a demand to expand the gas heat management Comfort Controls pipelines and infrastructure to connect the to the European heating market.
Business review gas reserves with the ultimate consumers.
More information p28 The Process Heat Market depends This fuels investment in infrastructure heavily on global capacity levels in the associated with extraction, production, grid steel, aluminium and non-ferrous metal injection and transmission of shale gas and industries.
Elster Kromschrder has biogas, including Liquefied Natural Gas developed specific solutions for Process LNG terminals and grid injection plants.
Sales and Elster supplies the full scope of energy application skills of the engineering team measurement solutions, including ultrasonic are key factors for high level products and meters, flow computers, and gas quality solutions, and their added value thinking measurement devices.
is an important market differentiator.
Melrose Industries PLC 10 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Market overview continued The global market will continue to see a shift from traditional electricity metering to Smart meter solutions.
Elster Electricity Elster Electricity is one of the largest international Smart metering solutions providers for residential, commercial, industrial, transmission and distribution markets.
Current market trends Elster Electricitys primary markets are the EU, US, South America, the Middle East and Africa.
In the EU, Elster Electricity saw several gains of major customers and continued growth is expected.
Following calls for the European-wide roll out of Smart meter solutions by 2022, further significant growth is anticipated.
Good growth has also been seen in the Middle East, Precision engineering and which is expected to continue over the quality control are a vital coming years.
In South America, there element of our world class is a controlled change from standard manufacturing processes.
External factors: competition and regulation Elster Water Smart metering is driving The global market will continue to see Elster Water is recognised globally as growth in electronic water a shift from traditional metering to a leading supplier of water meters with Smart meter solutions.
While the North sales revenue derived from more than meters equipped with American markets are expected to 100 countries.
standard communication remain relatively constant at existing Current market trends sales volumes, other markets are interfaces for connection The global water industry continues to seek expected to see growth.
In Latin America, innovative metering solutions to support to Smart networks.
Europe and the Middle East, further the objectives of water providers, including projects are starting and a significant water conservation, customer service and level of tender activity is anticipated.
Elsewhere, legislation on water quality resource efficiency.
In developed markets, and CO reduction continues to drive the 2 Business response revenue growth is driven by a continued adoption of polymer-bodied water meters New metering and software solutions increase in the adoption of communicating in both developed and developing markets.
products and technologies have been meters for Smart metering projects, Utilities are also seeking water meters with developed and successfully launched.
particularly in Europe, the Middle East extended accuracy ranges in order to The new evolution of Meter Data and North America.
maximise water measurement and help Collection has been released recently This Smart metering trend is also driving detect leaks.
and during 2015 further investment growth in electronic water meters equipped will be made to secure further world with standard communication interfaces for class partnerships with Smart Grid connection to Smart networks.
state, electronic meters, often called static meters, allow extended meter life in harsh water quality conditions.
Business review More information p30 Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC 11 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Brushs product development of very large air-cooled generators will position the business well in future years.
External factors: Energy External factors: competition and regulation Brush Turbogenerators is the worlds competition and regulation Regulations governing water meter largest independent manufacturer of Some Brush businesses have strong UK specifications are both regional and electricity generating equipment for revenue streams, principally Transformers national with most markets adopting the power generation, industrial, oil and Switchgear, customers of which are international standards into their regulatory & gas and offshore sectors.
regulated by OFGEM Office of Gas and environment, usually with some adaptation Electricity Markets.
Current market trends to suit local needs.
The competitive Slow growth in the global economy is In China, the Energy Action Plan was environment in Elster Waters main driving a modest market growth in power released in November 2014 by the new markets comprises a few large suppliers generation.
Advances in technology are Chinese Government which endorsed based in Europe and North America, resulting in the development of larger the distributed energy installation targets together with many regional companies.
more efficient turbines, in excess of sizes set out in the 12th 5 Year Plan.
This The trends in Smart water metering are traditionally supplied by Brush.
will underpin the switch from coal fired attracting new software providers to generation to gas fired generation which support advanced metering infrastructure Exceptionally low oil & gas prices have will require generators such as those projects including those from the IT sector.
had a negative impact on oil & gas to be manufactured by Brush China.
It is expected that there will be increasing investment projects, predominantly numbers of projects requiring partners in the upstream sector of the industry, Business response working together to deliver these Smart to which Brush has exposure.
In 2014, Brush started to supply water services to utilities.
generators to its Chinese customers from its European factories.
The newlyBusiness response constructed factory in China is expected In response to the above trends, Elster to deliver its first generator in the first Water remains focused on the delivery quarter of 2016. of innovative, value added products in market segments that are responsive Brushs product development of very to higher performing metering products large air-cooled generators will position Business review and solutions.
Recent innovations by the business well in future years.
More information p34 Elster include extending the range of award winning polymer-bodied residential meters, the launch of the H5000 commercial and industrial meter and the integration and connectivity of leading Smart communication technologies.
Elster Water continues to work with key water industry partners in several regions to address local requirements.
Strong customer relationships remain important, helping to ensure that Elster Water continues to develop water metering products and solutions tailored to customer needs.
Product development continues to be an Business review integral part of Brushs More information p32 business strategy.
