Melrose Industries PLC 16 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Our strategy Melrose buys good manufacturing businesses with strong fundamentals, whose performance can be improved.
Melrose finances its acquisitions using a low level of leverage, improves the businesses by a mixture of investment and changed management focus, sells them and returns the proceeds to shareholders.
Buy Improve Good manufacturing Set strategy and targets businesses whose and sign off investments performance can be improved Drive operational improvements Use low public market Invest in the business leverage Change management focus, incentivise well F ocus on operating cash generation Progress Progress The year on year operating margins The acquisition of Eclipse, a US-based of the continuing Group businesses have specialist in the complementary field of increased from 16.4% to 17.9%, with the low-temperature combustion technology, Elster Group increasing operating has created an opportunity to strengthen margins from 17.4% to 19.6%.
Operational the Elster Gas business and enhance improvement projects are returning shareholder value.
efficiency gains in each Elster business.
The business is already performing ahead of expectations.
Priorities To drive operational improvements, Priorities invest in businesses and focus on To identify and acquire strong cash generation.
manufacturing businesses whose performance can be improved, Key risks using low public market leverage.
The Group may not succeed in driving strategic operational improvements to Key risks generate value post acquisition in the Global economic and financial conditions acquired business.
may impact the timing of acquisitions.
Assets may underperform or require more investment and resources than originally anticipated.
Buy Improve Sell Buy Improve Sell 1 2 1 Key performance Headline proforma Dividend per share Headline diluted earnings per share operating profit indicators 15.3p 8.1p 246.0m 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
Key performance 2 Calculated using the number of shares in issue following the Return of Capital and the related share consolidation.
indicators 3 Calculated using average exchange rates for the year.
More information p24 1 4 Headline operating profit before depreciation and amortisation of computer software and development costs.
Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC 17 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Sell Identify the optimal time to sell, often between three to five years but flexible Return value to shareholders from significant disposals Progress In November 2014, the Group completed the sale of Bridon for an enterprise value of 365 million, meaning that the original equity investment by Melrose more than doubled.
Priorities To identify the optimal time to divest the Groups businesses and to return value to shareholders from significant disposals.
Key risks Due to the Groups global operations, disposals may be significantly impacted by political and macroeconomic factors.
There may be long-term liabilities which may be retained by the Group and insufficient allowance for indemnities and warranties given at disposal may affect the Groups financial position.
Buy Improve Sell 3 1 1 Cash conversion Net debt to headline Interest cover Headline operating 4 EBITDA profit margin 90% 1.7x 15.3x 17.9% Melrose Industries PLC 18 18 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Acquisition of Eclipse, Inc. A more comprehensive offering for our customers Eclipse and Elster In October 2014, the Elster The total consideration Gas business acquired was US $158 million.
The Eclipse, Inc. a manufacturer transaction was on a debt of gas combustion and cash free basis and components and systems for was funded within the industrial heating and drying existing debt facilities applications headquartered of the Melrose Group.
Eclipses long established expertise in low-temperature industrial gas combustion complements Elsters expertise in high-temperature industrial gas combustion applications in Europe.
Eclipse high temperature SER burners providing even temperature distribution in a metals industry furnace.
Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC 19 19 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report US $158m Total consideration paid for Eclipse Melrose Industries PLC 20 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Continual improvement across Elster Margins improve in Elster businesses Since their acquisition in 2012, Whilst the bulk of the improvement programmes restructuring and product implemented within the Elster rationalisation is behind us, businesses have increased ongoing programmes of Elster profits by two-thirds.
efficiency gains are expected to add to the substantial Operating margins continue improvements already to improve in each of the achieved in these businesses.
three businesses of Gas, Electricity and Water with the combined Elster operating margin having grown from 12.8% to 19.6% during the period of Melrose ownership.
Automated housing production with doubled capacity for residential smart gas meters in Lotte, Germany.
Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC 21 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Elster profits increased by two-thirds since acquisition in 2012 Elster operating margin grown from 12.8% to 19.6% during the period of Melrose ownership Melrose Industries PLC 22 22 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Creating value in the sale of Bridon Our buy, improve, sell model in action Highlights In November 2014, Melrose Bridon is an excellent completed the disposal of example of the Melrose the Bridon business for an buy, improve, sell model enterprise value of 365 at work.
The Board used ability to create substantial part of the net proceeds value for shareholders by to return 200 million in investing heavily in our cash to shareholders, businesses and improving using the balance to operational performance.
Since the acquisition of FKI in 2008, we have successfully grown and developed the Bridon business into a premier supplier of critical high-performance ropes for energy, mining and industrial applications.
Simon Peckham, Chief Executive Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC 23 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 365m Enterprise value x2 Original equity investment by Melrose more than doubled
