Melrose Industries PLC 30 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review Business review continued Elster Electricity is one of the largest international metering Elster Electricity solutions providers, supplying both traditional and Smart meter For the future Smart Grid, Elster Electricity is investing equipment, including applications to secure world class for residential, commercial, partnerships and has recently introduced the new enhanced industrial, transmission and open and secure software offering, Connexo.
The product range includes distribution and control monitoring equipment, advanced Smart metering, demand response, networking and software solutions including MDC Meter Data Collection with open API Application Programme Interface connecting third party applications, together with several other communication products and services.
Elster Electricity has key production facilities located in Europe, North America and South America and operates in most global markets through its own offices or agents.
North America is served through factories and sales offices, and offers Smart metering www.
com Total revenue solutions to commercial, industrial and en electricity year ended 31 December 2014 residential markets.
Elster has one of the largest installed AMI Advanced Meter Infrastructure meter bases.
Most utilities 2 215.7m -4% in the USA have started deploying Smart 2013: 247.5m meter solutions, with around 50% of all households equipped with Smart meters.
1 Key strengths Headline operating profit Following the end of the Smart Grid year ended 31 December 2014 Investment Grant awards as part of the End-to-end solution provider for American Reinvestment and Recovery the Smart Grid, covering the entire Act, the North American market saw a 2 22.8m 23% revenue decrease compared to previous energy distribution value chain 2013: 21.5m years.
Growth, however, is expected in Delivering complete Smart Grid and Mexico, where a regulatory framework is Revenue by geographical Energy Management Solutions that in place to accelerate further deployment.
destination drive energy efficiency, operational Europe, the Middle East and Africa, with year ended 31 December 2014 improvements and cost savings the biggest market being the European Union, have seen significant growth over Driving interoperability and Open the last year, and with the third Energy 1.
North America 44% Package calling for a European-wide roll 1 collaboration with customers 3.
Asia 10% out of Smart meter solutions through to 4.
RoW 19% and partners 3 2022, further growth is expected over the coming years.
Elster Electricity is well Leading on Privacy Enhancement positioned with a broad range of products Technology and Security 2 and solutions, and with recent wins and Reputation for quality, reliability, pilot projects, Elster Electricity expects to capture its fair share of the market.
1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and accuracy and innovation intangible asset amortisation.
Performance Review Melrose Industries PLC 31 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review Operating profit improved as a result of consolidation activities and process Products Market overview improvement actions taken in previous years.
The move of production in North Complete end-to-end product Elster Electricitys primary markets are the America to San Luis Potosi in Mexico has EU, US, South America, the Middle East range, covering every aspect now been completed and supply chain and Africa.
In the EU, Elster Electricity of the value chain and assembly for a part of the European saw several gains of major customers.
Innovative, advanced and operation has now been consolidated in Continued growth is expected.
Focus on solutions growth has also been seen in the Middle modular electricity meters for selling and subsequent service revenue East, which is expected to continue over both residential, commercial also contributed to the overall profit the coming years.
The supply chain, both in External factors North America and Europe, has been Providing new concepts and The global market will continue to see consolidated around tier 1 OEM suppliers technologies in data collection a shift from traditional metering to resulting in improved quality.
2014 saw and communication Smart meter solutions.
While the North another focus on VAVE Value Added American markets are expected to Value Engineering across all product Full range of services, remain relatively constant at existing lines resulting in improved margins.
delivering business solutions sales volumes, other markets are In 2015, a key focus will be on introducing expected to see growth.
the new enhanced open software offering, Business response Connexo, starting in North America New metering and software solutions followed by Europe.
New product features products and technologies have been will be launched reflecting the market developed and successfully launched.
5 million demand for new communication protocols The new evolution of Meter Data and data encryption features.
A move to Elster Electricity has deployed more Collection has been released recently a new facility in Timisoara in Romania is than 5million Smart residential and during 2015 further investment planned for the fourth quarter.
meters over the last six years.
will be made to secure further world Outlook class partnerships with Smart Grid Following last years tender activities for application providers.
Smart metering in Europe and the Middle East, a number of projects have been secured that will see pilot projects in 2015 and subsequent mass roll out in the years to follow.
In South America, including Mexico, utilities are expected to continue Market overview the focus on reducing wastage of electricity More information p10 through accelerated roll out of integrated metering solutions.
These developments mean that Elster Electricity is well positioned for an exciting future, although the precise timing of Smart meter roll out remains unpredictable.
A visible shift from traditional metering to Smart meter solutions is occurring globally, and is expected to gain momentum over the coming years.
