Melrose Industries PLC 28 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review Business review Elster Gas is a world leader in gas measurement and gas Elster Gas safety control equipment, supplying a global customer In 2014 the new semiautomatic production line base in more than 130 in Lotte, Germany produced countries.
With one of the 1.5 million commercial and residential meters.
most extensive installed utility measurement bases in the world and more than 75 million gas metering devices deployed globally, Elster Gas products enable customers to efficiently measure, manage and control natural gas resources across the complete gas value chain.
From its four lead plants in Europe and the USA, coupled with sizeable subsidiary operations in China, Malaysia, Russia and Mexico, Elster Gas designs and manufactures gas meters and related products for residential, commercial and industrial customers.
In 2014, five million gas meters were manufactured in Elsters www.
com Total revenue major factories.
en index year ended 31 December 2014 Global revenues increased by 6% in 2014.
Operating profit increased by 2 687.0m 6% 13% compared to 2013, driven by sales 2013: 688.9m growth and managements strategy of strong operational control coupled with 1 Key strengths Headline operating profit rationalisation of the business footprint.
year ended 31 December 2014 During the year, there were significant With proven excellence in performance improvements in both North engineering, sales and operational America and Germany.
Overall, there was 2 161.4m 13% a continued improvement in gross margin capability and a Best in Class 2013: 152.4m and when coupled with a further reduction approach to everything it does, in fixed costs, there was an encouraging Elster Gas is well positioned to Revenue by geographical 1.5% improvement this year in the return exploit growth opportunities and on sales.
destination year ended 31 December 2014 to succeed as technology shifts In October 2014, Elster Gas completed towards Smart meter solutions.
In the acquisition of Eclipse, a US-based manufacturer of gas combustion 4 parallel, Elster Gas is expanding 1.
Europe 53% 3 components and systems for industrial 2.
North America 31% its global service network, winning heating and drying applications.
Asia 14% customer loyalty across the world.
RoW 2% will be merged with the Elster Gas control 1 2 equipment business sold under the Kromschrder brand to create a market leading global Thermal Solutions division, which will offer industrial customers a comprehensive range of gas combustion 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
This business 2 Calculated at constant currency.
is now approximately a third of the sales of Elster Gas and a good contribution is expected from Eclipse during 2015.
Elster are also involved in both residential Smart gas meter programmes and commercial and industrial Smart meter rollouts in Europe.
While overall progress Performance Review Melrose Industries PLC 29 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review on the former is slow, due to delays by the relevant authorities in their mass rollout Products Market overview of Smart meters, volumes are slowly increasing in the foundation phase.
Universal device for volume Global energy consumption continues In 2014, Elster Gas sold 29,000 Smart to increase, with a growing share for conversion, billing and system residential gas meters.
By contrast, good natural gas that is forecast to continue monitoring, with optional GSM progress has been made in the Smart in the long term.
In addition, supply Global System for Mobile commercial and industrial sector.
side growth and some demand side communication GPRS General In addition to the 24,000 Smart commercial weakness are helping to reduce the and industrial gas meters sold in 2014, price of natural gas, enhancing its Packet Radio Services modem Elster Gas announced that British Gas attractiveness within the energy mix.
used in diaphragm-turbine or Business, the UKs largest non-residential rotary meters External factors gas supplier, has selected Elster to supply In the EU, mandatory environmental up to 100,000 Smart commercial and Rotary gas meter RABO for targets remain in force, targeting industrial gas meters over the next three high measuring rates, compact improvements in energy efficiency, years to a significant proportion of its dimensions and high accuracy reductions in carbon emissions and UK customer base.
increased use of energy from renewable Encal 3000 gas Chromotograph In May 2014, Elster Gas announced sources.
The global economic situation for Biogas analysis applications major changes in the global footprint is increasing competition and pricing of its Integrated Metering Solutions IMS pressure and changing buying Chekker mechanical index for business which builds gas metering behaviour within key markets.
diaphragm gas meters with stations for the upstream production and Business response checksum generation to crossshipment of gas.
Production will move Elster Gas is actively involved in projects check data for accurate billing from Western Europe to Saudi Arabia and driven by EU environmental legislation Malaysia, with the latter becoming the and the demands of the US Residential centre of excellence for these products.
This shift moves production closer to the Elster supplies the full scope of energy major gas metering station markets, with measurement solutions required for gas 75 million completion planned for the end of 2015. pipelines and infrastructure connecting Outlook gas metering devices have been gas reserves with the end-user.
The main Elster Gas end markets remain deployed globally.
healthy and order input in 2014 was higher than in 2013.
We expect the recent decline in the oil price to have an effect on the timing of some gas metering station projects throughout 2015: however, the high demand projected in the Elster conventional Market overview gas meter markets will more than More information p09 compensate for any weakness in this area.
When coupled with further planned operational improvements and the integration of Eclipse into the existing business, Elster Gas should enjoy another strong performance in 2015.
Whilst still very early in the year, order books going into 2015 give us encouragement for the next 12 months.
Efficient and reliable helium leak detection in Lotte, Germany.
Two million residential and industrial gas meters have been tested this way.
