Melrose Industries PLC 32 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review Business review continued Elster Water designs, manufactures and provides a Elster Water comprehensive range of water metering solutions including Elster Water R&D is delivering innovative new products high accuracy mechanical that address key customer meters, fully electronic meters needs.
State of the art product validation testing is employed and Smart metering solutions throughout the new product introduction process.
for residential, commercial and industrial sectors.
Headline operating profits continued to improve in 2014, following the restructuring activity in 2012 and 2013.
Restructuring operations during this period led to the cessation of manufacture of mechanical meters for the North American market and rationalisation of product lines, which resulted in the closure of sites in Europe to consolidate production.
Operating margins have improved compared with 2013 due to the impact of improved operating efficiency, well-controlled raw material costs and a continued focus on overhead control.
Working capital controls also improved with a year-on-year www.
com Total revenue reduction ensuring strong cash conversion.
en water year ended 31 December 2014 Revenues in 2014 were approximately 12% lower compared with 2013, largely due to 2 the remaining effect of the exit from low 147.5m -12% margin business in North America and in 2013: 179.9m Germany.
This action has led to an overall 1 improvement in the quality of earnings, Key strengths Headline operating profit delivering a return on sales of nearly 16% year ended 31 December 2014 in the year 2013: 12.8%.
Revenue in the 130 year reputation for quality, Middle East was lower than expected due reliability, accuracy and innovation 2 to the level of customer activity: however, 23.4m 11% within the water industry this was offset by strong growth in Africa.
2013: 23.0m Sales in the rest of Europe were lower than Global market presence in in 2013, reflecting our strategy of exiting Revenue by geographical more than 100 countries, lower margin products.
destination offering all major water year ended 31 December 2014 measurement technologies Leading position in many of 1.
Europe 50% the worlds best markets for 2.
RoW 35% 1 An industry leader with innovative product development and 3 technology choice for customers 2 Strong long-term customer 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and relationships and strategic intangible asset amortisation.
partnerships Performance Review Melrose Industries PLC 33 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review New product launches in 2014 included extending the range of polymer-bodied Products Market overview volumetric meters by adding high metrological performance variants and new Broad range of class leading The global water industry continues registers to increase the options for system to seek innovative metering solutions mechanical water meters connectivity.
For the sub-meter portfolio, to support the objectives of water pre-equipped for Smart metering a connection kit was launched to allow providers, including water conservation, Advanced electronic water independent radio providers to adapt their customer service and resource efficiency.
products to work with Elster sub-meters, In developed markets, revenue growth meters for both residential whilst gaining regulatory approval for more is driven by a continued increase in the and commercial customers installation options.
For Latin America, a adoption of communicating meters for Innovative Smart metering new residential multi-jet M170 meter was Smart metering projects.
launched with improved metrological solutions and services External factors performance offering an extended accurate Large portfolio of advanced Regulations governing water meter operating range.
For the commercial and specifications are both regional and commercial and industrial meters industrial sector, the range of the new national with most markets adopting H5000 meter has been extended, offering Connectivity and integration international standards into their new data communication options and of leading water measurement regulatory environment.
The competitive alternative meter body configurations.
environment in our main markets communication technologies A strong pipeline of new products comprises a few large suppliers based continues to provide global business in Europe and North America.
trends in Smart water metering are Elster Waters continual focus on their attracting new software providers, H5000 customers was recognised by the Institute including those from the IT sector.
of Mechanical Engineers Manufacturing Commercial and industrial water Business response Excellence Awards 2014, with UK-based meter with class leading Elster Water remains focused on the Elster Water Metering winning the coveted measuring range.
delivery of innovative, value-added Manufacturing Excellence Award for products in market segments that Customer Focus.
are responsive to higher performing Outlook metering products and solutions.
The focus in 2015 will be to maintain industry-leading operating margins and achieve revenue growth above industry growth rates.
Elster Water is well positioned to penetrate new and existing Market overview markets offering a leading portfolio of More information p10 water measurement products.
World class manufacturing techniques including statistical process control are key to maintaining the highest quality.
