Melrose Industries PLC 34 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review Business review continued Brush Turbogenerators Turbogenerators is the Energy worlds largest independent manufacturer of electricity Brush provides energy solutions for the global generating equipment for the power industry, focusing power generation, industrial, on outstanding product performance and oil & gas and offshore sectors.
From its four plants in the UK, Czech Republic, Netherlands and US and with a newly-built China generator plant coming into production in 2015 Brush designs, manufactures and services turbogenerators, principally in the 10 MVA to 300 MVA range, for both gas and steam turbine applications, and supplies a globally diverse customer base.
In addition, Brush designs and manufactures systems and power transformers under the brand name Brush Transformers Transformers and also produces a wide range of indoor and outdoor medium voltage AC DC switchgear under the Hawker Siddeley Switchgear HSS brand name.
Brush also has a strong www.
eu Total revenue presence in power control systems.
year ended 31 December 2014 Harrington Generators International HGI is a specialist UK-based small generator manufacturer supplying the construction, 2 327.3m -3% military, telecoms and rail sectors.
2013: 350.1m During 2014, Brush experienced a 1 challenging market again, particularly in Key strengths Headline operating profit new build generators.
This was mitigated year ended 31 December 2014 by another strong year from aftermarket Expertise in the design and sales and HSS.
Significant investment manufacture of an extensive range of 2 was made in the year to fund new product 65.4m -7% high quality, 2 and 4 pole high voltage development, new routes to market, and 2013: 73.1m the China project, and thus future growth.
generators and electric motors The performance was supported by Revenue by geographical Innovative design and operational efficiency gains, and the destination developments benefits from capital investments.
year ended 31 December 2014 Comprehensive and integrated 2014 saw the commencement of the aftermarket support tailored construction of the Brush greenfield generator 4 1.
Europe 52% manufacturing plant near Shanghai, China.
North America 28% 3 This 30 million capital investment will produce throughout operating life 3.
Asia 10% generators primarily for the China market and 4.
RoW 10% 1 Switchgear and transformer is in support of several of Brushs international 2 turbine customers.
Factory construction products in service with all UK is nearly complete and manufacturing and certain overseas energy equipment is now being installed and supply authorities commissioned, with the factory expected to 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and Hydropower generators to produce deliver its first generator in January 2016.
first orders have now been received for this 2 Calculated at constant currency.
environmentally green energy factory as it moves towards being operational.
Generators and electric motors Brush has already been supplying generators for marine power in 2014 from Europe against the six year long-term purchase agreement with Huadian Strategically located around GE Aero Gas Turbine Equipment Co. Ltd the world HDGE, which will continue until the new factory is operational.
Performance Review Melrose Industries PLC 35 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review The separation of the aftermarket business Products into one unit in 2013 has helped it to grow Market overview strongly in 2014.
Late 2014 saw the launch Quality products and service of the VF range, an initiative to provide Slow growth in the global economy is premium replacement rotors in seven driving a modest market growth in power Power generation equipment weeks, and selected complete generators generation.
Advances in technology are from 10 MVA to 300 MVA in 10 weeks, industry leading timescales.
resulting in the development of larger This gives end users a critically important more efficient turbines, often in excess Synchronous motors, induction replacement service as an alternative to of sizes traditionally supplied by Brush.
motors, submersible and repair, and significantly widens the available External factors traction motors market to Brush, for both Brush and Some of Brush businesses have non-Brush legacy machine replacement.
Power management and strong UK revenue streams, principally During 2015 this offer will be extended excitation systems Transformers and Switchgear, which to third party, non-Brush manufactured are regulated by OFGEM.
Medium voltage AC and DC generators as well as 4 pole generators.
switchgear In China, the Energy Action Plan The aftermarket business in the USA had will underpin the switch from coal another strong growth year.
Investment has Power and system transformers fired generation to gas fired generation.
commenced on a new large rotor balancing Aftermarket servicing support facility in Pittsburgh, which will significantly Business response spares lifetime extension enhance its capabilities and lead to further The newly-constructed factory in China growth.
The new global structure of service is expected to deliver its first generator engineers resulted in Brush Aftermarket in the first quarter of 2016. being able to manage the power outage Brushs product development of very spike in demand in the USA utilising its large air-cooled generators will position own engineers, rather than subcontractors.
the business well in future years.
30m Overall Aftermarket sales were well ahead of a strong 2013.
Capital investment to construct Market overview More information p11 a new generator plant in China.
The Transformer business had a slow sales year in 2014 as a result of it being the last year of the current five year OFGEM the UK Governments Office of Gas and Outlook Electricity Markets cycle.
Orders have The medium and long-term growth in now improved into 2015 as the period has power and in particular the aero-derivative ended.
The capital expenditure programme gas turbine market, where Brush has such to reorganise the Transformers production a strong position, remain positive, and with process and value engineer the product the additional growth from China, a strong was completed, and resulted in significant new product development pipeline across margin improvement.
all business units coupled with continued operational improvements, means the The HSS business had a satisfactory year.
business is well positioned for the future.
Whilst sales were 8% behind the previous year mainly due to project delays, as a However, the overall market dynamics result of efficiency savings profit was 3% remain difficult in the short term.
During the year investment in R&D are expected to decline significantly significantly increased, which positions the in 2015 despite the efforts of Brushs business well for the future with a pipeline management and continued improvements of unique products.
in its Aftermarket, Transformers and Switchgear businesses.
