Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Strategic report Executive Chairmans statement continued We continue to believe that we have significant room for improvement Our social media programmes continue to extend our reach in sales productivity and have begun to shift the balance between to target audiences in new and innovative ways: direct and inside sales in favour of the latter including the addition of more Enterprise Business Representatives to ensure we supply this LinkedIn activities year to date have delivered almost increased inside sales engine with more qualified leads.
The room for 500,000 impressions and we add on average 300 new improvement is greatest in North America where poor sales execution connections per month delivering $240,000 of advertising has been a continuing theme for a number of years.
As a result we equivalency per annum.
We have recently passed the decided to take more decisive action in the year ended 30 April 2014.
7,000 followers milestone: This broad based action aimed at delivering a more permanent solution focused on replacing first line sales management and sales Our Twitter activities have delivered over 16m year representatives who did not have the right attitude or approach to to date impressions with a greater than $800,000 delivering sustainable results for the long-term.
advertising equivalency: We continue to believe that we have significant The Micro Focus and new Borland Blogs are performing well with increased levels of traffic and lower bounce rates.
room for improvement in sales productivity.
For example, the new Borland blog is now delivering more than 1,000 hits a month: In the year ended 30 April 2014 our priority was to ensure that we invested in the organic development of the business.
In the second A move to more technical content on YouTube has led half of the year we have seen a return to organic revenue growth to a decrease in overall visitors with an increase in traffic with like for like revenues up by 2.2% compared to the second half quality.
Average viewing times have risen by an average of the year ended 30 April 2013.
In the first half of the year ended of six percentage points in the past 12 calendar months: and 30 April 2014 our like for like revenues were down 3.1% and so for the full year like for like revenues are down slightly from $403.7m Our Community platform has grown from 11,000 visitors per to $402.0m, a decrease of 0.4%.
month at the start of the year to 18,000 per month and is now an important channel for customers to access Support.
We aim to increase sales productivity and predictability further by continuing to improve customer insight by generating closer interaction between Sales, Product Management and Marketing Product development and Product Development.
In order to drive greater interaction with We continue to invest in product development and are excited by our partners we created a Partner Relationship Management portal.
both the significant enhancements to existing products and the new products released in the past year.
Micro Focus will maintain Our marketing programmes continue to raise brand awareness, its leadership position in CD and strengthen other portfolios by build understanding of our product propositions and increasingly continuing to innovate as demonstrated through products such as target the right audiences to generate qualified leads for new Visual COBOL, Enterprise Developer and Silk Performer.
For example, our investment in Eloqua growth will be achieved by delivering solutions addressing the Marketing Automation continues to drive our reach and mainframe COBOL opportunity.
We will continue to improve the engagement through Direct Marketing as evidenced by the Borland business performance by focusing on clear development and following key performance metrics: communication of our strengths in supporting an increasingly dynamic and heterogeneous software development environment.
We will work A run rate of 17,000 new contacts added per month to our with our independent software vendors and customers to ensure that marketing database: they can reap the benefits of these new significant developments.
A 55% increase in the number of engaged contacts year on Financial discipline, mergers and acquisitions M&A year: and Micro Focus has a strong financial discipline around the uses of cash.
The Company has a base case model that estimates the returns Email open rates have stabilised at 12.1% globally slightly to shareholders from organic execution and the return of excess cash.
This gives a sound basis on which to evaluate M&A where any acquisition contemplated would need to generate a risk adjusted return greater than the base case.
Successful execution of M&A has been instrumental in achieving a return of 23.8% since IPO compared to a base case target of 15% to 20%.
08 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
