Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Strategic report Executive Chairmans statement Our Business Model strong and established Current portfolio underpinning the business model technology franchises with clear execution and investment discipline Micro Focus specializes in managing mature infrastructure software The typical stages of a product life cycle are from new product assets which have been installed and are delivering value to significant introduction through to high growth to broad adoption and maturity, numbers of customers over long periods of time.
Our product portfolio to decline and ultimately obsolescence.
These are depicted in the assets have some or all of the following attributes: following illustration.
Broad based covering all industrial sectors Product life cycle: Industry maturity stages 2.
Significant market positions In any IT system the customers business logic and data remain their competitive advantage.
The key is unlocking this competitive advantage through exploitation of the latest technology innovation such as cloud, big data or virtualization.
Typically customers would be forced into costly, disruptive and risky application re-writes to make this possible but with Micro Focus, customers can take a different approach which we characterize as bridging the old and the new.
By enabling our customers to link their investments in established Introduction Growth Maturity Decline technology with the latest innovation, Micro Focus helps customers gain incremental returns on investments they have already made and to preserve and protect their data and business logic.
The most striking example of this is that an application written in Micro Focus COBOL When considering the investment priorities, both organic and 37 years ago before anyone had thought of Linux, Windows, inorganic, we evaluate our options against a set of characteristics Virtualization, Cloud or wireless communications will work today mapped to each stage of this adoption cycle enabling the in all of those environments.
Micro Focus has made this a reality.
categorization of our product portfolio into one of the four By contrast if a COBOL application had been rewritten in another quadrants represented in the chart below.
language, to execute in Java or.
NET the customer would have to do additional incremental re-writes and incur significant costs every Portfolio management time there was a major technology change.
In essence, we help our customers bridge the old and the new Managing our business through a disciplined, structured enabling them to leverage additional value from their investments approach to product and portfolio fundamentals of maturity in critical business applications.
and future growth or returns potential.
Portfolio composition New Models Growth Drivers subscription, cloud build the future Niche Core optimize returns protect 02 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes Our approach to each category is summarized below: Market leadership through strong technology franchises: substantial and broad customer base: Growth Drivers and Core: represent the great majority of our revenue and investment focus.
We look to identify critical Micro Focus serves more than 10,500 customers in more technologies that have delivered significant value for customers than 30 countries: and where the costs and risks of replacement or re-write are high and the returns from such activities are questionable.
We determine More than one million licenced users of Micro Focus COBOL: how to enable these technologies for the latest IT innovations whether new operating environments such as JAVA or.
NET or Approximately nine in every ten Micro Focus COBOL new use cases such as the cloud or mobile.
For example, Visual customers renews maintenance every year: and COBOL enables customers to take COBOL applications forward with confidence into the next phase of IT industry innovation, Micro Focus has more than 30 years of COBOL expertise.
specifically cloud and mobile, whilst protecting their investments in business logic and data built up through prior investments.
Our overall portfolio is managed and run in the following individual Similarly within Core, our investments in CORBA enable product portfolios: customers to connect critical business applications into the broader Service-Orientated Architecture and web services world 1.
COBOL Development: ensuring their continued capability to drive business value and avoiding costly and disruptive application re-writes.
Mainframe Solutions during the year we acquired SoforTe GmbH : New Models: our focus is on identifying new innovation in the marketplace that is applicable to our core and growth driver 3.
Borland Test during the year we acquired AccuRev Inc. : propositions.
This is the case where new innovation is needed to connect or leverage existing IT or application assets to deliver 4.
CORBA during the year we acquired the CORBA assets from returns or open new opportunities.
An example of this is Silk PrismTech Group Limited : and Performer Cloudburst: a cloud based implementation of our highly successful on premise Silk Performer product.
enables customers to execute a hybrid on premise cloud solution ensuring day to day operations are handled effectively on premise In addition to creating incremental value in our base by managing our but offering broadly unlimited additional capacity as and when current franchises, we see further opportunities arising from current needed to support business operational peaks, underpinned by global industry trends.
the flexibility and ease of use of a common solution in both cases.
The proliferation of mobile devices now some five billion in number Niche: some technologies eventually approach end of life as and the emergence of the internet of things is driving significant the majority of customers replace them with new solutions.
growth in transaction volumes as users access systems when they For the remaining customers they still represent significant value.
want and from where they want.
These transactions most often occur Our approach is to continue to offer flexible commercial and on the old large COBOL and PL I transaction systems that lie at the support models to enable customer access to the intellectual heart of the worlds major organizations.
In turn, these transactions property and capabilities of these technologies for extended produce ever-increasing volumes of data.
periods, again ensuring protection of customer investment for as long as possible technically and commercially.
Within this overall portfolio we have some products that are growing significantly 50% plus and others that are stable or in decline.
Our business model means the way we manage the portfolio is analogous to a fund of funds with an objective to generate moderate growth over the medium term, delivering high levels of profitability and strong cash generation and cash conversion ratio with a balanced portfolio approach.
We will continue to focus investment in growth and core products and will not dispose of declining products unless we can achieve greater than the discounted cash flow they would generate in our ownership.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 03
