Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes Industry and market dynamics mean that there are significant numbers of potential assets that could fit with our business model.
These are either i bolt-on transactions like those completed in the $206.8m last two years, ii significant transactions or iii transformational deals.
Each year the world of IT gets a year older and we should remember Cash generated from operating activities increased that IT is still a relatively young industry and whilst the vast majority of to $206.8m 2013: $192.4m representing a cash companies will focus on the new and exciting, we believe that there conversion ratio of 107.7% 2013: 103.4% as a will be an increasing opportunity to help clients derive value from their existing and often highly complex IT investments.
proportion of Adjusted EBITDA less exceptional items Linkage of management incentive to shareholder returns In July 2013 we signed a new $420m Revolving Credit Facility RCF Micro Focus has deployed a simple model to link management provided by six banks which expires on 16 July 2017.
Net debt to RCF incentives to the delivery of shareholder returns.
The annual cash EBITDA being our Adjusted EBITDA before Amortization of Capitalized bonus applies to all members of staff excluding those on sales Development Costs is limited to 3.0 times.
At 30 April 2014 our net incentives.
If the Companys Underlying Adjusted EBITDA is no debt was $261.0m and based on the reported RCF EBITDA in the greater than the prior years CCY comparative there is no bonus.
year to 30 April 2014 of $210.5m this represented a net debt to RCF The bonus for executive directors and executive committee members EBITDA multiple of 1.3 times.
When compared to our Adjusted EBITDA is maximized on achieving 10% growth over the prior year CCY figure of $192.0m, the multiple is 1.4 times.
Underlying Adjusted EBITDA with a straight line between the two points and for other staff there is no maximum.
Staff neither benefit For the past two years the board has targeted a net debt to RCF nor lose from elements outside of their control such as exchange rates EBITDA multiple of approximately 1.5 times.
This is a modest level with the board taking a view that these items balance out over the of gearing for a company with the cash generating qualities of business cycle.
As the business has been stabilized and has on-going, long-term prospects for modest growth and continued cash The stock plan starts to vest at RPI plus 3%, with maximum vesting generation, the board has decided that it would be comfortable at RPI plus 9%.
With RPI of approximately 3% and dividends with net debt levels of up to 2.5 times RCF EBITDA.
We are confident approximately 3% to 4% this means that full vesting needs is that this level of debt would not reduce our ability to deliver growth, consistent with the overall objective of 15% to 20% returns.
invest in products and or make appropriate acquisitions.
Key performance indicators to check that we are on track are In line with our dividend policy of two times cover we are announcing Underlying Adjusted EBITDA absolute and growth, cash generation an increase of the proposed final dividend of 6.8% to 30.0 cents absolute and growth and earnings per share.
per share, 2013: 28.1 cents per share and an increase in the proposed total dividend for the year of 10.0% to 44.0 cents per Delivering value to shareholders share 2013: 40.0 cents per share.
The final dividend will be paid in The board has adopted a very clear plan of value creation.
Sterling equivalent to 17.7 pence per share, based on an exchange rate of $1.697, being the rate applicable on 18 June 2014, the Our priority is to improve the business in order to maximize the date on which the board resolved to propose the final dividend.
opportunity to generate modest growth.
At the same time we have The final dividend will be proposed to shareholders at the AGM created flexibility to allow value creation to shareholders through on 25 September 2014 and, if approved, will be paid on 3 October cash distributions or acquisitions as appropriate.
We will do nothing 2014 to shareholders on the register at 5 September 2014. that will constrain our ability to achieve organic growth and we are currently investing significant amounts on activities designed to Outlook enhance growth.
We believe we have a strong operational and financial model that can continue to provide strong returns to shareholders.
The model requires In November 2013 we made a Return of Value to all shareholders low single digit revenue growth in the medium term and we are amounting to $140.2m in cash 60 pence per share, equivalent to confident that this can be delivered.
approximately 93.3 cents per share, by way of a D share scheme, which gave shareholders other than certain overseas shareholders a choice between receiving the cash in the form of income or capital.
The Return of Value was accompanied by a 12 for 13 share consolidation to maintain broad comparability of the share price and return per share of the ordinary shares before and after the creation of the D shares.
Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman 18 June 2014 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09
