44 Governance Directors' Report Details of the share interests of the employed in a safe working environment.
Directors Report Directors at the year end are shown on Suitable employment would, if possible, The Directors submit their report for the page 68.
No changes to these interests be found for any employee who financial year ended 31 December 2014 occurred between 31 December 2014 becomes disabled during the course describing how the Company operates, and the date of this report.
who the members of the Board are and what the Board does.
In addition, The Group operates an HM Revenue Re-election of Directors the Corporate Governance Report on & Customs approved Save as You Earn pages 47 to 50 and the Remuneration Scheme in the UK which aims to align The Code provides for all directors of Committee Report on pages 55 to 68 employees interests within the Groups FTSE companies to stand for election or form part of this report.
re-election by shareholders every year.
Accordingly, all members of the Board Further details on employee benefits are Strategic Report will retire and seek election or re-election set out in Note 23 to the consolidated at this years annual general meeting.
The Companies Act 2006 the Act financial statements.
requires the Company to present a fair review of the business and the Group Results and dividends Equal opportunities during the financial year.
The Strategic The results for the year ended 31 Report can be found on pages 20 to 40.
The Company is an equal opportunities December 2014 are set out on pages 76 employer.
It complies with equal to 140. opportunities legislation in the UK.
Our Board of Directors objective is to ensure that no employee An interim dividend for the year ended Biographical details of the Directors or other worker or job applicant receives 31December 2014 of 2.08p per share holding office at the year-end, including less favourable treatment, directly was paid on 3October 2014.
The identification of the Chairman, Senior or indirectly, on the grounds of age, Directors are recommending a final Independent Director, the Chairmen of gender reassignment, marriage and civil dividend of 11.51p per share 2013: the Boards standing committees and partnership, pregnancy and maternity, 11.51p, which, if approved at the annual other Directors considered by the Board race including colour, nationality and general meeting, will be paid on 15May to be independent, having taken into ethnic or national origins, religion or 2015 to shareholders on the register on consideration the factors set out in the belief, sex or sexual orientation, or 20March 2015.
A special dividend of UK Corporate Governance Code the disability.
9.15p per share was also paid in May Code provision B.
Human rights The following changes were made to Greenhouse gas emissions Our business activities take place the Board of Directors during the year: globally and therefore the matters All disclosures concerning the Groups affecting our employees are carried greenhouse gas emissions can be found Ian Batey resigned as an independent out under the jurisdiction of a number in the Corporate social responsibility Non-Executive Director on 20 February of different countries.
However, not review on pages 34 to 35.
2014: withstanding this, we have acted to ensure that each jurisdiction follows the Sean Collins resigned as the Senior Employees same high standards of human rights Independent Director on 11 December for employees.
Our new human rights 2014: and We operate in over 20 countries and value policy also sets out the expectations and highly the rich ethnic and cultural diversity Gervase MacGregor was appointed requirements we have of our suppliers.
of our people by nurturing a working an independent Non-Executive You can find our human rights policy at environment that recognises, develops Director on 11 December 2014. www.
com corporate and values people with different views, investors.
Nicholas George became the Senior styles and approaches.
Independent Director on 11 December 2014 following Sean Collins departure.
Our policy is to provide equality of Risk management opportunity for all employees without Significant short and long-term risks In November 2014, we announced that discrimination and continues to have been identified and assessed Wong Hong Ren would be stepping down encourage the employment, training and the Board believes it has received as Group Chief Executive Officer on 28 and advancement of disabled persons adequate information to ensure that February 2015 and that Aloysius Lee Tse in accordance with their abilities and the Company has effective systems in Sang will replace him.
aptitudes, provided that they can be Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 45 could be taken in the event that market All of the Companys employee share place for managing the Groups key risks.
The Groups significant risk factors are conditions are worse than their current plans contain provisions relating to a assessment.
Such measures include change of control.
On a change of control, included on pages 36 to 40. further reduction in costs and in capital options and awards granted to employees expenditure.
under the Companys share plans may Financial risk management vest and become exercisable, subject On the basis of the exercise as described to the satisfaction of any applicable An indication of the Groups financial risk above and the available committed debt performance conditions at that time.
management objectives in respect of facilities, the Directors have a reasonable the use of financial instruments and its expectation that the Group and Company exposures to credit risk, interest rate Issue of shares and authority to allot have adequate resources to continue in risk andforeign currency risk are set shares operational existence for the foreseeable out in Note 22 to the consolidated future.
Accordingly, they continue to financial statements.
At the Companys annual general adopt a going concern basis in preparing meeting in May 2014, the Directors the financial statements of the Group were authorised to allot shares up to Going concern and the Company.
a nominal amount of 32,461,818 and to allot such shares up to this nominal Information on the principal risks and amount in connection with a rights issue uncertainties that the Group faces Share capital and otherwise to allot shares for cash on throughout its global operations are The following information is given a non pre-emptive basis up to a nominal described on pages 36 to 40.
In addition, pursuant to Section 992 of the Act.
position of the Group, its cash flows, the Company was authorised to make liquidity position and debt facilities market purchases of up to 10% of the Details of the changes to the ordinary are described on pages 24 to 25.
In issued share capital during the year are Companys issued share capital.
All of addition, Note 22 to the consolidated these authorities remained in effect as at shown in Note 29.
At the date of this financial statements sets out the Groups report, 324,674,823 ordinary shares 31 December 2014 and shareholders will policies and processes for measuring be asked to renew them at the annual of 30p each have been issued, are fully and managing risk from its use of paid up and are listed on the London general meeting in 2015. financial instruments in relation to credit Stock Exchange.
risk, liquidity risk and market risk both currency and interest rate related.
Further Co-operation agreement with major details of the Groups cash balances Rights attaching to shares shareholder and borrowings are included in Notes 20 and 21 to the consolidated financial Rights and obligations attaching to the There is in place a co-operation statements.
Companys ordinary shares are set out agreement between City Developments in the Companys Articles of Association, Limited CDL and the Company which In assessing whether the Group is a a copy of which can be obtained from provides that CDL may appoint up to five going concern, the Directors follow a Companies House or from the Groups Directors to the Board.
As at the date review process which is consistent with website at www.
com of this report, CDL has appointed three the principles set out in the guidance corporate investors.
The co-operation agreement published by the Financial Reporting Articles of Association may only be was updated in 2014 to take account of Council: Going Concern and Liquidity amended by special resolution of the the UK Listing Rules amended controlling Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK shareholders.
Cash flow forecasts will continue to be placed before for the Group have been prepared for The voting rights attached to the shareholders annually for approval.
a period in excess of twelve months Companys ordinary shares are not from the date of approval of these restricted and there are no restrictions In respect of the independence provisions consolidated financial statements.
These on the transfer of the Companys shares.
included within the co-operation forecasts reflect an assessment of None of the Companys shares carry agreement, the Company confirms that current market conditions.
The forecasts special rights with regard to control of during the year: completed on this basis show that the the Company.
Neither theCompany nor Group will be able to operate within the its Directors are aware of any agreements it has complied with such provisions: currentcommitted debt facilities and between shareholders that could result and show continued compliance with the in restrictions on the transfer of shares in so far that it is aware, CDL has financial covenants applicable to the orvoting rights.
complied with such provisions as well.
In addition, management has considered various mitigating actions that Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 46 Governance Directors' Report continued as auditors.
In addition, shareholders Statement of the Directors as to Directors indemnities will be asked to renew both the general disclosure of information to the auditor The Company has provided each of its authority of the Directors to issue shares Each Director who held office at the Directors with a qualifying third-party and to authorise the Directors to issue indemnity, as defined in section 234 of date of approval of this Directors report shares without applying the statutory confirms that, so far as they are aware, the Act.
In addition, the Company has pre-emption rights.
In this regard, the provided qualifying pension scheme there is no relevant audit information Company will continue to adhere to of which the Companys auditors are indemnities to the directors of Millennium the provisions in the Pre-emption Groups & Copthorne Pension Trustee Limited unaware: and all of the Directors have Statement of Principles.
taken all the steps that they ought to have which acts as trustee to the Groups UK pension plan and to the directors of its UK taken as Directors to make themselves Donations aware of any relevant audit information subsidiary companies.
These indemnities remain in force as at the date of this and to establish that the Companys The Company operates a politically report.
auditors are aware of that information.
neutral policy with regard to political donations.
No donations were made by By order of the Board The Company purchased and maintained the Group for political purposes during Directors and Officers liability insurance the year 2013: nil.
throughout 2014, which has been Jonathon Grech renewed for the current year.
Neither Company Secretary See page 35 for details of the Companys the indemnities nor the insurance provide charitable donations.
cover in the event that the Director 9 February 2015 is proved to have acted fraudulently.
Essential contracts Annual General Meeting The Group has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third parties The annual general meeting will be held in support of its business activities.
Whilst at the Copthorne Tara Hotel London some might cause temporary disruption, Kensington, Scarsdale Place, Kensington, none of the arrangements is individually London W8 5SR on 7 May 2015 at considered to be essential to its business.
The Chairmans letter and the Notice of Meeting accompany this report, together with notes explaining the Independent auditors business to be transacted at the meeting KPMG LLP has expressed their will be sent to shareholders.
willingness to be reappointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the At the meeting, resolutions will be recommendation of the Audit & Risk proposed to declare a final dividend, to Committee, resolutions to reappoint them receive the Annual Report and Financial as auditors and to authorise the Directors Statements, approve the Directors to determine their remuneration will be Remuneration Report to elect or re-elect proposed at the annual general meeting.
all Directors, and to re-appoint KPMGLLP Major interests in shares As at 19 January 2015, the Company had received details of the following material share interests: Substantial shareholders % City Developments Limited 61.19 Aberdeen Asset Management plc 6.73 Schroders plc 5.84 International Value Advisers, LLC 4.77 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014
