42 Governance Board of Directors N Kwek Leng Beng Chairman and Chairman of the Nominations Committee Kwek Leng Beng has been the Chairman of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc since its incorporation.
He is the executive chairman of the Hong Leong Group of companies in Singapore including City Developments Limited, chairman and managing director of Hong Leong Finance Limited and City e-Solutions Limited and the chairman of Hong Leong Asia Limited.
Mr Kwek holds an honorary doctorate in Business Administration in Hospitality from Johnson & Wales University in the US and an honorary doctorate from Oxford Brookes University in the UK.
He also serves as a member of the INSEAD East Asia Council.
Kwek Leng Beng has distinguished himself in property investment and development, hotel ownership and management, financial services and industrial enterprises.
He leads a business empire worth over US$32b in diversified premium assets worldwide and companies traded on six of the worlds stock markets.
Mr Kwek heads a worldwide staff of over 40,000 across a range of businesses in Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, Europe and North America.
Wong Hong Ren Group Chief Executive Officer Wong Hong Ren initially joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on the flotation of the Company in 1996.
He has been an Executive Director since April 2001 and was appointed Group Chief Executive Officer in June 2011.
Mr Wong is chairman of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels New Zealand Limited and CDL Investments New Zealand Limited, both of which are listed on New Zealands stock exchange.
He is also the non-executive chairman of M&C REIT Management Limited which manages CDL Hospitality Real Estate Investment Trust, which is part of the Singapore-listed CDL Hospitality Trusts, and First Sponsor Group Limited.
Mr Wong serves as president and chairman of the board of Grand Plaza Hotel Corporation, which is listed in the Philippines.
NR His Excellency Shaukat Aziz Independent Non-Executive Director Shaukat Aziz was appointed to the Board in June 2009.
He was elected as Prime Minister of Pakistan and served between 2004 and 2007, having previously held the post of Finance Minister for five years.
After graduating from Gordon College, Rawalpindi in 1967, Mr Aziz gained a MBA degree from the Institute of Business Administration, University of Karachi.
An internship at Citibank marked the beginning of a 30year career in global finance, encompassing roles globally.
As executive vice president, he held several senior management positions in Citibank including head of institutional banking for Central Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa and later for Asia Pacific, followed by chief executive of their global wealth management business.
A renowned public speaker on economic and geopolitical affairs, Mr Aziz is a member of several boards and advisory boards of various commercial and non-profit entities around the world.
NR Susan Farr Independent Non-Executive Director Susan Farr was appointed to the Board in December 2013.
She is Director, Strategic and Business Development and a member of the executive committee of Chime Communications plc.
She also serves as a non-executive director of British American Tobacco p. l. c. Dairy Crest plc and Accsys Technologies PLC.
A specialist in business development and marketing, Ms Farr has previously held a number of senior management positions at Vauxhall Motors, the BBC and Thames Television.
She is also a former chair of The Marketing Society and the Marketing Group of Great Britain.
AR Nicholas George Senior Independent Director Nicholas George was appointed to the Board in June 2009.
A chartered accountant by profession, MrGeorge is chairman of Nutmeg Savings and Investments and is a director of LGT Capital Partners UK Limited.
He is also chairman of euNetworks Limited and is a member on the board of GK Goh Holdings Limited: both companies are listed on the Singapore Stock Exchange.
In addition, MrGeorge is a director of Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust plc, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Mr George was a founding partner of KGR Capital, a leading Asian funds of hedge funds, that was sold to LGT Capital Partners in 2008.
He has over 30 years of experience in investment banking and was a managing director of JP Morgan Securities previously Jardine Fleming in Asia from 1993 to 2002 and a managing director of HSBC Securities in Asia from 2002 to 2003.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 43 Kwek Eik Sheng Non-Executive Director Kwek Eik Sheng was appointed to the Board in May 2011.
He has been with the Hong Leong Group of companies in Singapore since 2006, before joining City Developments Limited in 2009, where he is currently Chief Strategy Officer.
Mr Kwek holds a Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering from Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine and a MPhil in Finance from Judge Business School, Cambridge University.
N Kwek Leng Peck Non-Executive Director Kwek Leng Peck was appointed to the Board in February 1995, prior to the flotation of the Company on the London Stock Exchange.
He holds directorships on most of the listed companies within the Hong Leong Group of companies in Singapore, including City Developments Limited, Hong Leong Finance Limited and China Yuchai International Limited.
He also serves as an executive director for Hong Leong Asia Limited and is the non-executive chairman of Tasek Corporation Berhad.
A Gervase MacGregor Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee Gervase MacGregor was appointed to the Board in December 2014.
He has been a partner in BDO LLP since 1991, where he is currently the head of international advisory, risk and quality services, specialising in forensic investigations and expert witness services.
Prior to joining BDO LLP, MrMacGregor worked as a petroleum geologist in the North Sea, Australia and West Africa.
He has experience in the hospitality sector over the last 25 years, first as an auditor of international five star hotels and more recently in investigations and disputes in the sector.
Gervase MacGregor is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, is a graduate of the University of Liverpool and has a Masters from HEC in Paris.
ANR Alexander Waugh Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Alexander Waugh was appointed to the Board in June 2009.
Mr Waugh has commercial experience in event management, the media industry and is the founder of a successful publishing business.
He was also founding director and chairman of Xebras Management Limited, a digital media company.
Mr Waugh is also a world renowned author, literary critic and composer.
He is Honorary President of the Shakespeare Authorship Coalition and Senior Visiting Fellow at the University of Leicester.
Committee membership: A Audit & Risk Committee N Nominations Committee R Remuneration Committee Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014
