Key performance indicators We measure our performance and These KPIs are reviewed at every Executive progress against our strategy through Committee meeting and are central to our five key performance indicators.
This understanding of our performance.
Our year, we have included two non-financial performance in the year was as follows: KPIs, relating to our ability to retain our employees and to the extent that our guests would recommend our businesses to their friends and family.
S taff turnover The number of leavers in our retail Maintained the historical low of 78% businesses, expressed as a percentage seen in FY 2013.
See strategy point 3 of average retail employees.
This measure excludes site management as well as employees who leave and rejoin the business within the same year.
B. N et promoter The net promoter score for a pub is Increased by 4ppts to 63%.
defined as the percentage of responses score where we score 9 or 10 out of 10 brand See strategy points promoters less the percentage of 1, 2, 3 responses where we score 0 to 6 out of 10 brand detractors to the statement I am likely to recommend this pub to a friend and or relative.
Responses scoring 7 or 8 passives are ignored in the calculation.
C. Sa me outlet The sales this year compared to the Like-for-like sales grew by 0.6% in sales in the previous year of all UK FY 2014. like-for-like managed sites that were trading in sales growth the two periods being compared, See strategy points expressed as a percentage.
1, 2, 3 D. I ncremental Expansionary capital includes Fallen slightly to 16% FY 2013 17% investments made in new sites and due to a greater proportion of recent return on investment in existing assets that freehold investments.
expansionary increases the trading area or materially capital changes the guest offer.
Incremental See strategy points 1, 4 return is the growth in annual site EBITDA, expressed as a percentage of expansionary capital.
E. E PS growth Adjusted earnings per share for the Adjusted earnings per share increased year compared to last year, as reported by 1.2% to 32.6 pence.
See strategy points 4, 5 in the financial statements, expressed as a percentage.
As a measure of overall profitability and shareholder value creation, EPS growth forms a key part of the Groups remuneration policies for Directors and other employees.
Full details of the various schemes in operation are shown in the Report on Directors remuneration.
22 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report 233 Governance 3466 Financialstatements 67111  112 Four-year trend A.
FY 2011 and FY 2012 FY 2014 FY 2014 are therefore not comparable.
