Our strategy In this section we outline our established strategic priorities: update on the progress we have made in their execution during the year as well as our plans for FY 2015, and link them back to both the key risks and performance indicators that we monitor to run the business.
Our strategy FY 2014 progress Focus the business The acquisition of Orchid is in line with our objective of increasing our share of the on the most attractive UK eating and drinking out market.
1 market spaces within Our expansionary capital expenditure was directed towards our strategically identified eating and drinking-out market spaces.
We acquired an additional 23 sites throughout the year, all within these spaces 10 in Upmarket Social, 7 in Special, 6 in Family.
We also converted 8 businesses to our brands and formats.
Develop superior We have continued to evolve each of our brand propositions by focusing on delivering brand propositions exceptional guest experiences, particularly within Harvester, Castle, Nicholsons 2 with high levels of and Ember Inns and further enhancing the sport offering within Heartland.
consumer relevance We opened All Bar One sites within transport hubs, including our first airport site.
We have continued the rollout of our new EPOS systems project at pace, now reaching more than 1,300 outlets and enabling our teams to focus on providing great guest experiences.
These systems include various technology upgrades including tills, payment and handheld order devices and kitchen management systems.
Recruit, retain and Our Good to Great principles continue to live throughout the business, driving develop engaged people teams engagement.
3 who deliver excellent We have revised our process of retail team recruitment, with the aim of making best service for our guests use of our scale and diversity to attract exceptional people.
Our induction programme for new employees has been extended to reduce the number of our people who leave within the first three months of joining.
We have committed to taking on an additional 1,000 apprentices over the next two years.
Generate high returns We have completed the immediately earnings-accretive acquisition of 173 pubs from on investment through the Orchid Group.
4 scale advantage We have accelerated our remodel programme, which sees capital invested in refurbishing and maintaining amenity.
We remodelled 174 businesses in FY 2014 compared to 97 in FY 2013.
This programme has delivered EBITDA ROI in excess of 30%.
Maintain a sound We successfully renegotiated the terms of our contributions to the pensions deficit financial base following the triennial valuation in March 2013.
5 We have long-term debt financing secured on our large, predominantly freehold asset base.
At the year end, our freehold property was revalued and we conducted an impairment review on other assets.
Taken together, this resulted in an increase in value of 26m.
Net debt increased to 4.5x EBITDA FY 2013 4.2x, due to the use of cash in the acquisition of 173 pubs from the Orchid Group.
12 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report 233 Governance 3466 Financialstatements 67111  112 See our strategy in action on page 14 FY 2015 priorities Key risks Link to KPI We begin the conversion of a significant number of Failure to anticipate pricing See KPIs the Orchid outlets into our own brands and formats.
B, C, D We have an ongoing expansion programme which is primarily Failure to anticipate changes focused on the Special, Upmarket Social and Family segments.
We will continue to build on our market research to enhance Failure to anticipate pricing See KPIs the offering to our guests in terms of menu development and and market changes.
Failure to anticipate changes We will complete the new EPOS systems rollout, including in consumer taste.
We are reallocating some of our maintenance capital expenditure towards the Heartland estate, to maintain the level of amenity for our guests.
Our focus remains on improving retail staff turnover, and in Failure to attract, retain, develop See KPIs particular on reducing the number of employees who leave and motivate the best people with A, B, C within the first three months of joining.
We will achieve this the right capabilities.
by continuing our work on developing the recruitment and induction programme, as well as living Good to Great, to ensure our teams remain engaged and set up to deliver exceptional guest service.
Having welcomed them in FY 2014, we will continue to work with our people from the Orchid business, to share our ways of working and learn from their experiences.
We will continue our focus on improving the efficiency Cost of goods price increases See KPIs of our investments.
D, E We will convert around 50 of the Orchid sites into our own Failure to attract high quality teams brands and formats, along with integrating around 70 sites into to operate newly opened restaurants our Heartland estate.
The pace of our remodel programme will continue to increase, to get the business to a point where every site receives regular investment.
We will continue to prioritise long-term financial stability The pension fund deficit may See KPI for the Group.
increase, leading to increases E in funding requirements.
Failure to meet our borrowing covenants.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13
