Our business model Our business model represents how we aim to generate revenue and profit from our operations.
We believe that by recruiting, training and retaining the best people: by focusing on excellent customer service: and by adopting industry-leading practices we will deliver long-term growth in profits and shareholder value.
Our People Our 43,000 people are vital to the successful running of our businesses.
Our approach to our people is therefore to: Induct and train Induct and train our new people to see them through what can be a steep and pressurised learning curve.
Recruit Retain Recruit the right Retain our people people at all levels by helping them build of the organisation.
a career that works for them.
Our Guests: Each of the 135 million meals and 435 million drinks we serve each year is aimed at delighting our guests.
Safety Technology Our approach to Our practices rely safety is our first and on us staying relevant most important priority in our approach to in operating our technology.
Suppliers We work with our suppliers to deliver the best products at the best value to our guests.
Our Practices Our practices refer to the way in which we approach all of our key activities.
Our Profits Through delivery of the above priorities, we will grow the same outlet like-for-like sales in our existing estate.
10 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report 233 Governance 3466 Financialstatements 67111  112 Our People We employ more than 43,000 people recruit the right people at all levels of the Where possible we look to promote to who are each vital to the successful organisation.
We recruit our people to General Manager and beyond from within running of our business.
In a market be great at hospitality with a focus on the organisation, offering a compelling typified by fierce competition and guests personality rather than experience.
We reason to join our fantastic business: and with high standards, our people are the look to recruit people who will adopt our retain our people by helping them build key differentiating factor and help us values of Passion, Respect, Innovation, a career that works for them.
We can use to gain competitive advantage.
Our Drive and Engagement, and who wish our scale to offer flexibility in the workplace approach to people is therefore to: to progress within the organisation: as well as a fantastic and varied career path.
induct and train our new people to support We encourage our people to make the most them through what can be a steep and of working for our brands, but also to pressurised learning curve.
This involves develop and build a career with us.
We strict compliance training to ensure our offer nationwide opportunities across a high standards are adhered to, but also range of formats and functions including welcoming them into a supportive front of house, back of house and in our environment so that they feel prepared when Retail Support Centre.
they are serving guests for the first time.
Our Practices Our practices refer to the way in which Our first and most important priority in where appropriate, but also work in we approach all of our key activities, carrying out these practices is safety.
We set partnership with smaller specialist suppliers including compliance with legislation, ourselves the highest standards to ensure that such as local farmers when it benefits how we conduct ourselves in interacting our businesses are safe for our people to work the product and gives the best quality with our various stakeholders, and how in and our guests to eat and drink in.
These and value to our guests.
we utilise equipment and technology.
principles are paramount in everything we Consistent and faultless adoption of these do, and are reflected in performance measures Our practices rely on us staying relevant practices gives the foundation for us at all levels within the organisation.
in our approach to systems and technology.
to be able to operate outstanding pubs This includes appropriate back of house and restaurants for our guests to enjoy.
We work with suppliers to deliver the best systems, payment systems to deal as efficiently products at the best value to our guests.
Our as possible with any guest administration, approach to supply chain management is to and technology to support management utilise our scale through volume suppliers information and decision-making.
Our Guests Our aim is to delight our guests through First and foremost we must welcome brands, family roast dinners at the likes of each and every one of the 135 million our guests into a clean, safe and friendly Toby Carvery and Country Pubs, to special meals and 435 million drinks we serve environment: these therefore represent occasion dining at Miller & Carter or Browns.
key outputs from our focus on our practices and our people.
We have dedicated employees focused on making all of these propositions available We then need to offer brand propositions at great value for our guests.
that meet our wide-ranging and evolving guests needs.
Through this focus we aim for our guests to leave us having had a pleasurable and These offerings vary from an outstanding memorable experience, and one that they range of cask ales in Nicholsons and Ember will highly recommend to friends and family Inns, value breakfasts within a number of our to broaden our guest base further.
Our Profits Through delivery of the above priorities, We aim to drive further shareholder value We focus on maintaining robust financial we will grow the same outlet like-for-like by investing our capital in focused areas practices, including carefully managing the sales in our existing estate.
to complement our guests priorities while long-term financial stability of the business generating attractive returns.
We have a strategic with the overriding aim of increasing approach to investment, which principally shareholder value through both increasing focuses on four key brands due to a combination earnings and the ongoing reduction in debt.
of market attractiveness and availability of locations.
We also remain open to opportunistic expansion where available, subject to it delivering sufficiently attractive returns.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11
