Mitie Group plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Board of Directors Roger Matthews Ruby McGregor-Smith CBE Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chair of the Results and Investment Committees Member of the Remuneration Committee Ruby joined Mitie in 2002 and was appointed as Chief Executive in Roger was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Mitie in December 2007.
Ruby has extensive experience within the support services sector 2006 and was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman in July 2008.
Roger is where, prior to joining Mitie, she held a range of senior roles, primarily a Non-Executive Chairman on the board of LSL Property Services plc and is at Serco Group plc.
Ruby is an Independent Non-Executive Director of also a Trustee of Cancer Research UK.
Roger was previously Non-Executive Michael Page International PLC, appointed to the board in May 2007, and is Chairman of Pertemps Network Group Limited and held the roles of Group also a member of their Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
She is Finance Director of J Sainsbury plc, Group Managing Director and Group a Non-Executive Director of the Department of Culture, Media and Sport.
Finance Director of Compass Group PLC.
Rubys charitable and community interests include acting as Chair of the Confederation of British Industrys Public Services Strategy Board, Chair of the Womens Business Council, and Business Ambassador for UK Trade and Investment.
Suzanne Baxter Bill Robson Group Finance Director Executive Director Member of the Results and Investment Committees Bill is the longest serving Executive Director of Mitie Group plc.
He joined the group in 1992 by way of the acquisition of his private painting and Suzanne was appointed as Group Finance Director of Mitie Group plc in maintenance company.
Bill was appointed to the Board in August 2001 April 2006.
Suzanne is a Chartered Accountant with a wealth of experience and has been responsible for the creation and strategic development of the in the support services sector.
Prior to joining Mitie, Suzanne specialised Property Management division.
On 31 July 2014 he will step down from the in mergers and acquisitions related transaction support and held a number Board.
He will remain as part of the executive team, continuing as Managing of commercial and operational roles with Serco Group plc.
Suzanne is Director of the Property Management division, focusing on the many new a Non-Executive Director of WH Smith PLC, where she is also Chair of opportunities that are developing within the housing sector.
the Audit Committee and member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
She is Deputy Chairman and a member of the Counsel of the Business Services Association, a policy and research centre of excellence for the support services industry, and Deputy Chairman of Opportunity Now, a part of the BitC organisation with a focus on gender diversity in the workplace.
Suzanne also acted as interim Company Secretary during the year.
Strategic Report Governance Financial 37 Larry Hirst CBE David Jenkins Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees Independent Independent Larry was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 February 2010.
Until his retirement from IBM in 2010, Larry was Chairman of IBM EMEA where David was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March 2006 and is he held a number of senior positions during his 33 year career with IBM.
Larry currently the Senior Independent Director.
David was previously a senior is a Non-Executive Director of ARM Holdings plc and is also the Chairman of partner with Deloitte LLP in London having spent over 20 years in Assurance the Imperial College Data Science Institute Advisory Board.
His community and Advisory Services.
David is Chairman of Development Securities PLC and interests include acting as an Ambassador to Everywoman, International a Non-Executive Director of Renewable Energy Systems Holdings Limited.
Adviser to British Airways and a Global Ambassador to Monitise plc.
Crawford Gillies Jack Boyer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees Independent Independent Jack was appointed as a Non-Executive Director to the Board on Crawford was appointed as a Non-Executive Director to the Board in July 1 June 2013.
He is Chairman of Ilika plc and iQur Ltd and a Non-Executive 2012 and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with effect from Director of Laird PLC where he chairs the Remuneration Committee.
Crawford spent 25 years with Bain & Co. the international also sits on the board of the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research management consultants, where he was Managing Director Europe.
A serial entrepreneur, he previously founded and was CEO of also the Chairman of Scottish Enterprise and Control Risks Group, and a companies in engineering, telecommunications and biotechnology.
He has non-executive director of Standard Life plc.
He was recently appointed to been an investment banker at Goldman Sachs and strategy consultant at the board of Barclays plc and is also a member of the Advisory board of the Bain & Co.
He is Deputy Chairman of Godolphin & Latymer School.
at Stanford University BA, the London School of Economics MSc and Insead MBA.
