Mitie Group plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our strategy Our strategy is to deliver sustainable, profitable 1 growth, and is supported People by a focus on six key elements People is one of the six key elements in We measure our performance against this strategy with our strategy.
We aim to recruit, motivate, a range of financial and non-financial KPIs.
Further detail retain, train and develop the best on our financial KPIs can be found on pages 28 and 29. talent in the industry.
Because in outsourcing, more than almost anywhere Our sustainability strategy is directly linked to our corporate else, its the people on the front line who strategy and provides us with a framework to ensure we make the difference.
They cook, clean act responsibly towards all our stakeholders.
They guard, mow and repair.
information on Mities material sustainability issues, and They welcome guests, control pests, what our stakeholders can expect from us, please see provide personal care and much more besides.
And they do it all with a real desire our sustainability report.
to serve and, just as important, a smile on their faces.
Their brilliant and hard work is the single biggest factor behind our success.
We are our people no more, no less and they deserve and receive the greatest support we can give them.
That comes in the form of recognition programmes such as Mitie Stars, which gives us the chance to say thanks in 1 a very public way to those who have People delighted clients by delivering beyond Develop the best talent expectations.
Our support is also at every level evident through a variety of regular of our business.
Many of our 2 people are young and for most of them 6 Clients social media is as much a part of their Provide world-class Responsibility lives as TV and phones.
We communicate services to attract new Take a long-term view clients and retain and in the way that they prefer and that by acting responsibly.
expand contracts with means using Facebook and Twitter.
We aim to help our people be the best they can be and provide a range of training and development opportunities, from eLearning programmes to career pathways which define all key roles across 3 the business and give us all clear guidance 5 Operational on what is required to make progress in Risk excellence Manage risk and protect our careers.
In 2014, we look forward to Deliver market-leading, our business and brand.
This will innovative services with maximum efficiency.
4 boost our account director talent pipeline, by sharing knowledge and providing New markets development opportunities tailored to and services Develop our service capability the needs of each individual.
in our current markets and in markets that offer attractive growth opportunities.
Strategic Report Governance Financial 9 Management retention Single, bundled and KPI KPI integrated contracts % % of revenue 2010 92.0 2 2010 43 57 2011 89.5 2011 42 58 2012 82.5 Clients 2012 41 46 13 2013 97.1 2013 41 33 26 2014 89.2 2014 40 29 31 Description: Single Bundled Integrated Clients in both public and private Mitie is a people business and we pride ourselves in creating and nurturing outstanding managers.
sectors continue to recognise outsourcing Description: Monitoring how successful we are in retaining our as a route not only to reducing costs but As a substantial portion of our revenue was historically people is an important measure for us.
generated through single service contracts, one of also to accessing expertise.
We have Target: our opportunities for growth is through expanding our enormous experience and our clients relationships with existing clients by providing other Enhance focus on the development and retention of management to maintain a retention rate of over 80%.
We have seen a trend in the markets towards know that by working with us they are integrated FM contracts over the past few years and we Comment: benefiting from a track record of delivery, are well-positioned to meet the demands of this trend Our management retention rate was 89.2% for the year, due to our broad range of services.
We measure the trusted relationships and quality service.
percentage of revenue that is generated by these types Put simply, we hit the ground running and of contracts in order to measure how well we are make a real difference from day one.
Comment: Today, clients increasingly want that 60% of revenues are attributable to bundled service and integrated FM contracts.
This KPI includes the difference to be applied to more and impact from MiHomecare, which currently operates more individual services.
Many clients predominantly single service contracts.
initially appoint us to provide a single service.
Then, when we have proved our Secured revenue value, they frequently move towards KPI bundling a number of services together % and theres a clear trend towards 2010 75 bundled and integrated FM, where we 2011 81 deliver a suite of services, often across multiple sites.
We see opportunities for 2012 83 great service and consistent growth in all 2013 85 contracts whether were providing one 2014 84 service or twenty-one.
Description: We are focused on long-term recurring revenue Client retention is key to our organic streams.
At the start of each financial year, we calculate growth, particularly in relation to our top the percentage of budgeted revenue that is already contracted.
50 strategic contracts, which account Comment: for over 40% of group revenue only one At the start of the financial year 2015, 84% of budgeted of these contracts accounts for more revenue was secured, a reflection of the success than 5% of group revenue, which currently of our strategy to focus on long-term secured revenue.
During the year our retention rate on these accounts Order book KPI was 92%.
bn 2010 6.4 2011 6.8 2012 8.6 2013 9.2 2014 8.7 Description: Our forward order book shows the total value of future revenue secured by contractual agreements and it is a key part of our focus on building long-term recurring revenue.
Target: We aim to grow our order book at least in line with revenue growth.
Comment: Our order book decreased by 0.5bn during the year to 8.7bn.
Mitie Group plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our strategy 3 Operational excellence We focus on delivering efficiency thats why clients enjoy working with us.
But in addition to the day-to-day services, clients are seeking value-added advice and innovations that reduce their total occupancy costs and improve service levels.
We never rest on our laurels and never tire of looking for ways to do things better.
Sometimes that means lateral thinking and approaching a task or service Organic revenue growth from a completely new angle.
At other KPI times, it can involve introducing new or % improved technology such as MiWorld, a web-based management information 2010 0.5 4 portal that enables clients to monitor and 2011 2.1 manage all their buildings and equipment 2012 5.4 New markets and services in one place, in real time.
2013 5.0 2014 5.2 We continue to invest in these capabilities right across our business, Description: FM is our heartland and the main driver Mitie has historically tracked and reported organic and in doing so create true partnerships revenue growth as a key measure of its success.
for both our current success and future with our clients, drive cross selling and Organic growth is calculated by using revenue as prospects.
At the same time, were improve retention.
reported in the Accounts, based on the continuing businesses and excluding the impact of material constantly looking for opportunities in new acquisitions or disposals made during the markets that meet our targets for margins Headline operating profit margin performance period.
KPI and long-term, secure growth.
We do this % Objective: by growing organically in new markets, Grow revenue organically every year.
Comment: or by making acquisitions.
We have 2010 5.4 Mitie achieved 5.2% organic headline revenue growth an established track record of using 2011 5.7 across the group in 2014, an increase of 20bps on acquisitions to add strategic capability and 2013 organic growth.
2012 6.2 fuel long-term organic revenue growth.
2013 6.1 In addition, our latest start-up business 2014 6.0 Healthcare is an important area where is Mitie Local, which provides cleaning we have used acquisitions to enter a new Description: services to small and medium sized market.
This is a key adjacency to our Our headline operating profit margin provides us with London based customers.
a good indicator of the profitability of our business.
core business and demands many of the Where we have material restructuring and acquisition same key strengths needed to succeed Mities Care and Custody business, which related items, such as non-recurring integration costs, in facilities management: client focus, we exclude these from our measure.
specialises in custodial management Objective: service, flexibility and support.
It also services, also successfully expanded Margin increases over the medium-term.
its presence in the immigration Comment: During the year we paid around 9m centre market.
Our headline operating profit margin was 6.0%.
to bring Complete Group into our In the security market, we were pleased organisation.
One of the leading complex to make another small acquisition, of care companies in the UK, the business UK CRBs Ltd UKCRBs, the criminal employs some 650 people, including records checking service, from the registered nurses.
UKCRBs is one of provides high acuity care at home to the largest providers of online criminal approximately 150 individuals with ongoing records checking services in the UK and complex clinical healthcare needs and will gives our Total Security Management complement our offering in the rapidlybusiness a scalable platform to compete growing homecare market.
in the rapidly growing screening and We also invested over 1m in two new vetting market.
Our existing waste business has been recapitalised to allow the management team to take an equity stake in the business and motivate them to grow it and share in its future success.
Strategic Report Governance Financial 11 5 Risk Effective risk management is critical in helping us achieve our strategy and is a key consideration in our business decision making.
Through our contracts, we become responsible for certain tasks and functions.
With responsibility comes risk 6 and we use a thorough risk management strategy to help us identify and mitigate Responsibility those risks.
As the group grows in scale and complexity, a flexible and dynamic We take our responsibility as a Carbon dioxide emissions approach to risk management is required KPI business seriously, and work hard to to help us plan and prioritise the use of tonnes per employee minimise our impact on the environment our resources effectively across all areas.
and maximise our support for local This enterprise-wide framework ensures 2010 0.79 communities.
Our Energy Solutions team we can identify, mitigate and manage 2011 0.74 helps many of our FM clients and we our significant risks effectively, both 2012 0.71 use the same expertise to make sure that at an operational and strategic level.
2013 0.64 emissions and consumption associated 2014 0.63 We are also aware of our obligations to with our own operations are as low operate in a responsible and ethical way.
Description: Emissions are calculated using the DEFRA guidance Our ethical business framework sets out Weve set ourselves an aspirational target on how to measure and report GHG emissions and clear expectations and behaviours for all apply the 2010 guidelines for company reporting.
to reduce our carbon footprint by 35% our people to follow, which holds them The rate of CO e emissions per Mitie employee 2 by 2020 and were well on our way to is calculated using the average number of people accountable to always doing the right employed during the year.
thing and adhering to our values.
Objective: The Mitie Foundation, set up in 2013, Understand and minimise the environmental impact of our operations.
is an independent charity focused on Comment: creating job opportunities for people of Emissions per employee are lower than the prior year.
all backgrounds in the communities in Note: All prior years are restated.
Our award winning Real Apprentice programme, under its new name Ready2Work, has continued to Reportable accidents KPI go from strength to strength.
A record per 1,000 employees number of five programmes have been completed this year and 51 people 2010 3.5 completed the course.
Of those, 38 have 2011 3.1 been offered a job or apprenticeship, 2012 3.4 or have gone back into further education.
2013 3.1 We were delighted to be recognised 2014 2.6 with the highest ranking in Business Description: in the Communitys BITC Corporate The health and safety of our people is critical to our Responsibility Index, being awarded a business.
Reportable accidents are those defined as Platinum Big Tick, a new banding in the fatalities, major injuries or resulting in over seven days absence or restriction from work.
Index for 2013 designed to challenge Figures shown are those calculated to reflect the over leading companies on topics such as the seven day absence period, rather than the previously unique contribution their business can defined over three day absence period.
make to create a sustainable economy.
Objective: In line with our Work Safe Home Safe!
employee Our commitment to diversity also saw engagement programme, our objective is to continue us win the 2013 Leadership Diversity to embed safe working behaviours and ensure every employee goes home safely at the end of their Award at the National Business Awards working day.
UK, and for the fourth year in a row we Comment: were named as one of the Times Top 50 Our reportable accident reporting rate shows a 16% companies where women want to work.
improvement on the 2013 rate, with the major incident rate showing a 10% improvement.
We will maintain our focus on continual improvement in health and safety risk management to fulfil our More on our financial performance: Work Safe Home Safe!
