Governance 65 Compliance statement Mondis dual listed company structure requires us to comply Therefore it is considered to be better placed to review the with the principles contained in the South African King III Code of integrity of the sustainability reporting.
The DLC sustainable Corporate Governance Principles available at www.
co. za development committee has therefore provided the assurance and the September 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance on sustainability issues in the Integrated report and financial Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council available at statements 2014. www.
It is the view of the Boards that, except as A more detailed analysis of Mondis compliance with King III is referred to below, Mondi has complied throughout the year with available on the Mondi Group website at: www.
all the provisions of these codes.
The Boards acknowledge the publication of the September 2014 The Boards determined that the DLC sustainable development edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code that applies for committee provided the appropriate oversight for the reporting years beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
The Boards sustainability reporting in the Integrated report and financial have reviewed the new and revised principles and are working statements 2014 rather than the DLC audit committee, as with management to enhance our governance procedures to recommended under King III.
Due to the nature of Mondis reflect these new requirements and to enable us to report to business the DLC sustainable development committee shareholders more fully on these matters in the next report.
regularly reviews all key sustainability issues for the Group, meeting six times a year and reporting directly to the Boards.
A more detailed analysis Composition of the Boards of Mondis compliance with The directors holding office during the year ended 31 December 2014 are listed below, King III is available on the Mondi Group website at: together with their attendance at board meetings.
As at 31 December 2014 there were nine www.
com directors: the joint chairmen, four non-executive directors, each considered by the Boards to be independent, and three executive directors.
All directors served throughout the year.
While the size and composition of the Boards and its committees are kept under review by the DLC nominations committee, we are of the view that collectively there is an appropriate balance of capabilities, business experience, independence and diversity to meet the Groups current business needs.
Those in office as at the date of this report, together with their biographical details, can be found on pages 60 to 63.
Mondi Board Limited Mondi plc DLC Composition of the Boards member board one board one board six Directors Position Independent since meeting meeting meetings 3 Fred Joint chairman Yes June 1 1 6 Phaswana on appointment 2013 David Joint chairman Yes May 1 1 6 Williams on appointment 2007 2 Stephen Non-executive Yes March 1 1 6 Harris director 2011 David Chief executive No May 1 1 6 1 Hathorn officer 2007 Andrew Chief financial No October 1 1 6 4 King officer 2008 Imogen Non-executive Yes May 1 1 6 Mkhize director 2007 John Non-executive Yes October 1 1 6 Executives Nicholas director 2009 Non-executives Peter Chief executive No January Joint chairmen 1 1 6 Oswald officer, Europe 2008 & International Division Anne Senior Yes May 1 1 6 Quinn independent non- 2007 executive director 1 David Hathorn was appointed a director of Mondi Limited in May 1997.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
