Strategic report 20 Our external context The world we live in is changing fast.
Accelerating globalisation, shifts in demographics, dynamic macroeconomic environment, improved technology, climate change and biodiversity loss are just some of the trends that are increasingly affecting the way we do business.
Global sustainability trends Despite global efforts, greenhouse gas GHG WWFs Living Planet Index indicates severe Changing global social trends such as emissions continue to rise and climate change degradation of ecosystems over the last population growth, urbanisation and rising is the most significant global challenge we face.
Biodiversity and habitat loss incomes and the associated rise in material It remains top of the global environmental policy can have adverse impacts on the ecosystem consumption is causing increased pressure agenda, influencing regulations and market services that businesses and communities rely on constrained natural resources.
We fully consider climate change in upon.
We manage our land and associated responsibly managing the natural resources we our business decisions, strategies for growth and ecosystems in a sustainable way and procure rely on, such as fibre, fresh water and fuel, and public commitments.
wood exclusively from responsible sources.
offer products that promote resource efficiency.
Ongoing deforestation and land conversion We are operating in an increasingly continue to cause biodiversity loss and transparent and globalised world, with are major contributors to climate change.
people connected through information and Forest certification not only addresses communication technology and the rising deforestation, but also promotes sustainable use of social media.
This trend impacts forest management.
However, about 90% of on our markets, strategy, communication global forests remain uncertified and unless and engagement approach, stakeholder urgent change is made to improve and simplify expectations and our reputation.
We actively certification processes it is unlikely that the engage with a wide range of stakeholders, situation will improve.
We are actively involved and seek to increase transparency by publicly in promoting change.
disclosing our performance on a regular basis.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Strategic report 21 Global macroeconomic developments Real GDP growth annual % change Economic growth is a clear driver of demand for Mondis products.
From a global perspective, 10 Source: International Monetary Fund IMF the recovery from the 2008 2009 financial crisis 8 continued in 2014, albeit at a slower and more 6 uneven pace than was anticipated.
In particular, 4 growth in emerging markets was at a slower pace than historical averages.
In the short term, 2 conditions are expected to remain challenging, 0 with growth below the long-term average in most -2 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 regions where we operate.
World Sub-Saharan Africa Commonwealth and Independent States European Union Emerging markets and developing economies Middle East and North Africa Industry trends Economic development in emerging markets Global populations are becoming increasingly Packaging is often the most important way is supporting the rise of a sizeable middle class.
urbanised, often resulting in smaller and for brands to communicate with consumers, As more people enter this demographic, new busier households.
Improved living standards particularly in-store.
For products with fast hubs for consumer demand appear, creating are also helping to increase life expectancy.
moving consumer goods FMCG applications, growth opportunities for many of our products.
These demographic trends influence there is increased demand for packaging to packaging demand as consumers require more enhance the visual appearance of products convenient and innovative solutions such as through advanced options for printing, design enhanced shelf-life and storage, flexible portion functionality and materials usage.
Packaging can sizes, and easy-to-open features.
also provide protection from counterfeiting and theft, particularly in premium segments.
Consumers are increasingly aware of Digital technology continues to revolutionise environmental issues, supporting the growth of the way people do business, buy things, work products that use sustainable materials and are and live.
Improved connectivity provides more produced in an environmentally responsible opportunities for trade and online shopping, way.
Brand owners and end users require extending the reach of global commerce and packaging products that minimise cost and waste, supporting growth in our key packaging grades without impacting product functionality.
A key that help to protect, transport and sell goods.
element of this trend is light-weighting, essentially In office environments, digital platforms such as doing more with less.
Plastic-based packaging cloud storage and email are changing the way in has a role to play in supporting the sustainability which paper is used.
It provides benefits ranging from prevail, opportunities have emerged such as enhancing food security by extending shelf-life digital print solutions that allow businesses to and reducing food waste, to offering solutions that offer customised mailings and related services.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
