Strategic report 24 Our business model Mondi is fully integrated across the packaging and paper value chain from managing forests and producing pulp, paper and compound plastics, to developing effective and innovative industrial and consumer packaging solutions.
Our business model explains how we use our resources to create value for our customers, investors, employees and other stakeholders.
Inputs: Strong financial Natural position resources Exceptional what we have Supplier people partnerships see page 26 Commitment Industry-leading to sustainable operations development Our key value drivers bring our strategy to life see page 22 Activities: The value chain for each of our business units can be found in the business reviews, from page 38.
Our Group value chain is summarised here: what we do We offer over Wood fibre Pulp mills 100 packaging and paper products customised into more than Paper for recycling Paper mills 100,000 solutions see pages 28 and 29 Polymers and Converting operations other substrates We use the Mondi Diamond as our operating framework to drive performance across our business Outputs: Innovative technologies People Support for local value we create and products development communities see page 27 Sustainable Shareholder development value Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Strategic report 25 What we do R&D is an important contributor to our ongoing Mondis pulp mills convert wood into pulp and our paper mills convert pulp and paper for success.
For us, innovation is recycling into packaging paper and uncoated fine paper.
Our packaging paper products key to generating increased include containerboard and kraft paper, and our uncoated fine paper business produces value.
This can be from office and professional printing paper.
working with customers on We also convert packaging paper, polymers, films, aluminium foil and other raw materials ground-breaking products, into packaging products such as corrugated packaging, industrial bags, extrusion through to finding new ways coatings, consumer packaging and advanced materials.
to develop our people or be more efficient.
We use the Mondi Diamond as our operating framework to drive performance across our business in line with our key value drivers.
It guides our people to focus on what we need We operate five R&D centres to do to deliver value, bringing strategy down to an operational level.
Every operation puts to improve existing products a different emphasis on each of the areas of the Mondi Diamond, depending on the nature and processes and innovate of their business, but overall it brings a consistency to how we do things at Mondi.
new solutions that excite our customers.
We have formed strategic partnerships with research institutes, universities, raw material suppliers and original equipment The Mondi Diamond guides the way we work and helps our people to understand manufacturers to help us how they contribute to our sustainable value creation.
It drives performance across five anticipate market trends and key areas: new technologies ahead of our competitors.
Customer Focus Understanding market and customer needs so we can act accordingly We focus on: Striving for flawless service and on-time delivery Improving the technological Facilitating sustainable partnerships and measuring success and environmental performance of pulp fibres Cutting Edge Products Developing surfaces that Listening to our customers to deliver exceptional value enhance printability Creating competitive advantages with high-quality products and brands Complying with stringent Leveraging our global expertise and cross business unit know-how to create food hygiene standards and tailor-made solutions extending the shelf life of our customers products Operational Excellence Developing unique film recipes Maximising equipment and process efficiencies and processes for multilayer Delivering on quality and productivity expectations blown films, cast films Improving cost competitiveness and laminates People Development Shaping our culture and embracing diversity and mobility Inspiring and developing our people Promoting excellence in leadership Sustainable Development Achieving zero harm and providing a healthy and safe work environment Practising sustainable forestry Increasing resource efficiency and minimising environmental impacts Putting social responsibility into practice Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Strategic report 26 Our business model continued Inputs: what we have Read more about how we are committed to operating sustainably on page 34 See pages 54 to 57 to find out about our strong financial position Our industry-leading integrated pulp and paper mills and converting plants give us a lower cost position than many of our competitors.
Our production assets have a carrying value of 3.4 billion and over the last five years we have invested 1.9 billion in our asset base to further improve our operations, reduce our environmental footprint, enhance our competitive cost advantage and pursue growth opportunities.
Our intellectual capital is inextricably linked to our team of exceptional people who together drive performance and find the solutions that our customers are looking for.
We are committed to fostering a safe, fair and inspiring work environment that will continue to attract and retain talented individuals.
Mondis strong financial position is founded on equity invested by our shareholders of 2.6 billion and committed credit facilities of 2.1 billion as at 31 December 2014 and strong cash flow generation from our operations of 1 billion in 2014.
Our investment grade credit ratings enable us to access debt capital markets to fund selected growth opportunities when required.
Our value chain is dependent on the supply of a broad range of production equipment and materials including wood, paper for recycling, polymers, foils, chemicals, energy and other raw materials.
We partner with our suppliers to be first to market with new developments and access sustainable resources across our business.
Our forestry resources in Russia and South Africa give us access to our own fibre supply, resulting in a potential wood self-sufficiency of 55% for pulp production.
Mondi depends on natural resources, most notably fibre, water and fuel, which are required for the manufacturing of pulp, paper, converted packaging products and advanced materials.
We are committed to using these resources responsibly.
Our pulp and paper operations are capable of generating 97% of our overall electricity requirements mainly as a by-product of the pulp production process.
We are committed to operating sustainably and being proactive in the way we deal with the global issues and their local consequences relating to climate change, energy, water and biodiversity.
We work together with our communities, governments, NGOs and other stakeholders to foster strong and long-lasting relationships, deepen understanding and increase our positive impact and influence.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Strategic report 27 Outputs: value we create Value distribution in 2014 We deliver value to our shareholders through capital appreciation and the distribution of dividends.
Our internal ROCE hurdle rate of 13% through the economic cycle helps us to measure our success.
Over the past four years, while investing for the future, we 2,068m have consistently exceeded this measure.
Mondis share price has also consistently outperformed the average of our industry peers and the broader market.
Over the same period we have distributed 585 million in dividends to our shareholders.
47 We work closely with our customers and other strategic partners to develop cutting edge solutions that contribute to their success.
Our innovative technologies and products can be found in a variety of applications including components for hygiene products, stand-up pouches, super-strong cement bags, clever retail boxes and environmentally responsible office paper.
32 Being a responsible employer with an open and honest culture helps us to deliver 5 value while enhancing our position as an employer of choice.
We develop and train our talented people, offering a variety of tailored courses in several languages on a 6 10 range of topics including safety, technology, business tools, personal development and leadership skills.
% We see it as our responsibility to make a real and lasting contribution to the communities Distributed to in which we operate.
We support local communities and livelihoods by creating Employees employment and business.
We employ local people, engage the services of local and Providers of equity capital Providers of loan capital multinational suppliers and contribute to regional and national economies through regular Direct taxes paid tax payments.
We also seek to support and invest in the development of local people Reinvested in the Group and communities and in 2014 we contributed 7 million to local community projects.
We seek to minimise our impact on the environment and enhance the eco-efficiency of our products through resource efficiency and the responsible use of materials across the value chain.
Our active stewardship of land and freshwater ecosystems helps us to develop more resilient landscapes, and we are committed to credible certification of our forests and to procuring wood only from responsible sources.
