Governance 68 Corporate governance continued The Boards support the Board structure continued established governance In order to nurture productive relationships between the directors and management, structures and processes senior managers are encouraged to make presentations to the Boards.
The Boards also through a regular meet with as many employees as possible, utilising site visits, off-site meetings and board programme of review and dinners as well as meeting presentations.
This also helps to provide the directors with challenge of key areas such exposure to potential future successors for executive management roles.
as divisional performance and trends, treasury and IT.
The Boards support the established governance structures and processes through a regular programme of review and challenge of key areas such as divisional performance and trends, treasury and IT.
There is an annual review of Group policies and corporate governance compliance, testing what remains appropriate and effective and where changes may be warranted.
Board responsibilities Principal responsibilities of the joint chairmen: Lead and manage the dynamics of the Boards, ensuring their effectiveness, consideration of succession and setting the agenda Ensure that the Boards set a clear and appropriate strategy for the Group Ensure high standards of corporate governance and ethical behaviour Ensure effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders Principal responsibilities of the chief executive officer: Leads the business, in particular the execution of strategy Chairs the DLC executive committee and leads and motivates the management team Ensures the Group has effective processes, controls and risk management systems Ensures the Boards receive accurate, timely and clear information about the Groups performance Mondi has joint chairmen, Fred Phaswana and David Williams, with the chief executive officer role held separately by David Hathorn.
Having joint chairmen ensures that the Group and its stakeholders benefit from an extensive knowledge and experience of the jurisdictions relating specifically to its dual listed company structure.
The joint chairmen maintain a regular dialogue with each other and manage the Boards through mutual agreement.
The division of responsibilities between the joint chairmen and the chief executive officer has been clearly defined and approved by the Boards.
They do, however, work closely on matters such as the relationships with major shareholders, governments, analysts, media and other external relationships.
David Hathorn, chief executive officer, does not hold any directorships external to Mondi.
The main positions held by Fred Phaswana and David Williams outside the Mondi Group are detailed in their biographies set out on page 60.
There have been no changes to the commitments of Fred Phaswana during the year while David Williams has relinquished his non-executive directorship of Dubai-based DP World Limited.
Both Fred Phaswana and David Williams were independent upon appointment.
The Boards continue to consider that the chairmens external directorships do not interfere with the time they devote to Mondi, with both having attended all meetings and made themselves available to management and other directors when required.
Anne Quinn is the senior independent director, having been appointed to this role in August 2009.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
