Governance 90 Corporate governance continued DLC executive committee and company secretaries John Lindahl, 55 Ron Traill, 60 Philip Laubscher, 59 Group technical director Chief executive officer: South Company secretary Mondi Limited Africa Division Appointed: August 2011 Philip Laubscher, who holds BProc and Appointed: January 2008 LLB degrees and is an attorney of the Committee membership: executive High Court of South Africa, was in-house Committee membership: executive Qualifications: graduated in pulp and counsel with national power utility Eskom paper engineering from the Technical Qualifications: graduated in mechanical for 15 years before joining Mondi in 1999 as University of Helsinki in 1985 and an MBA engineering and management from Dundee head of legal services.
He was appointed from Jyvaskyla University in 1996.
Colleges in Scotland in 1980. company secretary of Mondi Limited in January 2001.
Experience: between 1985 and 2000 Experience: Ron has over 34 years John had an extensive career in the forest experience in the paper industry.
He began industry, working in different operational his career as an industrial engineer with managerial positions in Finland, the DRG Packaging Group, working in its US and France in companies including Scottish paper mill.
He went on to hold a M-real, Myllykoski and UPM.
At UPM he succession of posts within the company, then moved on to roles within corporate leading ultimately to his appointment technology and investment coordination.
Following DRGs From the industry he moved on to acquisition by Sappi in 1990, he worked consulting and engineering company for 10 years in a number of general Carol Hunt, 53 Pyry, where he held a number of executive management roles.
Company secretary Mondi plc positions in the forest industry business He has also held senior operational group, being involved in advisory services, Carol Hunt, a fellow of the Institute of positions with Fletcher Challenge and with pre-engineering studies and major Chartered Secretaries & Administrators, Tullis Russell, the UKs largest independent implementation projects for the global Pulp spent 15 years with The BOC Group plc, paper mill.
and Paper Industry until 2011 when he holding various roles in the company joined Mondi.
Ron joined Mondi in 2003 as managing secretariat, the last six years as deputy director of the tt pulp and paper mill External appointments: none company secretary.
She joined Mondi in the Czech Republic, also assuming in November 2006 and was formally responsibility for the Mondi packaging appointed company secretary of Mondi plc paper business in Ruomberok, Slovakia.
He then relocated to South Africa, being Philip and Carol work together on the appointed chief executive officer of the coordination of Mondis DLC structure.
South Africa Division in January 2008.
External appointments: none David Hathorn, 52 Peter Oswald, 52 Andrew King, 45 Chief executive officer Chief executive officer: Europe & Chief financial officer International Division See full biography on page 60.
See full biography on page 61.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
