Governance 101 For external appointments, the Committee may also offer additional cash and or share-based elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of Mondi and shareholders, to replace variable remuneration awards or arrangements that an individual has foregone in order to join the Group.
This includes the use of awards made under section 9.4.
Any such payments would take account of the details of the remuneration foregone including the nature, vesting dates and any performance requirements attached to that remuneration.
1 Remuneration scenarios at different performance levels The charts below illustrate the total potential remuneration for each executive director atthree performance levels.
Remuneration policy for non-executive directors Element Purpose and link Operation Maximum opportunity to strategy Non-executive To attract and retain high The joint chairmen each receive an allThe joint chairmens fees chairmen fees calibre chairmen, with the inclusive fee.
are reviewed periodically by necessary experience the Committee.
To provide fees While there is not a maximum which take account of fee level, fees are set by the time commitment and reference to market median responsibilities of the role.
data for companies of similar size and complexity to Mondi.
Other To attract and retain high The non-executives are paid a Non-executive directors fees non-executive calibre non-executives with basic fee.
are reviewed periodically fees the necessary experience by the joint chairmen and Attendance fees are also paid to reflect and skills.
To provide fees executive directors.
the requirement for non-executive which take account of directors to attend meetings in various While there is not a maximum the time commitment and international locations.
fee level, fees are set by responsibilities of the role.
reference to market median The chairmen of the main board data for companies of similar committees and the senior independent size and complexity to Mondi.
director are paid additional fees to reflect their extra responsibilities.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
