Governance 60 Board of directors Fred Phaswana, 70 Formerly a non-executive director of the Peninsular & Oriental Steam Joint chairman Navigation Company, Dewhirst Group plc, Medeva plc, George Wimpey plc, Taylor Wimpey plc and Tullow Oil plc.
In April 2014 David Appointed: June 2013 retired as a non-executive director of Dubai-based DP World Limited.
Committee membership: nominations External appointments: senior independent director of Qualifications: MA Unisa, BCom Hons RAU, BA Philosophy, Meggittplc.
He also chairs the audit committee.
Politics and Economics Unisa David Hathorn, 52 Experience: Fred has a wealth of experience in African and global Chief executive officer businesses with well developed strategic and commercial skills having previously been regional president of BP Africa, a nonAppointed: May 2007 executive director of Anglo American plc and chairman of Anglo Committee memberships: executive chairman, sustainable American South Africa, Anglo Platinum, Transnet, Ethos Private development, social & ethics Equity, the South African Energy Association and the Advisory Board of the Cape Town Graduate School of Business.
He was Qualifications: graduated in commerce from the University of former vice chairman of the World Wildlife Fund South Africa Natal, chartered accountant South Africa and Business Leadership of South Africa and was the honorary Experience: David has more than 23 years experience in the president of the Cape Town Press Club.
packaging and paper industry with strong financial and commercial External appointments: chairman of Standard Bank group and experience of the sector.
He completed articles with Deloitte & The Standard Bank of South Africa.
He is also chairman of the Touche in Johannesburg in 1987.
He joined Anglo American plc in South African Institute of International Affairs and non-executive 1989 as a divisional finance manager, moving to Mondi in 1991 and director of Naspers.
going on to serve as finance director and then general manager of Mondi Europe until 2000, when he was appointed chief executive David Williams, 69 officer of the Mondi Group.
He has led Mondi through major Joint chairman change, especially the demerger from Anglo in 2007.
Appointed: May 2007 At Anglo American plc, David was a member of the executive and as joint chairman in August 2009 committee from 2003 and an executive director from 2005 and served on the boards of a number of companies, including Committee memberships: nominations chairman, remuneration DeBeers, Anglo Platinum and Anglo Coal.
Qualifications: graduated in economics from Manchester External appointments: none University, chartered accountant UK Experience: David has significant experience in senior financial roles held across a range of multinational companies, with board experience as both an executive and non-executive director.
He retired as finance director of Bunzl plc in January 2006, having served on the board for 14 years.
He was previously a member of the Tootal management board and finance director of Tootal plc.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Governance See page 90 for the biographies of our DLC executive committee and company secretaries.
61 Andrew King, 45 Peter Oswald, 52 Chief financial officer Chief executive officer: Europe & International Division Appointed: October 2008 Appointed: January 2008 Committee membership: executive Committee membership: executive Qualifications: graduated in commerce from the University of Qualifications: graduated in law from the University of Vienna and Cape Town, chartered accountant South Africa in business administration from WU-Vienna Business School Experience: Andrew has more than 12 years experience with Experience: Peter has over 22 years experience of the sector with Mondi in various strategy, business development and finance roles.
detailed knowledge of operations and extensive experience of the He has played a key role in defining the Groups strategic direction acquisition, disposal, restructuring and turnaround of businesses.
and re-shaping the capital structure since listing.
He began his career with Deutsche Bank and automotive company KTM.
He joined the Frantschach Group in 1992 as the head of Andrew completed articles with Deloitte & Touche in Johannesburg internal audit, later becoming corporate controller.
In 1995 he joined Minorco, the international arm of Anglo American, as a financial analyst, before assuming responsibility After serving as chief executive of the bag and flexibles business for the groups investment management activities, and transferring from 1995 to 2001, overseeing its recovery and expansion, he to their corporate finance department in 1998.
He worked on a was appointed chief executive of Mondi Packaging Europe in number of group M&A activities before being appointed a vice 2002, leading its subsequent integration with Frantschach into the president of Anglo American Corporate Finance in 1999. new Mondi packaging division.
Having held a number of senior executive roles within Mondi Peter was appointed chief executive He was appointed Mondis vice president of business development officer of the Europe & International Division in January 2008. in 2002 and corporate development director in 2004.
He served as chief financial officer of Mondi from June 2005 to May He was a non-executive director of Telekom Austria AG between 2006.
He was then appointed as Group strategy and business 2008 and 2014. development director before becoming the chief financial officer External appointments: non-executive director of MIBA AG.
External appointments: none Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Governance 62 Board of directors continued Anne Quinn CBE, 63 John Nicholas, 58 Senior independent director Non-executive director Appointed: May 2007 and as senior independent director Appointed: October 2009 in August 2009 Committee memberships: audit chairman, nominations Committee memberships: audit, nominations, remuneration Qualifications: masters degree in business administration from chairman, sustainable development Kingston University, chartered accountant UK Qualifications: BCom from Auckland University and MSc Experience: John has business and commercial experience in management science from the Massachusetts Institute having spent his early career in technology-focused international of Technology.
Awarded a CBE for services to the natural manufacturing and service companies involved in analytical gas industry.
instruments, fire protection and food processing.
He became Experience: Anne has extensive experience in the natural group finance director of Kidde plc on its demerger from Williams resources sector.
She spent her early career with NZ Forest Holdings and was group finance director at Tate & Lyle plc from Products Limited and the US management consulting company 2006 to 2008.
He was a non-executive director of Ceres Power Resource Planning Associates.
She has wide-ranging oil and gas Holdings plc until December 2012, chairing the audit committee.
global experience having joined Standard Oil of Ohio, which was He is currently a member of the UK Financial Reporting Review subsequently acquired by BP plc, following which she went on to Panel, which seeks to ensure that the provision of financial work for BP in the US, Belgium, Colombia and the UK and held information by public and large private companies complies with a number of executive positions, including group vice president.
Previously a managing director of Riverstone Holdings Europe, a private equity investment firm specialising in the renewable and External appointments: non-executive director of Hunting PLC conventional energy and power industries and a former nonwhere he chairs the audit committee, non-executive director of executive director of The BOC Group plc from 2004 to 2006.
Rotork p. l. c. where he is the senior independent director and Diploma PLC where he was the senior independent director External appointments: non-executive director of Smiths Group plc.
and chair of the remuneration committee until being appointed chairman in January 2015.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Governance 63 Imogen Mkhize, 51 Stephen Harris, 56 Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed: May 2007 Appointed: March 2011 Committee memberships: nominations, remuneration, social & Committee memberships: audit, nominations, remuneration, ethics chairman sustainable development chairman, social & ethics Qualifications: BSc Information Systems from Rhodes Qualifications: chartered engineer, graduated in engineering from University in 1984, an MBA from Harvard Business School in 1995.
Cambridge University, masters degree in business administration Completed a Diploma in Company Direction with the Institute of from the University of Chicago, Booth School of Business Directors GIMT in 2000.
Imogen is a Chartered Director with the Experience: Stephen has extensive experience in engineering Institute of Directors of Southern Africa.
and manufacturing having spent his early career with Courtaulds Experience: Imogen has been involved in corporate governance plc and then moved to the USA to join APV Inc from 1984 until for over two decades.
She spent her early career with Anglo 1995, where he held several senior management positions.
American, Andersen Consulting and the financial services group He was appointed to the board of Powell Duffryn plc as an Nedcor, before becoming managing director of telecommunications executive director in 1995 and then went on to join Spectris plc as group Lucent Technologies South Africa.
Between 2003 and July an executive director from 2003 until 2008.
He was also a non- 2006, she held the position of chief executive officer of the 18th executive director of Brixton plc from 2006 to 2009.
World Petroleum Congress, an international oil and gas event.
External appointments: chief executive officer of Bodycote plc.
In 2001 Imogen was recognised by the World Economic Forum as a Global Leader for Tomorrow.
Formerly chairman of Richards Bay Coal Terminal, a former non-executive director of Murray & Roberts Holdings Limited and of Mobile Telephone Networks Proprietary Limited and emeritus member of the Harvard Business School Global Alumni Board.
External appointments: non-executive director of Sasol Limited and of the Ethics Institute of South Africa.
A member of Accenture South Africa Advisory Board.
A member of Rhodes University Board of Governors and chairman of Rhodes Business School.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
