Governance 70 Corporate governance continued Left: Board visit to tt, Czech Republic.
Right: Board visit to the South African forestry operations.
Training and development When new directors join the Boards they undertake an induction.
While there is an outline induction programme in place this is discussed with each new director and is tailored to meet any specific requirements they may have.
In particular this is focused on any committee responsibilities.
The programme generally includes meetings with each member of the executive committee and key advisers in addition to site visits.
The aim is to provide a new director with sufficient background and information about the Group and its performance and to highlight any specific areas of risk or concern.
The starting point for the induction is for one of the company secretaries to explain the dual listed company structure and its implications for the operation of the Boards.
The committee and governance framework will also be discussed with a copy of the directors handbook, containing all the key documents of reference for directors, provided.
Each director has the opportunity to discuss any development needs with one of the joint chairmen during the annual review process when the chairmen have discussions with each individual regarding their performance.
All directors are encouraged to attend workshops and seminars relevant to their respective roles and details of the availability of these are provided regularly by the company secretaries.
During the year directors have attended programmes relating to finance, remuneration, cyber security and responding to global risks.
Part of the Boards annual rolling agenda is focused on updating skills and knowledge.
Periodically Mondis South African and UK advisers facilitate sessions on the duties and responsibilities of directors and on corporate governance developments.
In addition, annually an economist from one of Mondis relationship banks will give a presentation on the global economic outlook.
Management also provide updates on issues affecting the packaging and paper industry as a whole.
During 2014 two site visits were undertaken, one to the South African forestry operations and the other to tt in the Czech Republic.
In South Africa the directors were able to see firsthand the improvements in working conditions and operational efficiency in the forests since their previous visit.
At tt they received presentations from local management providing an overview of the Packaging Paper business unit and the Speciality Kraft Paper segment as well as of the local paper mill, extrusion coatings and industrial bags operations.
During the site tour the directors visited the new 155,000 tonne per annum bleached kraft paper machine that had been successfully started up in April.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
