Strategic report 28 Our products touch the lives of millions, worldwide, every day We offer over 100 packaging and paper products, customised into more than 100,000 different solutions for customers and end consumers.
Our key customers are in industries such as automotive: building and construction: chemicals: food and beverage: home and personal care: medical and pharmaceutical: packaging and paper converting: pet care: and office and professional printing.
The overview below provides a flavour of the variety of products we offer.
Our containerboard is used to make corrugated packaging, primarily designed to protect our customers products along the value chain.
Through design improvements and innovation, our corrugated packaging solutions extend their benefits well beyond traditional packaging requirements and range from standard transit cases to fully customised trays and wraps, multipiece solutions, point of sale displays and heavy duty containers.
Our sack kraft paper is used to make industrial bags that are mainly used for cement and other building materials, but also for agricultural, chemical and food packaging.
They provide customers with a strong, lightweight and sustainable packaging solution.
Our broad range of speciality kraft paper products are used for a multitude of purposes, from heavy-duty industrial Reclosable bags that make pets love their owners even more packaging to attractive and functional food packaging for supermarket shelves, as well as customised applications.
Our innovative extrusion coatings products comprise paper, foils and other materials coated with a polymer layer to provide excellent barrier properties against bacteria, odour, grease, moisture, oxygen etc.
They are used in applications such as protective medical clothing, food and beverages, wrappers and case linings, and in building and construction.
Kraft paper that can carry more than 100 times its own weight Corrugated boxes that help fruit to arrive safely Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Strategic report 29 Our range of advanced materials includes hygiene components, films, and release liners.
Our hygiene components are mainly used in diapers and feminine hygiene products, while our films are used for label and laminating films, barrier and protective solutions, as well as technical and decorative applications.
Release liners have a variety of applications including graphic art materials, tapes, fibre composites, medical and hygiene products, and labels.
Where applicable these products are produced using Mondis speciality kraft paper.
Our consumer goods packaging business produces high-quality laminates and barrier materials and converts them into a broad range of flexible packaging solutions, such as stand-up pouches, reclosable plastic bags, paper-based bags and microwaveable packaging.
They help to optimise shelf life, improve convenience for the end user, and provide Extrusion coatings that offer innovative solutions for our customers superior visual appearance.
Our extensive range of office papers are designed to meet the varying demands of the modern office and achieve optimal results on laser, inkjet and copy machines.
Our high-performance printing papers can be used on digital, offset and high-speed inkjet presses in the professional printing industry.
For information on our full product range please go to www.
com products Release liners that make sure things stick where they should Paper for lifes important messages Industrial bags that carry the foundations of our homes Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
