Governance 84 Corporate governance continued DLC nominations committee continued The senior management talent pool was also reviewed.
The presentations looked at the corporate functions, divisional and business units, and detailed the current role holder as well as likely successors over a timeline of up to five years.
The talent review included consideration of diversity in its broadest sense but highlighted in particular the initiatives being implemented to redress gender balance below board level.
Regular governance matters in accordance with the committees terms of reference were also considered.
These included a review of the tenure and time commitment of non-executive directors and the composition and length of service of members of each committee.
During the year Stephen Harris completed his three-year term and the committee undertook a more detailed review of his tenure which is explained in more detail on page 73.
The committee is responsible for overseeing the annual board evaluation as explained on pages 71 to 73.
In 2014 this was an internal review.
The committee continued to be of the view that, in line with best practice, all directors should stand for re-election at the annual general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc.
Appointments to the Boards There were no appointments to the Boards during 2014.
At least annually the committee reviews the composition of the Boards and each of its committees to ensure that they remain appropriate.
The Mondi Boards are relatively small and it is recognised that this can mean there is little flexibility to change the committee compositions, however, changes to the Boards over time has resulted in the natural refreshing of the committees.
Terms of appointment On appointment each non-executive director receives letters of appointment from each of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc setting out, among other things, their term of appointment, the expected time commitment for their duties to Mondi and details of any committees of which they will be a member.
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a three-year term, although Mondi now follows governance best practice with all directors standing for re-election by shareholders at each annual general meeting.
Diversity In line with our philosophy of encouraging diversity and eliminating discrimination, we provide equal opportunities within the Group.
The Groups gender diversity statistics can be found in the Strategic report on page 35.
We currently have two female directors representing 22% of the composition of the Boards.
While our aim is to maintain at least this level of female representation on the Boards going forward, it remains important to have the right mix of skills, knowledge and experience.
Therefore, while the directors are committed to always considering gender diversity when making appointments, ensuring there is a diversity of business skills and experience to meet our business needs and future strategy remains paramount.
As a global organisation operating in more than 30 countries, diversity forms an integral part of the way we do business and is encouraged.
We are committed to creating a culture that embraces diversity and provides a working environment that is non-discriminatory from recruitment, training and career development to reward and promotion.
We employ, empower and develop competent people with the necessary potential required to meet our business needs and maintain a competitive business advantage.
In South Africa we are committed to making a positive contribution to the process of transformation.
We have taken active steps to meet the requirements of broad-based black economic empowerment BBBEE, including establishing transformation forums in our South African operations to allow our employees to discuss equity and training-related issues and ideas.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
