Governance 69 Principal responsibilities of the senior independent director: Provides support to, and acts as a sounding board for, the joint chairmen Available as a point of contact for shareholders Available as an intermediary for the other directors, as necessary Chairs a meeting of the non-executive directors at which the performance of the joint chairmen is considered The non-executive directors provide a valuable level of independent oversight of the Groups activities and constructive challenge of management.
Their varied business backgrounds enable them to apply diverse knowledge and experience to issues raised with the Boards, particularly when considering the setting of the Groups strategy.
Non-executive director meetings The non-executive directors Non-executive director meetings, chaired by one of the joint chairmen except when provide a valuable level of their performance is being considered, are held twice a year.
These meetings focus independent oversight of particularly on the performance of the executives although the agendas are driven by the the Groups activities and non-executive directors and cover a variety of topics.
One of these meetings is attended constructive challenge of by the chief executive officer in order to provide input to the discussions on executive management.
Philip Laubscher is the company secretary of Mondi Limited and Carol Hunt the company secretary of Mondi plc.
They work together on the coordination of Mondis dual listed company structure.
Company secretaries: Appointed and removed by the Boards and are accountable to the Boards as a whole Both are professionally qualified and have gained experience over a number of years their biographies are on page 90 Report at each board meeting on relevant corporate governance and regulatory matters and changes, including the provision of advice on the performance of directors duties and the continuing obligations of the JSE and LSE Ensure the timely distribution of meeting packs ahead of each meeting Pursuant to the Listings Requirements of the JSE, the Boards confirm that they have reviewed and are satisfied that each of the company secretaries is competent and has the relevant qualifications and experience.
In assessing their competence the Boards have considered the expected role and duties pursuant to the requirements of both the South African and UK Companies Acts, governance codes and continuing obligations of the stock exchanges on which Mondi is listed, and considered their respective compliance with each of these.
The Boards have reviewed their performance not only during the last year but since joining Mondi.
The Boards concluded that the company secretaries have each complied with all the requirements of the Companies Acts, governance codes and continuing obligations of the relevant stock exchanges.
While all directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretaries, the company secretaries maintain an arms-length relationship with the Boards.
They do not take part in board deliberations and only advise on matters of governance, form or procedure.
Throughout the year they have not only ensured compliance with board procedures, but have provided independent advice to the Boards, in particular the chairmen and non-executive directors, on a range of governance and compliance matters and best practice.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
