Overview 04 About us Who we are Mondi is an international packaging and paper Group with a dual listed company structure primary listing on the JSE Limited for Mondi Limited and premium listing on the London Stock Exchange for Mondi plc.
With around 25,000 employees and operations across more than 30 countries, our people and our culture really matter.
Were connected, guided and inspired by our culture and values.
Our people are dynamic, entrepreneurial and empowered, with a real passion for performance.
We show we care by being respectful and responsible.
We act with integrity, encouraging honesty and transparency in all that we do.
The Mondi Way demonstrates how our purpose, strategy and operational framework fit together, underpinned by our shared culture and values.
This guides the way in which we work, helping our people to understand how we all contribute to sustainable value creation.
The Mondi Way To create solutions for our customers success, Purpose delivering exceptional value in a sustainable way Our key value drivers Strategy bring our strategy to life Go to page 22 Our operating framework The Mondi Diamond drives performance across our business Go to page 25 Our culture Culture Dynamic Respectful Responsible Entrepreneurial Our values Empowered Values Transparent Passion for performance Caring Acting with integrity For more information see our Our approach to sustainability Sustainable development report at www.
com sd14 For us, sustainable development makes good business sense.
We dont just talk about sustainability: we make it part of the way we work every day.
We have a clear sustainable development strategy, which links our material issues to a comprehensive set of commitments.
Our future relies on the responsible stewardship of the natural resources we need to source, manufacture and market our products.
Thats why we believe in engaging proactively on global issues and their local consequences, such as climate change, energy and the responsible management of ecosystem services including water.
Collaboration with key stakeholders plays a vital role in helping us to achieve this.
We play our part by looking for ways to achieve more from less, increasing resource efficiency and extending the range of sustainable product solutions we offer.
We have been included in the FTSE4Good Index Series since 2008 and the JSEs Socially Responsible Investment SRI Index since 2007.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Overview 05 Mondi is fully integrated across the packaging and paper value chain from managing forests and producing pulp, paper and compound plastics, to developing effective and innovative industrial and consumer packaging solutions.
Read more about our key value drivers We are focused on growing our packaging interests.
Our key value drivers bring our on page 22 strategy to life: We focus on developing in markets that offer us growth opportunities We invest in our exceptional people and our high-quality, low-cost operations We are passionate about performance, reliability and sustainability We work with our customers and help them to succeed by finding innovative solutions Many of our customers are leaders in their industries and their products are household names around the world.
Our innovative technologies and products can be found in a variety of applications including hygiene components, stand-up pouches, super-strong cement bags, clever retail boxes and office paper.
Our key customers are in industries such as automotive: building and construction: chemicals: food and beverage: home and personal care: medical and pharmaceutical: packaging and paper converting: pet care: and office and professional printing.
Our Group is structured into the Europe & International Division E&I and the South Africa Division.
The E&I Division is further organised along product lines, combining business units with similar product portfolios.
Group structure Europe & International South Africa Division Division Packaging Paper Fibre Packaging Consumer Packaging Uncoated Fine Paper Pulp Uncoated Containerboard Corrugated packaging Advanced materials Uncoated fine paper fine paper Sack kraft paper Industrial bags Consumer Pulp Containerboard goods packaging Speciality kraft paper Extrusion coatings Pulp Market positions #1 K raft paper and industrial bags producer in Europe #1 C ommercial release liner producer in Europe #1 I ndustrial bags producer in North America #2 Extrusion coatings producer in Europe #2 Virgin containerboard producer in Europe #1 U ncoated fine paper producer in Europe #1 C ontainerboard producer in emerging Europe #1 H ardwood pulp, white top kraftliner and uncoated fine paper producer in South Africa #2 Corrugated packaging producer in emerging Europe Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Overview 06 About us Where we operate The Groups key operations are located in central Europe, Key Russia, North America and South Africa.
Packaging paper Fibre packaging Consumer packaging Uncoated fine paper Pulp Forestry Production sites Austria Belgium Bulgaria China Czech Republic Finland France Germany Greece Hungary Iraq Italy Jordan North America Lebanon Malaysia Mexico Morocco Netherlands Oman Poland Russia Serbia Slovakia Africa South Africa Spain Sweden Thailand Turkey Ukraine UK South USA America Corporate head offices Johannesburg London Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Overview 07 Europe Asia Employees Revenue by location per region 2014 of production 2014 Australasia 62% 53% Emerging Emerging markets markets Emerging Emerging Europe Russia South Africa Other Mature Western Europe North America Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
