Strategic report 22 Our strategy See pages 16 to 18 where We are focused on growing our packaging interests, which our chief executive discusses our strategy currently account for more than 70% of the Groups revenues, both organically and through acquisitions.
We continue to develop our presence in emerging markets, particularly in our pulp and paper operations where inherent growth and cost benefits are most apparent.
In our Fibre Packaging and Consumer Packaging businesses, we see opportunity to develop by leveraging our competencies in both mature and emerging markets.
Overall, approximately 60% of the Groups net operating assets and 50% of sales by destination are in emerging markets.
In our pulp and paper operations, around 80% of the Groups net operating assets are in emerging markets.
Read more about our Sustainable development is integral to the success of our business and our ability to create sustainability commitments value.
Our strategy is informed by our material issues, within the context of the global on pages 36and 37 sustainability trends that impact our business and are of concern to our stakeholders.
Our key value drivers bring our strategy to life We focus on developing We invest in our exceptional in markets that offer us people and our high-quality, growth opportunities low-cost operations We develop and maintain leading positions in markets This keeps us competitive, and gives us sustainable that offer us growth opportunities.
Through our high levels of vertical integration we realise synergies along the entire value chain.
We promote resource efficiency using innovative technologies and by making continuous process and product improvements.
We are passionate about We work with our customers and performance, reliability help them to succeed by finding and sustainability innovative solutions We work efficiently, effectively and profitably.
Together we develop smarter, more cost-effective Our continuous focus on sustainable operational processes and products that meet their needs.
improvements and rigorous asset management helps We follow our customers into high-growth markets, us to keep improving productivity and reducing costs.
where we can offer cutting edge products that deliver exceptional value.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Strategic report 23 Sales by destination 2014 We are confident in our ability to adapt and execute our strategy successfully across the business cycle.
Our 21 8 strategic approach is closely linked to our competitive advantages, and differentiates us from the market in a number of key areas: 9 50% Our low-cost production model is particularly important for our pulp and paper operations where we largely produce commoditised products.
Our sustainable cost Emerging 9 advantages typically result from lower wood, energy and personnel costs.
In addition, markets our technical expertise and culture of operational excellence ensure that these cost 7 advantages are optimised.
4 42 Our exposure to emerging markets offers us both inherent operating cost advantages and attractive growth opportunities.
% Emerging Our high level of vertical integration improves security of supply and reduces Emerging Europe our exposure to price volatility for key raw materials, particularly wood and pulp.
Russia Asia & Australia Our vertical integration extends to the conversion of containerboard into corrugated South Africa packaging products, sack kraft paper into industrial bags, and resins and films into Other consumer packaging.
Mature Western Europe Our vertical integration also gives us the opportunity to be innovative across the value North America chain, with a focus on manufacturing processes and product design.
Combined with our specialised Research & Development R&D capabilities, this enables us to develop, Vertical integration 2014 improve and customise products to fit customer requirements and generate new products.
This can range from features such as improved barrier properties for extended shelf-life 0.1 and easy-to-open capabilities, to enhanced environmental and recycling properties.
The scale and global reach of our operations gives us a number of advantages compared to regional producers.
In addition to the cost benefits associated with scale, our geographical footprint means we can offer our customers a consistently high level of 1.4 quality and service delivery across different regions.
We can also partner with our global 0.4 customers as they enter new markets, making the most of our combined know-how 0.2 and experience.
3.9 0.3 0.5 0.7 Pulp Virgin Recycled Kraft containerboard containerboard paper We use internally We sell Product mix 2014 49 9 Over 19 70% packaging 23 % Consumer related packaging Industrial packaging Uncoated fine paper Other Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Production in million tonnes
