Governance 99 Differences in remuneration policy for executive directors compared to other employees There are differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the executive directors and employees, which are necessary to reflect the different levels of responsibility and market practices.
The key difference is the increased emphasis on performancerelated pay in senior roles.
Lower maximum incentive pay opportunities apply below executive level, driven by market benchmarks and the relative impact of the role.
Only the most senior executives in the Group participate in the LTIP and the BSP as these plans are targeted on those individuals who have the greatest responsibility for Group performance.
Executive directors existing service contracts, and policy on loss of office David Hathorn and Andrew King are employed under service contracts with both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc.
Peter Oswald is employed in Austria under a service contract with Mondi Services AG.
The service contracts for David Hathorn and Andrew King provide for one years notice by either party.
They include pay in lieu of notice provisions which may be invoked at the discretion of the Group.
The payment in lieu of notice would comprise base salary, benefits and pension contributions for the notice period and an amount in compensation for annual bonus only for that part of the financial year the individual has worked.
Peter Oswald was recruited, and is based, in Austria.
His service contract is required under Austrian law to be for a fixed period, which renewable fixed period expires on 30 April 2019.
However, the contract has also been structured as far as possible to conform to the accepted practice for directors in the UK, and can be terminated on one years notice by either party.
Prior to 2008, he did not have a notice period, and was entitled to receive compensation on termination equivalent to remuneration for the unexpired term of the fiveyear fixed term contract.
The Committee renegotiated this contract in 2008 to substantially reduce the Groups potential liabilities, and introduced a standard 12-month notice period, together with an accompanying lump sum payment on termination, which was necessary to facilitate the transition from the previous contract.
In the event of termination by Mondi, other than for cause, the current contract provides for payment of base salary, benefits and pension contribution in respect of the 12-month notice period and eligibility for annual bonus in respect of the period he has worked.
He would also be eligible for a lump sum amount calculated as 908,800 plus interest on this amount accrued at the Euribor interest rate for the period since 1 January 2008.
Any share-based entitlements granted to an executive director under the Groups share plans will be determined based on the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment is that any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, disability, retirement or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee taking into account the individuals performance and the reasons for their departure good Ieaver status can be applied.
For good leavers, vesting of BSP awards that are not subject to performance conditions is accelerated to as soon as practical after employment termination.
LTIP awards remain subject to performance conditions measured over the original time period and are reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period actually served.
The Committee has the discretion to disapply the application of performance conditions and or time pro rating if it considers it appropriate to do so.
However, it is envisaged that this would only be applied in exceptional circumstances.
In determining whether an executive should be treated as a good Ieaver or not, the Committee will take into account the performance of the individual and the reasons for their departure.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
