Governance 73 The review of the performance of the joint chairmen, led by Anne Quinn as the senior independent director, incorporated feedback from the non-executive and executive directors.
The positive working relationship between the joint chairmen and the way in which they effectively manage their joint role was noted.
The key actions agreed by the Boards following the 2014 evaluation are: to continue to consider the future need for non-executive directors with relevant experience of the product areas and geographic locations identified as growth areas for the Group: to continue to monitor developments in cyber security and any potential impacts for the Group: to review all committee terms of reference to eliminate, where possible, any overlap in responsibilities following changes in regulation in South Africa resulting in some duties and committee structures being required by law rather than governance: and to ensure procedures are in place to meet the new UK governance requirements relating to risk management and going concern.
The Boards consider that they continue to benefit from the annual review process, The Boards consider that they continue to benefit from the annual review process, the the results from which results from which help guide the future focus of meeting agendas and behaviours.
help guide the future focus of meeting agendas and During 2014 Stephen Harris completed his three-year term.
A more detailed review of his behaviours.
performance, including consideration of the governance code requirements, evaluation feedback and shareholder opinion, was considered against the time he devotes to his duties at Mondi and his other business commitments.
Feedback from his fellow directors and his contribution to the board debate were considered.
It was concluded that Stephen remained independent and able to contribute effectively to Mondi in the best interests of shareholders.
Procedure for conflicts of interest Company law, the memorandum of incorporation of Mondi Limited and the articles of association of Mondi plc allow directors to manage potential conflicts.
A formal procedure for the reporting and review of any potential conflicts of interest involving the Boards with support from the company secretaries is in place, with authorisations reviewed on an annual basis.
Committee reports The committees, to which the Boards delegate specific areas of responsibility as described in this report, have authority to make decisions according to their terms of reference.
Work programmes are agreed by each committee that are designed around the annual business calendar and their respective terms of reference.
Each committee reviews its terms of reference on an annual basis and these are available on the Mondi Group website at: www.
The committees are empowered, through their terms of reference, to seek independent professional advice at Mondis expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Only committee members are entitled to attend committee meetings, although the chairmen of each committee can invite, as they consider appropriate, management and advisers to meetings to provide information, answer questions and generally to assist the committees in carrying out their duties.
An indication of the regular attendees is given for each committee.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
