Governance 71 To ensure that the directors are aware of developing trends and future changes in governance and regulation and the likely impact on the Group, the company secretaries report to the Boards at each meeting.
These reports provide updates on matters of interest or concern in the context of their duties to the Group and explain what impact there may be for Mondi and outline implementation plans where applicable.
They also brief the directors on government and regulatory consultations for information and to assist the directors with context for their decision making during board and committee deliberations.
Other corporate function specialists, for example from Group tax and Group treasury, report to the Boards to enable the directors to gain a greater insight into the way Mondi is managed and controlled.
This provides opportunities to question processes, resources and key risks as well as providing context on the wider economic environment.
Although it is recognised that valuable experience can be gained from executive directors accepting appointments as non-executive directors on other boards, it is important to ensure the appropriateness and number of such commitments.
There is a policy in place setting out the parameters regarding such appointments.
A director will retain any fee paid to them in respect of directorships external to Mondi.
Peter Oswald is currently the only executive director holding an external position, being a non-executive director of MIBA AG.
MIBA AG did not pay any fees to Peter during 2014.
Until August 2014 Peter was a nonexecutive director of Telekom Austria AG.
Up to the date of his resignation he received fees totalling 16,800.
Performance evaluation As previously reported, in 2013 the review of the Boards and committees was an independent external evaluation conducted by Independent Audit Limited, which had no other connection with Mondi.
Below are the key actions reported last year and details of the progress we have made against those actions: Action agreed from 2013 evaluation Progress achieved As the Groups products and geographic spread continue to While there have been no changes to the composition of the grow, to consider the future need for non-executive directors Boards during 2014, succession planning discussions have with direct exposure to these areas focused on formulating the capabilities required to manage the future growth of the Group in line with the agreed strategy of growing our packaging interests.
This has involved considering the overall skills and experience required for the Boards going forward based on a review of what will be necessary to support the strategy.
Planning how changes to the Boards can be made and the timing of such changes to ensure that they are managed effectively has also been discussed.
This remains an ongoing area of consideration.
To encourage non-executive directors to engage in regular Opportunities were taken around the site visits made during knowledge development of the business of the Group the year to present more detailed information on the respective businesses, recent developments, areas of concern and future prospects.
Local management attended board dinners providing additional opportunities for engagement with directors.
In addition, specific business-related presentations were given at board meetings in response to requests from individual directors.
To continue to evolve the risk report format After understanding the underlying requirements of the directors it was agreed that each of the in-depth reviews on individual risks would be enhanced.
More focus was placed on how each risk has developed and what specific mitigation actions had been taken during the period since last reported.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
