Overview 08 Joint chairmens statement Read more about From a global macroeconomic perspective, 2014 was global macroeconomic developments on page 21 ayear of relatively low and uneven growth.
Against this backdrop, Mondi delivered exceptionally strong results, with a ROCE of 17.2%, a record for the Group.
Total dividend 42 cents 50 42 40 36 30 28 26 20 20 10 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 cents per share Based on proposed final dividend of 28.77 euro cents per share Joint chairmen David Williams, left Fred Phaswana, right Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Overview 09 We continued to make steady progress in developing our packaging interests in a sustainable way, while maintaining the competitiveness of our existing operations.
Building on our strengths to deliver value In our view, Mondis ability to deliver strongly across the cycle is testament to the quality of the business and the strength of our strategy.
Mondis success is based on investing in our high-quality, low-cost asset base, driving sustainable operational improvements, developing in markets that offer us growth opportunities, and working with our customers to find the right solutions.
Combined with a strong balance sheet and sustainable cash flow generation, this makes Mondi an extremely resilient organisation, and one in which wehave every reason to be confident going forward.
Looking back on another year of good progress Ruomberok, Slovakia We continued to make steady progress in developing our packaging interests in a Improving sustainable way, while maintaining the competitiveness of our existing operations.
We expanded our packaging converting footprint through acquisitions and we completed energy a number of key capital projects during the year.
A number of our significant capital efficiency expenditure projects are aimed at improving energy efficiency and self-sufficiency.
In November 2014, we celebrated the start-up of a new recovery boiler at our Ruomberok In 2014, we continued mill in Slovakia and in 2015 we expect to start up a similar investment at our wiecie mill our efforts to improve in Poland.
energy efficiency and selfsufficiency, while reducing We continued to integrate sustainability as a key factor in our strategic business decisions our reliance on carbon across the Group.
Collaboration is fundamental to the way we do things.
An important intensive energy sources.
development for us was the signing of a three-year strategic global partnership with WWF International, focusing on environmental stewardship in the packaging and paper sectors through ecosystems management, manufacturing practices and product stewardship.
Read more about our energy-related investments The safety and health of our employees and contractors will always be central to our in our online Sustainable success.
Our goal of zero harm is an absolute imperative for the business, and we will keep development report: our focus on making it a reality.
We are very pleased that the Group did not experience www.
com sd14 any fatalities in 2014 and we know we need to keep working hard if we are to make this the norm going forward.
Further details can be found in the chief executives review on pages 14 to 19, the sustainable development review on pages 34 to 37 and the business reviews on pages 38 to 53 Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Overview 10 Joint chairmens statement continued Delivering value to our shareholders We are confident in Mondis ability to deliver ongoing shareholder value.
To fulfil our board responsibilities, we need to be effective in the way we guide and support management to maximise the potential of this high-quality business.
We openly discuss strategic decisions, bringing the required level of challenge and support.
Our collaborative yet thorough approach means that we take advantage of our strengths, agree on the right course of action and hold management accountable as we work together to create long-term value.
Mondis financial results and strong share price performance underline the soundness of our strategic decisions, with the Group continuing to outperform the peer average in 2014.
Five year total shareholder return TSR Indexed to 1 Jan 2010 Transparent 700 Mondi plc Median of peer performance sustainability 600 Peer performance range reporting 500 We have been included 400 in the FTSE4Good Index 300 Series since 2008 and the 200 JSEs Socially Responsible Investment SRI Index 100 since 2007.
We continue 0 to report annually to CDPs 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 climate, water, forests and supply chain programmes, and were included in the On the back of Mondis record financial performance and strong cash generation in CDP FTSE350 Climate 2014, we are pleased to continue to offer shareholders long-term dividend growth within Disclosure Leadership the targeted dividend cover range of two to three times, on average, over the cycle.
Index CDLI for the The boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc have recommended a final dividend of 28.77 fourth time since 2010. euro cents per share 2013: 26.45 euro cents per share.
Together with the interim dividend In addition, we submitted of 13.23 euro cents per share, this amounts to a total dividend for the year of 42 euro cents our annual Communication per share, an increase of 17% from 2013. on Progress CoP report to the United Nations Global Ensuring good governance into the future Compact UNGC as an Advanced Level reporter.
The boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc uphold the highest standards of corporate governance and best practice.
We are fully committed to the principles of transparency, integrity and accountability.
For us good governance goes beyond compliance.
We need to ensure that appropriate objectives are set across all disciplines and that the right processes are in place to achieve long-term growth for our shareholders.
Regular dialogue with shareholders is important to facilitate a clear understanding of the progress we are making.
In 2014, Mondi held a number of investor and analyst events, including results presentations, roadshows and one-on-one meetings.
We promote transparent communication and we value the opportunity to engage with shareholders.
The Group plans to host its second Capital Markets Day in the fourth quarter of 2015 where the executive directors and other key senior management will share insights into Mondis business.
Positioning the Group for growth The Boards continue to focus on creating long-term value for stakeholders and taking advantage of selected growth opportunities, with a focus on growing the Groups packaging interests.
Read more about our outputs and the value The priorities for the business in 2015 are to fully realise the potential of acquisitions made we create on page 27 in recent years, successfully deliver ongoing capital expenditure projects, continue to See pages 64 to 116 to manage costs tightly and meticulously evaluate further growth opportunities.
find out more about our high standards of corporate governance Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Index Overview 11 Stand-up pouches offer our customers an innovative packaging solution Korneuburg, Austria Mondis current five-year sustainable development targets were set in 2010 and we reach This is Mondis fourth the end of this commitment period in 2015.
On pages 36 and 37 we report on progress integrated report and against our key commitments.
We are in the process of evaluating our material issues and provides insight into setting new commitments, taking cognisance of the significant changes to the composition the Groups long-term and strategic focus of our Group and continuing developments in global sustainability approach to strategy and trends.
Our 2020 commitments will address our response to the sustainable development governance.
It gives a holistic issues that impact on Mondis long term value creation, providing both opportunity and and balanced overview of challenge for the Group.
performance in 2014 and insight into how we plan to Recognising an exceptional team create value in the short, Mondi is a well-run organisation, with clear objectives that are widely understood.
Every time we visit Mondis offices and operations we see just how talented and performance-driven people are at all levels of the organisation.
It is this uncompromising focus on getting things right that sets Mondi apart in many ways.
Equally important for us is the constructive way in which people engage with each other and Mondis broader stakeholders.
It has been a challenging macro environment, yet Mondis people have worked together, combining professionalism and dedication to deliver exceptionally good results.
On behalf of the Boards, we extend heartfelt thanks to all of Mondis people.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
