Our markets and trends With clear trends in our chosen markets, we have a strong and diverse mix of growth opportunities across our key markets.
Markets Trends Impact Opportunities Brands affected Price Comparison Regulatory focus Regulation will become an increasing The Groups market position and strategy together with its Greater focus from governmental and feature of the price comparison sector.
systems, controls and infrastructure means it is well placed regulatory bodies including the Financial to deal with the impacts of any increase in regulation in Conduct Authority on treating customers the price comparison sector and to differentiate itself from fairly, transparency of information and its competitors through enhanced customer journeys and helping consumers make an informed enhanced product offerings.
Insurance Motor insurance premiums The increase in motor insurance As one of the leading motor insurance price comparison sites, The trend of falling motor insurance premiums may encourage consumers MoneySuperMarket is well placed to benefit from consumers premiums appears to be ending with to switch their motor insurance seeking to use its services to lower their motor insurance premiums increasing in the second half of provider for a better deal.
premiums and switch their motor insurance policy to a better 2014. deal.
Money Competition The increasing competition among Consumers are more likely to compare and switch to higher Increasing competition among financial financial services providers to acquire quality products and make greater savings through the Group.
services providers for consumers who consumers looking for credit products want credit products such as loans and such as loans and credit cards results credit cards.
in an increase in the volume and quality of such products.
Home Services Political and regulatory focus The increased political and regulatory MoneySuperMarket is one of the leading energy comparison Increased political and regulatory focus focus on energy costs may lead to sites and MoneySavingExpert provides its Cheap Energy Club on the costs of energy for consumers and increasing consumer awareness of the and Collective Switches for consumers.
The Group is therefore the level of competition in the energy costs of energy and the benefits of well placed to benefit from consumers seeking to reduce their marketplace.
energy costs and switch their energy provider.
Economic changes Falls in oil prices result in lower energy Falling oil prices worldwide leading to tariffs and may result in greater a fall in wholesale energy costs.
savings for consumers who switch their energy product.
Travel Household budgets Consumers are looking to compare the TravelSupermarket continues to focus on building leading Consumers with tight household budgets costs of holiday components including comparison services for consumers to help them find the looking for the best deal for their holiday.
flights, hotels and car hire to find the best deal for their holiday and to benefit from this increasing best deal on their holiday.
0 04 4 M MO ON NEEYS YSU UPE PERRM MA ARRKKEETT A AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT & A T & AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 14 4 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Markets Trends Impact Opportunities Brands affected Price Comparison Regulatory focus Regulation will become an increasing The Groups market position and strategy together with its Greater focus from governmental and feature of the price comparison sector.
