Vision, values and strategy Driven by a clear strategy for growth Our Vision We help every household make the most of their money 01 02 03 BEST EARN PREFERRED SITE CUSTOMER PARTNER LOYALTY Our Core Values Do what you say Innovate for tomorrow Take pride in what you do Listen and understand Find the right way today Live the brand Strategic priorities Our new KPIs Risk management Our strategy is to build on our core As we implement our growth strategy and We recognise that the management of risk business of helping customers to find the investment programme, we need to has a key role to play in the achievement right product.
Investing in our technology, measure our performance against our of our strategy since risks can hinder or customer data and tools allows us to build strategy differently to how we have done help us meet our desired level of deeper relationships, delivering more it before.
The relationship between value to both customers and providers.
against our growth strategy is key to our our principal risks and our strategy is future.
As part of our evolved strategy, we identified in the Principal Risks section of We continue to focus on delivering our will now focus on a new select number of this report on pages 24 and 25. technology investment and deepening key performance indicators from 2015 our understanding of our customers to which are set out on page 3. help them make the most of their money.
16 16 M MO ON NEEYS YSU UPE PERRM MA ARRKKEETT A AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT & A T & AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 14 4 O Ove ver rv vi ie ew w S St tr ra ate teg gi ic c Re Rep po or rt t Governance Financial Statements General Turning strategy into action 01 02 03 Best site Earn customer loyalty Preferred partner Be the easiest way for customers to find Be a destination brand for users and Be the best way for providers to acquire providers and products customers customers What we did in 2014 What we did in 2014 What we did in 2014 Aggregation engine MyProfile Customer insights During the year, we invested in a new We continued to invest in our customer During 2014, we continued to work aggregation engine that will be the account, MyProfile, to enable with our providers through the platform for our aggregation channels.
customers to securely store their data provision of insights about our Utilising that new technology, with us and then use it to search for customers to help them understand TravelSupermarket launched new car different products without having to what our customers want so that they hire and flights channels in 2014, and input their details again, making it can improve their products.
in the Autumn, MoneySuperMarkets easier and quicker for our customers Marketing new car insurance site went into live to make the most of their money.
We made significant improvements to test.
Best price our CRM and organic search capability Customer journey MoneySuperMarket worked with our during the year which helped our We spent a great deal of time during providers during 2014 to offer our providers to get their brands in front of the year understanding how we can customers exclusive market leading more of our customers with their key improve our customer journeys to products or deals that were not messages.
make it even easier for customers to available elsewhere, including at times Relationships use our services and importantly to car insurance quotes that were lower As the only major independent price help them make an informed choice on than were available through our comparison site, our commercial the products that are most suited to competitors.
teams focused throughout 2014 on their needs.
Mobile optimised building stronger relationships with Collective switch As more of our customers engage with our providers, with the aim of being In 2014, MoneySavingExpert launched us on a mobile device, we have their partner of choice.
We worked the first of its collective switches by continued to invest throughout the hard to understand our providers utilising the power of its loyal users to year in making our brands mobile objectives and to identify negotiate exclusive market leading optimised.
This included opportunities for us to work together energy tariffs from energy providers MoneySavingExpert where over 70% of to help our customers.
and then collectively switching users to its guides are now fully responsive on a those tariffs.
What we will do in 2015 What we will do in 2015 What we will do in 2015 We will continue to invest in our We will continue to focus on our customer We will continue to develop our technology in 2015 and roll out that account capabilities to make it even easier capabilities to offer improved customer technology to more channels across our for our customers to use their data across insights to our providers to help them brands.
We will constantly search out new more of our channels so that they can improve their products and by building opportunities to help our customers quickly and easily find the right product stronger relationships with our providers make an informed choice on the products for themselves.
We recognise that more we can help them to identify new that are most suited to their needs.
and more customers want to use our opportunities.
We will also focus on services through a mobile device and so developing our CRM and search capability we will continue to design our customer to ensure our providers are able to target journeys and our content to ensure they more customers with their key marketing work well on a mobile device.
continue to work hard with our providers to identify opportunities to offer our customers exclusive market leading deals.
M MO ON NEEYS YSU UPE PERRM MA ARRKKEETT A AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT & A T & AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 14 4 17 17
