Brand portfolio Saving Money, Feeling Epic.
Whilst the UK economy is feeling more Scale.
Our scale helps us negotiate buoyant, we know that our customers still great rates across all of our channels Investment feel the pinch with rising bills, and and work with our providers to deliver stagnating salaries still a concern for market-leading deals exclusive to case study many.
We focus on empowering our MoneySuperMarket that are not customers to take control of their own available elsewhere.
We are here for our customers, Choice.
We work with as many providers whether through the expert content as possible to give our customers the on our website, our online chat service or choices they deserve and the ability to find our dedicated phone lines supporting the product that is most suited to their those channels, such as energy needs.
This is why we compare up to 30 comparison, where that extra bit of help credit card and personal loan providers, can make all the difference to a customers over 50 mortgage providers, over 90 home peace of mind.
insurance brands and over 150 car insurance brands.
Our new customer account, MyProfile, helps our customers to keep their data up to date and use it to save money with us.
It also helps us to provide a service that is personalised to their needs.
The MoneySuperMarket aggregation engine is the technology that takes customer information and sends it to our providers so they can return an accurate insurance quote in seconds.
In 2014, we invested in moving our aggregation In the last two months Ive saved money engine to a more scalable technology platform with many clear benefits on my insurance at MoneySuperMarket.
including, i greater efficiency in the technology and lower costs to operate, ii I saved a third on my home insurance a platform for providers to self-serve and configure their own products last month and have just halved my car permitting greater agility in getting products to market and iii a scalable insurance saving me over 300 a year!
platform for expansion paving the way for further growth.
Thank you for saving me time and money!
06 06 M MO ON NEEYS YSU UPE PERRM MA ARRKKEETT A AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT & A T & AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 14 4 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 07
