Governance Directors Report Darren Drabble Company Secretary Directors Report The final dividend, together with the interim dividend paid on The Directors present their report and the Group and Company 12September 2014, gives a total dividend for the year of 8.0p Financial Statements of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 2013: 20.20p per ordinary share.
the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
Post balance sheet events There have been no balance sheet events that either require Principal activities adjustment to the Financial Statements or are important in the The Company is a public limited company incorporated in understanding of the Companys current position.
England, registered number 6160943, with its registered office at Moneysupermarket House, St Davids Park, Ewloe, Chester, Major shareholders CH5 3UZ.
As at the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary The principal activity of the Group is the introduction of business shares in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys to financial, insurance, travel, home services and other product or Disclosure and Transparency Rules: service providers through its websites.
The principal activity of Number of Percentage of the Company is that of a holding company.
ordinary ordinary share shares voting capital voting Shareholder rights notified rights notified Strategic Report Pursuant to sections 414A-D Companies Act 2006, the business Simon Nixon 89,795,130 16.46 review has been replaced with a strategic report, which can be The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 44,036,831 8.07 found on pages 14 to 27.
This report sets out the development and Aviva plc 33,232,531 6.09 performance of the Groups business during the financial year, the Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 27,477,015 5.04 position of the Group at the end of the year and a description of Kames Capital 27,311,228 5.01 the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
BlackRock Inc 25,454,379 4.67 FIL Limited 24,758,460 4.54 UK Corporate Governance Code State Street Nominees Limited 20,581,165 3.77 The Companys statement on corporate governance can be found Martin Steven Lewis 17,378,424 3.19 in the Corporate Governance Report, the Audit Committee Report, the Risk Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 57.
The Share capital and control Corporate Governance Report, the Audit Committee Report, the The issued share capital of the Company comprises a single class Risk Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report and of shares referred to as ordinary shares of 0.02p each.
As at the Directors Remuneration Report form part of this Directors 31December 2014, the issued share capital of the Company was Report and are incorporated into it by reference.
Full details of the share capital of the Company and changes to Results and dividends the share capital during the year are set out in note 16 to the The Groups and Companys audited Financial Statements for Group Financial Statements on page 82.
All the information the financial year ended 31 December 2014 are set out on pages detailed in note 16 on page 82 forms part of this Directors Report 65 to 92. and is incorporated into it by reference.
An interim dividend of 2.31p 2013: 2.16p and a special dividend At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 23 April of 12.92p per ordinary share was paid to shareholders on 2014, shareholders authorised the Directors to allot up to 12 September 2014.
360,985,412 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company.
Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.69p 2013: 5.12p Annual General Meeting to allot up to 363,220,000 ordinary shares.
If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this will be paid on 8 May On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every 2015 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and 27 March 2015. entitled to vote, shall have one vote and, on a poll, every holder of 58 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and entitled to The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a vote, shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
There are special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No no issued shares in the Company with special rights with regard amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles of to control of the Company.
Association at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for Authority to purchase own shares exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 23 April in relation to resolutions to be passed at the Annual General 2014, shareholders authorised the Company to purchase, in the Meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against market, up to 54,202,014 of its own ordinary shares either to be or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the cancelled or retained as treasury shares.
As at the date of this Annual General Meeting and published on the Companys website Directors Report, the Company had not purchased any of its own after the meeting.
ordinary shares in the market.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the Company other than: forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the Company to Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws purchase, in the market, up to 54,538,266 of its own ordinary and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
shares either to be cancelled or retained as treasury shares.
The Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Directors will only use this power after careful consideration, Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and employees taking into account the financial resources of the Company, the of the Group require the approval of the Company to deal in Companys share price and future funding opportunities.
The ordinary shares of the Company.
Directors will only purchase such shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and the interests of Under the rules of the Company Share Incentive Plan Plan, shareholders generally.
eligible employees were provided with the opportunity to receive free shares on the listing of the Company Listing with a value as Research and development at the date of Listing of 3,000, and all employees are entitled to Innovation is important to the future success of the Group and to purchase ordinary shares in the Company using money deducted the delivery of long-term value to shareholders.
The Groups from their pre-tax salary.
Plan shares are held in trust for research and development expenditure is predominantly participants by Capita IRG Trustees Limited Trustees.
Voting associated with computer and internet software systems.
rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of participants Successfully developed software is used to develop new products instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the and to improve and extend the functionality and scope of the Trustees, no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not Groups operations.
vote on any unawarded or forfeit shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at the date of this report, the Trustees held Going concern 0.1% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company, and the Group as a The Company is not aware of any agreements between whole, have adequate resources to continue in operational shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Financial securities and or voting rights.
Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Company and Simon Nixon entered into a relationship Directors agreement on 11 July 2007 to regulate the ongoing relationship The following persons were Directors of the Company during the between them Relationship Agreement.
The Company and financial year ended 31 December 2014: Gerald Corbett resigned Simon Nixon have agreed in the Relationship Agreement that on 23 April 2014, Bruce Carnegie-Brown, Simon Nixon, Peter Simon Nixon is entitled to appoint such number including Plumb, Matthew Price appointed on 1 April 2014, Paul Doughty himself one Non-Executive Director for as long as he holds the resigned on 23 April 2014, Graham Donoghue, Michael Wemms, beneficial interest in at least 15% of the ordinary shares of the Rob Rowley, Sally James, Robin Klein, Andrew Fisher appointed on Company, two Non-Executive Directors for as long as he holds 6 August 2014 and Genevieve Shore appointed on 17 September the beneficial interest in at least 30% of the ordinary shares of the 2014.
Their biographical details with the exception of Gerald Company and three Non-Executive Directors for as long as he Corbett and Paul Doughty are set out on pages 30 and 31. holds the beneficial interest in at least 50% of the ordinary sharesof the Company.
The Relationship Agreement will Subject to law and the Companys Articles of Association, the terminate if Simon Nixon holds less than 15% of the ordinary Directors may exercise all of the powers of the Company and may shares of the Company.
delegate their power and discretion to committees.
Save in respect of provisions of the Companys share schemes The Companys Articles of Association give the Directors power to which may cause options and awards granted to employees appoint and replace Directors.
Under the terms of reference of under such schemes to vest on a takeover, there are no the Nomination Committee, any appointment to the Board of the agreements between the Company and its Directors or Company must be recommended by the Nomination Committee employees providing for compensation for loss of office or for approval by the Board.
The Articles of Association also require employment whether through resignation, purported Directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Annual General Meeting following their appointment and to stand for re-election at least every three years following their Save in respect of the Companys share schemes, there are no election or last re-election.
significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 59 Governance Directors Report continued In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the For the Company Financial Statements, state whether UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Directors will retire at applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, with the exception subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in of Michael Wemms and Robin Klein who will be stepping down as the Company Financial Statements.
Directors, will offer themselves for election or re-election.
Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, has The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the Directors records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys needed to run the Group successfully.
Details of the Directors transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure pages 43 to 57. that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as Directors interests are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Details of the Directors and their connected persons interests in Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 57.
No Director has any Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also other interest in any shares or loan stock of any Group company.
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance The details of transactions with Directors of the Company and Report that complies with that law and those regulations.
related party transactions in the financial year ended 31 December 2014 are set out in note 22 to the Group Financial The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Statements on page 86.
During the year, no Director had any of the corporate and financial information included on the material interest in any contract of significance to the Groups Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the business.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors and officers insurance and indemnities During the financial year ended 31 December 2014 and up to the The Board considers that the Annual Report and Financial date of this Directors Report, the Company has maintained Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and Directors responsibilities statement pursuant to Disclosure its Articles of Association.
These indemnities were in force and Transparency Rules 4.1.
12R throughout the year ended 31 December 2014 and remain in Each of the Directors whose names and functions are set out on force as at the date of this report in relation to certain losses and pages 30 and 31 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: liabilities which the Directors or Company Secretary may incur in The Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the the course of acting as Directors, Company Secretary or applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair employees of the Company or of any associated company.
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the Directors responsibilities statement in respect of the Annual consolidation taken as a whole.
Report and the Financial Statements The management report, which comprises the Directors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Report and the Strategic Report, includes a fair review of the and the Group and Company Financial Statements in accordance development and performance of the business and the with applicable law and regulations.
position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements Management report in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law The Directors Report and Strategic Report comprises the and have elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements in management report for the purposes of the Financial Conduct accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
Internal control Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial The Corporate Governance Report on pages 32 to 36, the Audit Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Committee Report on pages 37 to 39 and the Risk Committee view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their Report on pages 41 and 42 includes the Boards assessment of profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and the Groups system of internal controls.
Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Employees Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its prudent.
employees and uses a number of ways to engage with employees For the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have on matters that impact them and the performance of the Group.
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
These include formal business performance updates by members of the executive management team for all employees, regular update briefings for all employees, regular team meetings, the Groups intranet site which enables easy access to the latest 60 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Group information as well as Group policies, and the circulation Auditor to employees of results announcements and other corporate KPMG LLP have indicated their willingness to accept announcements.
This also helps to achieve a common awareness re-appointment as auditors of the Company.
A resolution amongst employees of the financial and economic factors proposing their re-appointment is contained in the notice of the affecting the performance of the Group.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will be proposed to shareholders at that meeting.
A robust employee engagement survey process is also in place to ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation and Annual General Meeting that the Group can take action based on employee feedback.
The forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company will be All employees are able to participate in the Companys Share held at The Chester Grosvenor Hotel, Eastgate, Chester, CH1 1LT Incentive Plan and Save As You Earn Scheme which gives on Thursday 30 April 2015 at 11.00am.
employees the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the Company.
This helps to encourage employee interest in the The notice convening the forthcoming Annual General Meeting performance of the Group.
of the Company, with details of the business to be transacted at the meeting and explanatory notes, is set out in a separate Equal opportunities circular which has been sent to all shareholders at the same The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to time as this report.
all employees without discrimination and applies fair and equitable employment policies which seek to promote entry into By order of the Board: and progression within the Group.
Appointments are determined solely by application of job criteria, personal ability, behaviour and competency.
Darren Drabble Disabled persons Company Secretary Disabled persons have equal opportunities when applying for 2 March 2015 vacancies, with due regard to their skills and abilities.
Procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated in respect of training and career development.
For those employees becoming disabled during the course of their employment, the Group is supportive so as to provide an opportunity for them to remain with the Group, wherever reasonably practicable.
In the opinion of the Directors, all employee policies are deemed to be effective and in accordance with their intended aims.
Borrowings During the period, the Groups available loan facility decreased from 70m to 60m.
As at 31 December 2014, the Group had net cash of 13.1m.
Under the terms of the facility, the amount available will reduce to 50m on 31 May 2015.
Financial risk management It is the Groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial markets on the Groups profitability and cash flow.
The specific policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas are set out in note 17 to the Group Financial Statements on pages 82 and 83.
Political donations During the financial year ended 31 December 2014, the Group did not make any political donations 2013: nil.
Environmental matters Information on the Groups greenhouse gas emissions is disclosed in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 26 and is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
Disclosure of information to auditor The Directors who held office at the date of this report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each such Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
