16 StrAteGiC rePOrt group StrAtegy tHe groupS StrAtegy IS BASeD on BuIlDIng A SuStAInABle BuSIneSS For tHe long terM, By FoCuSIng on ItS FIVe StrAtegIC prIorItIeS AnD reMAInIng CoMMItteD to DelIVerIng Strong FInAnCIAl returnS.
StrAtegIC prIorItIeS IMpleMentAtIon By helping to solve technically demanding challenges for its discerning customers, the group 1 Be innovative, differentiated is able to secure the value that these skills and efforts justify, allowing it to build long-term and high value-added to our relationships with customers who regard Morgan as a solutions provider rather than just customers another supplier.
over time Morgan actively manages its portfolio and makes capital and people investments 2 to focus on higher to maximise exposure to its chosen geographies and markets.
growth, higher margin, non-economically cyclical markets A significant majority of revenue comes from markets where the group has successfully 3 Be number one or established a leading position.
through detailed share of wallet assessments Morgan number two in our understands its position and actively targets where this can be improved.
the group chosen market segments nurtures and maintains relationships with key customers at multiple levels in the organisation.
From these strong positions the group is able to invest in long-term relationships with customers, providing technology leadership and delivering good, sustainable returns.
providing the groups customers with product and service excellence secures Morgans 4 have a culture of revenue stream, and a focus on all elements of its cost base maximises the profits generated operational excellence from that revenue.
the group is focused on managing its operational footprint, using its and cost efficiency low-cost operations as much as possible, sourcing decisions, manufacturing and back office efficiency and on minimising scrap and any other inefficiencies throughout its processes.
the people process begins with a robust recruitment process, considering internal and 5 Find, keep and develop external candidates, utilising a suite of assessment tools and interviews.
there is a growing the right people graduate recruitment programme, targeting the worlds best universities and providing a pipeline of talent.
training and development is targeted to develop job-specific and wider management skills and a flexible remuneration package considers the external market and individual contribution.
Site, regional and global communication is regular and environmental, health and safety is a key focus at all levels of the business.
the group uses its strategic priorities to test new investment opportunities, to screen its existing businesses for fit with the group and to identify areas requiring strategic attention and action.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014
