10 StrAteGiC rePOrt WHAt MorgAn DoeS piezoelectric sensors and transducers group ACtIVItIeS proDuCtS 4% of group revenue in 2014 products for measurement duties including level, flow, vibration and pressure in aerospace, Morgan Advanced Materials is a world-leader Morgan Advanced Materials manufactures a medical, industrial and defence applications.
in advanced materials, focused on specialist large range of products, satisfying a variety of Crucibles for metals processing 4% of ceramics, carbon and composites.
Working at applications and for a number of end-markets.
group revenue in 2014 comprehensive the forefront of materials science, the group range for optimum performance in supplies differentiated products to a range of the principal product ranges are: non-ferrous metal and alloy melting attractive growth markets, satisfying technically Insulating fibre, brick and monolithics in foundries, die-casters and metal demanding applications and enabling 35% of group revenue in 2014 an processing facilities.
customers products to perform more extensive range of high-temperature High-technology composites 2% efficiently, reliably and for longer in a wide insulation products used to reduce energy of group revenue in 2014 which are range of markets.
A combined with the groups advanced Morgan design team will often work with ceramics for lightweight armour systems, the customer to ensure an optimum providing ballistic protection in the form of solution.
BuSIneSS StruCture personnel body armour or vehicle armour.
electrical carbon, linear and rotary transfer systems 15% of group revenue in 2014 operating from approximately 100 In addition to these principal product ranges, primarily used for transferring electrical manufacturing sites, supported by a network there are also a high number of applicationenergy in motor and generator applications of sales offices, and employing approximately specific products made to customer within mining, transportation and power 9,000 people, Morgan Advanced Materials has requirements using a wide range of structural generation markets.
a significant operational presence in all the ceramics, electro ceramics and precious Seals and bearings 8% of group worlds major regions, serving customers in metals that are sold into the seven markets.
revenue in 2014 carbon graphite and over 100 countries.
silicon carbide components that provide improved performance, reliability and the group reports through three geographical extended life to pumps and similar regions, north America, europe and Asia equipment used in petrochemical, rest of World, and each of those regions offers aerospace and water applications.
the full range of Morgans product and services.
Ceramic cores for investment casting the regional management teams work 4% of group revenue in 2014 effectively together in terms of product and consumable products used to create market development and providing service intricate internal cooling cavities in excellence to the customer base.
the one aero-engine and industrial gas turbine Morgan model integrates the group under a blades.
cohesive brand identity which better reflects the business as a whole.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 StrAteGiC rePOrt 11 45% 20% of 2014 revenue of 2014 revenue MArKetS InDuStrIAl trAnSportAtIon Morgan Advanced Materials designs and Morgan Advanced Materials makes highmanufactures products for use in a broad performance products to exacting standards range of challenging processes and for aerospace, automotive, marine and rail manufacturing environments.
tHe group operAteS the groups advanced materials offer a wide the group has long standing experience in In A nuMBer oF range of performance characteristics, including the transport sector making components and SeleCteD MArKet superior insulating properties, dimensional sub-assemblies for many and varied applications, stability, strength and stiffness.
including carbon brushes and collectors for SeCtorS: tHe trains and high-temperature fibre products used perCentAge oF With these materials the group engineers for emission control in vehicles.
the group group reVenue components that are highly resistant to combines its materials science and manufacturing chemical and physical wear, corrosion and capabilities to offer consistent and reliable FroM eACH oF tHeSe, extreme heat, for use in industrial processing products in flexible production quantities, togetHer WItH and demanding manufacturing environments.
from small, even one-off runs to high-volume.
exAMpleS oF tHe Many of the industrial projects the group over the years the group has applied its proDuCtS MorgAn is involved in exploit the properties of its materials know-how to solve engineering SupplIeS, IS proVIDeD advanced materials to contribute to improved challenges and enhance performance for air, process efficiency and productivity, and sea and land transport systems.
For example, on tHe FolloWIng reduced waste and environmental impact.
the group has helped to improve reliability in pAgeS.
high-speed rail and on long-haul freight trains the groups innovative Blue lightning that must operate consistently in widely thermocouple sheath is delivering significant varying climatic conditions.
the group has cost and time savings for India-based developed precision parts used in the components manufacturer High technology manufacture of aero-engine turbine blades and transmission Systems, a global force in critical components for in-flight refuelling and aluminium castings for the automotive sector, satellite positioning systems.
producing cast aluminium clutch assemblies and other cast components.
the assembly, engineers in the group have developed a which continuously measures temperatures in groundbreaking new capability, enabling the its holding furnaces, lasts 15x longer, reducing brazing of carbon fibre, ceramics, composites, downtime and risk of contamination.
or other engineered materials directly to a titanium honeycomb.
the strength of this rotary joints and rotary transfer systems lightweight material at high speeds means it developed by the group are used in food and has the capability for use in hypersonic aircraft, beverage processing equipment such as fillers, helping push the boundaries of modern rinsers and milking carousels, and in packaging aerospace endeavours.
the capability to customise components, and to engineer With the huge increase in rail transportation complete bespoke systems, allows Morgan to of oil and gas products produced from shale maximise performance and reliability according in countries such as the uSA, the groups to the needs of individual projects.
FireMaster tank Car Blanket has been developed to meet the specific fire and thermal management safety requirements, helping improve safety whilst transporting highly flammable liquids across the country from where they are sourced to where they are needed.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 12 StrAteGiC rePOrt WHAt MorgAn DoeS continued 7% 6% 10% of 2014 revenue of 2014 revenue of 2014 revenue SeCurIty AnD DeFenCe eleCtronICS petroCHeMICAl Morgan Advanced Materials supplies precisionMorgan Advanced Materials makes Morgan Advanced Materials makes critical engineered materials, components and components for use in semiconductor components for demanding applications in assemblies to meet the exacting standards of fabrication and electronic products.
the international defence and security markets.
the group exploits the unique properties the oil and gas industry presents some of the Materials technology and manufacturing of its advanced materials to help electronics worlds harshest operational environments for capability are combined to produce solutions manufacturers achieve competing demands equipment and people.
the groups products that deliver real performance benefits in on size, functionality and cost.
and materials are routinely chosen to fulfil critical security and defence applications, from military applications onand off-shore in exploration, hardware to surveillance equipment.
the group works closely with its customers drilling and downstream processing.
to design and manufacture small or intricate reliability of products, materials and supply components, achieving explicit electrical and It is the resistance of the groups materials to is a fundamental requirement in this market.
thermal properties within restricted size and chemical and physical wear, corrosion and the groups new lightweight ergoteC shape constraints.
the group is able to offer extreme heat that makes them ideally suited 4025 explosive ordnance disposal eoD suit durable piezoceramics, high-quality dielectric for use in these severe duty applications.
For has developed specifically for the uS market materials and specialised metallisation example, due to a unique microstructure, the and will be distributed exclusively to law techniques.
the groups products are found groups zirconia materials exhibit a property enforcement customers.
Integrating new in mobile phones, laptops, high-definition known as transformational toughening that technology, leading-edge materials and world televisions, lighting controls, laser makes them exceptionally strong and resistant class garment engineering it combines the instrumentation, microwave and high-voltage to corrosion and abrasion.
the group uses highest levels of protection with the user systems.
the groups advances in ceramic them to engineer hardwearing parts for mobility required for successful missions.
metallisation processes have played a major pumps, drilling machinery and specialist role in the commercialisation of modern fluids handling equipment.
the group is working with major names communications, signalling and control including tata Motors, where it has helped technologies including ultra-high frequency the integrity of the components the group develop a composite and ceramic pod for signal transmission.
manufactures are often fundamental to the a light Armoured Multipurpose Vehicle safety and efficiency of high-value hydrocarbon programme for the Indian Ministry of Defence.
In semiconductor and leD substrate extraction and processing operations.
For the innovative pod offers a weight saving in fabrication, the groups high-purity materials example, the groups precision machining of excess of 1,000kg, making it less than half the and controlled microstructures have brought silicon carbide composite mechanical seals weight of a similarly protected steel structure.
significant yield improvements in specialist dramatically reduces interface leakage in processes for ion implantation, epitaxy and demanding conditions, allowing operators to compound crystal growth.
work at elevated contact pressures.
the groups tribology work on pumps and the groups Diamonex ClearShield bearings is producing low-friction composites scratchand wear-resistant window coating, for longer life and better energy efficiency.
developed to meet the electronics markets rapid transition to optical image scanning the groups high-efficiency insulation and data capture is providing a wear-resistant products such as FireMaster Marine plus solution for the scanning of inventory in blanket are used to provide complete fire warehouses, high-speed document scanning, protection systems for low critical temperature blueprint reproduction, or scanning of financial operations onand off-shore, whilst also documents.
providing weight savings of 20-30% compared to conventional products.
FireMaster Cable High-grade ceramic components for the laser tray Wrap from the groups thermal and opto-electronic market produced by the Ceramics business is helping protect critical group provide dimensional stability, high control equipment, allowing equipment to still reflectivity and vacuum integrity, ensuring be controlled in the event of a hydrocarbon an extended lifetime even when operating fire so operations can be shut down.
at temperatures in excess of 1,000C.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 StrAteGiC rePOrt 13 7% 5% of 2014 revenue of 2014 revenue energy HeAltHCAre Morgan Advanced Materials develops products Morgan Advanced Materials makes for power distribution and generation from components used in medical monitoring renewable and traditional sources and instrumentation and tools for treatment insulation materials for heat management.
the groups materials and products have Medical engineering demands the highest a strong reputation for performance and standards of precision, accuracy, reliability and reliability in the energy sector, built on years performance.
equipment manufacturers and of experience supplying products across the medical professionals choose the groups electricity supply chain.
materials for their exceptional physical characteristics.
the group continues to work on diverse energy-related projects from piezoceramics experience over many years has given the for energy harvesting technologies to group a good understanding of the uniquely high-quality capacitance for high-voltage demanding environment in which equipment systems and specialist fire protection systems for the global medical market is developed.
the groups capability in materials innovation and quality manufacturing allows it to produce the group offers the widest range of carbon parts that are optimised to meet precise brush grades currently available in the industry.
complex physical and chemical specifications.
each grade contains a different material composition, specifically designed to Morgan is continuing to push sensing optimise the service life of the brushes technology and capability, developing a and rings for the operating environment, new ultrasonic sensing solution capable of helping reduce maintenance requirements detecting the level of liquids without needing and improve efficiency.
to come into physical contact with them, eliminating the risk of contamination by the groups new p-59 ceramic core material maintaining a sterile environment.
is helping achieve greater energy efficiency for industrial gas turbine engines.
In order to be the group boasts many long-term partnerships more efficient, they must run at extremely with leading names in a sector where high temperatures, which demands superior repeatability and quality are crucial to success.
p-59, with its fine For over 25 years Morgan has worked with particle size distribution, is able to achieve Varian supplying more than 11,500 carbon very thin air cooling channels.
fibre couch tops during this time, helping improve both the delivery of vital cancer treatment and quality of diagnostic scans.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW
