86 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 87 otHer DISCloSureS the Directors report is required to be produced by law.
the uKlAs Results and dividends Disclosure and transparency rules Dtrs and listing rules lrs also the total profit profit attributable to owners of the parent and require the Company to make certain disclosures.
non-controlling interests for the year ended 31 December 2014 was 12.3 million 2013: 44.7 million.
profit before taxation for pages 46 to 89 inclusive together with the sections of the Annual the same period was 31.5 million 2013: 64.0 million.
revenue report incorporated by reference constitute a Directors report that was 921.7 million 2013: 957.8 million and operating profit was has been drawn up and presented in accordance with applicable law, 54.3 million 2013: 89.6 million.
Basic earnings per share from and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report are continuing operations was 2.7 pence 2013: 14.8 pence.
Capital subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by that law.
and reserves at the end of the year were 187.7 million 2013: 274.1 million.
the total profit of 12.3 million will be transferred to equity.
the Company Legal form of the Company the Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend at the rate Morgan Advanced Materials plc is a company incorporated in england of 7.0 pence per share on the ordinary share capital of the Company, and Wales with company number 286773. payable on 29 May 2015 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 May 2015. together with the interim dividend of Name change 3.9 pence per share paid on 28 november 2014, this final dividend, the Company changed its name to Morgan Advanced Materials plc if approved by shareholders, brings the total distribution for the year from the Morgan Crucible Company plc on 27 March 2013. to 10.9 pence per share 2013: 10.5 pence.
Annual General Meeting Directors the Companys 2015 AgM will be held on Friday 8 May 2015 at All those who served as Directors at any time during the year under the lincoln Centre, 18 lincolns Inn Fields, london WC2A 3eD.
review are listed on pages 46 and 47, with the exception of Simon Heale, A Circular incorporating the notice of AgM accompanies this who resigned from the Board on 31 March 2014, Martin Flower, who Annual report.
resigned from the Board on 9 May 2014, and Mark robertshaw and Andrew given who both resigned from the Board on 31 December Statutory disclosures 2014.
Amendment of the Articles of Association the Companys constitution, known as the Articles of Association Powers of the Directors Articles, is essentially a contract between the Company and its Subject to the Companys Articles, uK legislation and any directions shareholders, governing many aspects of the management of the given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed Company.
the Articles may be amended by special resolution of the by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Companys shareholders and are available on the Companys website at www.
Directors interests Details of Directors interests and their connected persons beneficial Appointment and replacement of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are listed on page 80. the Articles provide that the Company may by ordinary resolution at general meeting appoint any person to act as a Director, provided that Directors indemnities notice is given of the resolution identifying the proposed person by the Company has entered into separate indemnity deeds with each name and that the Company receives written confirmation of that Director containing qualifying indemnity provisions, as defined at persons willingness to act as Director if he has not been recommended section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, under which the Company by the Board.
the Articles also empower the Board to appoint as a has agreed to indemnify each Director in respect of certain liabilities Director any person who is willing to act as such.
the maximum which may attach to each of them as a Director or as a former Director possible number of Directors under the Articles is 15. the Articles of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
the indemnity deeds were provide that the Company may by special resolution, or by ordinary in force during the financial year to which this Directors report relates resolution of which special notice is given, remove any Director before and are in force as at the date of approval of the Directors report.
the expiration of his period of office.
the Articles also set out the circumstances in which a Director shall vacate office.
the Articles Information required by LR 9.8.
4R require that at each annual general meeting any Director who was there is no information required to be disclosed under lr 9.8.
appointed after the previous annual general meeting must be proposed for election by the shareholders.
Additionally, any other Director who Human resources has not been elected or re-elected at one of the previous two annual Details of the groups human resources policies and employee general meetings must be proposed for re-election by the involvement are set out on pages 31 and 32. shareholders.
the Articles also allow the Board to select any other Director to be proposed for re-election.
In each case, the rules apply there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or to Directors who were acting as Directors on a specific date selected employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment by the Board.
this is a date not more than 14 days before, and no later whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise than, the date of the notice of the annual general meeting.
that occurs because of a takeover bid.
notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, all the Directors will stand for election or re-election on an annual basis in compliance with the provisions of the uK Corporate governance Code.
Details of their career history and the Board Committees on which they serve can be found on pages 46 and 47.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 86 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 87 Research and development As required under the regulations, the above report includes the During the year the group invested 21.7 million 2013: 20.2 million material emission sources from the operations and activities covered in research and development.
the group did not capitalise any by the groups Financial Statements.
As noted, the reports exclude development costs in 2014 2013: nil.
emissions from Company-owned and leased vehicles and emissions relating to steam supplied by third parties to two sites in China and one Details of the groups research and development during the year are in europe, which are in total estimated to account for less than 1% of set out on pages 34 and 35. total emissions.
the Directors consider that these sources of emissions are not material to the total of the emissions.
Greenhouse gas emissions under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic report and Directors the groups reporting methodology is based on the greenhouse gas report regulations 2013 the regulations the group is required to protocol with emission factors for standard grid electricity by country report its annual greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide and year from the International energy Agency together with other equivalent Co e in its Directors report.
factors as published by the uK Department of environment, Food and 2 rural Affairs in order to calculate the Co e emissions included in this 2 Morgan has published information on its emissions due to the report.
combustion of fossil fuels and the electricity purchased by the Company for its own use in its annual eHS report since 2004 and in its Annual Political donations report since 2005.
Since 2011 the groups Co e emissions due to no political donations have been made.
Morgan Advanced Materials 2 energy consumption have been externally assured by pwC see pwCs has a policy of not making donations to any political party, representative 2014 Assurance report on page 30. the group has participated in the or candidate in any part of the world.
Carbon Disclosure project CDp since 2006 and in 2014, for the third consecutive year, was included in the Carbon Disclosure leadership Financial instruments Index.
this reflects the depth and quality of climate change data Morgan Details of the groups use of financial instruments, together with has disclosed to investors and the global marketplace through CDp.
information on policies and exposure to price, liquidity, cash flow, credit, interest rate and currency risks, can be found in note 19 on the regulations require the group to disclose its emissions due to the pages 121 to 128.
All information detailed in this note is incorporated combustion of biomass and due to process and fugitive emissions which into the Directors report by reference and is deemed to form part are in addition to the emissions due to energy use reported on page 27 of the Directors report.
in the Corporate responsibility section of this Annual report.
Share capital and related matters 2014 2013 Share capital Tonnes CO e tonnes Co e 2 2 the Companys share capital as at 31 December 2014 is set out in note Emissions from combustion of fuels 17 on pages 117 to 119. the Companys ordinary shares represent and operation of facilities 99.85% of the total issued share capital, with the 5.5% Cumulative First Combustion of fossil fuels 153,100 150,800 preference shares representing 0.04% and the 5.0% Cumulative Second operation of facilities, including process preference shares representing 0.11%.
the rights and obligations emissions 35,900 32,700 attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, and restrictions on the Electricity, heat, steam and cooling transfer of shares in the Company, are set out in the Articles.
purchased for own consumption purchased electricity 247,200 235,700 Shareholders rights Intensity measurement the holders of ordinary shares are entitled: to receive dividends, when declared: to receive the Companys reports and accounts: to attend tonnes Co e due to fossil fuels and 2 and speak at general meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies: and purchased electricity per m revenue 434 427 to exercise voting rights.
tonnes gHgs per m revenue 477 466 Co e is the amount of Co and the amount of non-Co greenhouse gas with the 2 2 2 Details of the structure of the Companys preference share capital and equivalent global warming potential.
the rights attached to the Companys preference shares are set out in Data is rounded to the nearest 100 tonnes of Co e. 2 note 17 on page 119. excludes emissions from Company-owned and leased vehicles estimated at approx.
2013: 2,100 2 no person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with the 2014 and 2013 information regarding Co e due to energy use has been subject 2 regard to control of the Company.
the Company is not aware of any to assurance by pwC.
See the Independent Assurance report on page 31 of this Annual report and on page 30 of the 2013 Annual report for further details.
agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions electricity from renewable sources at zero tonnes Co per kWh.
emissions increase 2 on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
by 3,400 tonnes at grid-average rates.
excludes steam supplied by third parties to two sites in China and one in europe.
Constant currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 88 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 89 otHer DISCloSureS continued Share allotment and repurchase authorities transactions, contractual arrangements and post-balance the Directors were granted authority at the 2014 AgM to allot shares sheet events in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any Significant agreements change of control securities into shares in the Company up to a a nominal amount of the group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various 23,780,832 and b a nominal amount of 47,561,664 in connection financial institutions.
these facility agreements generally include change with a rights issue such amount to be reduced by any shares allotted of control provisions which, in the event of a change in ownership of under a. this authority is due to lapse at the 2015 AgM.
At the 2015 the Company, could result in renegotiation or withdrawal of these AgM, shareholders will be asked to grant a similar allotment authority.
A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors the most significant of such agreements are the uK 200 million powers to make non pre-emptive issues for cash up to an aggregate multi-currency revolving facility agreement, which was signed on nominal amount representing approximately 5% of the issued share 17 october 2014, and the privately placed note purchase and capital as at the last practicable date before the publication of the guarantee Agreements signed on 15 December 2007 and 30 June notice of AgM 2015.
2010, for which the outstanding loan amounts are uSD250 million and 60 million respectively.
the Directors did not seek an authority at the 2014 AgM to repurchase shares in the capital of the Company.
As at 31 December 2014, there there are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter or was no such authority in place.
the Directors do not intend to seek an terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover authority to repurchase shares at the 2015 AgM.
bid, such as commercial contracts and joint venture agreements.
no such individual contract is considered to be significant in terms Employee share and share option schemes of its potential impact on the business of the group as a whole.
the Company operates a number of employee share and share option schemes.
one hundred and six employees hold awards under the Post-balance sheet events Morgan Advanced Materials plc long-term Incentive plan, 23 on 30 January 2015 the group disposed of its thermal Ceramics employees hold awards under the Morgan Advanced Materials Bonus business in Wissembourg, France.
the assets and liabilities disposed Deferral Share Matching plan, 13 employees have options under the of were classified as held for sale as at 31 December 2014.
See note 6 Companys executive Share option Schemes and 627 employees on page 106 for further information.
no further gain or loss was participate in the Companys uK Sharesave scheme.
Details of recognised on disposal.
there have been no other material events outstanding share awards and share options are given in note 20 since the year end.
on page 135. reporting, accountability and audit All the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a Statement of Directors responsibilities change of control.
outstanding options and awards would normally the Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to being group and parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with pro-rated for time and to the satisfaction of any performance conditions applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and parent the trustees have absolute and unfettered discretion in relation to Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
under that voting any shares held in the trust at any general meeting.
their policy law they are required to prepare the group Financial Statements in is not to vote the shares.
If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire accordance with IFrSs as adopted by the eu and applicable law and their shares, the trustees will have absolute and unfettered discretion have elected to prepare the parent Company Financial Statements on whether to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares held in accordance with uK Accounting Standards and applicable law by them.
uK generally Accepted Accounting practice.
Major shareholdings under Company law the Directors must not approve the Financial As at 31 December 2014, the Company had been notified of the Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of following, in accordance with Disclosure and transparency rule Dtr 5, the state of affairs of the group and parent Company and of their profit from holders of notifiable interests representing 3% or more of the or loss for that period.
issued ordinary share capital of the Company: In preparing each of the group and parent Company Financial number of ordinary shares % Statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
prudential plc group of companies M&g 36,785,631 12.890 Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
AxA Investment Managers SA 23,560,970 8.630 For the group Financial Statements, state whether they have been Ameriprise Financial Inc. and its group 17,974,438 6.299 prepared in accordance with IFrSs as adopted by the eu.
Harris Associates 14,691,515 5.148 For the parent Company Financial Statements, state whether FIl limited 14,269,841 5.000 applicable uK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Schroders plc 12,304,156 4.312 to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company Financial Statements.
percentages are shown as a percentage of the Companys issued share capital as at prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless 31 December 2014.
As at 3 March 2015, there were no changes to the other substantial shareholdings it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent shown in the above table.
Company will continue in business.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 88 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 89 the Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. they have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
the Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
legislation in the uK governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Directors as at the date of this report, whose names and functions are set out on pages 46 and 47, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the groups Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFrS as adopted by the eu, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and the management report comprising the Directors report and the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Scope of the reporting in this Annual Report the Board has prepared a Strategic report which provides an overview of the development and performance of the groups business in the year ended 31 December 2014.
8, this Directors report and the Strategic report on pages 8 to 45 comprise the management report, including the sections of the Annual report and Financial Statements incorporated by reference.
each Director holding office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and that he has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
the Strategic report, the Directors report and the remuneration report were approved by the Board on 12 February 2015.
For and on behalf of the Board PAUl BOUltOn CoMpAny SeCretAry & generAl CounSel 12 February 2015 Morgan Advanced Materials plc Quadrant, 55-57 High Street, Windsor, Berkshire Sl4 1lp registered in england, no.
286773 AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW
