StrAteGiC rePOrt 17 Key perForMAnCe InDICAtorS to support the groups strategy and to historic performance.
regional and business the list of KpIs selected is reviewed and monitor performance, the Board of Directors management use a range of further benchmarks updated to ensure they remain important and the executive Committee use a number and other KpIs as part of their planning and to the success of the group.
Financial and of financial and non-financial key performance performance review processes.
In order to non-financial performance is reviewed in more indicators KpIs.
these KpIs are selected as measure the underlying performance of the detail in the Corporate responsibility, review being important to the success of the group business, management further analyse the of operations and Financial review sections in delivering its strategic objectives.
progress headline KpIs to exclude the impact of of this report.
is assessed by comparison with the groups acquisitions and foreign exchange.
strategy, its budget for the year and against KpI 2014 2013 WHy A KpI?
perForMAnCe CoMMentAry Financial KPis revenue growth 3.8 % 4.9 % Creating consistent long-term revenue at constant currency increased 1.8% value for shareholders.
compared to last year and revenue was 3.8% higher Focus on higher growth in the second half than the first on a continuing and markets.
group underlying 12.2% 11.3% Creating consistent long-term Margins benefited from the real increase in revenue operating profit value for shareholders.
and also from the continued improvements in sales margin Focus on higher growth markets.
mix and operational improvements, together with to have a culture of operational good overheads management.
Free cash flow 40.1m 37.4m Creating consistent long-term An improvement on prior year due to good overall before acquisitions value for shareholders.
cash management providing funding for acquisition and dividends and increased dividend payments.
return on operating 27.7% 27.5% Creating consistent long-term limited improvement made in roCe in the year Capital employed value for shareholders.
improved eBItA but asset base also increased due to capital investments and a working capital increase.
A key area of focus for the future, as reflected by the fact that this is a key element of ltIp plans.
underlying earnings 22.1p 21.5p Creating consistent long-term the 2.7% increase in underlying epS reflects the per share value for shareholders.
growth in earnings that the group has delivered, diluted in part by the increase in the weighted average number of shares.
Dividend per share 10.9p 10.5p Creating consistent long-term A 3.8% increase in the dividend is driven by the value for shareholders.
improved results and reflects managements confidence in the business.
non-financial KPis employee turnover 13.8% 13.8% to find, keep and develop reflects continued proactive management of both the right people.
the cost and the skills base across the group.
lost time accident 0.53 0.46 to have a culture of operational Increase due to a small number of sites which frequency excellence and cost-efficiency.
reported a disproportionate number of ltAs.
good per 100,000 to find, keep and develop the progress in north America and at many sites in Asia.
tonnes Co e per 434 427 to have a culture of operational Many sites worldwide improved performance but 2 m revenue excellence and cost-efficiency.
this was offset by production transfer, technology projects and commissioning projects resulting in an overall 1% increase in emissions intensity.
Definitions of the measures can be found in the glossary of terms.
non-financial KpIs are at constant currency and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
lost time Accident Frequency and Co e information have been subject to assurance by pwC, see page 30 for further details.
2 AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW
