Directors Report Activities and results identifies and reviews key business risks.
The ordinary shares are listed on the The directors present their annual report Further detail can be found on page 26.
Official List and are traded on the London and audited financial statements for the Stock Exchange.
There are no specific year ended 1 March 2014.
The board also monitors a number restrictions on the size of a holding nor of financial and non-financial Key on the transfer of shares which are both The principal activity of the group is Performance Indicators KPIs.
governed by the general provisions of the multi-channel retailing.
The activities are These KPIs are detailed on page 15. companys Articles of Association and more fully explained and reviewed in prevailing legislation except as set out the Chief Executives Review on pages As required by the UK Corporate below in the section entitled Voting 10 to 13.
Group profit before taxation Governance Code 2012 the Code, Rights and Restrictions on Transfers.
from continuing operations for the 52 pages 4 to 15 provide an explanation of No person has any special rights over the weeks ended 1 March 2014 amounted to the basis on which the company generates companys share capital and all issued 97.3m 2013, 96.4m.
No geographical value and preserves it over the long-term shares are fully paid.
segmentation is provided because, other its business model and its strategy for than small operations in the Republic of delivering its objectives.
Details of outstanding employee share Ireland, Germany and the United States, all options and the operation of the relevant activities take place in the United Kingdom.
Results, dividends and reserves schemes are shown in note 27 on page 77.
The financial statements set out the Strategic Report groups results for the year ended 1 March The directors have no current plans to In accordance with the Companies Act 2014 and are contained in pages 54 to 84. issue shares other than in connection with 2006 the Companies Act, the company employee share options.
sets out in this report a review of the An interim dividend of 5.67p per share business of the group during the 52 weeks 2013, 5.45p was paid on the ordinary Annual general meeting ended 1 March 2014 and the position shares of the company on 3 January 2014.
The annual general meeting will be held of the group at the end of that period to The net cost of this dividend was 15.9m at 12:30 pm on Tuesday, 22 July 2014. enable shareholders to assess how the 2013, 15.3m.
The notice convening the annual general directors have performed their duty under meeting will be sent to members by way section 172 of the Companies Act the duty The directors recommend a final dividend of separate circular.
Explanatory notes to promote the success of the company.
of 8.56p per share 2013, 8.23p for the 52 on each resolution to be proposed at the The review also describes the principal weeks ended 1 March 2014, the net cost meeting will accompany the circular.
risks and uncertainties facing the group of which will be 24.0m 2013, 23.0m.
and provides a fair review of the groups The dividend will be paid on 1 August 2014.
Directors business at the end of the financial year.
The biographies of the current directors, This information can be found within the Movements in reserves are shown in the are shown on page 16.
With regard to following sections of this report, and Statement of Changes in Equity on page 57. the appointment and replacement of in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief directors, the company is governed by its Executives Review and the Financial Composition of the group Articles of Association, the Code and the Review pages 8 to 15, all of which During the year there were no corporate Companies Act.
information is incorporated by crossacquisitions or disposals.
reference into this report and is deemed At the 2014 annual general meeting all to form part of it.
Share capital of the directors will retire and, with the Details of the companys issued share exception of Anna Ford who is stepping The board oversees the development of capital are shown in note 22 on page 75. down from the board, will offer themselves processes to manage risks appropriately.
The company has one class of ordinary for re-election.
The executive directors and operating shares which carry no fixed income.
Each board directors implement and oversee share carries the right to one vote at The directors who served throughout the risk management processes and report general meetings of the company.
year in review were as follows:- to the board on them.
The board also Andrew Higginson Non-executive Chairman Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE Non-executive Director Angela Spindler Chief Executive Officer appointed 1 July 2013 Alan White Chief Executive Officer resigned 31 October 2013 Dean Moore Finance Director Ivan Fallon Non-executive Director Deputy Chairman Anna Ford Non-executive Director John McGuire Non-executive Director resigned 31 March 2014 Fiona Laird Non-executive Director appointed 1 April 2013 Simon Patterson Non-executive Director appointed 1 April 2013 Ron McMillan Non-executive Director appointed 1 April 2013 20 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Directors Report Details of directors interests beneficial company or any subsidiary company whilst acting on behalf of the group.
and non-beneficial in shares of the either during or at the end of the year.
Both the insurance and indemnities company are given in the Remuneration applied throughout the financial year Report on page 48 and are deemed to Directors and officers liabilities ended 1 March 2014 and through to the be incorporated into this report by crossThe companys Articles of Association date of this report.
provide that, in so far as the law permits, every director of the company or Major shareholders The powers of the directors are described associated company may be indemnified In addition to the directors shareholdings in the board terms of reference and the by the company against liability.
In shown in the Remuneration Report on Corporate Governance Statement accordance with section 236 of the page 48 and in accordance with Chapter starting on page 22.
The terms of Companies Act, qualifying third party 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency reference for the board and its committees indemnity provisions are in place for the Rules, the following notifications had been are available on the companys website directors in respect of liabilities incurred received from holders of notifiable interests www.
co. uk as a result of their office, to the extent in the companys issued share capital at permitted by law.
In addition, the group 23 May 2014: Other than a contract of service, no maintains insurance for directors and director had any interest in any disclosable officers of the group, indemnifying them contract or arrangements with the against certain liabilities incurred by them Holding % of issued share capital Nigel Alliance OBE 31,489,256 11.11 INVESCO Asset Management Ltd 25,767,425 9.09 Schroder Investment Management Ltd 16,718,972 5.90 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 9,379,746 3.31 Governance performance of their obligations relating to in note 19 on page 71.
The groups risk The board is committed to maintaining the Pension Fund or in the administration management policies and procedures and high standards of corporate governance.
This amounts to a the table of principal risks and mitigations Further details are contained in the qualifying pension scheme indemnity can be found on page 26.
Corporate Governance Statement on provision as defined in section 235 of the pages 22 to 32.
Change of control There are a number of agreements that Charitable and political donations The Pension Fund was closed to new take effect, alter or terminate upon a During the year, the group made charitable entrants with effect from 31 January 2002. change of control of the company such donations of 48,920 2013, 40,070.
No New employees joining the group after as commercial contracts, bank loan political donations have been made 2013, 31 January 2002 and existing employees agreements, property lease arrangements nil.
No contributions have been made to who had not joined the Pension Fund and employee share plans.
None of these non-EU political parties 2013, nil.
as at that date are entitled to join a are considered to be significant in terms stakeholder pension scheme administered of their likely impact on the business of Pension fund by Prudential Stakeholder Pensions which the group as a whole.
Executive directors The company has a defined benefit provides a defined contribution pension service contracts are terminable by the scheme The N Brown Group Pension arrangement.
company on giving 12 months notice.
Its assets are There are no agreements between the administered by a trustee company Auto-enrolment progress report company and its directors or employees the Trustee which is controlled by a The company commenced pension autothat provide for additional compensation board of directors and which includes enrolment in September 2013 after a for loss of office or employment that an independent trustee and others who deferral of the groups staging date.
The occurs because of a takeover bid.
No represent the interests of pension fund People Pension has been selected as the relevant events were reported in the year.
members including pensioners and the auto-enrolment provider for weekly paid company.
employees, whilst Prudential will auto-enrol Significant contracts monthly paid employees and continue to The group has a number of contractual The Trustee has appointed Mercer Limited run the Stakeholder Pension for weekly arrangements with suppliers both of to provide various services including employees already in the scheme.
By May goods and services and occupies actuarial advice, investment advice, 2014 76% of all employees were members leasehold premises for the purpose of administration services and fiduciary of a qualifying pension scheme with 1,758 conducting its business.
employees being auto-enrolled as at the arrangements are important to the date of this report.
At the date of this business of the group, individually none of The Pension Fund is required to undertake report the current opt-out rate is 6.7%.
them are essential to the business of the group and do not require disclosure under an actuarial valuation every 3 years and the last valuation took place on 30 June 2012.
Financial risk management, objectives section 417 5 c of the Companies Act.
and policies The company and some of its associated The group is exposed to certain financial Tax status The company is not a close company companies are required to indemnify the risks, namely interest rate risk, currency Trustee company and its officers in respect risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Information within the meaning of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. of certain liabilities incurred by them in the regarding such financial risks is detailed N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 21 Directors Report Auditor renew the companys authority to issue Going concern A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as new shares.
The directors have adopted the going auditor to the company will be proposed concern basis in the financial statements at the annual general meeting on 22 July Directors were also given the power to and their opinion is explained on page 15.
2014. issue new shares up to a further nominal amount of 10,442,189 in connection with Liability statement The auditors fees for both audit and nonan offer by way of a rights issue.
This All the information contained in the audit work are given in the audit committee authority too will expire on the earlier of Chairmans Statement on pages 8 to 9, report on page 26. the conclusion of the 2014 annual general the Chief Executives Review on pages 10 meeting or 2 July 2014, and a resolution to 13, the Financial Review on pages 14 Voting rights and restrictions on will be proposed at the 2014 annual to 15, the Remuneration Report on pages transfer of shares general meeting to renew it.
33 to 50 and the Corporate Governance None of the ordinary shares in the Report on pages 22 to 32 form part of company carry any special rights with Approval was also given at the 2013 annual this directors report.
Any liability for the regard to control of the company.
general meeting for a certain number of information is restricted to the extent There are no restrictions on transfers shares up to a maximum nominal value prescribed in the Companies Act.
of shares other than: of 1,566,328 to be allotted pursuant certain restrictions which may from to the authority granted to directors set Directors responsibilities statement time to time be imposed by laws or out above without being covered by the The directors are responsible for preparing regulations such as those relating to statutory pre-emption rights regime.
As the annual report and the financial insider dealing: with the previously mentioned approvals, statements in accordance with applicable pursuant to the company's code for this authority too will expire on the earlier law and regulations.
The directors are securities transactions whereby the of the conclusion of the 2014 annual responsible for the maintenance and directors and designated employees general meeting or 2 July 2014, and a integrity of the companys website.
require approval to deal in the resolution will be proposed at the 2014 Legislation in the United Kingdom company's shares: and annual general meeting to renew this governing the preparation and dissemination where a person with an interest in the authority.
of financial statements may differ from companys shares has been served with legislation in other jurisdictions.
a disclosure notice and has failed to As in previous years, authorisation for provide the company with information the directors to buy back the companys Company law requires the directors to concerning interests in those shares.
shares will not be sought at the 2014 prepare financial statements for each annual general meeting.
Under that law the directors The directors are not aware of any are required to prepare the group arrangements between shareholders that Employee share schemes financial statements in accordance with may result in restrictions on the transfer of rights of control International Financial Reporting Standards securities or voting rights.
The rights and The trustees of the N Brown Group plc IFRSs as adopted by the European obligations attaching to the company's Employee Share Ownership Trust hold Union and have elected to prepare the ordinary shares are set out in the Articles shares on trust for the benefit of the parent company financial statements of Association.
executive directors and employees of the in accordance with United Kingdom group.
The shares held by the trust are Generally Accepted Accounting Standards Amendment of the companys Articles used in connection with the company's and applicable law.
The directors must of Association various share incentive plans.
The trustees not approve the accounts unless they The companys Articles of Association may currently abstain from voting but have the are satisfied that they give a true and fair only be amended by a special resolution at power to vote for or against, or not at all, view of the state of affairs of the company a general meeting of shareholders.
Where at their discretion, in respect of any shares and of the profit or loss of the company class rights are varied, such amendments in the company held in the trust.
must be approved by the members of each trustees may, upon the recommendation class of shares separately.
The company of the company, accept or reject any offer In preparing the parent company currently only has one class of share.
relating to the shares in any way they consolidated financial statements, see fit, without incurring any liability and the directors are required to: Powers of the directors without being required to give reasons for The directors are responsible for the their decision.
In exercising their trustee select suitable accounting policies management of the business of the powers the trustees may take all of the and then apply them consistently: company and may exercise all powers following matters into account: make judgments and accounting of the company subject to applicable estimates that are reasonable and legislation and regulation and the the long-term interests of beneficiaries: prudent: companys Articles of Association.
the interests of beneficiaries other than state whether applicable IFRSs as financial interests: adopted by the European Union have At the 2013 annual general meeting, the the interests of beneficiaries in their been followed, subject to any material directors were given the power to issue capacity as employees or former departures disclosed and explained in new shares up to a nominal amount of employees or their dependents: the financial statements: and 10,442,189.
This power will expire on the interests of persons whether prepare the financial statements on the earlier of the conclusion of the 2014 or not identified who may become the going concern basis, unless it annual general meeting or 2 July 2014. beneficiaries in the future: and is inappropriate to presume that the Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed considerations of a local, moral, company will continue in business.
at the 2014 annual general meeting to ethical, environmental or social nature.
22 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Directors Report Disclosure of information to auditor Responsibility statement The directors are responsible for keeping We confirm that to the best of our adequate accounting records that knowledge: are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose the financial statements, prepared in with reasonable accuracy at any time the accordance with the relevant financial financial position of the company and reporting framework, give a true and fair enable them to ensure that the financial view of the assets, liabilities, financial statements comply with the Companies position and profit or loss of the Act.
They are also responsible for company and the undertakings included safeguarding the assets of the company in the consolidation taken as a whole: and hence for taking reasonable steps for and the prevention and detection of fraud and the Strategic Report and Directors other irregularities.
Report, taken together, include a fair review of the development and Each person who is a director at the date performance of the business and of the approval of this report confirms that: the position of the company and the undertakings included in the so far as the director is aware, there is consolidation taken as a whole, together no relevant audit information of which with a description of the principal risks the groups auditor is unaware: and and uncertainties that they face: and the director has taken all steps that he or the Annual Report, taken as a whole, she ought to have taken as a director in is fair, balanced and understandable order to make himself or herself aware and provides the information of any relevant audit information and necessary for shareholders to to establish that the groups auditor is assess the companys performance, aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should By order of the board be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act.
By order of the board Angela Spindler Chief Executive Philip F Harland LL.
B Hons Solicitor Secretary Dean Moore 23 May 2014 Finance Director 23 May 2014 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 23
