Directors and Officers Left to Right: Andrew Higginson, Angela Spindler, Dean Moore, Lord Alliance of Manchester, Ivan Fallon, Anna Ford, Ron McMillan, Fiona Laird, Simon Patterson, Philip Harland.
Angela Spindler 51 Ron McMillan 61 Anna Ford 70 Chief Executive Non-executive Director a, b, c Non-executive Director a, b, c, d Appointed Chief Executive on 1 July 2013.
Previously Chief Executive of The Original Until his retirement on 30 March 2013, Anna retired from the BBC in 2006, after 32 Factory Shop since 2009 and prior to this, he spent the whole of his career with years in News and Current Affairs.
Previously Angela had roles at Coca Cola, Pedigree : most recently non-executive director of J Sainsbury Plc.
as Deputy Chairman of PWC in the Honorary bencher of Middle Temple.
Middle East and previously as the Northern Dean Moore 56 Ivan Fallon 69 Regional Chairman of PWC in the UK.
Group Finance Director Deputy Chairman He is the Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Previously Group He is also non executive director and Finance Director at T&S Stores Plc and Appointed a director in 1994 and Deputy chairman of the audit committe of 888 Graham Group Plc.
Also held various roles Chairman on 1 March 2009.
with Lloyds Chemist Plc, Sketchley Plc, previously Chief Executive of Independent Blue Circle Industries and Grant Thornton.
News & Media UK until March 2010 and Simon Patterson 41 a leading financial journalist.
Andrew Higginson 56 Non-executive Director a, b, c Non-executive Chairman c Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 81 Appointed a director on 1 April 2013.
Non-executive Director Appointed a director on 3 July 2012 and Managing Director at Silver Lake, a became Chairman on 1 September 2012. leading investment firm focused on the Appointed a director and Chairman in 1968.
Having started his career in consumer global technology industry.
He is currently Stood down as Chairman on 1 September products, with Unilever and Guinness, a board member of Dell and Intelsat.
Formerly Chairman of Coats Viyella Andrew spent 22 years as an Executive Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
He is also a director of a number of Director of retail companies, first with Laura private companies, and was appointed a Fiona Laird 53 Ashley Holdings, then The Burton Group, life peer in 2004.
Non-executive Director a, b, c and for fifteen years, on the Board of Tesco Philip Harland 58 plc.
At Tesco, he was Group Finance and Appointed a director on 1 April 2013.
Company Secretary Strategy Director for eleven years, then Senior Vice President of Human CEO of Retailing Services for four years Resources at Unilever plc.
She has Joined the company in 2000.
Previously where he was responsible for businesses served in numerous human resources, a commercial lawyer in private practice including Tesco.
compensation & benefits, labour relations, in Manchester, then company secretary He is Chairman of Poundland plc, and a communications and change management and associate director of legal services at non-executive director of BSkyB plc and roles globally for Unilever since joining GUS Home Shopping Ltd.
Admitted as a Woolworths Holdings South Africa.
Chairman of the solicitor in 1981.
a Audit committee member b Remuneration committee member c Nomination committee member d Corporate social responsibility committee member 18 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements The facts and figures 18 Directors Report 22 Corporate Governance Statement 33 Remuneration Report 51 Independent Auditors Report 54 Consolidated Income Statement 54 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 55 Consolidated Balance Sheet 56 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 56 Reconciliation of Operating Profit to Net Cash from Operating Activities 57 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 58 Notes to the Group Accounts 82 Company Balance Sheet 82 Notes to the Company Accounts IBC Shareholder Information N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 19
