Corporate Governance Other statutory information This section contains additional information which the Directors Directors are required by law and regulation to include within The Directors of the Company as at the date of the approval the Annual Report and Accounts.
This section along with the ofthisannual report are listed on pages 44 and 45, together with information from the Chairmans letter on page 4 to theirbiographical details and identification of the Board Committees theStatement of Directors Responsibilities on page 88 onwhich they serve.
constitutes the Directors Report in accordance with the On 25 February 2014 Tim Score stepped down from the Board.
On 26 February 2014 Jane Kingston was appointed a Non-Executive The information to be included in the Annual Report and Director of the Company.
Accounts, where applicable, under LR 9.8.
4 is set out in thissection.
Jez Maiden served as a Director throughout the year until 31 December 2014 when he stepped down as an Executive Director and Group Strategic Report Finance Director.
On 28 January 2015, upon the recommendation of the The Company is required by the Companies Act to include a strategic Nomination Committee, the Board appointed Matthew Ashley as an report in this document.
The information that fulfils the requirements of Executive Director and Group Finance Director.
Matthew was formerly the Strategic Report can be found on pages 1 to 41, which are the Finance Director of the UK Bus business, having also previously held incorporated in this report by reference.
the position of Group Financial Controller.
To ensure continuity and an orderly handover, Matthew fulfilled the role of interim Group Finance Company status Director from October 2014 until the conclusion of the search, led by The Company company number: 2590560 was incorporated under theNomination Committee, for a replacement Executive Director as theCompanies Act 1985 as a limited company on 11 March 1991 and confirmed above.
re-registered as a public company on 20 October 1992 as National Express Group PLC.
The Company holds a premium listing on the Powers of the Directors London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities LON: NEX Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law and to and is a constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index.
any direction that may be given by the Company in general meeting by Disclaimer special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by This Annual Report and Accounts is intended to focus on matters the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company which are whichare relevant to the interests of shareholders of the Company.
The not required to be exercised by the Company in general meeting.
purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts is to assist shareholders Appointment and replacement of Directors inassessing the strategies adopted and performance delivered by the The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors of the Company and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
It should Company are set out in the Articles of Association, the UK Corporate notbe relied on by any other party or for any other purpose.
Governance Code the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related Forward looking statements are made in good faith, based on a number legislation.
In accordance with the Code, all the Directors will retire at of assumptions concerning future events and information available to the2015 AGM and offer themselves for election or re-election with the Directors at the time of their approval of this report.
These forward exception of Sir Andrew Foster who is due to retire from the Board, looking statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent asexplained above, and Jackie Hunt who will also not be seeking uncertainties underlying any such forward looking information.
The user re-election after three years on the Board.
The Board is satisfied that of this Annual Report and Accounts should not rely unduly on these each of those Directors standing for election or re-election is qualified by forward looking statements, which are not a guarantee of performance virtue of their skills, experience and contribution to the Board.
and which are subject to a number of uncertainties and other facts, Directors conflicts of interest many of which are outside the Companys control and could cause The Board has a procedure in place to deal with a situation where a actual events to differ materially from those in these statements.
No Director has a conflict of interest, as required by the Companies Act guarantee can be given of future results, levels of activity, performance 2006.
As part of this process, the members of the Board prepare a list or achievements.
of other positions held and all other conflict situations that may need Branches outside the UK authorising either in relation to the Director concerned or his or her The Company has branches in Spain.
The Board considers each Directors situation anddecides whether to approve any conflict situations, taking into Results and dividends consideration what is in the best interests of the Company and whether The profit on ordinary activities before tax from continuing operations for the Directors ability to act in accordance with his or her wider duties is the year ended 31 December 2014 was 66.5 million 2013: 64.4m affected.
Each Director is required to notify the Company Secretary of and a profit attributable to equity shareholders of 59.1 million 2013: any potential or actual conflict situations that will need authorising by the 56.8m was transferred to reserves.
Authorisations given by the Board are reviewed annually.
The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 6.95 pence per ordinary share 2013: 6.75p which, together with the interim dividend of 3.35 pence per ordinary share 2013: 3.25p, paid on 19 September 2014, gives a total dividend for the year of 10.3 pence per share 2013: 10.0p.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 22 May 2015 to ordinary shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 1 May 2015.
84 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Directors and Officers liability insurance Employee involvement The Company recognises the potential personal liabilities that the The Group encourages employee involvement in its affairs.
Subsidiary Directors are subject to by agreeing to act as a Board member and companies produce a range of internal newsletters and circulars believes that it is both fair and reasonable to protect them from innocent whichkeep employees abreast of developments.
Senior management error or omission.
The Company therefore maintains Directors and within the Group meet regularly to review strategic developments and Officers liability insurance in respect of legal action that might be management conferences are held at Group and business levels to brought against its Directors which operates in certain circumstances.
bring our senior managers together to share ideas and develop policy.
This does not extend to cover the Directors where it is proved they acted Dialogue takes place regularly with trade unions and other employee fraudulently or dishonestly.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles of representatives on a wide range of issues.
Association the Company has indemnified its Directors and Officers in Employee views are also sought through regular employee satisfaction accordance with the provisions of Section 233 of the Companies Act questionnaires, both within business units and across the Group.
A copy of the Articles of Association is available for inspection at Following such surveys, results are shared with employees and action the Companys registered office.
plans are put in place to deal with issues arising.
The Group encourages innovation from all levels of employees and has a structured programme Directors interests in contracts to encourage suggestions and to recognise employees through awards.
Except as stated in note 35 on page 150, no contract existed during the The Group also has a well-developed succession planning process in year in relation to the Companys business in which any Director was place and succession plans are reviewed by the Board annually.
key part of this process, the Company focuses on emerging talent to Directors interests in shares ensure the Group has the right people being developed to meet our The Board of Directors interests in shares in the Company are detailed future business needs.
Talent management remains an important on page 79. priority for the Group.
Directors share options Environmental policy and greenhouse gas emissions Details of Directors share options are provided in the Directors Information on the Groups environmental initiatives, including the Remuneration Report on page 83. mandatory reporting disclosure on greenhouse gas emissions, can be found in the strategic report on pages 20 and 21 and on the Companys Directors indemnities website, www.
The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each of its Directors, which are qualifying indemnity provisions for the purpose of Political contributions the Companies Act 2006 and remain in force at the date of this report.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and accordingly none were made in the year.
However, the Company did attend party Accountability and audit political conferences during the year for which total expenditure was Statements of the respective responsibilities of the Directors and 10,500 2013: 13,500. auditors are set out on pages 88 to 92.
Financial instruments Corporate governance Details of the use by the Company and its subsidiaries of financial A full report on corporate governance can be found in the Governance instruments and any related risk management objectives and policies section of this document and the Companys governance statement is including hedging policy and exposure including price, credit, liquidity on page 46.
Both are incorporated by reference into this report.
or cash flow risk of the Company in connection with such financial instruments can be found in the notes to the consolidated accounts on Post Balance Sheet events pages 98 to 152 and are incorporated by reference into this report.
On 2 February 2015, the Company was awarded two 12-year contractsto operate the whole S-Bahn Nuremberg commuter rail services network.
The contracts will commence in December 2018 andare expected to generate revenues in excess of 1.4bn over the 12year period.
Employment policies The Group strives to meet its business objectives by motivating and encouraging its employees to be responsive to the needs of its customers and continually improve operational performance.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to employees and potential employees.
This applies to recruitment, training, career development and promotion for all employees, regardless of physical ability, gender, sexual orientation, religion, age or ethnic origin.
All businesses in the Group report diversity data.
Full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment received from disabled persons, according to their skills and capabilities.
The services of any existing employee disabled during their period of employment are retained wherever possible.
com 85 Corporate Governance Other statutory information continued Major shareholdings As at 31 December 2014, the Company had been notified of the following interests in its shares which represent 3% or more of the voting rights in theCompany.
Save where indicated below, the Company had not been notified of any changes to these interests subsequent to 31 December 2014 and prior to 23 February 2015 being the latest practicable date before publication.
Percentage of Nature of Ordinary shares share capital holding European Express Enterprises Ltd 78,795,062 15.4 Direct Prudential PLC 60,396,081 11.8 Direct Jupiter Asset Management Ltd 26,288,829 5.1 Direct Schroders plc 26,547,716 5.2 Direct BlackRock Inc 25,587,658 5.0 Indirect The holdings for European Express Enterprises Ltd are included in Jorge Cosmens holdings which are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 79.
On 23 February 2015, BlackRock Inc notified the Company that it no longer had a notifiable interest in the Companys shares for the purposes of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
These restrictions end Companysshares seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice of an approved Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the Company transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether in regard to Section 793 notice, whichever is earlier.
dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is ofany such determination, as the Directors may determine.
not a fully-paid share, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way which the Financial Conduct Authority regards as preventing The Company has one class of ordinary shares with a nominal value dealings in shares of that class from taking place on an open or proper of5 pence.
At the date of this annual report, the issued share capital basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse any transfer of a share in favour consisted of 511,738,648 ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
of more than four persons jointly.
At a general meeting of the Company every member has one vote on a The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held.
The Notice ordinary shares in the Company other than: ofAGM accompanying this document specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or by being present in person in relation to certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
Details of the authorised and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and and issued share capital of the Company and details of shares issued pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority during the year can be found in note 31 on page 140. whereby certain employees of the Company require approval of the No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to Company to deal in the Companys shares.
attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if he or she or that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
any person with an interest in his or her shares has been sent a notice under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon Resolutions will be proposed at the 2015 AGM to authorise the Directors public companies the power to require information with respect to to exercise all powers to allot shares, or grant rights for, or to convert any interests in their voting shares and he or she or any interested person security into, shares, and approve a limited disapplication of statutory failed to supply the Company with the information requested within pre-emption rights.
Details are set out in the Notice of AGM 14days after delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide that accompanying this document.
86 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Company was granted authority at the AGM in 2014 to purchase facilitation fee on such change in control.
Similarly, the licences issued itsown shares up to an aggregate value of 10% of the issued nominal by the Office of Rail Regulation ORR to NXET Trains Limited in capital.
The authority was not used during the year.
The authority is connection with the franchise all contain change of control provisions renewed annually and approval will be sought at the AGM in 2015 for its which could result in the licences being revoked if the change in control renewal.
Further details are set out in the Notice of AGM accompanying is not approved by the ORR.
The Groups UK bus business operates the Midland Metro tram service and the UK bus operating subsidiary is party to a contract with Centro Share schemes governing certain aspects of such operation.
The contract with Centro First Names Jersey Limited is Trustee of the National Express Group contains an event of default on a change in control of the UK operating Employee Benefit Trust.
As at 23 February 2015 the Trust held 541,184 subsidiary which would be triggered on a change in control of the shares 0.11% of the issued share capital of the Company for employee Company if such change in control is not approved by Centro.
Further details of the Companys employee share schemes, together with dividend waivers in force, can be found in The Groups UK coach business performs a number of coaching and note7on page 112 and note 16 on page 161 and are incorporated by bussing services from or at certain UK airports and the UK coach reference into this report.
The Trustee may vote the shares held by operating subsidiary is also contracted to provide passenger transport theTrust at itsdiscretion.
services for certain other third parties.
A number of these contracts contain rights for the counterparties to terminate them on a change of The current Investment Association IA guidance on dilution limits control of the relevant subsidiary company party to such contracts provides that the overall dilution under all share plans operated by a certain of which would be triggered by a change in control of the company should not exceed 10% over a ten-year period in relation to Company.
While no one of these contracts is considered significant the Companys share capital, with afurther limitation of 5% in any inthe context of the Groups business as a whole, the impact on the ten-year period on executive plans.
National Express share plans Group if all such contracts were terminated could be significant.
operate within IA recommended guidelines on dilution limits.
Similarly, the Groups North American business operates school bus Articles of Association services under contracts with school boards as well as transit contracts Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association may be with transit authorities.
Many of those contracts contain termination made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. rights for the benefit of the Board or authority which could be triggered Annual General Meeting by a change of control in the Company.
While no one single school bus The AGM will be held at 2.00pm on 6 May 2015 in the Purcell Room at contract is considered significant in the context of the Groups business the Queen Elizabeth Hall, Southbank Centre, Belvedere Road, London as a whole, the impact on the Group in the event that each school board SE18XX.
At the Meeting, special resolutions will be proposed to and each transit authority exercised its termination right on a change of authorise the Directors to issue shares without applying statutory control would be significant.
pre-emption rights, to authorise the Company to make market Directors and employees service contracts purchases of its own shares and to authorise the calling of general There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 clear days notice.
employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment Full details are provided in the Notice of Meeting.
If you would like to whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that register any question you may have in advance of the AGM you can occurs because of a takeover bid.
com or you can write to the Company Risks Secretary at National Express Group PLC, National Express House, A summary of the Companys risk management framework and an Birmingham Coach Station, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham B5 6DD.
overview of its principal risks are detailed on pages 26 and 27 and are Material contracts and change of control agreements incorporated by reference into this report.
Under the terms of the Companys Revolving Credit Facility, upon a Auditors change of control, the Company would have five days to enter into Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company negotiations with the lenders to alter the terms.
Following ten days of andto authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be negotiations, if no agreement has been reached, outstanding balances proposed at the 2015 AGM.
Under the terms of the 1,000,000,000 Euro Medium Term Note Disclosure of information to auditors Programme under which the Company issued Medium Term Notes The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant MTNs to various institutions on 13 January 2010 as updated on audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and 19November 2012, there is a change of control put option such that, thateach Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken upon a change of control event, any holder of any MTN may require the as aDirector in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit Company to redeem or purchase that MTN.
information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of thatinformation.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted The Company entered into a Private Placement Note Purchase inaccordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Agreement on 30 July 2012 relating to the issue by the Company of Act2006.
Under the terms of the Agreement the Company is required to offer to Note holders to By order of the Board repay to them the entire unpaid principal amount and interest thereon upon a change of control.
The Companys UK rail subsidiary, NXET Trains Limited, which operates the Essex Thameside franchise, is party to a franchise agreement with the DfT.
The franchise agreement contains an event of default on a Sandra Forbes change in control of the franchisee which would be triggered on a Company Secretary change in control of the Company if such change in control is not 26 February 2015 approved by the DfT, as well as the right for the DfT to charge a www.
