ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS John Barton Jonathan Dawson, Aged 69.
Became a member of the Board in 2002 and was Senior Independent Non-executive Director appointed Deputy Chairman in 2004 and Chairman in 2006.
Became a member of the Board in 2004.
He He is also Chairman of Catlin Group Limited and easyJet plc is also a non-executive director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson and a non-executive director of SSP.
John previously served Group plc and National Grid plc and a partner in Penfida as Chief Executive of JIB Group plc, Chairman of Cable Partners LLP.
Previous experience includes non-executive and Wireless Worldwide plc, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group directorships of National Australia Group Europe Ltd, Standard plc, Wellington Underwriting plc and Brit Insurance Holdings Life Investments Holdings Limited and Galliford Try plc, eight plc and as a non-executive director of WH Smith plc and years in the Ministry of Defence and over twenty years in Hammerson plc.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Steve Barber Lord Wolfson of Aspley Guise, Chief Executive Aged 62.
Became a member of the Board in 2007.
Appointed Retail Sales experience includes almost thirty years in the accountancy Director in 1993, became responsible for NEXT Directory in profession, principally with Price Waterhouse where he was a 1995 and was appointed to the Board in 1997 with additional senior partner.
Formerly Finance Director of Mirror Group and responsibilities for systems.
Appointed Managing Director of the Chief Operating Officer of Whitehead Mann.
Founder of The NEXT Brand in 1999 and Chief Executive in 2001.
Objectivity Partnership, a member of the Audit Quality Forum and Chairman of Design Objectives.
Christos Angelides, Group Product Director Aged 50.
Joined the Group in 1986 and has a wealth of Christine Cross experience in the Product area, starting at NEXT as a Trainee Aged 62.
Became a member of the Board in 2005.
She is Menswear Buyer and became General Manager of NEXTs also a non-executive director of Sonae Group Ltd Portugal, sourcing office in Hong Kong in 1989, Menswear Product Woolworths Limited Australia, Brambles Limited Australia Director in 1994 and Womenswear Product Director in 1998. and Kathmandu Limited New Zealand.
Christine is also He was appointed to the Board in 2000 and has overall a retail advisor to Apax Partners and Warburg Pincus.
responsibility for all aspects of the design, buying, quality and Previous experience includes Chief Retail Advisor to merchandising of NEXT products.
, fourteen years as a director at Tesco plc and fifteen years lecturing and course director roles at David Keens, Group Finance Director Edinburgh and Bath Universities.
Joined NEXT in 1986 as Group Treasurer and was appointed to the Board in 1991.
Previous experience Francis Salway includes seven years in the accountancy profession and Aged 56.
He is also Chairman nine years in the UK and overseas operations of multinational of Town & Country Housing Group and a non-executive manufacturers of consumer goods, with roles including Group director of Cadogan Group Limited.
Formerly Chief Executive Treasurer and Finance Director.
Professional qualifications of Land Securities Group plc and past president of the British include the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Property Federation.
and the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Caroline Goodall Michael Law, Group Operations Director Aged 58.
Became a member of the Board in January 2013.
Joined the Group in 1995 as Call Centre Manager Caroline has thirty years experience in the legal profession, for the NEXT Directory.
Michael was appointed Call Centre with twenty years as a corporate finance partner at Herbert Director in 2003 and in 2006 took responsibility for Group IT.
Smith, including five years as head of the Global Corporate In 2010 he was appointed Group Operations Director, adding Division.
She is currently a non-executive director of SVG Warehousing and Logistics to his portfolio.
Michael is now Capital plc and a non-executive on the Partnership Board of responsible for all Systems, Warehousing, Logistics and Call Grant Thornton UK LLP, as well as a trustee and member of the Centres within the Group and was appointed to the Board in Council of the National Trust.
Jane Shields, Group Sales and Marketing Director BOARD COMMITTEES Aged 50.
Joined NEXT Retail in 1985 as a Sales Assistant in Audit Committee one of our London stores.
Jane worked her way through Steve Barber Committee Chairman Caroline Goodall Store Management to be appointed Sales Director in 2000, Christine Cross Francis Salway responsible for all store operations and training.
In 2006 Jane Jonathan Dawson took additional responsibility for Retail Marketing and in 2010 was appointed Group Sales and Marketing Director, adding Remuneration Committee Directory and online marketing to her portfolio.
She was Jonathan Dawson Committee Chairman Christine Cross appointed to the Board in 2013.
Steve Barber Caroline Goodall COMPANY SECRETARY John Barton Francis Salway Seonna Anderson Nomination Committee John Barton Committee Chairman Jonathan Dawson Steve Barber Caroline Goodall Christine Cross Francis Salway 32 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014
