Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors of NMC Health plc the Group or the Company are pleased to submit their Annual Report and audited financial statements of the Group and the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
Information in the Group Strategic Report on pages 9 to 33, which constitutes a fair review of the business required by the Companies Act 2006, and in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 49 to 66, is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The details of salaries, bonuses, benefits and share interests of directors are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 85.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The Group results are shown in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on page 91.
Profit after taxation for the year was US$77.5m 2013: US$69.1m.
Factors influencing the results are discussed in the Business Overview and Financial review on pages 18 to 25.
No interim dividend was declared during the year.
Subject to shareholder approval, a final dividend of 5.4p per share 2013: 4.4p is proposed, to be paid on 25 June 2015 to shareholders on the Companys share register on 29 May 2015.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS The Groups strategy and potential future development are outlined in the Group Strategic Report on pages 9 to 33.
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD The following have served as directors of the Company during the 2014 financial year: Date ceased to be Director Position Date of appointment a director if applicable H. J.
Mark Tompkins Non-Executive Chairman 7 March 2012 - Dr B. R. Shetty Executive Vice Chairman 20 July 2011 - & Chief Executive Officer Dr Ayesha Abdullah Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 - Abdulrahman Basaddiq Non-Executive Director 24 February 2014 - Jonathan Bomford Non-Executive Director 27 June 2013 - Lord Clanwilliam Non-Executive Director 7 March 2012 - Salma Hareb Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 - Heather Lawrence Non-Executive Director 19 March 2012 - Prasanth Manghat Deputy Chief Executive Officer 26 June 2014 - Keyur Nagori Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 - Binay Shetty Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 - Dr Nandini Tandon Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 - His Excellency Saeed Bin Butti Non-Executive Director 20 July 2011 24 February 2014 Khalifa Bin Butti Executive Vice Chairman 20 July 2011 25 March 2014 No other directors have been appointed to serve during the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 or subsequently.
SHARE CAPITAL There have been no changes to the issued share capital of the Company during the year.
The issued share capital as at 1 January 2014 and at 31 December 2014 is 18,571,428 divided into 185,714,286 shares of 10p each.
Options granted by the Company over its share capital are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 85.
Under the articles of association of the Company, all Ordinary shares have equal rights to dividends and capital and to vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the size of holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed under the terms of the articles of association and relevant legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or in voting rights.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 45 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS As at 23 February 2015, the Company is aware of the following significant shareholdings in the Ordinary shares of the Company: Shareholder Number of shares % of issued share capital held Nature of holding Dr B. R. Shetty 47,742,409 25.7 Direct H. E. Saeed Bin Butti 43,466,559 23.4 Direct Khalifa Bin Butti 19,059,842 10.3 Direct Infinite Investment LLC 14,072,024 7.6 Direct The Company has an agreement with Dr B. R. Shetty, H. E. Saeed Bin Butti and Khalifa Bin Butti Controlling Shareholders under which the Controlling Shareholders agree to comply with the independence provisions of the UKLA Listing Rules.
POLITICAL DONATIONS Neither the Company nor any subsidiary company in the Group made any Political donations during the year ended 31 December 2014.
Whilst the Company has no intention of making formal political donations in the future, the Board acknowledge that given the wide interpretation of such donations, certain business events in which the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or the Board, may wish to participate may be caught under the formal definition of political donations.
The Company will therefore again be seeking approval from shareholders at this years annual general meeting, for a small approved limit for political donations, for use in such circumstances.
If this is approved by shareholders, the Board will provide full details of any such payments made in the next annual report.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The Companys disclosure in relation to its greenhouse gas emissions is set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on pages 27 to 33.
CONTRACTS OF SIGNIFICANCE WITH DIRECTORS Under UAE law and regulations, with the exception of certain specific areas designated by the Government as such, all land must be held legally by a UAE National.
In addition, all healthcare facility and pharmacy operating licences may only be held legally by a UAE National, and not a body corporate.
As a result, some of the property owned beneficially by the Group and all the Groups medical facility and pharmacy licences, are held legally in the name of either H. E. Saeed Bin Butti or Mr Khalifa Bin Butti, both previous Directors and continuing significant shareholders of the Company.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Details of related party transactions are included in Note 27 of the Financial Statements on pages 117 and 118.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER LISTING RULE 9.8.
4C In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
4C, the information to be included in the Annual Report, where applicable, under LR 9.8.
4, is set out in this Directors Report, with the exception of transactions with controlling shareholders which is set out on pages 117 and 118 note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and interest capitalised which is set out on page 112 note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS New Financing Facility On 16 February 2015, the Company announced that it has obtained underwriting commitments for a new US$825 million financing facility from a number of international and regional banks through its subsidiary, NMC Healthcare LLC.
The New Facility has been structured as two separate tranches: 1 an Amortizing Term Loan Facility of US$350 million equivalent to refinance existing indebtedness of NMC and its subsidiaries including the existing JP Morgan syndicated term loan facility and to provide additional funds for general corporate purposes: and 2 a Delayed Draw Acquisition Facility of US$475 million equivalent to facilitate NMCs ongoing strategy of making phased acquisitions that will be accretive to the Companys underlying business and profitability.
The overall quantum of the New Facility, combined with the Companys robust balance sheet, is expected to ensure adequate available liquidity to capitalize on growth opportunities as they are identified.
46 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements Acquisition of Clinica Eugin On 23 February 2015, the Group acquired 86.4% of the issued share capital of Clinica Eugin, a leading global fertility treatment provider based in Barcelona, Spain, for a total enterprise value of 143m.
Eugin is one of the largest fertility clinics in Europe and an established leader in cross-border fertility treatment with patients from the largest Western European countries, as well as the MENA region.
Transfer of Title Deeds Subsequent to year end US$5,177,000 of the land and buildings which were held in the name of a previous shareholder for the beneficial interest of the Group were transferred into the name of a current UAE national shareholder.
There were no other events which would have a material effect on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position between 31 December 2014 and the date of this report.
GOING CONCERN The Group has two diverse operating divisions, both of which operate in a growing market.
The Board have undertaken an assessment of the future prospects of the Group and the wider risks that the Group is exposed to.
In its assessment of whether the Group should adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements, the Board has considered: Operating risk: The Board receives monthly management reports covering key operational matters, monthly comparison to budget and updated forecasts on a half yearly basis for the full financial year to ensure that the business is trading in line with its expectations.
The management team prepare a Group budget for each financial year and a cashflow forecast for the following 18 months which allows the Board to monitor the financial position of the Group and to consider appropriate risks which the business may face from a financial perspective.
Financing risk: The Company has worked to structure its debts for the medium and long term as well as utilising short term facilities to meet the Groups working capital requirements.
The funds raised as a result of the share issue undertaken at IPO in April 2012 and the US$300m five year syndicated term debt facility, of which US$225m has been drawn down to date, are more than sufficient to fund the Groups material capital projects.
The Group has banking arrangements through a spread of local and international banking groups.
Debt covenants are reviewed by the board each month.
The Board believes that the level of cash in the Group, the spread of bankers and the improved debt facility terms agreed during 2013 mitigates the financing risks that the Group faces from both its capital expenditure program and in relation to working capital requirements.
Customer and Supplier risk: Both the Healthcare and the Distribution divisions have continued their positive growth trends.
All major financial and non-financial KPIs showed good improvement during 2014.
In NMC Healthcare, trade receivables are monitored regularly, provisions made where necessary and the Group has no history of significant bad debts.
In the Distribution division, the increase in revenue and product flow has an adverse effect on the Groups working capital position.
Trade receivables are monitored regularly and management maintain a close working relationship with all major suppliers to monitor performance as well as signs of financial risk The Board has reviewed a high level budget for 2015 as well as considered growth forecasts for the healthcare sector in UAE, and considers the Groups future forecasts to be reasonable.
Impairment risk: The Board has considered the carrying value of inventories, accounts receivable and property and equipment and concluded that there are no indicators of material impairment of these items and therefore no material cash flow impact associated with any loss in those areas.
The Board has reviewed the cash flow forecast that has been prepared for the period to 30 June 2016 and this forecast indicates that the Group has positive cash flows with sufficient headroom.
In its review, the Board considered other areas of potential risk, including regulatory risk, insurance and legal risks and potential areas of material contingent liability and found no matters which are likely to affect the viability of the Group in the medium term.
The Directors therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group are included in note 29 to the financial statements on pages 119 to 121.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The annual general meeting of NMC Health plc will be held at Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD on 16 June 2015 at 2.00 pm.
Further details of the resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting will be set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting circular which will be circulated separately to shareholders in due course.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 47 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED AUDITORS Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors: The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors Report are set out on page 45.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Companys Auditor, each of these Directors confirms that: to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information that is, information needed by the groups Auditor in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
EY have confirmed that they are willing to be reappointed as auditor for the financial year ending 31 December 2015.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are required by Company Law to prepare financial statements for the Group and the Company in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
The financial statements are required to present fairly for each financial period the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
In preparing the Group and parent company financial statements the Directors are also required to: Properly select and consistently apply accounting policies: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors also confirm that they consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm to the best of our knowledge: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
The Directors Report was approved by the Board on 23 February 2015 and are signed on behalf of the Board by: Simon Watkins Group Company Secretary NMC Health plc registered in England and Wales, number 7712220 23 Hanover Square, London W1S 1JB 48 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014
