Governance SENIOR MANAGEMENT DR B. R. SHETTY PRASANTH MANGHAT Executive Vice Chairman & CEO, aged 72 Deputy Chief Executive Officer, aged 40 Mr B. R. Shetty is the founding partner of NMC and was appointed to Mr Manghat has had a number of roles within NMC related the Board of NMC Health plc in July 2011.
Dr Shetty has been involved businesses for the last 12 years including, prior to his current role, in the private healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors since these as Chief Financial Officer of NMC Health for 5 years.
As CFO, he was were established in the UAE nearly 40 years ago.
primarily responsible for running the Companys finance function including treasury, corporate finance and accounting.
Born in India, Dr Shetty arrived in the UAE in 1973 shortly after the countrys formation.
As a trained pharmacist, he opened his first Mr Manghat spearheaded NMC Healthcares successful listing on pharmacy in 1975.
In 1975 he established the New Medical Centre the Premium Segment of the London Stock Exchange LSE in April NMC, which also included a dedicated dental department.
This was a landmark transaction in many ways, being the first since grown to become the UAEs largest private sector healthcare UAE company to list on the LSE and raising US$187 million in the provider.
Today, it has hospitals and clinics across the UAE and process.
Mr Manghat has played a major role in the growth of the treats almost two million patients a year.
Dr Shettys other business NMC businesses both prior to and since the IPO.
activities include UAE Exchange, a leading global money transfer and foreign exchange provider, of which he is Managing Director and CEO, Mr Manghat was honoured with the CFO of the Year award and investments in hospitality, food and beverage, pharmaceutical 2012 by ICAEW, Middle-East.
He was also conferred with the manufacturing and real estate.
prestigious award for Excellence in Finance by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, Abu Dhabi Chapter in Nov, 2012 and Dr Shetty received the Order of Abu Dhabi in 2005, the countrys Professional Excellence Award in the Healthcare Sector by ICAI UAE highest civilian award, for contribution to the development of the Dubai Chapter in May 2013. community and the cause of the Emirate, as well as the Padma Shri Award from the government of India in January 2009.
In addition to Prior to joining NMC, Mr Manghat has worked as Credit and his business activities, Dr Shetty is involved in several philanthropic Operations Head with Kotak Mahindra Finance, one of the leading causes.
He has supported the development of a medical institution non-banking financial institutions in India.
A Fellow member of in the north Indian state of Uttaranchal and is the founder and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India FCA, Bachelor of patron of the Indian Pharmaceutical Association in the UAE.
He is a Science 1995, MG University, Kerala, India, CIA, ACCA from UK 2004 member of the Advisory Board of the Dubai Economic Departments and pursuing CA Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Financial Sector, Chairman of the Abu Dhabi Indian School, Founder Wales, he has 14 years of experience in management of treasury and Vice President of the Swiss Business Council, and Founder of and banking functions, corporate finance, accounting and financial the Australian Business Council, the Canadian Business Council, the reporting activities.
Netherlands Business Group and the Philippines Business Council.
Mr Manghat assumed the role of Deputy Chief Executive Officer Dr Shetty is also a member of the Executive Panel of Dubais of NMC Health plc with effect from 1 January 2015.
In his new role, Pharmaceutical and Health Equipment Trading Business Group Mr Manghats responsibility will extend to cover strategic matters under the Dubai Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
A passionate and to support the Chief Executive Officer with planning and cricket fan, Dr Shetty is the former President of the Abu Dhabi Cricket strategy execution across both of NMCs Divisions.
Council and was the Managing Director of the Abu Dhabi Cricket Club from its inception in 1989 until 2006.
Dr B. R. Shetty received a Doctorate from Georgia State University, Atlanta, USA and was invited by the Harvard Business School to attend its Owner President Management program.
He is also a member of the International Advisory Board of Boston University, USA.
42 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements DR CHANDRAKUMARI R. SHETTY ROY CHERRY Group Medical Director Head of Strategy & Investor Relations Dr Shetty is the Group Medical Director of NMC Health.
Along with Mr Cherry works closely with the Executive Vice Chairman & CEO her husband, Dr B. R. Shetty, she has been a pioneer in establishing and Deputy CEO on NMC Healths strategy.
and developing the private healthcare sector in the UAE.
He also leads the Groups investor relations efforts.
Mr Cherry played Dr Shetty has been instrumental in establishing Centres of an instrumental role in the re-rating of NMCs shares by investors Excellence in various units of NMC Healthcare.
She has been and analysts, with the companys shares being among the top-10 actively involved in the conception, planning, design, execution and best performing on the London Stock Exchange in 2013. management of various healthcare facilities besides driving critical healthcare initiatives.
Under her leadership, NMC Specialty Hospitals His career includes PwC Transaction Services where he advised on in Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Al Ain have received accreditation from the feasibilities and M&A transactions with a combined transaction value Joint Commission International JCI.
exceeding US$10bn across a variety of sectors including healthcare.
He previously headed the Equity Research Department at SHUAA Dr Shetty supervises a diversified multi-cultural workforce within Capital in Dubai, one of the regions first and most acclaimed equity NMC Health comprising of over 500 doctors and 3,000 medical staff.
Mr Cherry played an important role on several In her present role, Dr Shetty chairs various committees including regional IPOs including, Saudi Catering, NMC Health, Deyaar, DP World Governance, Infection Control, Patient Rights, Care of Patients, and Royal Jordanian Airlines.
Immediately prior to joining NMC Health, Mr Cherry was with Saudi Despite her wide ranging responsibilities, Dr Shetty remains rooted Fransi Capital, where he was the Head of Research & Advisory to the basic ethos of the healthcare profession of providing quality Department.
He holds a BSc in Management from the University of care with a human touch to all patients by continuing to remain as London.
In addition to English, he is a fluent speaker of both Arabic a practicing Physician for over three decades.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 43 Governance SENIOR MANAGEMENT CONTINUED SURESH KRISHNAMOORTHY SIMON WATKINS Chief Financial Officer Group Company Secretary Mr Krishnamoorthy was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Mr Watkins is Group Company Secretary of NMC Health plc.
Company with effect from 1 January 2015.
Mr Watkins joined NMC Health in May 2012 shortly after the Groups IPO and is responsible to the Board for the Groups listing obligations, He joined NMC in December 2000 as an Internal Audit Manager all Governance matters affecting the Group and, with the Chairman, and he continued in this role until March 2011.
Since April 2011 Mr for ensuring that the Board operates effectively.
Krishnamoorthy has worked as a senior member of NMCs finance team, having significant involvement in the Companys IPO and in He has 25 years of experience as a Company Secretary, principally the Companys major fund raising initiatives.
Prior to be appointed within UK companies having a London Stock Exchange Listing as Deputy Chief Financial Officer in July 2014, he was responsible on either the Main Market or on AIM.
Previous experience includes for the MIS and Corporate Planning portfolio including close Deputy Group Secretary of Rank Group plc and four years as Group involvement in the Groups internal and external audits and other Company Secretary of lastminute.
Mr Watkins primary Audit Committee activities since its inception following IPO.
experience in the last 14 years has been within businesses focussed on strategic and acquisitive growth Prior to joining NMC, he worked as Assistant Finance Manager in Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Corporation KINFRA, a Government Mr Watkins is an Associate Member of the UK Institute of Chartered agency involved in the development of infrastructure in the State Secretaries and Administrators.
Mr Krishnamoorthy qualified as a Chartered Accountant from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India in Nov 1998.
He has 16 years of experience in the field of audits, corporate finance, accounting and financial reporting activities.
44 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014
