Group Strategic Report OUR BUSINESS MODEL NMC Health plc is the leading private sector healthcare operator in the United Arab Emirates, with a nationwide network of hospitals and operations founded in 1975.
The group also operates a UAE wide product distribution and wholesale business.
HEALTHCARE SERVICES PRODUCT DISTRIBUTION 12 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements HEALTHCARE SERVICES Our Healthcare division also provides Only registered domestic distributors, Through our healthcare services division operational and management services a locally established company like NMC, we provide people in the UAE with to third party owned healthcare services are entitled by customs authorities a range of high quality outpatient and assets.
In return for our services, we to import products into the country.
inpatient services across our facilities.
receive a contracted management fee Principals suppliers contract NMC as Our facilities range from the larger by the asset owner.
Typically the fee their distributor to gain access to the specialty hospitals to medical centres.
received is partially tied to a set of UAE market through a reputable partner In addition, we have retail pharmacies pre-agreed performance metrics with a long track-record, established mainly selling pharmaceuticals prescribed incorporating either qualitative and or distribution channels and infrastructure by our doctors to our patients either quantitative operational targets.
We and strong financial standing.
Every within, or in the immediate vicinity of, currently have one management individual brand and product has to go our healthcare services facilities.
contract with the UAE Ministry of through an approval and registration Our comprehensive care approach Presidential Affairs pertaining to a process with local authorities before maximises patient convenience and general hospital in Umm al Quwain being allowed to be sold in the country.
increases revenue contribution to in the Northern Emirates.
NMC facilitates this process and ensures our business.
The majority PRODUCT DISTRIBUTION of agreements with our Principals are While we serve both insured and AND WHOLESALE on exclusive basis.
All agreements self-paying patients, the overwhelming NMCs Distribution Division is now one are registered with the government.
majority of our healthcare divisions of the largest in the UAE and it offers revenue is generated through insured products across several segments NMC procurement is on a principal basis.
In return for the services including FMCG, Pharmaceuticals, In the majority of cases, NMC takes the rendered to insured patients, we submit Scientific Equipment and Food.
inventory and collection risk of the product claims to insurance companies to collect that it buys and sells.
Acting as a Principal the remainder of our fees usually insured NMC counts among its clients UAE rather than an agent enhances NMCs patients have some co-pay element, Government entities, the largest UAE margins at the expense of increasing which is paid directly when services retailers, pharmacies and hospital the Groups risk profile.
Our agreements are delivered to them at our facilities.
We supply our customers are almost exclusively operated on a with a portfolio of globally and locally credit basis, with the number credit days Pricing of our healthcare services is established brands and products with agreed with our Principals.
typically negotiated on an annual basis end-user demand in the UAE.
We ensure with the insurance companies we work our customers receive quality products with and may differ between the various in a timely manner with the required insurance plans offered in the market.
In contrast, prices of the majority of pharmaceutical products sold in our Our distribution capabilities are supported pharmacies are regulated and set by by a network of strategically located the UAE Ministry of Health.
warehouses and a fleet of vehicles ensuring timely delivery to our customers NMC Hospitals are currently covered across the country.
Products are by the majority of the approximately overwhelmingly sold on credit, with 40 insurance companies operating in payments collected based on agreed the UAE, including the largest market terms.
Our pricing of these products participants.
These companies have includes a mark-up over the product either a direct relationship with us or cost to generate a profit and to cover through the 13 Third Party Administrators import costs and duties, registration TPAs who currently provide private medical administration and fees, distribution insurance into the Abu Dhabi market.
expenses, credit costs and, in certain cases, marketing costs.
Pharmaceuticals are the only segment where pricing is widely regulated by the UAE Ministry of Health.
5 Fast moving consumer goods NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 13
