Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS H. J.
MARK TOMPKINS DR B. R. SHETTY Independent Non-Executive Chairman, aged 74 NC Executive Vice Chairman & CEO, aged 72 Mr H. J.
Mark Tompkins was appointed to the Board of NMC Health Dr B. R. Shetty is the founding partner of NMC and was appointed to plc in March 2012 and is the Chairman of the Board and of the the Board of NMC Health plc in July 2011.
Dr Shetty has been involved Nominations Committee.
Mr Tompkins has significant public in the private healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors since these company experience having previously served on a total of 11 were established in the UAE nearly 40 years ago.
publicly listed company boards, including five on NYSE, NASDAQ or junior market U. S. exchange boards and four London Stock Born in India, Dr Shetty arrived in the UAE in 1973 shortly after the Exchange Primary Market or AIM boards.
A number of these listed countrys formation.
As a trained pharmacist, he opened his first companies operated in various aspects of the Healthcare sector.
In 1975 he established the New Medical Centre NMC, which also included a dedicated dental department.
Mr Tompkins was Non-Executive Chairman of Allied Healthcare International Inc, one of the UKs leading providers of domiciliary NMC has since grown to become the UAEs largest private sector care and healthcare staffing services, from 2007 to 2009, serving healthcare provider.
Today, it has hospitals and clinics across the as a Director from 2005 to 2009.
From 2005 to 2008 he also served UAE and treats almost two million patients a year.
as Non-Executive Chairman of Healthcare Enterprise Group Plc, an international healthcare products company which was listed Dr Shettys other business activities include UAE Exchange, a leading on the AIM market in London.
Mr Tompkins served as Conseiller global money transfer and foreign exchange provider, of which he is Special aupres du Conseil DAdministration of Sodexo S. A. from Managing Director and CEO, and investments in hospitality, food and November 2010 to August 2012 after serving as a Non-Executive beverage, pharmaceutical manufacturing and real estate.
Director from 2002 to 2010 and a member of its Audit Committee for six of those eight years.
Other previous directorships have Dr Shetty received the Order of Abu Dhabi in 2005, the countrys included Abbey Healthcare Group Inc. and Apria Healthcare Group highest civilian award, for contribution to the development of the Inc.
Prior to his non-executive director roles, Mr Tompkins served as community and the cause of the Emirate, as well as the Padma Shri the Chief Executive Officer of Compagnie Financiere Haussmann, a Award from the government of India in January 2009. publicly listed company in France involved in property development, investment and management.
In addition to his business activities, Dr Shetty is involved in several philanthropic causes.
He has supported the development of Mr Tompkins began his career in investment banking in 1964 with a medical institution in the north Indian state of Uttaranchal and Samuel Montagu & Company now HSBC.
From 1965 to 1971, he is the founder and patron of the Indian Pharmaceutical Association was a Management Consultant with Booz Allen Hamilton, Inc. in the UAE.
working on assignments in the UK, continental Europe and the U. S. Mr Tompkins returned to investment banking joining Slater Walker He is a member of the Advisory Board of the Dubai Economic Securities group from 1972 to 1974.
He subsequently entered into Departments Financial Sector, Chairman of the Abu Dhabi Indian international real-estate development from 1974 to 1987 investing in School, Founder and Vice President of the Swiss Business Council, both residential and commercial assets across the Middle East, the and Founder of the Australian Business Council, the Canadian United States and Europe.
Business Council, the Netherlands Business Group and the Philippines Business Council.
Since 1987, he has been focussed on financing small and medium sized enterprises whilst also contributing at board level of a number Dr Shetty is also a member of the Executive Panel of Dubais of listed companies.
Pharmaceutical and Health Equipment Trading Business Group under the Dubai Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
A passionate cricket fan, Dr Shetty is the former President of the Abu Dhabi Cricket Council and was the Managing Director of the Abu Dhabi Cricket Club from its inception in 1989 until 2006.
Dr B. R. Shetty received a Doctorate from Georgia State University, Atlanta, USA and was invited by the Harvard Business School to attend its Owner President Management program.
He is also a member of the International Advisory Board of Boston University, USA.
36 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements DR AYESHA ABDULLAH ABDULRAHMAN BASADDIQ Independent Non-Executive Director, aged 48 AC, CGC Non-Executive Director, aged 66 RC, NC Dr Ayesha Abdullah was appointed to the Board of NMC Health plc Mr Abdulrahman Basaddiq was appointed to the Board of NMC in June 2014 and is a member of the Audit Committee and Clinical Health plc in February 2014 and is a member of the Remuneration Governance Committee.
Dr Abdullah is an industry professional Committee and Nominations Committee.
He has significant with more than 20 years of experience in the healthcare industry.
business experience across a number of business sectors in the Middle East.
Dr. Ayesha Abdullah has recently been appointed the Executive Dean of Health Sciences and Business at Higher College of Mr Basaddiq is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Technology.
In her capacity as the Executive Dean, she is responsible England & Wales FCA and a licensed auditor and consultant in the for academic excellence and advancing linkage with industry.
He trained and qualified as a chartered accountant with Ernst Dr Abdullah is also the Chief Executive Officer of Centre of Excellence & Young EY, London and spent over 25 years with EY in the UK and for Applied Research and Training and her role is to advance Applied the GCC, 15 of those as an equity partner.
During his period at EY, Research and technology innovations.
Mr Basaddiq served as the Managing Partner of their Riyadh and Abu Dhabi offices, in addition to responsibilities as UAE Country Prior to her current roles, she was responsible for overseeing an partner in charge.
independent regulatory authority for all healthcare providers, medical educational and research institutions and other businesses During his tenure in Riyadh with EY, he oversaw the development operating within the Dubai Healthcare City Free Zone.
and implementation of the only Saudisation program within the profession in the Kingdom at the time.
He also served as an Dr Abdullah previously held the position of the Managing Director elected member of the firms executive committee for eight years, of the Science Cluster.
She was responsible for managing and in addition to serving on the human resources committee for a formulating the strategic direction of the three major companies number of years.
in Dubai for the development of the knowledge based economynamely Dubai Healthcare City Cluster and its subsidiaries, Dubai Mr Basaddiq spent over 12 years with a number of Gulf based Biotechnology & Research ParkDubiotech and Enpark, a Business diversified groups across multiple jurisdictions and sectors including Park facilitating the growth of energy and environmental businesses.
healthcare, global public and private equities, venture capital, real estate investment, development and construction, steel trading Prior to that Dr Abdullah held the position of CEO of Dubai Healthcare and fabrication, in addition to food manufacturing, retail and City DHCC.
Under her leadership, DHCC rapidly gained a status as packaging.
He also spent over five years serving on two audit an internationally recognised location of choice for quality healthcare committees, chairing one of them, in addition to oversight and an integrated centre of excellence for clinical and wellness responsibilities in the development of audit committees and the services, medical education and research.
In 2008, DHCC won the related internal audit functions of other entities, which have grown Dubai Quality award and the DHCC Out-Patient Quality Standards in size and complexity, to comply with the ever increasing were the first Middle Eastern standards to be accredited by The governance and other regulatory demands.
International Society for Quality in Healthcare ISQUa.
Prior to this, as Chief Executive Officer at the Center for Healthcare Planning and Quality CPQ, Dr Abdullah was responsible for setting up and upholding healthcare standards within DHCC.
She also played a key role in establishing CPQ into a premier regulatory body in the industry.
In October 2009, Dr Abdullah received the prestigious Leading Woman CEO Award, marking a milestone in her achievements and recognizing her strategic management and leadership acumen that significantly contributed to the healthcare clusters growth.
She was also awarded the L Officiel Arab Women of the Year in 2010.
She holds a bachelors degree in Biomedical Engineering from Marquette University in Wisconsin, USA, an MBA with an emphasis on Finance and a PhD in Strategy Management & Planning Studies from Sheffield University in the UK.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 37 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED JONATHAN BOMFORD FCA LORD CLANWILLIAM Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, aged 66 AC, RC Independent Non-Executive Director, aged 54 RC, NC Mr Jonathan Bomford was appointed to the Board of NMC Health Lord Clanwilliam was appointed to the Board of NMC Health plc in plc in June 2013 and is the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is a March 2012 and is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Chartered Accountant and has significant accounting, financial and He has significant business experience in the Middle East and audit experience gained principally in the Middle East and East Africa.
on the Boards of overseas companies listed on the London Mr Bomford is the Companys Senior Independent Director Stock Exchange.
Mr Bomford is a qualified Chartered Accountant who spent 24 years Lord Clanwilliam is an international businessman and high-level with EY in a number of roles in the Middle East and East Africa government and financial communications specialist possessing including Abu Dhabi, Riyadh, Dubai and Jeddah.
For his last 15 years over 30 years of business and political experience across a broad with EY, he was a partner with a number of international clients range of sectors, including mining, drilling, oilfield services and across a range of sectors including healthcare, oil, banking and operational management and consultancy.
During his career, Lord construction.
Clanwilliam has established an extensive network of senior level governmental and institutional contacts across the Middle East, In 2000, Mr Bomford retired from EY and since then has undertaken the United Kingdom and Eastern Europe.
He is currently Chairman a number of roles including a Board Member of an Agricultural of Eurasia Drilling Company, a drilling and work-over company Trust funding agricultural projects and an Official Mentor providing operating in Eurasia and listed on the Premium Segment of the Business Advice and Services to clients of the Princes Trust.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Polyus Gold OJSC, a Russian gold mining company listed on the Premium Segment of the London Stock Exchange.
Lord Clanwilliam is the Founding Partner and Chairman of Gardant Communications Limited, a political, strategic, financial and litigation communications company based in London and Senior Advisor to Milio International Limited, a British owned and operated commodities and logistics company.
Lord Clanwilliam graduated from Eton College in 1978 and from The Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst in 1979 after which he served for four years with the 1st Battalion Coldstream Guards.
38 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements SALMA HAREB HEATHER LAWRENCE OBE Independent Non-Executive Director, aged 49 RC Independent Non-Executive Director, aged 65 AC, CGC Mrs Salma Hareb was appointed to the Board of NMC Health plc Mrs Heather Lawrence OBE was appointed to the Board of in June 2014 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
NMC Health plc in March 2012 and is the Chairman of the Clinical She has significant business experience business and is a Governance Committee.
Mrs Lawrence has significant operational recognized leading businesswoman in the Middle East.
experience in the healthcare sector as well as operating on a number of UK Governmental Boards.
Mrs Salma Hareb, is the CEO of Economic Zones World EZW and spearheads innovative product development to provide greater Mrs Lawrence has over 20 years experience as a Chief Executive value to EZW customers.
She has been instrumental in the creation Officer in the hospital and healthcare sector.
From 2000 to July 2012 of the Dubai Logistics Corridor, which quadruples Dubais logistics she served as CEO of the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, which efficiencies.
gained NHS Foundation Trust status in 2006.
Prior to 2000 she served as CEO of North Hertfordshire NHS trust from 1996 to 2000 and Under her leadership, Jebel Ali Free Zone Jafza the flagship Free Hounslow and Spelthorne Community and Mental Health Trust from Zone of Economic Zones World, has been recognized as one of 1989 to 1996. the most efficient Free Zones in the World, with a customer base of more than 7,300 companies, and 120 of the Global Fortune 500 Mrs Lawrence chaired the UK-wide negotiations for the Staff and enterprises, with total non-oil trade of US$90.2 billion, contributing Associate Specialists SAS Doctors contract during 2004 to 2006 more than 20 percent to Dubais GDP.
and chaired the Agenda for Change three-year pay deal for nonmedical staff on behalf of NHS employers during 2006 to 2009.
As head of Economic Zones World, she also leads Technopark, the She has also served as a Commissioner for the UK Prime Ministers companys research and development initiative in core economic Commission for the Future of Nursing and Midwifery and was a sectors including Water, Health, Energy, Engineering, e-Commerce Founding Member of the Dr Foster Global Comparators Founders and Logistics, as well as Dubai Auto Zone DAZ, a comprehensive Board, which is an initiative to share comparative health data with market place for the Auto Industry catering to buyers, sellers, service other leading medical institutions in various countries to improve providers, principals and traders.
Mrs Lawrence originally trained as a nurse at St Marys Hospital Paddington and is a Chartered Fellow of the Institute Internationally, she is actively overseeing Economic Zones Worlds of Personnel Management.
development of a logistics park in South Carolina, USA, Special Economic Zones in India, and a Free Zone in Djibouti, Africa.
She was appointed, by Secretary of State for Health, as a NonExecutive Director of Monitor, the NHS Regulator, in July 2012.
Prior to her role as CEO, she worked as Jafzas Chief Planning Mrs Lawrence was awarded an OBE in the 2010 New Year Honours Officer, responsible for strategic planning, business development, List for her services to healthcare.
Before that she worked as Chief Haematologist in the Department of Health and Medical Services.
She completed her education in the UAE and the UK, in the fields of Medical Sciences, Information Technology and Business in addition to a one year post graduate study in Haematology at the University of Cardiff.
Mrs Salma Harebs distinctive initiatives and achievements have been recognised with several awards over the years.
Most recently, she received the Frost & Sullivan Growth, Innovation and Leadership Award 2014, and last year, she was named the Overall Winner - Professional Category in Emirates Women Awards 2013.
Her array of awards over the years includes the Women CEO Excellence Award conferred at the 9th Middle East CEO of the Year Awards: the Asian Business Leadership Award at the Asian Business Leadership Forum Awards: the Woman CEO of the Year at the Women in Leadership WIL Forum and Business Women Award 2006 for Leadership.
She was also recognized as the 2nd most influential Arab woman in Government in the Middle East and North Africa region by Forbes Middle East in 2013 and was also rated among the 100 most powerful Arab Women earlier by CEO Middle East as well as the Asian Business Magazine.
She was declared one of the most influential business women in the region by MEED magazine in 2008.
She also topped Forbes Arabias list of the 50 most powerful Arab business women in the same year.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 39 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED PRASANTH MANGHAT KEYUR NAGORI Deputy Chief Executive Officer, aged 40 Non-Executive Director, aged 36 Mr Prasanth Manghat was appointed to the Board of NMC Health Mr Keyur Nagori was appointed to the Board of NMC Health plc plc in June 2014 and to the role of Deputy Chief Executive Officer in June 2014 and is a Non-Executive Director.
Mr Nagori has a background working in International audit firms Mr Manghat has had a number of roles within NMC related including Deloitte and KPMG for 8 years.
During this time he had businesses for the last 12 years including, prior to his current role, significant experience in the audit of multinational and local as Chief Financial Officer of NMC Health for 5 years.
As CFO, he was companies in both India and Abu Dhabi.
primarily responsible for running the Companys finance function including treasury, corporate finance and accounting.
Mr Manghat For the last 10 years, he has been working within the finance spearheaded NMC Healthcares successful listing on the Premium department of KBBO Group based in Abu Dhabi and he is currently Segment of the London Stock Exchange LSE in April 2012.
This Chief Financial Officer of KBBO Group.
was a landmark transaction in many ways, being the first UAE company to list on the LSE and raising US$187 million in the Mr Nagori was an Alternate Director to the Companys previous process.
Mr Manghat has played a major role in the growth of Director, H. E. Saeed Bin Butti, from June 2013 to February 2014. the NMC businesses both prior to and since the IPO.
Mr Manghat was honoured with the CFO of the Year award 2012 by ICAEW, Middle-East.
He was also conferred with the prestigious award for Excellence in Finance by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, Abu Dhabi Chapter in Nov, 2012 and Professional Excellence Award in the Healthcare Sector by ICAI UAE Dubai Chapter in May 2013.
Prior to joining NMC, Mr Manghat has worked as Credit and Operations Head with Kotak Mahindra Finance, one of the leading non-banking financial institutions in India.
A Fellow member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India FCA, Bachelor of Science 1995, MG University, Kerala, India, CIA, ACCA from UK 2004 and pursuing CA Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales, he has 14 years of experience in management of treasury and banking functions, corporate finance, accounting and financial reporting activities.
Mr Manghat assumed the role of Deputy Chief Executive Officer of NMC Health plc with effect from 1 January 2015.
In his new role, Mr Manghats responsibility will extend to cover strategic matters and to support the Chief Executive Officer with planning and strategy execution across both of NMCs Divisions.
40 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements BINAY SHETTY DR NANDINI TANDON Non-Executive Director, aged 31 Independent Non-Executive Director, aged 52 CGC Dr Nandini Tandon was appointed to the Board of NMC Health plc Mr Binay Shetty was appointed to the Board of NMC Health plc in June 2014 and is a member of the Clinical Governance in June 2014 and is a Non-Executive Director.
She has significant experience in healthcare investment he was Chief Operating Officer for the Group.
Since 2010, Mr Binay Shetty has been overseeing operations Dr Tandon is presently engaged in investing in healthcare and of NMC Healths healthcare and distribution divisions.
He is also healthcare IT in USA, UAE and India.
Dr Tandon has extensive closely involved with the HR, Marketing, IT and Projects units of board experience.
She is currently Vice Chairman of the Board of El the organisation.
Camino Hospital, Silicon Valley, California and Chair of its Executive Compensation Committee and Vice-Chair of its Governance Prior to his current role, he was an Executive Director of NMC and Finance Committees.
Additionally she has served on 12 high Healthcare LLC with responsibility for strategic planning and tech proprietary company boards in the USA.
Dr Tandons past governance and the management of new projects.
investments and Board roles include, IDUN acquired by Pfizer, U-Systems acquired by General Electric, KAI Pharmaceuticals Prior to holding this position, from 2004-2010 he was an Executive acquired by Amgen, Ception Therapeutics acquired by Cephalon, Director of NMC with responsibility for strategic planning and Conforma Therapeutics acquired by Biogen Idec, Corus Pharma governance and the management of new projects.
From 2006 acquired by Gilead Sciences, Acorda Therapeutics NASDAQ: ACOR, to early 2011 he was also Head of Investments for BR Shetty Alexza NASDAQ: ALXA, Guava Technologies acquired by Millipore, Ambit Biosciences, Saegis Pharmaceuticals and Cell Biosciences.
Pvt Investments, and from 2004 to 2006 he was Business CoDr Tandon has been a venture capitalist in Silicon Valley for over 10 ordinator at Neopharma Abu Dhabis premier pharmaceutical years and was Managing Director, Lumira MDS Capital in Palo Alto manufacturing company.
with US$1.2bn under management and before was Partner, Royal Bank of Canadas RBC Capital Partners, in San Francisco.
Mr Shetty is a director of UAE Exchange, a leading global remittance and foreign exchange provider.
She is on multiple not for profit boards which are committed to global innovation, entrepreneurship and healthcare including MD He holds a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration with Anderson Center for Entrepreneurship and PD Board, Bay Area specialisations in Finance and Entrepreneurship from Boston Council Economic Institute Board, University of California, Berkeley, University, Massachusetts, USA.
Center for Emerging & Neglected Diseases Board, Chair, 20 20Vision: Investing in USA & Emerging Markets, C21 BioVentures Board, TiE Global Board, Stanford University, School of Medicine Career Centers Advisory Council and San Francisco-Bangalore Sister City initiatives board and co-Chair for its SF-India focus.
Dr Tandon is a strong champion for global investments in healthcare, entrepreneurship and innovation.
She was delegate for President Obamas US State Departments Global Entrepreneurship program to Turkey, delegate for Secretary Hillary Clintons Women and Economy Summit, moderator for Healthcare focus of US Senators Congressional delegation to India, spoke at Milken Conference for Obama-Care and spoke at Clinton Global Initiative for Women in Technology, chaired investment focus for Super Return Conference in Geneva, San Francisco and Dubai, spoke at Secretary Geithner for US Department of Treasurys symposium on Women in Finance and recently co-chaired Healthcare delegation of Mayor of San Francisco to India.
Dr Tandon has strong operational experience as Chief Business Officer of Zyomyx Inc. Vice President of BD, Hyseq Inc. and BD Mangaer at Chiron Corp. A White House Intern, Nandini received her Ph.
D. in biochemistry, Phi Lambda Upsilon from Duke University, North Carolina and her B.
A. cum laude, Sigma Xi, Phi Beta Kappa from Hollins University, Virginia.
In January 2015 Dr Tandon received the Pravasi Bharatiya Samman 2015 award in Gandhinagar, India for her work in, life sciences and Healthcare and IT in USA and India along with other emerging markets.
This award is conferred by the President of India and is the highest honour conferred on overseas Indians honoring exceptional and meritorious contribution in their chosen field.
From 25 million global overseas Indian diaspora, 15 received this AC member of the Audit Committee prestigious award including 3 American citizens, Dr. Nandini Tandon RC member of the Remuneration Committee in life sciences and healthcare, Mr. Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft CGC - member of the Clinical Governance Committee in computers and Dr. Lulla, Chief scientist, Earth observation, NASA NC - member of the Nominations Committee for aeronautics.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 41
