S y p t M l A e o a h D l c a a i b a i y m c a t u S m e l i u e t r d p p g y D e B r i S s n y h H Z C i o a e a a o y n H e t b s d r b e C p i u i t i y D t a l Group Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY Over the past 40 years we have grown committed to continue exploring organic 2014 we have 83,635 17.4% YoY Stock from being a pharmacy and clinic and inorganic investment opportunities.
keeping units SKUs in our portfolio 71,215 combined in a very small space for the While our priority is to expand within the SKUs as of 31 December 2013, making service of our patients, to be the largest UAE, we are also increasingly interested NMC one of the leading distributors in private healthcare group and one of in expanding outside our current home the UAE.
We see potential in the UAE and the leading product distribution and market and into the wider gulf region the gulf region for organic and inorganic wholesale traders in our home market by leveraging on our growing platform, growth of our operations and product of the UAE.
Our distribution division is well NMC may also bolster its participation positioned with its extensive human The UAE and the gulf region as a whole, in local and regional growth by targeting capital capabilities, substantial logistical is one of the most attractive healthcare top-in-class institutions outside the gulf platform of strategically located markets in the world for investments region deemed capable of supporting warehouses and vehicle fleet, established in high quality healthcare to the service its regional strategic objectives with track-record and financial standing.
of a growing and increasingly affluent transferable specialist medical know-how, population with unparalleled support long track-record and regionally scalable HEALTHCARE DIVISION from the leadership and local business models.
Since our IPO our strategic focus has governments.
Since our Initial Public been on advancing in the UAE through Offering IPO in 2012 we have committed The positive economics and demographics expanding our healthcare network and over US$320m to grow our network of in the UAE and wider gulf region also most specifically the core hubs, the healthcare assets and bring our services serve as a favourable environment for hospitals, onto which we could eventually and capabilities closer to a growing growth in consumption and by extension plug & play additional medical centres number of the people of the UAE and in our strongly performing distribution and day surgeries and thus expand eventually the region.
We continue to our addressable market further through add new product ranges and brands to relatively lower per asset capital In July 2014, we proudly entered into a our line-up in key segments like FMCG, expenditure.
With the opening of the new phase of growth with the addition pharmaceutical and food.
As of year-end Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital of two hospitals to our growing portfolio of six.
We start the 2015 financial year Our hub-and-spoke model consists of primary to tertiary care facilities across the UAE: with a total of 470 licensed beds a year on year growth of 52% in bed capacity.
The hard work in recent years to bring this expansion to market and to the Dubai General service of our country, people, patients Hospital and shareholders has been tremendous.
Sharjah This dedication continues to manifest Medical itself through the commitment to open Centre our largest hospital in H1 2015 in Abu Dhabi BR the 250 bed NMC Khalifa City Super Medical Specialty Hospital, bringing the total Suites licensed bed capacity available to the Group to 720 beds later this year.
We also continue to successfully operate and Dubai Super manage the 205 bed Sheikh Khalifa Investment Park General General Hospital in Umm Al Quwain Specialty Hospital on behalf of the UAE government.
In tandem with our hospital developments, Hospital we grew our network of day surgeries and medical centres to four from only Khalifa one at the time of our IPO in 2012.
The most recent addition was the medical City centre in Al Ains industrial area which opened in December 2014.
Despite large investments by both the public and private sectors over the past 40 years in the local and regional healthcare infrastructure, the region, which has one of the fastest extended Regional UAE rates of population growth in the world, Local City mainly due to the influx of expatriates, has considerable opportunities for further Community investments.
At NMC Health we are 14 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 B r W i g y o t h l m e t r a l t i n e p a e c C n t o e l i a i s p p c i n d S s e H t M o o n n R i s i H A A l o p A i l y t A a a l l Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements and the NMC General Hospital in DIP Centres of Excellence Raising the bar and investment in these areas to allow in July 2014 followed by the expected Outpatient services are by far the largest the level, quality and capacity of care opening of the NMC Super Specialty contributor to the UAE healthcare market in the UAE to be advanced even Hospital in Khalifa City Abu Dhabi by by volume and total value.
This is further through the joint contribution the end of H1 2015 we would have particularly evident in the private sector, of the private and public sectors to the concluded our core organic investment which continues, with varying degrees of ultimate benefit of the patient.
program and delivered the largest and success to evolve from its primary care most challenging elements of our focused origins in the pre-mandatory Along with our large investment program network.
These core assets should serve insurance era, towards secondary, tertiary and the growing network of state-of-theas the platform for NMCs future growth.
and to a lesser degree quaternary care.
art healthcare facilities NMC offers today, In general, the entry barriers to general we are also increasingly raising the level, Hence the key strategic objective behind outpatient services have always been quality and focus of our healthcare NMCs organic expansion is to build an lower than specialist inpatient services, services effectively seeking to advance inter-connected, interacting and which are by definition more complex our competitive advantage through identifiable private healthcare network.
and require even higher investments offering better and more specialised The objective is to supply a continuously in both human capital and facilities.
To accumulate higher levels evolving and increasingly effective quality of clinical expertise and experience, our of care to our patients, in what remains Both specialist out and inpatient services, vision is to ensure that all service delivery a developing healthcare market with in the UAE, historically originated in is done around the specialties.
an overwhelmingly fragmented private government owned healthcare facilities.
sector dominated by single asset and To date the public sector remains the More secondary and tertiary care surgeries mostly outpatient focused operators.
largest provider, especially on the will contribute to higher inpatient revenues.
However, a key objective of Successfully operated centres of With all the key components of our core the insurance reform is to encourage the excellence will attract and retain highly network expected to be in place by H1 private sectors increased participation qualified physicians and surgeons, by 2015, we see considerable opportunities offering: patient concentration, higher to elevate the level and complexity number of surgeries and a highly The current centres of of care available within the UAE and qualified and experienced peer group excellence include: eventually the regional healthcare sector.
Going into the next phase of growth in Ophthalmology the Healthcare Division, the Group intends Our long term goal for each of the to expand both organically and via existing and prospective branded centres acquisitions to achieve the objectives of of excellence is to occupy the top slot in the updated Group Strategy, which include: the UAE and eventually the gulf residents www.
ae minds for the particular service line.
Accelerate the establishment of By developing our core competitive Urology and Andrology Centres of Excellence in key specialties advantages in quality healthcare around within its existing hospitals: branded and highly identifiable centres, Increase its participation in the rapidly we are also allowing for enhanced growing medical tourism industry scalability of the respective centres of within the UAE by establishing its excellence across the UAE and the www.
ae facilities as a destination of choice gulf region.
This specialisation driven for medical tourists: expansion of the service offering at NMC Orthopaedics Grow its medical specialty offering may also be enhanced and strengthened and clinic network within the UAE by acquisition of specialist entities and or and maximising operational synergies formation of partnerships with top-inin the region: class international centres of excellence.
ae presence outside the UAE via Rebranding for the future Cardiology acquisitions of, or collaborations with, In 2014, NMC also undertook a rebranding leading global medical institutions in exercise and now has a new logo, order to further enhance and expand brand colours and brand guidelines.
the technological know-how and This exercise was undertaken with the www.
ae medical expertise available across objective of broadening the appeal of Surgery all of NMCs facilities: and NMC among a wider section of the target Increase its footprint in Saudi Arabia audience, especially the Arab speaking and the broader Gulf Cooperation residents and to an extent the gulf Council GCC region via organic population, while at the same time not initiatives and acquisitions.
doing it at the cost of the NMC brand www.
ae equity that has built up over the last four decades.
The new brand guidelines have NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 15 Group Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED been well received and are currently DUBAI INSURANCE PENETRATION Healthcare division staff being implemented across all our assets, One of the most critical success factors outdoor signage, uniforms, digital assets through the years has been our and other collateral.
consistent recruitment ability, without which we would have been unable to meet the growing demand for healthcare services in the UAE.
As mentioned in previous sections, the UAEs population growth has consistently been one of the highest in the world and, together with the stepped growth in per capita Healthcare insurance reform utilisation derived from healthcare A key driver for growth insurance reform in Abu Dhabi and now Abu Dhabi adopted mandatory healthcare commencing in Dubai, this has led to insurance in 2007, leading to the coverage tremendous growth in demand.
of nearly all of the Emirates residents and Insured 33% Uninsured 67% rapidly expanding the healthcare market Over the past year we have continued size with strong encouragement by the Source: World Bank, DHA to execute our recruitment strategy government for increased private sector by focusing on the hiring of skilled and participation in the provision of care.
Discussions are also ongoing at the highly experienced healthcare personnel.
The results have been very positive for authority level to eventually adopt We have increasingly prioritised the residents and the private sector which mandatory insurance in Sharjah the third hiring of specialists to meet both general increased investments in capacity.
largest Emirate in the UAE, where NMC demand growth and introduce more today operates a medical centre, and sub-specialties as we increase the Dubai adopted a mandatory healthcare eventually in the rest of the UAE.
sophistication of our service offering to insurance law in 2013 and started the growing number of patients visiting the implementation and roll-out to This sector reform will have an the expanding NMC Health network of the uninsured part of the population undeniably positive effect on the size of assets across the UAE.
Based on Dubai Healthcare the UAE healthcare market by increasing Authoritys DHA communication, domestic healthcare revenue pool.
This The number of doctors employed by the it is estimated that around 66% of step is expected to spur investments in Group increased to 603 as at 31 December the Emirates around three million healthcare assets and elevate the quality 2014, a 19.9% increase year on year.
The residents were uninsured before the of care in the country to make the UAE total number of nursing staff increased implementation.
By 2016 all Dubai a more competitive medical services by 27.1% to reach 1,266 at 2014 year end.
residents should have healthcare destination in the region.
This would imply that two extensive growth of our hub and spoke Select medical staff employed million additional people stand to benefit healthcare network across the UAE and TOTAL DOCTORS AND ANNUAL GROWTH from the mandatory medical insurance our experience from the roll-out in Abu and that the number of healthcare Dhabi in 2007 to date, we believe we are insurance members in Dubai could triple well positioned to compete for a share 800 25% over the coming years.
19.8% 19.9% 20% 600 LOW MEDICAL INSURANCE PENETRATION In Dubai, NMC already operates an 603 IN DUBAI AND NORTHERN EMIRATES extensive network of three hospitals with 15% 503 a total of 170 beds and a separate day 400 420 MOST OF UAE POPULATION RESIDES IN surgery.
The 100 bed NMC Specialty Hospital 10% DUBAI AND NORTHERN EMIRATES M 9.9% in Al Nahda being the prime asset, around 200 which we own a connected land plot with 5% 8 capacity to house an additional building 2012 2013 2014 with up to 100 bed capacity.
In short, we 7 have the capacity to reap the rewards 6 6.1 Doctors Growth of the upcoming stepped growth in the 5 Dubai healthcare market through our 4 sizeable and scalable operations.
3 3.1 We expect the growing medical 2 insurance penetration and the associated 1 growth in demand for locally delivered 13 healthcare services to promote 0 Abu Dhabi Dubai & Northern Emirates advancement in the clinical services within our centres of excellence to the Mostly Mostly benefit of all market segments.
insured uninsured 16 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements TOTAL NURSES AND ANNUAL GROWTH program in 2015, the companys hospital This division has continued to perform bed capacity would have increased by well during the year on brand and 1,400 30% around 132%.
product line expansions, positive macro 27.1% environment and growth in the retail 1,200 1,266 25% It was reported in the 2013 Annual Report space across the UAE.
20.9% 1,000 that the Company planned to implement 20% 996 a new financial IT system in the first half Our strategy in the distribution division 800 824 of 2014.
Implementation of the new continues to focus on investing in our 15% 600 system was delayed following challenges people, logistical management 10% in the integration and customisation of capabilities and in existing and new 400 the modules.
The company has put in relationships across the world with 6.6% 5% 200 place a new project management team current and prospective principals.
We 2012 2013 2014 and now expects the implementation of aim to leverage on these assets within a the new ERP system to be completed market benefitting from strong economic Nurses Growth in 2015. and population growth coupled with high GDP per capita, growing consumption Enterprise Resource Planning ERP DISTRIBUTION DIVISION STRATEGY and rapidly expanding flow of tourists and Advancing business management NMC Healths product distribution and last but not least the introduction of NMCs pursuit of increased integration wholesale business is one of the largest mandatory insurance with associated and efficiency in the use of our growing in the UAE in terms of product portfolio positive effect on pharmaceutical organisations business resources made and sales.
This portfolio of international demand previously in Abu Dhabi, starting us determined to pursue the set-up of and regional brands, sold mainly on now in Dubai and in the future it is likely a best-in-class Enterprise Resource exclusive basis by NMC to local retailers, that the rest of UAE will follow.
Planning ERP system we believe that has been built over the past 40 years this is an instrumental step in the growth across diverse product areas, including We also believe the business is wellof our company and the strengthening key segments such as FMCG, placed to expand its product range of management and institutionalisation Pharmaceuticals and Scientific beyond its traditional healthcare of information, knowledge and resource Equipment.
Today NMC has 83,635 SKUs spectrum and potentially beyond the planning.
This objective is important sold across the UAE through its over 1,800 UAE and into the gulf region, which is in the planning and implementation divisional staff, six warehouses with a also benefitting from high consumption of strategic, operational and financial total of over 500,000 sq feet and 207 growth supported by positive macroinitiatives, especially now that NMC delivery vehicles.
Around 98% of our SKUs economics.
We are exploring potentially has almost completed most of the are imported and sold exclusively in the attractive organic and inorganic growth investment program announced during UAE by NMC to retailers.
opportunities to accelerate growth in IPO.
On completion of our IPO investment the Distribution division.
A process of enhancing the divisions management capabilities and structure has been initiated to ensure that it is optimised for the opportunities ahead.
01 IMPORT OF PRODUCTS FROM AROUND THE WORLD 02 THE NMC FLEET OF DISTRIBUTION DISTRIBUTION VEHICLES COVERING VALUE CHAIN THE ENTIRE COUNTRY 04 DISTRIBUTION TO: GROCERIES HYPERMARKETS SUPERMARKETS PHARMACIES PETROL STATIONS 03 500,000 SQFT OF WAREHOUSE SPACE NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 17
