Strategic report order to minimise the overall holding cost of vehicles to the Looking forward, the Group strategy is business.
The volume of purchases is balanced against vehicle clear.
In the UK, the primary focus will sales in order to manage fleet age, condition and vehicle utilisation to an optimal level.
be on growing the business through our existing network and by adding new sites, Manage where opportunities exist at our target With over 30 years experience in the fleet management sector, we are in the best position to partner our customers levels of return.
In Spain, the Group will and complement their fleet requirements, whether this is by continue to maximise cash generation and providing a single short term hire or a fully outsourced fleet management solution.
Vehicle hire is at the heart of our business.
We offer a fully Our view is that, for many businesses, the flexible product which allows customers to tailor vehicles to their exact requirements and manage the size and flexible rental of light commercial vehicles composition of their fleet without penalty.
Our national continues to be the best sourcing method.
network of branches and workshops in the UK and Spain provide 24 7 support with replacement vehicles on hand to It allows them to flex their requirements keep customers on the move.
We offer a range of ancillary in line with their business needs.
In both services which enable customers to enjoy operational benefits through efficient fleet management, with our fully outsourced countries in which we operate, we aim to fleet management service providing the ultimate solution.
be the first choice for LCV rental, fulfilling We aim to deliver the very best service levels whilst all our customers vehicle needs and maintaining operating efficiency and vehicle utilisation in order to maximise return on capital employed.
allowing them to concentrate on better service to their customers.
Sell In order to provide the best possible service to our customers Our Business Model we maintain a modern fleet.
When vehicles reach the end of their hire lives we aim to minimise overall holding Buy costs through the effective use of our retail and trade sales channels.
Our customers can choose from the widest range of vehicle makes and models available in our sector, with the flexibility to As we are not affiliated to any single manufacturer, we switch vehicle types as their needs evolve.
In order to achieve offer our customers the best available range of quality used this, we partner with a range of manufacturers.
Pricing is commercial vehicles in the market.
negotiated directly and the purchasing mix is managed in Why choose flexible rental?
Manage Decision Flexible Contract hire Purchase No capital or contractual commitment Buy No mileage penalties No residual market risk Ability to flex vehicle size Inclusive of maintenance 24 7 support No early termination costs Available at additional cost Sell 10 Northgate plc Annual report and accounts 2014 c109372.
