Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited accounts Details of employee share schemes are set out in the for the year ended 30 April 2014.
Shares held by the Capita Trust are voted on the instructions of the employees on whose behalf they are held.
Shares in the Guernsey Trust are voted at the Results discretion of the Trustees.
Profit for the year after taxation was 39,883,000 2013 loss of 7,357,000.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
An interim dividend of 3.2p per share was paid on the Ordinary shares on 10 January 2014.
With regards to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by the Articles, the The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and of 6.8p per share on the Ordinary shares.
The Articles themselves may be amended if approved, will be paid on 23 September 2014 to by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of shareholders on the register at close of business on Directors are set out in the Articles.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for Principal activities compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs The Company is an investment holding company.
because of a change of control.
The principal subsidiaries are listed in Note 17 to the accounts.
Interests in shares The following interests in the issued Ordinary share capital Close company status of the Company have been notified to the Company in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 5 of the So far as the Directors are aware the close company Disclosure and Transparency Rules: provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the Company.
30 April 2014 24 June 2014 Capital Group 12,465,075 9.36% 12,465,075 9.36% Capital structure Old Mutual plc 11,461,891 8.60% 11,461,891 8.60% Details of the issued share capital, together with details of Standard Life any movements during the year are shown in Note 24.
The Investments Ltd 9,324,443 7.00% 10,810,933 8.11% Company has one class of Ordinary share which carries no Aviva plc 6,672,204 5.01% 6,672,204 5.01% right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote Aberforth Partners 6,632,743 4.98% 6,632,743 4.98% at general meetings of the Company.
Legal & General Group plc 6,603,080 4.96% 6,603,080 4.96% The cumulative Preference shares of 50p each entitle the Artemis Investment holder to receive a cumulative preferential dividend at the Management Ltd 6,536,818 4.90% 6,536,818 4.90% rate of 5% on the paid up capital and the right to a return of capital at either winding up or a repayment of capital.
The cumulative Preference shares do not entitle the holders to Directors any further or other participation in the profits or assets of Details of the present Directors are listed on pages 6 and 7. the Company.
All have served throughout the year.
The percentage of the issued nominal value of the Ordinary Resolutions to re-appoint each of the Directors in office shares is 99.255% of the total issued nominal value of all at the date of this report will be proposed at the Annual share capital.
General Meeting except for Tom Brown, who will be retiring There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding from office at the conclusion of that meeting.
nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed The termination provisions in respect of executive Directors by the general provisions of the Articles of Association contracts are set out in the Remuneration Report on the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Directors pages 37 to 51. are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
33 Northgate plc Governance Annual report and Report of the Directors accounts 2014 c109372.
indb 33 15 07 2014 12:59 Report of the Directors continued Directors indemnities In accordance with the new Companies Act 2006 provisions, the Directors' Remuneration Report contains: As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, qualifying third party indemnities for each Director of a statement by Tom Brown, Chairman of the Company's the Company were in place throughout the year and Remuneration Committee: remained in force as at the date of signing of this report.
the annual report on remuneration, which sets out The Companys Articles of Association are available on the payments made in the financial year ended 30 April 2014, Companys website.
and Employee consultation the Directors' remuneration policy in relation to future payments to the Directors and former Directors.
Employees are kept informed on matters affecting them as employees and on various issues affecting the The statement by the Remuneration Committee Chair and performance of the Group through Chief Executive briefing the Annual Report on Remuneration will, as in the past, be updates, announcements on the Groups intranet, formal put to an advisory shareholder vote by ordinary resolution.
and informal meetings at local level and direct written The policy part of the Report, which sets out the Company's communications.
All employees are eligible to participate on forward looking policy on Directors' remuneration including an equal basis in the Groups share incentive plan, which has the approach to exit payments to directors, is subject to a been running successfully since its inception in 2000. binding shareholder vote by ordinary resolution at least every three years.
Disabled employees The Directors' Remuneration Report is set out in full in the Applications for employment by disabled persons are Annual Report on pages 37 to 51. given full consideration, taking into account the aptitudes Resolution 3 is the ordinary resolution to approve the of the applicant concerned.
Every effort is made to try Directors' Remuneration Report, other than the part to ensure that employees who become disabled whilst containing the Directors' Remuneration Policy.
Resolution already employed are able to continue in employment by 3 is an advisory resolution and does not affect the future making reasonable adjustments in the workplace, arranging remuneration paid to any director.
appropriate training or providing suitable alternative employment.
It is Group policy that the training, career Resolution 4 is the ordinary resolution to approve the development and promotion of disabled persons should, Directors' Remuneration Policy which is set out on as far as possible, be the same as that of other employees.
The Groups equal opportunity policy is available on the Companys website.
As noted on page 38, the Directors' Remuneration Policy will take effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
Payments will continue to be made to Directors in Political donations line with existing contractual arrangements until this date.
No political donations were made by any Group company in the year.
Once the Directors' Remuneration Policy has been approved, all payments by the Company to the Directors and any former Directors must be made in accordance with the Greenhouse gas emissions policy unless a payment has been separately approved by a The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions shareholder resolution.
required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations are included in If the Directors' Remuneration Policy is approved and the CSR section of the Strategic report on pages 30 to 32. remains unchanged, it will be valid for up to three financial years without a new shareholder approval.
If the Company wishes to change the Directors' Remuneration Policy, it will Remuneration report need to put the revised policy to a further vote before it can There are new requirements this year in relation to the be implemented.
content of the Directors' Remuneration Report and the approval of the Report, following changes made to the If the Directors' Remuneration Policy is not approved, Companies Act 2006. the Company will, if and to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006, continue to make payments to Directors in accordance with existing contractual arrangements and will seek shareholder approval for a revised policy as soon as is practicable.
34 Northgate plc Annual report and accounts 2014 c109372.
indb 34 15 07 2014 12:59 Power to allot shares approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that the approval be renewed.
The present authority of the Directors to allot shares was granted at the Annual General Meeting held in September It is the Boards intention that this authority would not be 2013 and expires at the forthcoming Annual General used as a matter of routine but only when merited by the Meeting.
A resolution to renew that authority for a period circumstances of the meeting and in the best interests of expiring at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting shareholders.
to be held in 2015 will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The authority will permit the Directors to allot up Authority for the Company to purchase its own shares to an aggregate nominal amount of 22m of share capital The Directors propose to renew the general authority of which represents less than 33% of the present issued the Company to make market purchases of its own shares Ordinary share capital and is within the limits approved by to a total of 13,300,000 Ordinary shares representing the Investment Committees of the Association of British approximately 10% of the issued Ordinary share capital and Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
within the price constraints set out in the special resolution The Directors have no present intention of exercising such to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
authority and no issue of shares which would effectively alter There is no present intention to make any purchase of own the control of the Company will be made without the prior shares and, if granted, the authority would only be exercised approval of shareholders in general meeting.
if to do so would result in an improvement in earnings per A special resolution will be proposed to renew the authority share for remaining shareholders.
of the Directors to allot Ordinary shares for cash other than to existing shareholders on a proportionate basis.
The Articles of Association authority will be limited to an aggregate nominal amount of The Company proposes to adopt amended and restated 3,330,000 representing approximately 5% of the current articles of association the Amended and Restated issued Ordinary share capital.
Articles subject to a special resolution being passed by The Directors have no present intention of exercising this the shareholders.
The Amended and Restated Articles are authority and confirm their intention to follow the provisions substantially the same as the current articles of association of the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles the Current Articles, the main changes to the Current regarding cumulative use of such authorities within a rolling Articles being in relation to: three year period.
The Principles provide that companies Article 80 which deals with the retirement of directors.
should not issue shares for cash representing more than Under the Current Articles, only directors who had held 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling office for the preceding two AGMs and at least a third of three year period, other than to existing shareholders, the board were required to retire at an AGM.
Under new without prior consultation with shareholders.
Article 80, all of the directors shall retire from office and be re-elected by the shareholders at each AGM, which is in line Length of notice of general meetings with the recommendations laid out for FTSE 350 companies The minimum notice period permitted by the Companies Act in the Corporate Governance Code.
2006 for general meetings of listed companies is 21 days, Article 91 which deals with directors' fees.
A cap of but the Act provides that companies may reduce this 400,000 per annum on directors' fees under the Current period to 14 days other than for AGMs provided that two Articles has been increased to 700,000 per annum under conditions are met.
The first condition is that the Company the Amended and Restated Articles.
offers a facility for shareholders to vote by electronic means.
This condition is met if the Company offers a facility, A copy of the proposed new Articles will be available for accessible to all shareholders, to appoint a proxy by means inspection at the Company's registered office until 18 of a website.
Please refer to Note 6 to the Notice of Annual September 2014 and also at the Annual General Meeting.
General Meeting on page 111 for details of the Companys Copies are available to shareholders on request and can be arrangements for electronic proxy appointment.
The second viewed on the Company's website.
condition is that there is an annual resolution of shareholders approving the reduction of the minimum notice period from Financial instruments 21 days to 14 days.
Details of the Groups use of financial instruments are given A resolution to approve 14 days as the minimum period of in the Financial Review on page 24 and in Notes 22 and 37 notice for all general meetings of the Company other than to the accounts.
AGMs will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The 35 Northgate plc Governance Annual report and Report of the Directors accounts 2014 c109372.
indb 35 15 07 2014 12:59 Report of the Directors continued Auditor This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 Companies Act In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the 2006.
Company at the date when this report was approved: A resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant auditor of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming audit information of which the Companys auditor is Annual General Meeting.
This proposal is supported by the unaware: and Audit and Risk Committee.
each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought By order of the Board to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that D Henderson the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Secretary 24 June 2014 36 Northgate plc Annual report and accounts 2014 c109372.
