Key performance indicators Performance Target Asset management The overall holding cost of vehicles needs Utilisation was 88% in the UK and The target for both segments is to to be minimised and utilisation needs to 92% in Spain.
be maintained at a high level in order However, this will be balanced against A total of 14,000 vehicles were sold in to maximise return on capital employed the need to ensure that each branch the UK and 8,300 in Spain at improved ROCE whilst holding enough vehicles has the right range of vehicles for hire residual values.
Vehicle purchases were to meet the flexible demands of our at all times.
balanced against these disposals customers.
to manage the average fleet age to The holding cost of vehicles will be 22.3 months in the UK and 24.3 months minimised through managing the mix of in Spain at 30 April 2014. purchases and improving the quality and volume of vehicles sold through higher margin retail sales channels.
Pricing The revenue per vehicle achieved is a key Underlying revenue per rented vehicle Minimum hire rate thresholds have contributor to ROCE.
Hire rates need to improved by 1% in the UK and reduced been set for new vehicles so that the reflect the level of flexibility and service by 1% in Spain.
fleet is grown at rates that are beneficial offered to our customers.
Further improvements are targeted through the recovery of other costs incurred.
Customer service In order to grow the business we must We have various measures of assessing The restructuring of commercial deliver the highest possible levels of customer service, with the number of operations has positioned the Group customer service to set us apart from vehicles on hire and the number of well to target profitable growth in our competitors.
customers being two of those indicators.
vehicles on hire and customer numbers going forward.
Vehicles on hire have increased in the year.
Customer numbers have increased in our SME segments in both the UK and Spain, which indicates that our offering is well suited to their needs.
Return on capital employed ROCE 4 In a capital intensive business, ROCE is maximised through a Each KPI has been targeted for ROCE is a more important measure of combination of managing utilisation, improvement to contribute to an overall performance than profitability alone, as hire rates, vehicle holding costs and increase in ROCE of the Group.
low margin business returns low value to improvements in operational efficiency.
In the short term, in a period of shareholders.
Group ROCE for the year was 9.9% growth, ROCE will not increase as 2013 11.8%.
capital investment is required up front.
In the longer term, ROCE is targeted to increase above levels previously achieved.
Earnings per share EPS 2 Basic EPS is considered to be a key short Basic EPS was 35.1p compared to 29.2p The target is to maximise shareholder term measure of performance.
value by increasing EPS in the short term alongside longer term return on equity.
Earnings of 46.8m compare to 38.8m in the prior year.
The weighted average number of shares was 133.2m in both years.
12 Northgate plc Annual report and accounts 2014 c109372.
indb 12 15 07 2014 12:59 Employee engagement The Group has always been fortunate in having extremely dedicated and passionate employees and their retention and development is key to our continued success.
To secure this we are delivering an employee engagement strategy to ensure that all of our employees understand the strategy of the business, their role in delivering it and motivating them to do so.
This is underpinned with enhanced communication and recognition processes to both support and drive its success.
Core values Team work working Can-do attitude Professionalism together to create an enthusiastic and resourceful utilising our skills to meet effective and efficient in all that we do.
13 13 Northgate plc Northgate plc Review Strategic Report Strategic report Governance Accounts Annual r Annual report and eport and Highlights Key Performance Indicator Board of Directors Cash flow statement accounts 2014 accounts 2014 c109372.
