92 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Directors Report The directors submit their report and the consolidated Political donations audited financial statements of the Group and the The Group has made no political donations during the auditedParent Company financial statements of the year 2014.
Contributions to non-EU political parties This report has been prepared in accordance with No contributions to non-EU political parties were made TheLarge and Medium-sized Companies and Groups during the year 2014.
Certain Financial risk management objectives and policies information that fulfils the requirements of the directors Disclosures relating to financial risk management objectives report can be found elsewhere in this document and is and policies, including our policy for hedging are set out referred to below.
This information is incorporated into inthe Principal risks and uncertainties table on page 60. thisdirectors report by reference.
Important events since the end of the financial year Directors and their interests The major events after 31 December 2014 are disclosed Full biographical details of the individuals who were innote 36 to the consolidated audited financial statements.
directors of the Company during the financial year ended 31 December 2014 is set out on pages 64 and 65 of this Future developments within the Group Annual Report.
The strategic report on pages 2-61 contains details of likely future developments within the Group.
Details of each directors interests in the Companys ordinary shares and options held over ordinary shares Branches areset out in full in the directors remuneration report The Company is registered in England and Wales but has onpages 84 and 85 respectively.
itsplace of effective management and tax residence in theNetherlands.
The Company has no branches but 1 Dividends hassubsidiaries in Kazakhstan, the United Kingdom, the Details of the distribution paid during the year are disclosed Netherlands, Belgium, Russia and the BVI.
in thenotes to the consolidated audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Share capital As of 31 December 2014 the Companys issued share In addition, the Board is proposing a final dividend capital was 1,881,829.58 divided into 188,182,958 ordinary ofUS$0.27 per Ordinary Share for the year ended shares each having a nominal value of 0.01, all of which 31December 2014, subject to shareholder approval 2 arein free circulation.
All of the Companys issued ordinary attheAGM.
shares arefully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
Auditor Therights attached to them, in addition to those conferred Each director in office at the date of this directors report on their holders by law, are set out in the Articles.
The confirms that a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant ElianEmployee Benefit Trustee Limited holds shares in audit information of which the Companys auditor is theCompany in trust the Trust for the purposes of the unaware and b he has taken all the steps that he ought Companys phantom share option plan, and the rights tohave taken as a director to make himself aware of attaching to them are exercised by independent trustees.
anyrelevant audit information and to establish that As at 31 December 2014 the Trust held 3,354,139 ordinary theCompanys auditor is aware of that information.
Directors liabilities and indemnities Share rights The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors.
Without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing All directors are also in receipt of an indemnity from the shares, the Company may issue shares with rights or Company under the Companys Articles in respect of restrictions as determined by either the Company by a liability incurred by any director due to the negligence, ordinary resolution or, if the Company passes a resolution, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the the directors.
affairs of the Company, or any subsidiary undertaking or Voting rights b any liability incurred by any director in connection There are no restrictions on voting rights or transfers withthe activities of the Company, or any subsidiary ofshares in the Articles and at a general meeting every undertaking, in its capacity as a trustee of an occupational member present in person or by proxy has one vote for pension scheme, in both instances to the extent permitted every share held by him.
No member shall be entitled to under the Companies Act 2006.
Copies of the Companys vote either personally or by proxy or to exercise any other articles of association the Articles are available on the right in relation to general meetings if any sum due Companys website or at the Companys registered office fromhim to the Company in respect of that share remains during normal business hours and will be available for unpaid.
1 These were paid before the reorganisation when the Company was an LP, and 2 There is no longer any concept of authorised share capital in English Law.
sowerefer to them as distributions.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 93 Transfer of shares In accordance with the Groups Code of Conduct the The Articles provide that transfers of certificated shares Companys policy is to fully comply with the UK Equality must be effected in writing duly signed by or on behalf of Act2010, which imposes a duty on employers to make the transferor and, except in the case of fully paid shares, reasonable adjustments to help disabled job applicants, byor on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain employees and former employees in certain circumstances the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the and prohibits direct disability discrimination, discrimination transferee is entered on the Register of Members in respect arising from disability, indirect disability discrimination, of those shares.
Transfers of uncertificated shares may harassment relating to disability and victimisation.
beeffected by means of the relevant electronic system Where the duty to make reasonable adjustments arises, unless the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 theCompanys policy is to effectively treat the disabled provide otherwise.
person more favourably than others in an attempt to reduce The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares or remove that individuals disadvantage.
infavour of more than four persons jointly.
The Companys policy is to give full and fair consideration Directors, articles and purchase of shares to applications for employment made by disabled people.
The Articles were adopted on 19 May 2014 and may only Disabled job applicants and employees are encouraged beamended by special resolution at a general meeting totell the Company about their condition so that the ofthe shareholders.
Company can support them as appropriate.
Employees experiencing difficulties at work because of a disability The directors powers are conferred on them by UK maycontact their supervisor or the Human Resources legislation and by the Articles.
In accordance with the Department to discuss any reasonable adjustments that Articles the Board has the power at any time to elect any would help overcome or minimise the difficulty.
Their line person to be a director.
Any person so appointed by the manager or the Human Resources Department may consult directors will retire at the next AGM in accordance with with the disabled person and his or her medical adviser theUK Corporate Governance Code: retiring directors about possible adjustments.
The Company will consider maybe eligible for annual re-election.
thematter carefully and try to accommodate the disabled The Company did not repurchase any shares during 2014. persons needs within reason.
Support provided by the Company to disabled employees may include training and The Board has the power conferred on it by shareholders topurchase its own shares and will seek a renewal of that career development support.
If the Company considers aparticular adjustment would not be reasonable it will power at the forthcoming AGM within the limits set out inthe notice of the meeting.
explain its reasons and try to find an alternative solution where possible.
Employment policies and equal opportunities The Company will monitor the physical features of its The Group is an inclusive and equal opportunity premises to consider whether they might place anyone with employerand complies with all applicable laws governing a disability at a substantial disadvantage.
The Group has also adopted and it will take reasonable steps to improve access.
implemented policies and procedures which cover the recruitment, selection, training and development, and Employee communications and involvement promotion and retirement of its employees.
The Group has processes in place for communicating withall its employees.
Employee communications include Nostrum aims to create a workplace that has an open atmosphere of trust, honesty and respect.
Harassment or information about the performance of the Group, on major matters affecting their work, employment or workplace.
discrimination of any kind based on race, religion, national origin, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation or political TheGroup has also developed an intranet, which assists incommunicating with employees across borders and opinion or any other similarly protected characteristic isnottolerated.
This principle applies to all aspects of provides key information to all Group employees.
employment from recruitment and promotion through The Company also operates an employee share option totermination and all other terms and conditions of planfurther details of which can be found in the Directors employment.
Remuneration Policy on page 88 and the notes to the consolidated audited financial statements for the year It is the Groups aim that all employment policies are fair and equitable and consistent with the skills and abilities ended 31 December 2014. ofthe employee and the needs of the business.
Employees are free to join a trade union or participate in collective bargaining arrangements.
Further details are included in Our People on pages 38 to 40.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 94 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Directors Report continued Substantial shareholders Terms of the Claremont Relationship Agreement As of 31 December 2014, the following significant holdings Under the Claremont Relationship Agreement, Claremont of voting rights in the share capital of the Company had has agreed that a it will, and will procure its affiliates to, been disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and allow the business and affairs of the Company and the Transparency Rule 5 or otherwise.
Group to be operated in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole b it will, and will procure its Number of % of Issued affiliates will, allow the Company and its affiliates at all times Name Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares to carry on its business independently of Claremont and Claremont Holdings C. V. 51,190,476 27.2 itsaffiliates c it will not, and will procure its affiliates will KazStroyService Global B. V. 50,000,000 26.6 not, act in any way which shall prejudice the ability of Baring Vostok theCompany and its affiliates to carry on its business Capital Partners 29,050,054 15.4 independently of Claremont or its affiliates d it will, and will procure its affiliates to, allow the Company to be managed M&G Investment in accordance with the Corporate Governance Code to the Management Limited 17,532,045 9.3 extent and on such terms as may be determined by the J. P. Morgan Asset Board and to comply with any further amendments or Management Korea supplements to the Corporate Governance Code as may Company, Ltd. 7,672,181 4.1 be adopted by the Board, and it acknowledges its There were no major transactions in the share capital of the Company or any change obligations under, and agrees to comply with, and will in the structure of shareholders, holding 5 or more per cent of the Ordinary Shares in thereporting period.
procure its affiliates comply with, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules in respect of its interests in the Ordinary Apart from as disclosed in the section Deed of adherence Shares e it will not, and will procure its affiliates will not, with Mayfair Investments B. V. there have been no changes take any action or omit to take any action to prejudice the inthe interests disclosed to the Company in respect of Companys status as a listed company or its suitability for substantial shareholders in the period between the end listing under the Listing Rules after Admission has occurred ofthe financial year 2014 and the date of this annual report.
or the Companys ongoing compliance with the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules or have Related party transactions the effect of preventing the Company from complying with Refer to note 32 of the Consolidated Financial Statements its obligations under the Listing Rules, provided that this for a description of related party transactions in the shall not prevent Claremont or any other person from: reporting period.
i accepting a takeover offer for the Company made in Significant contractual arrangements accordance with the City Code a Takeover Offer in On 19 May 2014 the Company entered into relationship relation to their respective interests in the Company or, agreements with Claremont Holdings C. V. Claremont where such Takeover Offer is made by way of a scheme the Claremont Relationship Agreement and ofarrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act KazStroyService Global B. V. KSS Global the KSS Global aCA2006 Scheme, voting in favour of such CA2006 Relationship Agreement and together with the Claremont Scheme at the court and related shareholder meetings Relationship Agreement, the Relationship Agreements orotherwise agreeing to sell their Ordinary Shares in to regulate in part the degree of influence that Claremont connection with a Takeover Offer: or ii making a Takeover and KSS Global and their affiliates may exercise over the Offer by way of a general offer for all the outstanding management of the Company.
The principal purposes Ordinary Shares or by way of a CA2006 Scheme and ofthe Relationship Agreements are to ensure that the fide-listing the Company after such Takeover Offer has Company is capable at all times of carrying on its business become wholly unconditional or, in the case of a CA2006 independently of Claremont and KSS Global and their Scheme, after it has become effective f it will not, and will affiliates and that all of the Companys transactions and procure that its affiliates will not, influence the day-to-day relationships with Claremont and KSS Global and its running of the Company at an operational level or hold or affiliates are at arms length and on normal commercial acquire a material shareholding in one or more significant terms.
subsidiaries of the Company: and g it will exercise its voting rights in such a manner as to procure to the extent Pursuant to its terms, each of the Relationship Agreements possible : i at least half of the Board comprises will continue until the earlier of a the ordinary shares independent directors excluding the chairman of the ceasing to be admitted to the Official List of the Financial Board : ii the Audit Committee shall comprise entirely Conduct Authority and to trading on the London Stock independent directors and the Remuneration Committee Exchange or b Claremont and or KSS Global together shall comprise not less than three independent directors: with any of their affiliates ceasing to be entitled to exercise, and iii the Nomination Committee and any other or to control the exercise of, 10% or more of the rights committee of the Board to which significant powers, tovote at the Companys general meetings.
authorities or discretions are delegated shall at all times consist of a majority of independent directors.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 95 Terms of the KSS Global Relationship Agreement In connection with such transfer Mayfair entered into Under the KSS Global Relationship Agreement, KSS Global aDeed of Adherence with Nostrum pursuant to which has agreed that a it will, and will procure its affiliates will, Mayfair has undertaken to Nostrum to be bound by the allow the Company and its affiliates at all times to carry on KSS Global Relationship Agreement in all respects and to its business independently of KSS Global and its affiliates observe and perform all of the provisions and obligations b it will not, and will procure its affiliates will not, act in of such relationship agreement previously applicable to or anyway which shall prejudice the ability of the Company binding on KSS Global in so far as they fall to be observed and its affiliates to carry on its business independently of or performed on or after the date of the transfer.
KSS Global or its affiliates c it will comply with, and will procure its affiliates comply with, the Disclosure and Change of control Transparency Rules in respect of its interests in the Ordinary The following are significant agreements the Company Shares d it will not, and will procure its affiliates will not, has entered into which would be affected on a change take any action or omit to take any action to prejudice the ofcontrol of the Company following a takeover: Companys status as a listed company or its suitability for, Q WKH HYHQW RI D WDNHRYHU RI WKH &RPSDQ DOO RSWLRQV listing under the Listing Rules after Admission has occurred under the Companys Employee Share Option Plan shall or the Companys ongoing compliance with the Listing be deemed to have vested and the Board shall direct Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules or have ElianEmployee Benefit Trustee Limited to allow each the effect of preventing the Company from complying with option holder to exercise his or her options at any time its obligations under the Listing Rules, provided that this from the date of the change of control up to the tenth shall not prevent KSS Global or any other person from: anniversary of the date of grant.
Any options that have i accepting a Takeover Offer for the Company in relation notbeen exercised will lapse at the end of this period.
totheir respective interests in the Company or, where such Takeover Offer is made by way of a CA2006 Scheme, voting 7KH %RQGV DQG WKH %RQGV FRQWDLQ FKDQJH in favour of such CA2006 Scheme at the court and related ofcontrol provisions.
If a change of control occurs the shareholder meetings or otherwise agreeing to sell their Company will be required to offer to repurchase the 2019 Ordinary Shares in connection with a Takeover Offer: Bonds and the New 2019 Bonds at 101% of their principal or ii making a Takeover Offer by way of a general offer for amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date all the outstanding Ordinary Shares or by way of a CA2006 ofpurchase.
Scheme and fide-listing the Company after such Takeover Sustainability Offer has become wholly unconditional or, in the case of Information about the Companys approach to sustainability aCA2006 Scheme, after it has become effective e it will risks and opportunities is set out on pages 36 to 47.
Also not, and will procure that its affiliates will not, influence the included on these pages are details of our greenhouse day-to-day running of the Company at an operational level gasemissions.
or hold or acquire a material shareholding in one or more significant subsidiaries of the Company and f it will Corporate Governance Statement exercise its voting rights in such a manner as to procure to Pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7, certain the extent possible : i at least half of the Board comprises parts of the corporate governance statement are required independent directors excluding the chairman of the to be outlined in the directors report.
This information is Board : ii the audit committee shall comprise entirely laid out in the corporate governance section of this Annual independent directors and the remuneration committee Report.
shall comprise not less than three independent directors: Going concern and iii the nomination and governance committee and any The financial position and performance of the Company other committee of the Board to which significant powers, and the Group and itscash flows are set out in the Financial authorities or discretions are delegated shall at all times Review section ofthis Annual Report on pages 48-57. consist of a majority of independent directors.
The going concern statement required by the Listing Rules Deed of adherence with Mayfair Investments B. V. and the UK Corporate Governance Code is set out in the On 30 January 2015 KSS Global transferred its 50 million notes to the consolidated audited financial statements and ordinary shares in the Company as follows: a 48,333,300 the notes to the Parent Company financial statements for shares to Mayfair Investments B. V. Mayfair, a company the year ended 31 December 2014. indirectly owned by KSS Globals three principal shareholders on the date of the transfer, and b 1,666,700 shares to KSS Globals other shareholder on such date.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 96 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Directors Report continued Requirements of the listing rules The following table provides references to where the information required by listing rule 9.8.
Listing rule requirement A statement of the amount of interest capitalised by the Please refer to note 8 in the financial statements.
Group during the period under review with an indication of the amount and treatment of any related tax relief.
Any information required by LR 9.2.
Details of any long term incentive schemes as required Not applicable.
Details of any arrangements under which a director of the No such waivers.
Company has waived or agreed to waive any emoluments from the Company or any subsidiary undertaking.
Where a director has agreed to waive future emoluments, details of such waiver together with those relating to emoluments which were waived during the period under review.
Details required in the cash of any allotment for cash of No such share allotments.
equity securities made during the period under review otherwise than to the holders of the Companys equity shares in proportion to their holdings of such equity shares and which has not been specifically authorised by the Companys shareholders.
Where a listed company has listed shares in issue and Not applicable.
is a subsidiary undertaking of another company, details of the participation by the parent undertaking in any placing made during the period under review.
Details of any contract of significance subsisting during Please refer to the Directors Report.
the period under review: a to which the listed company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, is a party and in which a director of the listed company is or was materially interested: and b between the listed company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, and a controlling shareholder.
Details of contracts for the provision of services to the Not applicable.
Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings by the controlling shareholder.
Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder Under the trust deed relating to the Phantom Share has waived or agreed to waive any dividends, where a Option Plan, the trustee has agreed to waive any dividends shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends, details or shares held under the Phantom Share Option Plan.
of such waiver together with those relating to dividends which are payable during the period under review.
Board statement in respect of relationship agreement Not applicable as the Company does not have a with the controlling shareholder.
controlling shareholder within the definition under theListing Rules, however, please refer to the Directors Report, for details of relationship agreements the Company has entered into with certain shareholders.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 97 Important events affecting the Company since year-end The Directors have responsibility for: On 30 January 2015 KSS Global transferred its 50 million HQVXULQJ WKDW WKH &RPSDQ DQG WKH URXS NHHS ordinary shares in Nostrum as follows: a 48,333,300 shares accounting records which disclose with reasonable to Mayfair Investments B. V. Mayfair, a company accuracy the financial position of the Company and indirectly owned by KSS Globals three principal theGroup and which enable them to ensure that the shareholders on the date of the transfer, and b 1,666,700 accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006: shares to KSS Globals other shareholder on such date.
WDNLQJ VXFK VWHSV DV DUH UHDVRQDEO RSHQ WR WKHP In connection with such transfer Mayfair entered into tosafeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent aDeed of Adherence with Nostrum pursuant to which anddetect fraud and other irregularities: and Mayfair has undertaken to Nostrum to be bound by the IRU WKH PDLQWHQDQFH DQG LQWHJULW RI WKH FRUSRUDWH KSS Global Relationship Agreement in all respects and to 1 andfinancial information on the Companys website.
observe and perform all of the provisions and obligations of such relationship agreement previously applicable to or To the best of the Directors knowledge binding on KSS Global in so far as they fall to be observed or performed on or after the date of the transfer.
a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true Responsibility statement and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual and profit or loss of the issuer and the undertakings Report and the financial statements in accordance with included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and applicable law and regulations.
b the management report includes a fair review of the The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to development and performance of the business and prepare accounts for each financial year and, with regards theposition of the issuer and the undertakings included to Group accounts, in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with Regulation.
The Directors have prepared individual adescription of the principal risks anduncertainties accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The accounts are required by law and IFRS to present fairly the financial position of the Company and the Group and By order of the Board the performance for that period.
The Directors must not approve such accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state ofaffairs of the Company and the consolidated Group.
The Directors consider that the Group has used appropriate Kai-Uwe Kessel Jan-Ru Muller accounting policies, supported by reasonable judgments Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer and estimates, in preparing the financial statements, and 24 March 2015 24 March 2015 that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
Having taken all the matters considered by the Board and brought to the attention of the Board during the year into account, and having reviewed the annual report including the strategic report, the Directors consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable, providing the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
1 Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 98 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Consolidated Group financial statements
