04 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Our investment case A simple investment case Nostrum has developed a world-class portfolio of assets in north-west Kazakhstan.
The front-loaded investment programme has been the foundation on which strong production growth has been built allowing the Company to enjoy sustainable cash flow during challenging conditions.
Stable financial Over half a billion Steady levels platform with strong of2P reserves ofproduction cash flows and With 571.1 million of 2P reserves 2014s average daily production and production of more than was 44,400 boepd, remaining flexibility 16million barrels of oil equivalent broadly constant with 2013 levels.
per year, we provide a unique Nostrum generated US$349.1 million combination of significant of operating cash flow in 2014. production and reserve upside Inaddition, the Group ended the along with strong operational year with over US$400 million of 1 cashflow.
cash onits balance sheet and ahedge on 7,500 bopd until February 2016 at US$85.
This places Nostrum in a strong position within the E&P space as a company with significant cash reserves despite the more challenging oil price environment.
1 Cash on the balance sheet is defined as cash and cashequivalents including current and non-current investments.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 05 World-class assets Strong governance Experienced and responsibility management team We have four licence areas all located in the pre-Caspian Basin, We are committed to achieving We are confident in the ability of to the north-west of Uralsk.
the highest possible standard of our experienced and dedicated Nostrums current producing corporate governance and social management team, who are used assetis the Chinarevskoye field responsibility and are aiming for a to operating in Kazakhstan, to and the three additional licences positive and lasting contribution to deliver on our clear strategy.
are all located within 60-120km the areas in which we operate, with ofthefield.
a focus on delivering shareholder value for a sustainable future.
Simple business case, successful model and sustainable strategy We have a clear strategy, based on a solid foundation and compelling business case.
We will deliver near term production growth, with preparations to double production capacity by the end of 2016 well underway.
In addition, with our continued appraisal of the existing Chinarevskoye field and our three additional licences, we are continually transferring reserves tothe 1P category, aiming for 700m boe of proved reserves.
This will allow us to maintain production above 100,000 boepd up until the end of the Chinarevskoye licence 2031-2033.
We are also constantly looking at areas to make additional acquisitions that would further expand the reserve base.
These would be both within reach of our existing infrastructure as well as further afield in Kazakhstan.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report
