16 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Market overview 1 The oil and gas market in Kazakhstan Kazakhstan is a vast country, the size of western Europe.
Its substantial reserves of natural resources ensure its enormous economic potential.
Sweden Finland Russia Norway Estonia Latvia Denmark Lithuania Belarus Ireland United Poland Kingdom Netherlands Germany Kazakhstan Belgium Czech Ukraine Republic Slovakia Moldova Austria Hungary Switzerland Romania France Slovenia Croatia Kyrgyzstan Bosnia Uzbekistan Serbia Bulgaria Georgia Italy Macedonia Azerbaijan Albania Armenia Tajikistan Turkmenistan Spain Greece Turkey Portugal 1 This information has, unless otherwise stated, been extracted from documents, websites and other publications released by the President of Kazakhstan, the Statistics Agency of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Finance of Kazakhstan, the Competent Authority and other public sources.
Some of the market and competitive position data has been obtained from US government publications and other third-party sources, including publicly available data from the World Bank, the Economist Intelligence Unit, the annual BP Statistical Review of World Energy for 2013, as well as from Kazakh press reports and publications, and edicts and resolutions of the Kazakh government.
In the case of statistical information, similar statistics may be obtainable from other sources, although the underlying assumptions and methodology, and consequently the resulting data, may vary from source to source.
Certain sources are only updated periodically.
This means that certain data for current periods cannot be obtained and we cannot assure you that such data has not been revised or will not be subsequently amended.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 17 Overview The larger Economic growth Oil supply and Caspian Region and investment in demand Kazakhstans oil and To date, Kazakhstan and According to BPs Statistical Azerbaijan are the two significant Review of World Energy 2014, as gas industry crude oil producing countries in at31 December 2014, Kazakhstan the Caspian region.
It is expected ranked 12th in the world by oil Since 2000, Kazakhstan has that these countries will continue reserves and 20th in the world by experienced significant economic to lead the region in crude oil gas reserves.
Kazakhstan is the growth mainly through economic production in the near future, second largest oil producer after reform and foreign investment.
driven by production growth from Russia among the former Soviet Exports of crude oil have grown existing fields and the development Republics and has the Caspian significantly and, due to Kazakhstan of recently discovered fields.
regions largest recoverable oil being landlocked, most of the oil Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan are reserves.
Kazakhstans proved from Kazakhstan is currently the predominant gas producers oiland gas reserves were delivered to international markets inthe region.
Russia plays an 3.9billion tonnes and 1.5 trillion using pipelines, which run through important role in the region by cubic metres respectively, as at Russia, to shipping points on the providing a transportation corridor 31December 2013.
between the Caspian Sea and the The Kazakh government has International investment into the Black Sea, however this part of statedthat it expects oil and gas Kazakh oil and gas sector has Russia is not a source of substantial production to increase to largely taken the form of joint crude.
150million tonnes per year and ventures, including cooperation 79.4billion cubic metres per year with the state-owned oil and gas in 2015.
Most of this growth is company NC KazMunayGas JSC Oil price outlook expected to come from the Tengiz, NC KMG, as well as production Karachaganak and Kashagan The oil price decline has changed sharing agreements and direct fields.
grants of exploration production our short-term view on oil prices.
We believe that the new forward rights to subsoil users.
Major There are three major refineries in projects in Kazakhstan include curve is the best benchmark for Kazakhstan supplying the northern estimating short-term oil prices theTengiz, Karachaganak and region at Pavlodar, the western Kashagan fields.
and therefore see the short-term region at Atyrau and the southern oil price around US$60 per barrel.
All three major refineries are either under In the longer term, we also believe the control or joint control of that the forward curves reflect our NCKMG.
view of the market as they show the longer-term price of oil increasing from US$60 per barrel to above US$70 per barrel.
Our internal assumption for long-term oil remains unchanged with a view that it will average at least US$85 over the long term.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 18 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Market overview continued The oil and gas market in Kazakhstan Gas supply and Transportation Crude oil demand An important aspect of increasing Currently over 7,920km of hydrocarbon production in Kazakhstans 20,238km of pipeline Increases in Kazakhstans gas Kazakhstan has been the are used in oil transportation.
production are expected to come development of transportation The three main pipelines are the primarily from associated gas at infrastructure, as this in turn has Uzen-Atyrau-Samara UAS the Tengiz, Karachaganak and raised Kazakhstans export pipeline, CPC pipeline, and Kashagan fields.
Kazakhstans gas reserves are Other pipeline routes from located in the west of the country Kazakhstan are being considered, and over half are located in the such as routes through the Karachaganak field.
Caucasus region to Turkey Gas production has increased and routes through Iran and significantly since 2004 when the Afghanistan.
Parliament passed a law prohibiting the industrial production of oil and gas deposits without the utilisation of natural and associated gas.
Natural gas Macro economic and micro economic Most of the gas pipelines in western The Bukhara Urals gas pipeline was Kazakhstan, with the exception initially built to supply gas from changes during 2014 of , are Uzbekistan to north-east Kazakhstan designed to provide gas to CAC.
and Russias south-east Urals region.
Macro economic and micro The pipeline has two branches that economic changes that occurred  meet in the south-western Kazakh in the reporting period and their is a transit pipeline that provides gas city of Beyneu before crossing into impact on results: from Uzbekistan to Kazakhstans Russia and connecting with the main southern population centre.
[SRUW GXWLHV KDYH UHPDLQHG Russian pipeline system.
at US$80 per tonne of crude oil The construction of the from 11 March, 2014  gas pipeline 7KH GHYDOXDWLRQ RI WKH 7HQJH designed to transport gas from west against the US Dollar and other Kazakhstan for use in the southern major currencies in February regions of Kazakhstan and export 2014 affected the Company in to China, started in 2010. two ways.
The Company recognised a foreign exchange loss as the Group had a net asset Regulation in position of Tenge denominated accounts around this date, and Kazakhstan also an increase in deferred tax expenses due to a significant Regulation of the oil and gas decrease in the tax base for sector can be divided into three property, plant and equipment, broad areas: which is denominated in Tenge.
5HJXODWLRQ LQ UHODWLRQ WR VXEVRLO use rights 5HJXODWLRQ LQ UHODWLRQ WR environmental, health and safety matters $QWL PRQRSRO UHJXODWLRQ Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 19 Major oil and gas projects in Kazakhstan TCO Karachaganak Project North Caspian Project The TCO joint venture was created The Karachaganak field is a The Kashagan field is located off the in1993 with the aim of developing 280 square kilometre gas condensate northern shore of the Caspian Sea, the Tengiz and Korolev fields that field located in north-west near to the city of Atyrau.
In 1997, have estimated recoverable reserves Kazakhstan which was discovered aconsortium of companies signed ofbetween 5.5 billion barrels in 1979.
BG Group and ENI are joint a40-year production sharing and8.1billion barrels of oil.
The operators and each hold a agreement covering five structures.
participants in the joint venture 29.25%interest in the venture.
The The structures consist of 11 offshore areChevron Overseas Company, Karachaganak field is Kazakhstans blocks over an area of 5,600 square ExxonMobil, NC KMG and LukArco.
main gas field, holding an estimated kilometres.
The NorthCaspian 9 billion barrels of gas condensate Operating Company NCOC, a and 48 trillion cubic feet of gas.
consortium that includesENI SPA, ExxonMobil Corporation, Shell, Total S. A. INPEX Corporation and NC KMG, owns the project.
Benchmarking of our business Proven reserves against peers billion barrels Strengths $GYDQWDJHRXV ORFDWLRQ JLYHV access to multiple transportation routes, QYHVWPHQW LQ LQIUDVWUXFWXUH JLYHV the Company complete control ofits liquids transportation, QYHVWPHQW LQ JDV SODQW DOORZV Nostrum to produce raw gas in north-west Kazakhstan where Venezuela 297.6 Nigeria 37.2 there is a shortage of processing Saudi Arabia 267.9 USA 33.4 capacity Canada 173.1 Kazakhstan 30.0 Iran 154.6 Qatar 25.4 LJK TXDOLW OLJKW VZHHW FUXGH Iraq 141.4 China 23.7 andcondensate Kuwait 104.0 Brazil 13.2 UAE 97.8 Algeria 12.2 Russia 80.0 Angola 10.5 Weaknesses Libya 48.0 Mexico 10.3 1RVWUXP LV VXEMHFW WR IOXFWXDWLRQV in the market prices for its products, however we do have hedges in place HRORJLFDO ULVNV DUH XQDYRLGDEOH in the oil and gas business 7KH KDUVK RSHUDWLQJ HQYLURQPHQW means temperatures fluctuate significantly between summer andwinter Source: EIA May 2013 DFN RI VLJQLILFDQW SRSXODWLRQ reduces size of skilled workforce Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report
