Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 MAXIMISING EFFICIENCY LOWERING COSTS Critical to our operations is the software that controls it.
This is largely developed Our goal is to provide the best way for our in-house, and cannot be bought off the customers to make their regular grocery shelf on the open market.
The in-house shop at the lowest cost.
We believe in a We combine the nature of our software development allows centralised approach to fulfilment, which aggregation of scale... for rapid solutions as efficiency improvement gives a number of significant service and with the use of automation opportunities are identified.
and optimisation technology protects our business, differentiating We combine the aggregation of scale into technology to drive the it, and makes it more difficult to replicate.
large facilities with the use of automation overall efficiency We now operate the worlds two largest and and optimisation technology to drive the of our business.
most sophisticated single pick grocery stores, overall efficiency of our business.
our CFCs in Hatfield and Dordon.
Our CFCs OUR CFCS form a critical part of the unique end-to-end We have developed unique fulfilment solution we have developed for online grocery capabilities automating many manual retail.
The Dordon CFC, which opened in tasks and applying technology solutions 2013, has the capacity to generate over and optimisations to operate at the lowest 180,000 orders per week, equivalent to possible cost.
This involves optimisations around 1 billion in annualised sales.
throughout the operation from receiving, We typically pick and pack for individual putting away and managing stock, picking customers up to 1 million items of groceries The in-house nature and organising orders, to the order per day in a single CFC.
Our CFCs are dispatch, and efficiently routing delivery of our software designed and built to handle the unique vehicles to customers homes.
development allows challenges that exist in picking groceries for rapid solutions.
This enables us to operate with high with speed, accuracy and efficiency.
This accuracy and availability, both critical to complexity exists when you consider we providing customers with consistent and pick a basket of multiple items typically over timely service.
50 across three different temperature zones and having a customers order ready to go on the delivery vehicles in the same short time window as the other multiple orders going on the same vehicle.
FUTURE CFCS CFC3 AND CFC4 In July 2014, we announced plans for our next CFC, located in Andover in the south of England.
Significantly, Andover CFC will be smaller than our existing CFCs capable of 1 CFC SITES 65,000 orders per week or approximately 1.
CFC 1 - HATFIELD 2 350 million in annual sales value, but 3 2.
CFC 2 - DORDON 4 critically will be more capital efficient using 3.
CFC 4 - ERITH capital expenditure to sales capacity.
NFDC - WELWYN GARDEN CITY 2 SPOKE SITES We will achieve this improved capital 1.
LEEDS optimisation through the use of our own 2.
MANCHESTER proprietary physical infrastructure solution, 4.
SHEFFIELD 5 1 5 which we have been developing over the 5.
With control over the IP and 7.
WEYBRIDGE the manufacturing and installation process, 8 9 9.
WIMBLEDON 3 4 we plan to drive the costs down further.
ENFIELD This infrastructure is modular in nature and 13.
DARTFORD can be built almost any size.
DAGENHAM scalable it can be built in stages, and is 22 22 Ocados UK fulfilment and delivery locations including announced 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com faster to deploy than our previous solutions We forecast future delivery capacity CFC EFFICIENCY we plan to open Andover by the end of requirements for our retail business and 1 2015. that of our partner, Morrisons, developing 145 UPH 2013: 135 UPH our spoke network with additional sites.
Each of these attributes is attractive in 145 During the year we opened spokes in 135 adding flexibility to our fulfilment capacity Ruislip, Enfield, Sheffield and Knowsley.
121 planning for our UK retail businesses, and 111 After the period end, we opened a spoke for our platform business, including for in Dagenham, and in February 2015 we Morrisons.
com, offering to future partners are due to open a spoke in Park Royal to the opportunity to start with a smaller initial replace our smaller White City spoke.
We have acquired additional sites and In January 2015, we announced plans for expect to add further spokes in 2015 our next location, CFC4, located in Erith to satisfy the increasing demand for our in South East London inside the M25.
The business and our partners business.
landlord will start construction on this site in 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015, and we will take occupation during PRODUCT WASTE LOW AND REDUCING 2016, with this CFC expected to deliver Our centralised model enables us to its first orders in 2017.
Like CFC3, this will carry low inventory levels, and despite SERVICE DELIVERY EFFICIENCY use our proprietary infrastructure, and so our relatively high proportion of sales of will be built in stages but will be capable fresh and chilled products over 40%, we 163 DPV WEEK of handling in excess of 200,000 OPW.
believe we operate with the lowest product 2013: 160 DPV WEEK 163 160 waste in the industry at significantly less HUB AND SPOKE DELIVERY SYSTEM 152 145 than 1% of sales.
This reflects the freshness We operate a hub and spoke system of the products we deliver to our customers for our deliveries.
All stock is stored and and underlines the relative environmental picked in our CFCs the hubs and non-food benefits of our operating model.
Delivery is made direct to customers homes from hubs to local catchment customers, with the remainder of orders being trunked to spoke sites, from 1.
Mature CFC operations CFC is considered mature where local delivery takes place.
if it had been open 12 months by the start of the half year reporting period.
2011 2012 2013 2014 23 23 We optimise the delivery to customers using our own van fleet and technology 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 WE HAVE DEVELOPED A WORLD LEADING TECHNOLOGY SOLUTION THAT POWERS OUR OPERATING BUSINESS MODEL FOR ONLINE GROCERY RETAIL 24 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com OCADO SOFTWARE SYSTEM REPLATFORMING BACKGROUND WHAT IS IT?
KEY ELEMENTS TO We have developed a world leading technology solution that REPLATFORMING powers our operating business model for online grocery retail: Modularising our software and services to: recently we have used this technology to build our non-food destination stores.
Although we developed this solution to power Allow parallel development, deployment and faster the Ocado retail business, it was always our intention that one experimentation day we would make this technology available to other retailers.
Reduce maintenance costs The deal we signed with Morrisons in 2013 to put their grocery Facilitate integration with third party products services business online was an important step on that journey.
Facilitate internationalisation To remain at the forefront of change in the grocery industry it is important that our technology solutions are able to take Transforming the technology stacks to deliver: advantage of the latest developments in using cloud and nextImproved developer productivity through access to the latest generation software tools.
development tools Therefore, before we make our solution available to multiple Improved reliability retailers in multiple countries, we have chosen to undertake a major replatforming exercise, using the expertise of the Ocado Faster rollout of new software technology team.
This involves migrating our solution to the cloud Migrating systems to the cloud to: and in the process, transforming our technology stacks.
Reduce costs and timescales for international deployments WHAT ARE THE BENEFITS?
Deliver better integration with partners Replatforming will enable us to evolve our customer offer with much greater speed and reliability for our existing retail Deliver access to third party cloud-based SaaS products businesses and for those of our existing and future partners, Reduce remove the need to build more data centres.
as well as facilitate international expansion through faster replication, improved business agility and scalability and reduced maintenance overheads.
TIMELINES The replatforming project commenced in 2014, with the first phase due to be completed during 2015.
The project is a continuous process where discrete elements can be utilised as they are completed, with the entire replatformed systems being introduced over the time of the project.
View more information about Ocado Smart Platform on pages 28 & 29 View more information online at www.
