Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 UTILISING PROPRIETARY KNOWLEDGE OUR KNOWLEDGE AND INTELLECTUAL Our next generation fulfilment centres will PROPERTY use our latest hardware assets, which are entirely proprietary we own the design, In building our retail business we have over the operating systems and control the many years been focused on developing The commercialisation manufacturing process.
This fulfilment asset optimal solutions solely for online retail solution has many important attributes, of our IP and knowledge operations, specifically centred on the making it even more efficient and resilient platform has already grocery industry.
It is modular can be started with our 25 The learnings we have, together with the built almost any size, scalable can be built year agreement with solutions we have developed from our in multiple phases and faster to deploy with Morrisons.
intellectual property, cover the end-to-end shorter build and commissioning lead times.
process of the retail mission, moving a In addition, compared to our existing CFCs, product from a supplier into a customers we expect it will achieve higher operational home.
We develop proprietary processes, efficiency, to be more capital efficient, to systems and software to improve efficiency require less cubic space and yet still hold a and operations, and to provide market large range of products.
leading user interfaces and applications for Our solution combines extremely dense our customers.
storage, rapid retrieval and fast picking Our software and other technology of single items.
This system incorporates With our platform, solutions are developed in-house by a a number of technological advances international partners development team of currently over 550 including a highly sophisticated proprietary can make full use of people.
Our in-house team enables rapid communications technology capable of their localised expertise development and implementation of new interacting inside a building with thousands in branding, customer solutions for our business, and facilitates of devices, multiple times a second, regular updates without the need to involve relationships and significantly in excess of any technology expensive change processes from multiple sourcing.
Our infrastructure knowledge and solutions, As we have become more vertically combined with our end-to-end technology integrated in the design and engineering systems, provides an entire platform of physical equipment componentry and for operating online retail businesses, solutions, we recognise the value of capable of handling the complexities and adding more protection for some of our requirements of grocery retailing as well as developments through the use of patents.
During the year, we filed for multiple LEVERAGING VALUE FROM OUR patents covering several of our current or PLATFORM MORRISONS.
The exploitation of our IP and knowledge WORLD LEADING INFRASTRUCTURE platform has continued through our 25 year SOLUTIONS agreement with Morrisons to launch and Our knowledge extends beyond software operate their online business.
com development, with many years of extensive was launched on 10 January 2014 operating experience of physical mechanical from Dordon CFC on a shared basis with our handling infrastructure equipment solutions.
own business, and utilising our technology Our focus has been to drive efficiency from platform from the user interface through to both a capital expenditure and operating optimising the delivery and routing schedules cost perspective, and we have built and to the customer.
now operate the worlds two largest and This long-term agreement includes a most efficient single pick facilities.
series of fees, royalties and cost sharing arrangements paid to Ocado.
The attraction for Morrisons was the speed with which the service could be launched, the scalability of their operation and 26 26 Technology development in action 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com market leading quality of the proposition Morrisons.
com has continued to grow.
com could offer to their As part of their interim results presentation customers, supported by our platform.
in September 2014 Morrisons confirmed their target of annualised year-end sales INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION of 200 million, a significant ramp up Online shopping is not restricted to the UK.
for a new business stream, and operating Growth in online grocery shopping has been with industry leading service KPIs joint with slower in many countries than in the UK, Ocado.
largely, we believe, due to the low quality Our IT systems replatforming programme of the proposition offered to the customer in is continuing according to plan.
This terms of service, range and price.
exercise involves a redesign of our existing Nevertheless, incumbent bricks and mortar software which will allow us to move to a retailers are increasingly focused on the new IT architecture, placing software into impact online shopping is having and the cloud, and create smaller code bases potentially could have in the future.
The to allow faster and simultaneous future fundamental challenge that faces grocery development.
These changes are to enable retailers in the UK also faces grocery faster development for future partners retailers across the globe how to offer online businesses, and significantly lower online services in a profitable, sustainable ongoing maintenance costs.
The capabilities our platform provides We have announced our plans for our in offering a compelling proposition to next CFC, the first using our new fulfilment customers, with the efficiency to build a solution which, with a significant period scalable profitable online business, should built in for testing, is due to be operational be attractive to support significant growth in at the end of 2015.
We expect to be able online grocery shopping in multiple markets.
to go live for a new partner after this date.
With our platform, international partners In the meantime, we continue to develop can make full use of their localised our relationships with grocery retailers expertise in branding, customer from across the world.
There is significant relationships and sourcing.
interest in the development of online, and We believe there are significant particularly mobile grocery shopping, opportunities to leverage our platform with and how that might impact on incumbent international partners to operate in their operators and their ability to compete.
believe this is encouraging for the future prospects of delivering more future longPREPARING THE WAY FOR FUTURE term customer relationships for the Group.
AGREEMENTS We have set out three critical areas of View more information about focus to facilitate future agreements: maximising efficiency on pages 22 & 23 operating our first long-term contract to the continued satisfaction of our partner, Morrisons: the replatforming of our IT systems to enable faster replication, roll-out and lower maintenance costs in the future: and to first use our new proprietary infrastructure solution in our own facility prior to any live operation for a new partner.
27 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 OUR SYSTEMS, PROCESSES AND HARDWARE HAVE EVOLVED OVER MANY ITERATIONS IN A LIVE RETAIL ENVIRONMENT 28 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com OCADO SMART PLATFORM EXPLAINED BACKGROUND WHAT IS IT?
WHY COULD OCADO SMART Our platform offer, Ocado Smart Platform, is our proprietary PLATFORM BE INTERESTING TO solution for operating online retail businesses.
It comprises our INTERNATIONAL PARTNERS?
end-to end software and technology systems together with our physical fulfilment asset solution, both of which are proprietary.
We believe Ocado Smart Platform offers partners a low risk, fast to market approach for launching or relaunching their WHAT IS AN END-TO-END online business, with limited capital commitment.
Ocado Smart Platform allows a partner to scale their business as sales grow, TECHNOLOGY SOLUTION?...
with attractive economics and the capability to provide a superior The technology solution enables partners to operate the entire customer proposition.
shopping process for their customers using integrated software Each element of what comprises Ocado Smart Platform has been systems.
These include the interfaces with their customers developed and is used, or intended to be used, in our own retail website, apps, management systems for supply and inventory, operations.
Unlike third party providers of products, services and management and control systems for the fulfilment centres, and software, we are a primary retailer, and our systems, processes software to optimise delivery routes and to operate contact and hardware have evolved over many iterations in a live retail centres.
These systems have been developed in-house over environment.
many years for the sole purpose of running and optimising the efficiency of online retail businesses.
While primarily designed to cope with the additional rigours and challenges presented in operating grocery businesses AND WHAT IS SPECIAL online, Ocado Smart Platform can equally be applied to general merchandise product areas.
ABOUT OUR FULFILMENT ASSET SOLUTION?
IS ANYONE USING OCADO We have spent our first 12 years of business life utilising SMART PLATFORM TODAY?
equipment purchased from mechanical handling equipment While not signed under the Ocado Smart Platform banner, providers, and over time have increasingly asked for or developed Morrisons became the first customer of our broader platform, more enhancements to improve throughput and efficiency.
We utilising our technology solution and existing infrastructure believe this experience now allows us to make significant further facilities to launch and operate Morrisons.
We have set about designing our own assets and was launched in very quick time seven months from signing using our knowledge base to develop proprietary physical asset unconditional agreements with attractive cost economics and best solutions.
Our fulfilment asset solution is modular can be built in class service metrics alongside Ocado.
almost any size and scaleable can be built in multiple phases.
It requires less space than the assets we currently use, but is very TIME FRAME FOR OCADO SMART range friendly.
It is fast to deploy and even more efficient in terms of both capital and operating costs.
The first instance of our new fulfilment asset solution will be installed We have set out important work streams for preparing our in our next CFC, which we are currently building in Andover.
We platform for Ocado Smart Platform deals internationally.
Our plan to start operating from this CFC by the end of 2015. intention is to position our capabilities to sign multiple deals in future years.
In order to facilitate rapid replication and multiple WHAT IS THE BUSINESS MODEL instances of our software in the future we are replatforming our IT systems, a process that will continue into 2015.
We also intend FOR OCADO SMART PLATFORM?
to operate our new infrastructure asset solution in Ocado.
com We plan to sell the entire platform as a fully integrated service, before using it in a partners live operation.
The earliest date not just physical assets and some technology.
In return for a that we could launch live operations for a partner would be in fee structure based on committed capacity, we would provide a 2016, with an agreement signed at least a year prior to the live partner with the benefits from physical assets sufficient to fulfil a operation.
targeted level of sales, together with all of the software systems required to launch and operate their entire online business.
