Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com OUR AWARDS 2014 CONSUMER AWARDS 2014 BRAKE FLEET SAFETY AWARDS During 2014 we were delighted to be recognised for our 2014 achievements, a number of which are highlighted below.
Ocado fleet trainers and Service Delivery Team were awarded the Ocado was voted Best Online Grocer by Which?
Magazine Company Driver Safety Award medium fleet for fleet safety by Members Annual Satisfaction Survey and Best Online Retailer BRAKE.
This highly regarded award, recognises the high standards Gold.
We also received recognition as Best Large Online delivered each day by our fleet of drivers.
Supermarket 2014 in the Foods You Can, Free From Peoples Neil Shaw, Head of Training and Development Service Choice Golden Apple Awards, for our extensive offering in our Delivery, was also recognised asRoad Risk Manager of the Free From Range.
Yearfor his commitment to delivering a programme which has We were also voted by more than 11,000 consumers as the Best enabled Ocado to lead the way in fleet safety amongst our peers.
Organic Supermarket 2014 in the 28thannual Soil Association Awards.
Our webshop offers over 2,800 organic products 2014 BUILDING PUBLIC TRUST available for delivery to customers in the UK.
Our rapidly AWARDS growing range of organic groceries, toiletries, beauty and baby Ocado won the award for Corporate Governance Reporting products, pet food and household goods are available at the in the FTSE 250 at the 2014 Building Public Trust Awards, in touch of a button at Ocado.
respect of the Annual Report for 2013.
This award highlights the We also won a number of awards for our Ocado own-label Groups efforts in developing a strong framework of governance products.
These included the Loved by Parents Best Grocery and risk management and continued excellence in its reporting to Product for our Ocado own-label organic juicing boxes, fruit shareholders.
boxes and vegetable and salad boxes, as well as for a range of our fresh fish by Quality Food Awards.
APPRENTICE OF THE YEAR 2014 Ryan Scales was voted Apprentice of the Year by the 3aaa The annual Britains Next Top Supplier campaign was acclaimed Academy beating 12,000 apprentices to take the title.
Ryan was in the PRCA Awards, which showcase the best in the PR industry one of 25 people to be nominated, put forward by employers as judged by leaders in the field.
We also secured the Corporate and staff from the 3aaa Academies across England, for their Social Responsibility accolade, which recognises work that hard work and dedication throughout the year.
promotes an organisations CSR programme, via either a one-off campaign or ongoing work.
View more information about the Apprentice of the Year on page 56 View more information online at www.
