Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 DRIVING GROWTH OUR RETAIL BUSINESSES The highest delivery standards AVERAGE ORDERS PER WEEK We drive growth in our retail operations by Our customers expect, and deserve, the 167,000 improving the proposition to our customers highest level of service delivery.
We seek 2013: 143,000 the quality of the service we offer, the to maintain the highest level of customer 167,000 selection of quality products we sell, and our service, delivered by our own Customer 143,000 ability to sell products at competitive prices, Service Team Members in our own fleet of 123,000 thereby strengthening our consumer brands.
110,000 This is enabled and supported by our Consistent order reliability is essential for development of both more capital efficient customers.
Our operating model, combined and operationally efficient infrastructure with our proprietary optimisation software, solutions, and further enhancement to our leads to what we believe to be unrivalled end-to-end technology platform.
reliability with 95.3% on time and 99.3% order accuracy.
Customers adopt new ways of shopping if they consider it more attractive to do so.
Customers expect high stock availability 2011 2012 2013 2014 There are two primary points of interaction and minimal substitutions within a short with our customers at the time of ordering time frame.
Our deliveries are available on the customer interface and at the point next day, with same day available in some of delivery.
We seek to provide the best postcodes.
We offer one-hour time slots possible experience for our customers at seven days a week, and the largest number both of these points of slots available in the market, from 6 am until 11.30 pm.
Making it easier to shop Our product life Proprietary integrated systems control our guarantee gives Convenience is a major driver to shopping product flow which, when combined with online.
Being able to order anytime, confidence to customers the scale of our CFCs, leads to higher anywhere using intuitive and easy-to-use that their groceries product availability.
This reduces the interfaces is very important.
have a stated minimum chances of products being unavailable and remaining life when Our in-house software development minimises substitutions.
allows for the rapid introduction of Our expanding range new functionality, be it new website developments or the latest mobile apps.
Customers want a wide selection of products, Customers shopping with mobile devices and will be more inclined to shop where have continued to grow significantly, with choice, and freshness, is greater.
Offering 48% of our sales now transacted using more of the groceries a customer desires in mobile devices.
This reflects the steady one store reduces the requirement to visit ACTIVE CUSTOMERS advancement of technology which has elsewhere to complete the weekly shop.
continued to change the way people live, Our current range of over 43,000 SKUs 453,000 with some customers today not owning or gives Ocado.
com the most extensive 2013: 385,000 using wired devices in their homes.
We intend to 453,000 We have continued to improve our continue to increase the range of products 385,000 shopping interfaces making it easier for we sell.
Our operating model and facilities 355,000 our first time customers to start shopping allow us to expand range relatively 298,000 with us, and increasing the level of easily with limited stockholding exposure, personalisation.
enabling us to stock many specialist and niche lines as well as everyday favourites.
We have extended our selection into many general merchandise categories for example pets, kitchenware, babies, the 2011 2012 2013 2014 home, health and beauty products and gift items giving customers the opportunity to purchase some of these items together with their grocery shop.
20 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com With the freshest products Our price commitments As well as convenience, customers want Shoppers want to feel that they receive the freshest products.
We guarantee the good value and can even save money product life of our fresh food.
The automation and aggregation of our operating model strips Our operating model removes one stage out costs and increases efficiency.
These of the grocery supply chain, as our stock cost savings allow us to offer products at is typically delivered directly to us by our competitive prices.
suppliers or wholesalers, which when combined with rapid stock turn means We introduced the UKs first grocery market we often deliver product to customers the price matching initiative in 2008, and same day or next day following receipt into continue to use price-matching commitments our CFCs.
This can be quicker than other to give consumers confidence about the supermarkets can get most of their products cost competitiveness of their basket of into their own stores.
shopping when bought at Ocado.
We work hard with our suppliers to provide to Our product life guarantee gives confidence our customers market leading promotions.
to customers that their groceries have Our strategy of range extension, offering a stated minimum remaining life when shoppers a greater choice of products in delivered.
the same category at different price points, Dedicated stores particularly driven by the growth of the Ocado own-label, continues to be popular We have launched additional online with customers.
shops dedicated to specific product categories, which represent the next stage OUR PLATFORM BUSINESS of development of our general merchandise In building our retail businesses, we strategy of having separate destination sites have gained significant knowledge for key categories.
and know-how, and have developed The first of these is Fetch, our dedicated extensive proprietary systems, software and pet store that carries more than 8,000 optimisation engines.
In effect we have pet products including the premium pet developed an entire end-to-end proprietary food ranges that are not typically sold in platform for operating online business in supermarkets including James Wellbeloved, grocery and other retail segments.
The most recent shop We believe there are significant is Sizzle, a kitchen and dining store with opportunities to create economic value over 12,000 products including Villeroy using this platform.
The first example of this & Boch, Global, Kenwood and LSA.
We is our agreement with Morrisons to launch plan to launch additional destination sites and operate Morrisons.
in the future to further extend our offer to customers, and announced in 2015 our We consider this significant validation of intention to launch a beauty business with our operating model and important as we Marie Claire.
explore new opportunities to monetise our proprietary platform internationally in the future.
The underlying technology which enables our strong proposition to customers to drive Fetch.
co. uk growth, supports Morrisons.
com and will be available to retailers in the future using Ocado Smart Platform.
