Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 OUR MARKETPLACE UK RETAIL opportunity to improve every element of CHANNELS THAT MAKE UP the proposition for the customer, giving The grocery market in the UK is substantial.
THE UK GROCERY MARKET the benefits of more service and greater IGD estimates that in the year to April 2014 SALES usability, wider choice of products and 2014, UK grocery sales reached almost better value for money.
With each element 175 billion, representing almost 55% of OTHER of the proposition improving, and enabled RETAILERS all retail spending.
ONLINE 9.4bn by ever improving technology advances, 7.7bn While still accounting for over 60% IGD more customers are encouraged to adopt of all grocery sales, the so called big DISCOUNTERS the new retail channel.
10.8bn box stores supermarkets, superstores and HYPERTHE CONTINUING CHANNEL SHIFT hypermarkets, have been reporting slowing, MARKETS AND SUPERSTORES or no, sales growth, and in many cases Evidence suggests that customers are 73.7bn absolute declines.
shopping online for their groceries in ever increasing numbers with IGD estimating CONVENIENCE Growth in grocery retail has traditionally STORES that 4.4% of UK grocery shopping is now 37.4bn been driven by the opening of new store online at 7.7 billion, and anticipates space, either through the opening of that this will nearly double to over 8.3% new stores or extension of existing shops, of the market by 2019.
More recent data creating a space race model for growth.
SUPERMARKETS suggests mobile devices are increasingly 35.5bn This has been dependent on growing used for online shopping with mobile now customer footfall to fill the expensive real the fastest segment of online growth.
However, the grocery retail industry is undergoing significant change, with new We have seen other segments of retail store formats, notably hard discount and migrate online with very significant impact.
convenience stores, growing much faster We have built our business to be at the than traditional supermarkets.
These formats forefront of, and to benefit from, this next UK MOBILE RETAIL SALES have been able to drive an advantage in channel shift in the grocery industry.
30 a particular element of the proposition to 25 Channel shift is driven by improvements customers, be it price or convenience.
20 in the overall quality of the proposition 15 Moreover, there has been continued presented to the customer.
We explore on 10 significant growth in online grocery the next page the key proposition drivers shopping.
This shift in channel, away and how online, and in particular Ocado, 5 from physical shops, is arguably the improves these supporting the continuing 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 most significant.
With online, there is the growth of the channel.
UK Grocery: Market and channel forecasts 20142019 14 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 bn bn YOY Growth % Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com Key proposition drivers How were responding Service We provide industry leading service in terms of timeliness and order accuracy.
Our Reliability technology also enables us to make the shopping interfaces increasingly simple to use and personalise the shopping experience for each customer.
Ease and convenience Online shopping returns time, service and convenience to the customer, with the retailer Personalisation performing the tasks the customer does in a physical store driving to the store, walking the aisles and picking items, packing product at the checkout, loading the vehicle car and delivering to home.
Range Our centralised fulfilment model enables us to carry a greater range than stores, giving Extensive range offering more choice of the customer the ease of shopping from a greater product selection from the comfort of quality, relevant products their own home.
We have now introduced additional dedicated department stores for certain product categories.
Ease of navigation Price Product prices online today in the UK are broadly the same as in the store, with a Offering good value modest delivery fee.
Our model will enable us in the future to drive prices down as we scale our business and return the benefit to our customers.
No more expensive than the store Acceptable service charges trending down PRICE COMPETITION CANNIBALISATION Recent attention has been placed on price Each of the leading grocery retailers has its competition in the UK grocery market.
own online operations today, mostly using its existing physical stores to fulfil online The continued growth of the hard discount orders.
Some have started to build so called format smaller format stores offering Online shopping dark stores, stores without customers or in limited ranges, mostly private label, at returns time, service effect smaller warehouses with no or limited relatively competitive prices has driven automated processes.
The one exception and convenience to the an increased focus on price, or rather price is Morrisons, which uses our technology customer.
perception, from the larger players.
platform and fulfilment knowledge and The key areas for much of the recent price services to run Morrisons.
activity has been in private label fresh The one challenge common to all incumbent produce items, key value items in dairy, physical retailers as they move online is fruit and vegetables, with some meat and the cannibalisation of their existing store fish categories.
There has been less price businesses.
With footfall declining in stores focus on branded products, with some as customers migrate to online shopping, promotional activity reducing.
each store operator will cannibalise the While we have less range overlap with the sales in a store, either that of a competitor hard discount retailers, we offer competitive or its own.
If most major store operators are prices on the quality products we sell, growing online, together with our pure-play We have built our with price commitments to match the online model, the store channel will continue business to be at the market leader on comparable baskets and to suffer significant cannibalisation of sales forefront of... this next identical items.
channel shift [to online] in Our continuing growth enables us to the grocery industry.
View more information about generate further efficiencies through Morrisons.
com on page 26 improved operational leverage in our business, which supports our ability to invest in all elements of the proposition to customers, including prices.
15 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 OUR WIDER MARKET OPPORTUNITIES INTERNATIONAL CHARACTERISTICS INTERNATIONAL GROWTH ONLINE ONLINE RETAIL SALES EUROPE bn Grocery is not only a significant business Online grocery shopping has been 20142015: 18% in the UK.
Grocery shopping represents slower to develop outside the UK.
We 20132014: 18% around half of all retail spend in most believe the attractions of shopping online developed countries and significantly more should appeal as much to consumers 154 in developing markets.
This makes for a internationally as those in the UK.
However, huge underlying market opportunity on a online requires similar pricing and high 131 global basis.
levels of service to be attractive.
If 111 customers are not offered a fast, reliable WORLDS BIGGEST GROCERY MARKETS and accurate service, then few are likely to However, there are great differences in adopt the online channel.
what and how food is purchased across In the UK, where the proposition online the world.
Grocery retailing is in so many has become increasingly attractive versus ways a local business.
While product the existing store channels, adoption has brands can be global in nature, customer gathered pace.
We believe the quality of preferences, retail brand recognition 2013 2014 2015 our proposition, including the quality of our and loyalty are driven locally.
Equally as Source: Centre for Retail Research interfaces and our one hour delivery slots, important is product-sourcing capability, has meant that others who have entered which tends to be managed through the online market in the UK have also had local account managers, and the value to offer improved services, usability, and of sourcing produce and protein ranges ONLINE RETAIL SALES US bn interfaces, which in turn drives market growth.
20142015: 13% LESSONS LEARNED FROM 20132014: 15% INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION The worlds largest grocery retailer operates 214 in a fraction of the worlds countries, with 189 most food retailers having mixed success 165 expanding internationally.
When expanding outside their home markets, grocery retailers main assets lie in real estate which is not portable.
While each may have retail skills, generally retailers do not possess any of the key local attributes brand recognition, local customer preference or loyalty, or sourcing 2013 2014 2015 capabilities critical for building a Source: Centre for Retail Research successful local grocery business.
Gaining traction as a new entrant to a market can take time and may prove to be very expensive in terms of costs and resources.
The attractions of shopping online should appeal as much to consumers internationally as those in the UK.
16 Automation inside our CFCs 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com UNIQUELY POSITIONED TO Ocado Smart Platform offers to partners TAKE ADVANTAGE a faster, flexible and more cost-efficient way of entering or relaunching the online Ocado has developed an entire end-togrocery market.
By offering the only fully end solution for operating online in the integrated end-to-end platform available, grocery market, vertically integrated across Grocery shopping we are uniquely positioned to take software and hardware solutions.
This represents around half advantage of the growing global trend of enables us to replicate these capabilities for of all retail spend in online food shopping.
partners in other markets for a significantly most developed lower cost than the alternative options countries.
We intend to use our Ocado Smart Platform with partners internationally, harnessing the capabilities of our platform with partners local retailing skills and attributes, enabling them to build sustainable, scalable and profitable online grocery businesses in their own markets.
[with] Ocado Smart Platform... we are uniquely positioned to take advantage of the growing global trend of online food shopping.
View more information about Ocado Smart Platform on pages 28 & 29 View more information online at www.
