Market overview Oil prices fell significantly towards the end of 2014.
This has resulted in downward pressure on the service sector which is reducing Ophirs cost of doing business.
Ophir is always focused on ensuring that any exploration success is commercial and can be monetised in the prevailing oil price environment.
M&A activity across the sector is expected to increase as more Service sector companies are forecast to have balance sheets that come under pressure.
We are seeing companies prioritise capex restraint and Upstream oil and gas companies have generally responded to the cost reduction over new business activities.
This has led to a marked decline in the oil price by reducing capital expenditure, especially on fall in the competition for new licences.
We have already seen this feed through to a reduction in service costs as rig utilisation and demand Commodity prices for seismic vessels contracts.
In West Africa for example, deepwater rig utilisation rates have fallen from 89% to 84%.
Generally rig utilisation Following a three year period where Brent crude oil prices have been is expected to fall further in 2015 as 40% of floating rig fleets will come relatively stable, the end of 2014 saw the Brent price fall from $97 off contract between Q4 2015 and Q2 2016.
Floating rig rates have fallen per barrel at the end of September to $57 per barrel at the end of the by around 30% already and are expected to come under further pressure.
This trend continued into early 2015 with Brent prices closing at Seismic costs have already dropped dramatically.
Ophir has experienced a low of $49 per barrel on 13 January before recovering somewhat this in Myanmar where we were able to contract a vessel for an offshore to $54 per barrel on 17 March.
3D survey in 1Q 2015 for 70% less than the rate we were quoted during our scoping work in early 2014.
With a limited number of companies The forward futures curve highlights market expectations that the Brent pursuing new offshore exploration acreage, we estimate prices staying price will recover in the coming years with current expectations being at this level for the immediate future.
for a Brent price of $58 per bbl in 2015 rising to $68 per bbl in 2017.
LNG contract pricing, especially in Asian markets, is still predominantly linked to oil prices and this is expected to continue.
However, with the increase in US shale gas other benchmarks such as Henry Hub are more frequently being used to determine LNG pricing going forwards.
Deepwater rig rates Asian and European spot LNG prices are now at similar levels.
500 Local markets 400 Asia is an important demand centre for Ophir as the most likely destination for sales of LNG FLNG from Africa and also, post the acquisition of Salamander Energy, the region where we will be selling 300 our produced barrels.
South East Asian GDP growth remains strong 1 and is forecast to grow by 5.6% in 2015.
A global recovery is expected to boost exports from the region, keeping interest rates low which will 200 provide a further boost to demand.
This in turn will lead to Asian energy demand continuing to grow strongly.
100 In Ophirs more traditional areas of operation, the main event of note is the Tanzanian election which is expected to be held late in 2015.
Whilst all parties are supportive of the nascent oil and gas industry, 0 it is possible that as we move nearer to the elections, any decisions that require cabinet ratification may be delayed.
Gulf of Mexico South America West and South Africa 1 Source: IMF Regional Economic Outlook Update, October 2014.
Source: RS Platou units with capability of operating in water depths of 7,500 ft. 4 Ophir Energy plc Jan 05 Jan 06 Jan 07 Jan 08 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 Jan 13 Jan 14 US$ day Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Overview Strategy Performance Business model page 6 cubic metres bcm and new LNG supply is only expected to total M&A 150bcm.
The pricing model is evolving in response to the potential for US shale exports with Henry Hub pricing being used more frequently As a consequence of the fall in commodity prices, a number of as a benchmark.
With Henry Hub prices currently around $3.5 per independent upstream E&P companies have seen their balance MBtu, the cost of landed US LNG into East Asia is now around $10 sheets come under pressure.
As one of the few companies with to $12 per MBtu.
The IEA report goes on to state that the total cost a strong balance sheet, we are observing a marked increase in the through the LNG chain is lowest for East Africa.
Asia is important as number of M&A opportunities.
If the current oil price environment it is the most likely end user of East African gas and also, as the report extends throughout 2015 then we would expect the number of also highlights, many Asian companies are increasingly investing in distressed sellers to increase further.
This will create opportunities the upstream part of African LNG projects, with East Africa highlighted for well capitalised E&P companies to create value through as potentially having the strongest relative investment.
In summary, demand is strong as Asian buyers seek diversity and security of supply and East African gas provides Asian buyers with Exploration a cost competitive source of future supply.
There has been a marked reduction in the number of international E&P companies looking to acquire new exploration acreage as the Brent and WTI oil price industry focuses on cost management.
In the middle of the last decade, fuelled by a combination of rising commodity prices and 160 the ease of access to capital markets, exploration activity increased 140 dramatically.
This resulted in increased competition in licensing rounds 120 where signature bonuses would be high and work programmes would 100 typically involve a commitment to drill a number of firm exploration 80 wells.
The cost of acquiring exploration acreage is now realigning to 60 reflect the reduced levels of competition.
Whilst the risk profile of the 40 rocks remains constant, the cost of assessing those risks has fallen 20 considerably.
Signature bonuses have reduced, commitments are 0 generally for seismic only and there is an opportunity to abandon 1 January 2014 13 February 2015 the licence before having to commit to drilling, and service costs Brent WTI have reduced dramatically.
It is therefore an opportune time to be acquiring acreage to provide optionality in the portfolio for potential 160 future exploration drilling.
140 120 LNG 100 80 The fall in commodity prices has raised questions about the viability 60 of reaching FID for many LNG projects.
Ophirs LNG FLNG projects 40 are more resilient than many of the large greenfield LNG projects due to relatively low cost breakeven economics.
Asian demand for LNG is 20 still growing.
According to a 2014 report by the International Energy 0 Agency IEA titled The Asian Quest for LNG in a Globalising Market, between now and 2020 Asian gas demand will increase by 250 billion Brent WTI Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5 Jan 05 Jan 06 Jan 07 Jan 08 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 Jan 13 Jan 14 Jan 15 Value US$ bbl Value US$ bbl
