Business model Our operational focus is on the exploration and appraisal part of the industry cycle which typically drives the highest return oninvestment for shareholders.
We have added producing barrels as a means of generating cash flow to fund the resource finding part of our business.
The asset life cycle and companys model is summarised in Ophir does not think like a traditional, full cycle E&P the chart opposite and in more detail in the following pages.
As a prospect or play is matured through the process its potential value increases, especially if a commercial discovery Ophir is BIG Exploration and little production is made, but this comes with associated costs which generally rise as we move from prospect licence Capture through Analysis and eventually into the Exploration phase.
It is managements responsibility to manage the risk reward Cash profile at each stage to ensure that shareholders capital is deployed efficiently to maximise returns.
1 Exploration 2 Development 3 Production Production is a Self funded nancing stream development activity for E&A activity 15% Exploration is focus for Minimal existing capital Reserves replacement Commitment spend as a percentage creation of shareholder value will be deployed to and production are of 2015 capex Unique position to deliver development activity not a key metric high graded portfolio due Assets must break to strong balance sheet and even at low oil price minimal well commitments $150 million carrying cost of LNG FLNG projects to FID Return to shareholders 1, 03 1 mmboe Net 2C contingent resources at year end 6 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Overview Strategy Performance Review of operations page 22 Ophir does not think like a traditional, full cycle E&P Equatorial Guinea: Our business model in action Ophirs activities in Equatorial Guinea demonstrate the Ophir is BIG Exploration and little production success of the Companys strategy and business model and the value that it can potentially create for shareholders.
Cash 1 Exploration Ophir entered Equatorial Guinea in 2006.
It then utilised existing 3D seismic survey.
This seismic survey was used to mature a prospect inventory for drilling.
1 In 2008 the first gas discovery, Fortuna, was made.
Ophir has made six discoveries Exploration in Block R, finding 3.4 Tcf of prospective 2 and contingent resource.
In 2014 the first Development drill stem test was conducted on the 3 Fortuna discovery, which flowed at an Production implied unconstrained rate of 180 mscfd.
In 2014 the commercial framework of the project was clarified.
Revised fiscal terms were signed with the government and an MoU was Production is a signed for the midstream part of the project.
Self funded nancing stream development activity for E&A activity 2 Development Exploration is focus for Minimal existing capital Reserves replacement creation of shareholder value will be deployed to and production are The project is expected to enter the FEED Unique position to deliver development activity not a key metric stage in 2015 with FID at some point in high graded portfolio due Assets must break 2016.
At this point development activity to strong balance sheet and even at low oil price will start to accelerate.
minimal well commitments 3 Production First production is currently envisaged in 2019.
Return to shareholders Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7
