A clear strategy to create exploration-led growth Strategy in action page 14 Key elements of the strategy Vision Ophirs vision is to be Building a series of options for future Value the leading international drilling.
Acquiring new acreage in the creation bottom of the cycle with no drilling oil and gas exploration commitments.
Mature and high grade through and production company.
these plays, drilling only those that exploration offer shareholders material returns on investment.
Strategy Transacting at the most appropriate Active Ophir is focused on time to create value for shareholders.
portfolio Realising value from existing assets finding resource and and adding new assets to the portfolio management monetising it to create that have ability to generate material value for shareholders.
Target is to derisk the business model Focus on through funding core exploration capital activity from operating cash flow.
Apply prudent levels of debt to allocation development and production activity and returns and preserve balance sheet strength and flexibility.
Only allocate capital to highest return opportunities following rigorous risk reward analysis.
We are focused on cash balances and cost management and will seek to manage the risk profile through farm-outs, exits etc.
12 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Overview Strategy Key performance Performance indicators We continue to measure our success on the Principal risks resource we add, the ability to achieve this at and uncertainties economic rates and to do it as safely as possible.
page 18 Classification 2014 three-year average finding cost Staff turnover The rate of turnover relates to employees who have left the Company voluntarily during the year.
The figure excludes employees who left as a direct $1.34 boe 11.2% result of redundancy or dismissal on the grounds of poor performance.
Turnover has remained within manageable levels and has not had a negative impact upon technical disciplines.
Recruitment levels remained consistent Classification across all areas of the business.
Ophir continues to be The basis of the finding cost calculation is able to attract high calibre staff.
Expenditure on exploration and Outlook appraisal activity is divided by contingent resources The Company aims to monitor and reduce turnover added in the year.
This number increased in 2014 rates and will continue to provide highly competitive relative to previous years as we were not successful pay and benefits to attract and retain key personnel.
with any of our play opening wells.
However, this rate still compares favourably to our international peer group.
2C Contingent Resources mmboe Lost Time Incident Frequency rate LTIF incidents million man-hours work 1,031 mmboe 0.7 2014 1,031 Ophir Energy LTIF 2014 2013 2012 1,256 Average number of employees and contractors 445 197 108 2013 2012 1,002 Total man-hours worked 1,462,332 522,056 307,161 LTIs 1 1 0 LTIF rate incidents million man-hours work 0.7 1.9 0 Ophirs net 2C contingent resources reduced year on year due to the sale of a 20% interest in the Groups interest in Blocks 1, 3 and 4 in Tanzania to The health, safety and welfare of people working for Performance Pavilion Energy.
This transaction saw 461 mmboe and on behalf of Ophirs business underpins everything We saw a substantial increase in man-hours worked of contingent resource sold for $1.288 billion.
Ophirs health and safety culture during 2014 as Ophir operated two deepwater rigs.
The Group added 97 mmboe of contingent resource is based on individual responsibility and commitment Despite this increase in man-hours there was only one through the drill-bit in 2014 following successful from the very top of the organisation.
minor Lost Time Incident LTI.
Staying safe requires appraisal drilling in Equatorial Guinea and Tanzania.
vigilance, effort and investment at all levels of the Accountability rests with every employee, including organisation and is testament to everyones quality The chart shows the Companys net resources at management and senior executives, who uphold their and professionalism.
31December 2012, 2013 and 2014, assuming the obligations through the active management ofOphirs governments exercise their back-in rights in every case.
The statistics include contractors as well as employees.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 Strategy in action Value creation What we did in 2014 What we will do in 2015 through exploration 2 We more than doubled the exploration Complete a 10,000km 3D seismic acreage in the portfolio during 2014 survey in Myanmar We captured the largest offshore 3D Process and interpret 3D data from 2 survey in Africa shooting 8,500km Gabon and Seychelles surveys offshore Gabon during 2H 2014 Complete a multi-well exploration Completed 3D seismic survey programme in the G4 50 Block, in the Seychelles Gulf of Thailand We drilled three wells in Gabon which, Capture 2D seismic in Bangkanai although they did not deliver a commercial and West Bangkanai PSCs, Kerendan success, were farmed out, meaning Ophir area, Indonesia reduced its financial exposure to the wells Building a series of options for future Complete a 3D seismic survey in eastern drilling.
Acquiring new acreage in Indonesia over a number of large prospects the bottom of the cycle with no drilling identified on 2D seismic commitments.
Mature and high grade these plays, drilling only those that offer shareholders material returns on investment.
14 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Overview Strategy Performance Active portfolio What we did in 2014 What we will do in 2015 management We completed the sale of a 20% interest in Continue to pursue our policy of Blocks 1, 3 and 4 in Tanzania, where we have reducing balance sheet exposure drilled six successful exploration wells and to material development spending discovered 17.1 Tcf of gas, for $1.288 billion.
Complete the acquisition of This realised a 4.5 X return on investment Salamander Energy providing an We entered new licences which provide operating platform in South East Asia options for future drilling with no drilling Complete the acquisition of seven commitments deepwater exploration licences in We exited licences in Offshore Senegal and Indonesia from Niko Resources Guinea Bissau Joint Development Zone AGC, Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic Transacting at the most appropriate SADR and Somaliland where we did not time to create value for shareholders.
believe we would be able to execute on our model of finding and monetising resource Realising value from existing assets and adding new assets to the portfolio that have ability to generate material returns on capital employed.
Strategy in action Tanzania: Having initially entered Tanzania in 2005, Ophir reduced its financial exposure to exploration drilling through a farm out to BG.
A drilling programme between 2010 and 2014 has seen 16 successful exploration wells drilled and over 17 Tcf of gas discovered.
In 2014 Ophir then realised $1.288 billion through the sale of a 20% interest to Pavilion Energy.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Strategy in action continued Focus on capital What we did in 2014 allocation and returns Strengthened the balance sheet through Reviewed the organisational structure the addition of $1.288 billion from the sale to reduce overheads of a 20% interest in Blocks 1, 3 and 4 in Ensured that commercial terms on new Tanzania to Pavilion Energy acreage additions reflected the changing Agreed to acquire Salamander Energy plc landscape and involved minimal financial which will add organic cash generation, commitments with options to exit pre-drill derisk the business model and add a Initiated a share buy-back to provide production base return for shareholders following the We exited licences in Offshore Senegal Pavilion transaction and Guinea Bissau Joint Development Target is to derisk the business model Zone AGC, Saharawi Arab Democratic through funding core exploration Republic SADR and Somaliland which activity from operating cash flow.
we determined did not offer potential Apply prudent levels of debt to for sufficient returns to shareholders development and production activity and preserve balance sheet strength and flexibility.
16 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Overview Strategy Performance What we will do in 2015 Chief Executives review Complete the acquisition of Salamander Preserve our balance sheet through only page 10 Energy and become revenue and cash allocating capital to opportunities which flow generative for the first time we believe offer shareholders the best potential returns Further diversify the sources of funding, and reduce the cost of capital Continue to review our cost structure and make sure it reflects the new oil price environment Only allocate capital to finding resources that can be monetised in the current oil price environment Strategy in action Having generated $1.288 billion through the Pavilion transaction, management, in consultation with major shareholders, pursued a strategy of acquiring flowing barrels that would provide a cash stream that will ultimately fund the Groups E&A activity.
Having screened multiple opportunities, the Group acquired Salamander Energy in a transaction that completed in March 2015.
This added a growing, low cost, production portfolio that is resilient at current oil prices and diversifies the sources of funding.
Furthermore, having obtained production, we are able to further diversify the sources of funding through leveraging a prudent amount of debt against the assets.
The Salamander transaction has therefore considerably derisked the Ophir business model.
