com Our Strategy Our strategy builds onour strong position and exposure to growing markets Going forward, Oxford Instruments intends to leverage its tools and expertise to exploit the convergence of the sciences.
This will drive long term demand for our nanotechnology tools and increase our addressable markets by giving us access to a new set of customers.
Four key themes underpin our plan for delivering on this strategy while maximising customer and Shareholder value.
1 3 People development Market development Our highly skilled employees are key to our continued We will continue to focus on developing innovative new growth and success.
Developing talent through leadership products and growing market share in our core areas of and technology training and recruitment programmes is physical and materials science.
In addition, we will seek to central to our strategy for market leadership and profitable extend our reach into adjacent new markets by applying our growth across all our sectors.
tools and technologies to life science research and analysis.
Focus areas include: Focus areas include: Adaptability Target fast growing markets Engagement Expand our portfolio of techniques Calibre High potential acquisitions Skill Expand into attractive adjacent markets We measure progress through our regular employee One measure of our success is the growth in our surveys, benchmarking staff engagement externally.
2 4 Product development Processes development We have a broad spectrum of products operating in Improvement of our operational excellence forms a high growth technology markets, supported by the keypart of our strategy.
A global Operational Excellence world-renowned Oxford Instruments brand.
Innovation programme develops and deploys Best Practice Lean remains at the core of the Groups culture, made possible sixsigma methodologies throughout the Group to ensure by our continued investment in commercially driven R&D.
our processes are continually improved and deliver the benefits of economies of scale as the business grows.
Focus areas include: Focus areas include: Strategic and market driven R&D Promoting a culture of continuous improvement Aligned with a long term vision Driving a vision of business excellence Delivery enabled environment Market leading high margin tools We measure the value and success of operational excellence through the Value Add Index adjusted Measured by the proportion of revenues coming operating profit employment costs employment fromnew products introduced in the last three years costs.
12 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 In order for consumers to be better informed about their salt consumption, manufacturers need to be able to quickly and accurately monitor sodium levels in their food products.
The cheese industry in particular has a great desire to reduce sodium content and variability.
To assist in the effort, the industry is piloting X-ray Fluorescence Spectrometry XRF from Oxford Instruments.
The energy of the X-ray indicates which elements, such as sodium, are in a cheese and how much of each element is present.
Theprocess takes just five minutes.
Current methods may take one day in-house or three to five days if product is sent to an outside source for measuring.
X-Supreme Benchtop XRF analyser Monitoring sodium atadifferent level These rapid results will allow cheese makers to adjust saltlevelsduring the cheese-making process.
The whole technology appears to be a big win for the cheese  applications for other foods.
Bill Graves, senior vice-president of product research for the Dairy Research Institute Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 13
