com Performance by Division Nanotechnology Tools The Group operates The Nanotechnology Tools sector produces our inthree sectors: highest technology products and serves research andindustrial customers in both the public and private sectors.
Nanotechnology Tools, Since the year end this sector has been managed as Industrial Products  division comprising Nanoanalysis, Asylum Research and Andor Technology and the andService NanoSolutions division comprising Plasma Technology andOmicron NanoScience.
This allows us to bring together our three microscopy techniques optical, atomic force and electron under a unified structure in NanoCharacterisation, whilst NanoSolutions focuses on advanced research environments and systems.
This sector delivered an encouraging performance in 2014, despite weaker Government spending in research Highlights: and development, with revenues of 180.6 million Nanotechnology Tools delivered an 2013:166.1 million and an adjusted operating profit increase in both revenues and profit of21.2 million 2013: 20.6 million.
New products introduced by the NanoAnalysis and Asylum businesses Industrial Products performed well have been particularly successful, rapidly contributing inallterritories tothe overall performance of the sector.
Our Service business performed well Our NanoAnalysis business produces leading-edge inallterritories toolsthat enable materials characterisation and sample manipulation at the nano scale.
Its products are used on electron microscopes and ion-beam systems in academic institutions and industrial applications including semiconductors, renewable energy, mining, metallurgy and forensics.
Our new Layerprobe tool works with our market leading Aztec electron microscopy software platform.
It gives customers the ability to measure the thickness and composition of nano scale thin films and membranes in a scanning electron microscope.
We are theonly company providing this capability in our software.
For the first time, it unlocks information about variations insample depth by showing composition in the third Nanotechnology Tools headline figures 1 1 Revenue m Profit m Return on sales % 180.6 21.2 12.4 20.6 11.7 166.1 180.6m 21.2m 11.7% 8.7% 2.9% 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 1 2013 figure has been restated see Accounting Policies.
18 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information field of quantum computing.
This is vital for applications involving photovoltaic devices, light emitting diodes, and power the potential to make safer aeroplanes, detect cancers through complex computational modelling and design electronics where device performance depends on both the thickness and composition of ultra-thin films.
software that allows cars to drive themselves.
Asylums Cypher ES environmental atomic force Plasma Technology, which produces nanofabrication microscope AFM is the best commercial AFM on the equipment for specialist semiconductor research and market.
It makes atomic scale imaging routine for the manufacturing, had a challenging year due primarily to the average user.
It combines fast, ultra stable, high resolution continued weakness in demand for High Brightness Light imaging in gaseous or liquid environments with cooling, Emitting Diodes HBLED.
However, Plasma Technology heating and other sample control capabilities.
It is used in spearheaded an evolution in semiconductor etch technology a variety of disciplines, including material science, energy with the launch of the PlasmaPro1000 Astrea etch system.
This tool enables large batches of advanced semiconductors to be etched simultaneously and will offer manufacturers Andor Technology brings the Group a strong capability of HBLEDs market leading productivity and cost efficiencies.
This, combined with our capability in atomic force microscopy and spectrometers for electron microscopy, means the Group can offer our customers a spectrum Industrial Products oftools with which to observe the nano world.
Andor hascontinued to drive innovation with the launch of Our Industrial Products sector, comprising our theultra-sensitive Zyla 4.2 sCMOS camera.
Offering the Industrial Analysis and Industrial Components highest sensitivity available, this camera is the technology divisions, supplies analytical systems for quality leader in the fast growing life science imaging market.
control, environmental and compliance testing, Andor was also recognised with the Best in the World andcomponents for industry and research.
award from Yokogawa as the leading global distributor oflaser spinning disk systems for high resolution living cell Industrial Analysis comprises our X-ray Fluorescence imaging.
Its Imaris software was used in the Clarity Brain XRF, Optical Emission Spectroscopy OES and Magnetic analysis project at Stanford University, providing accurate Resonance NMR businesses.
Industrial Components 3D images and analyses of specifically labelled neurons in comprises our Superconducting Wire, Austin Scientific an otherwise transparent brain.
The Omicron NanoScience business which specialises in This sector delivered revenues of 114.7 million analytical measurement in high vacuum, at low temperatures 2013:125.1 million and an adjusted operating profit and in high magnetic fields, had a challenging year, due of15.6 million 2013: 17.3 million.
Deliveries of inpart to reduced Government spending and a general superconducting wire to the ITER programme, which slowdown in research markets in its field.
However, this seeksto develop a commercially viable source of energy business delivered its largest ever single order to a customer from nuclear fusion, were completed in the first quarter in Germany to facilitate the fabrication and characterisation ofthe year.
Revenue from the ITER programme totalled of materials for nano electronics.
This could revolutionise 40 million over the last three years.
Excluding the effect of the industry and provide key components into the nascent the ITER project, underlying growth in this sector was 2.3%.
Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 19 www.
com Performance by Division continued The Industrial Components division delivered a strong performance.
Austin Scientific was successful in winning Using the technique of more orders for tools used in the mobile phone industry.
Laser Induced Breakdown X-ray Technology also did well, with sales from Shasta, Spectroscopy LIBS, our anew power supply system, exceeding our targets.
new mPulse hand-held OurSuperconducting Wire business also had a good analyser is initially year, increasing productivity as a result of operational targeted at the scrap efficiency programmes and with continuing strong metals industry.
Service The Industrial Analysis business achieved growth in all The Service sector comprises the service, support, geographic territories, despite a downturn in its steel markets.
training, refurbishment, consumables and accessories A new portable optical emission spectrometer, PMI-Master elements of our business, together with a business Smart, was launched in the year as a result of a breakthrough providing service for MRI and CT machines.
in the miniaturisation of OES instrumentation, based on This sector performed well across all territories with the use of optics made of carbon fibre reinforced plastics.
revenueof 66.4 million 2013: 60.6 million and an The improved mobility offered by this product brings adjusted operating profit of 13.5 million 2013: advantages to customers in the fields of metals analysis, 11.4million.
This was driven in part by our clinical positive material identification, rapid material verification instrumentation service business which has grown its and sorting.
During the year we also launched Pulsar, a servicing of GEHealthcare MRI machines in the USA and cost effective nuclear magnetic resonance NMR analyser.
selling refurbished parts and systems to the healthcare One specific application is its ability to identify different market.
Successful initiatives such as the OI Training species in raw meat.
The analysis can be completed locally, Academy and remote monitoring have increased revenues on site in a few seconds, whereas current testing methods and added tothe customer experience, increasing our for food samples are costly and can take several days.
We NetPromoter Score customer satisfaction from 62 have seen significant interest from testing laboratories, to66this year.
Other NMR based tools are being used in numerous applications ranging from monitoring octane levels in power stations to measuring salt levels in cheese.
20 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
