Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Review of the Year Nigel Keen, Chairman Jonathan Flint, Chief Executive Performance Strategy and business model Across the world, people are focused on addressing The Group delivered another successful result, with orders, sales and profit all up on the prior year.
Orders thegreat challenges of the 21st century.
Constant advances are needed to keep pace with our rapidly evolving world.
Our closing order book was 126.1 million.
Revenues With finite resources, we need to achieve more with fewer raw materials.
Oxford Instruments offers the means for grew 2.7% to 360.1 million 2013: 350.8 million against a currency headwind caused by the relative customers to address these challenges at the atomic andmolecular level.
We use innovation to turn our smart strength of the Pound compared to our major trading currencies.
Revenue growth on a constant currency science into commercial tools and systems that analyse and manipulate matter at the nano scale.
expansion of our capabilities and expertise allows us to As previously reported, during the first two months of address customers needs in a wide variety of markets 2013 14 we experienced weak demand, particularly from thathave an interest in working at this scale.
Since then, as expected, wehave seen gradual sustained improvement throughout Our Group operates in three sectors: Nanotechnology the year.
Tools, Industrial Products and Service.
Our Nanotechnology Tools sector sells high technology tools, primarily to research Adjusted operating profit grew 2.0% to 50.3 million customers 74% of its revenues come from research and 2013: 49.3 million.
In line with our 14 Cubed objectives academia.
It provides a unique insight into emerging trends we delivered an adjusted operating margin of 14.0% in public and privately funded research, thus informing 2013: 14.1%.
ourapproach to innovation and product application.
During the year we saw strong revenue growth in the OurIndustrial Products sector sells more mature, though USA of 10.9% and modest declines in Europe and Asia.
still technically advanced products, primarily to industrial InAsia, continued weakness in the High Brightness Light customers 58% of its revenues come from industry.
Emitting Diodes HBLED market suppressed growth, while Thetools and systems produced by this sector enable us in Europe, Government spending, particularly in the first tobenefit from the economies of scale offered by trading half, was muted.
Revenues elsewhere in the world grew in larger industrial markets, thereby maximising the returns by18.5%, helped in particular by strong performances from our R&D programmes.
Our Service sector addresses inSouth America and Australia.
the aftermarket for both our own and third party high technology equipment, notably MRI and CT scanners.
We have now reached the end of the period covered Thecomplexity and uniqueness of our products mean by our 14 Cubed plan which set a target of achieving ourcustomers increasingly purchase multi-year anaverage compound annual sales growth rate of 14% servicecontracts.
inthe years 2011 to 2014 and a return on sales of 14% by2014.
We delivered the targeted 14% return on sales.
We achieved 11% compound annual growth rate.
Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 05 www.
com Review of the Year continued used to understand protein distribution in cells, giving Strategy and business model continued insights into diseases such as Alzheimers, Parkinsons and Improvement of our operational excellence forms a key cancer.
Live-cell super resolution microscopy, using Andors Read about our part of our strategy.
Following the successful introduction new strategic plan iXon emCCD camera, gives much higher accuracy than of continuous improvement and lean six sigma activities previously attained.
The acquisition of Andor is strategically Turn to page 10 inselected Nanotechnology Tools and Industrial Products important to Oxford Instruments and offers substantial businesses, we have initiated a global Operational opportunities to expand the Groups current markets and Excellence programme that develops and deploys best technologies in both the physical science and life science practice lean six sigma methodologies throughout the arenas.
A tailored integration programme is in place Group to ensure our processes are continually improved thatfocuses on building relationships that create a firm and deliver the benefits of economies of scale as the foundation for common processes, shared staff talent business grows.
Integration This year we announced the evolution of our strategy isgoing to plan and current performance is ahead of to exploit the current convergence of the sciences, especially ouracquisition assumptions.
at the nano scale, which is driving increased demand for In the year, the Group also made two bolt-on nanotechnology tools.
acquisitions to the Industrial Analysis business to broaden Nanotechnology, applied to both the physical sciences the product offerings in metals analysis and coating and life sciences, will continue to yield long term structural thickness measurement.
RMG, a small UK based company, growth in demand for high technology tools.
Our strategy adds a unique hand-held analyser branded mPulse to our is focused on growing the business in our core markets of portfolio.
Using the technique of laser induced breakdown physical and materials science, and exploiting convergence spectroscopy LIBS, it is initially targeted at the scrap metals to expand into life sciences.
industry and sales are already contributing to the business ahead of acquisition assumptions.
Another recent addition Acquisitions is Germany-based Roentgenanalytik, which strengthens The acquisition of Andor Technology Andor, an AIM Oxford Instruments range of X-ray Fluorescence XRF listed company based in Belfast, Northern Ireland, was materials and coating thickness analysers.
It will become completed on 21 January 2014.
Andor is a market leading acentre of excellence for our benchtop XRF analysers, supplier of high performance optical cameras, microscope enabling the development of a new generation of systems and software.
For example, its cameras are being manufacturing tools for our customers.
Our tools-based development model Global markets Research and academia Life sciences Semiconductor IT Energy Metals and construction Environment Oxford Instruments tools andsystems are used bycustomers at all levels Key growth technologies fundamental research Repeatable fabrication and analysis tools development of new technologies commercialisation and manufacture New scientific discoveries 06 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information People The Andor Zyla The dedication and hard work demonstrated by our sCMOScamera is a tool employees is key to the success of Oxford Instruments, used in both the life and andwe thank them for their continued contribution to physical science arenas.
Developing our employees is central to our Application areas include Live-Cell Microscopy strategy for market leadership and profitable growth andSemiconductor Analysis.
We believe that our increased focus on diversity and inclusion across our global territories will further strengthen our business.
On 11 June 2013, Jennifer Allerton joined the Board of Oxford Instruments as a Non-Executive Director.
She has a broad range of technological, commercial and international experience with large multinational businesses.
Jennifer sits Asylum Research, acquired in December 2012, has on the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
integrated well and has made a good contribution to the Groups performance this year.
The launch of new products Thomas Geitner, who was appointed to the Board on in its leading portfolio of atomic force microscopes has 1January 2013, took over the Chair of the Remuneration extended the range of applications available to our Committee on 9 September 2013. customers in the materials and bioscience markets.
At this years AGM Professor Sir Mike Brady will step As previously reported, and uniquely amongst our recent down from the Board.
He was appointed in August 1995 acquisitions, Omicron Nanotechnology, acquired in 2011, and became Deputy Chairman in 2000.
He was a member has underperformed against our acquisition assumptions.
of the Nomination Committee until 2011 and is a member As a result, we made changes to its management earlier of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
We would like inthe year and have laid out a new strategy.
This business to thank Mike for his outstanding service and commitment will now seek to establish a leadership position, along with to the Group over the last 20 years.
other Group businesses in the nanotechnology tools sector, During the year, a new post of Chief Information Officer in the study and fabrication of complex atomic scale materials was created to strengthen the IT infrastructure of the Group, and devices.
For example, it will target theemerging investigate ways in which we can better use IT to differentiate technology of quantum computing, where Oxford Instruments our products and manage the implementation of a new already has a strong position.
The strategic actions we have Group-wide ERP system.
taken should enable the business to break even in the current year and we anticipate that it will return to profitability in Outlook the 2015 16 financial year.
Once complete, we will have Orders for the first two months of the year are ahead aworld-class surface science business, which complements of the same period last year on both a reported and our material science and bio-science activities.
This will constant currency organic basis.
enable us to offer our customers a unique portfolio of Our strategy, which sets the stage for the next phase nanotechnology tools.
ofgrowth for Oxford Instruments, will continue to focus on developing innovative new products and growing market share in our core areas of physical science.
In addition, we will seek to extend our reach into adjacent new markets byapplying our tools and technologies to life science research and analysis.
This convergence of the sciences will drive long term demand for our nanotechnology tools and enable us to reach a new set of customers.
Despite the headwind from foreign exchange at current levels, these factors, together with a full year contribution from recent acquisitions, Our strategy sets the complemented by our talented people and our focus on operational excellence will underpin our continued growth stage for the next in the current year.
phase of growth for Oxford Instruments Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 07
