com Our Business Model We engage with the growing nanotechnology industry: an area key to continued economic progress and growth 1 Research In the research field, our tools areused to advance the frontiers ofscience.
We count many winners of the Nobel Systems Prize amongst our customers.
and Tools 2 Industry In the industrial field, our tools are used to improve production efficiency, ensure high standards of quality control and demonstrate compliance toenvironmental legislation.
What we provide Our customers We adopt a business model This tools model enables us We provide high-performance whereby the Group sells tools togenerate revenues from toolsfor research and industry.
tocustomers who wish to emerging industries utilising Our aim is to be the bridge exploit the opportunities nanotechnology without undue between industry and academia, offered by nanotechnology.
exposure to any one application pushing theboundaries of science or market.
08 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Our strategy Analysis and fabrication of matterat the nano scale is a nowa worldwide requirement.
We are responding to the current convergence of the sciences by applying our tools and expertise togrowing market opportunities.
Read more Turn to page 10 Expertise Value Quality What sets us apart Expertise Our staff deploy a high Value Our Voice of the Customer Quality The Oxford Instruments level of technical skill and deep programme constantly calibrates brand is well recognised and understanding of technology emerging customer requirements valued, particularly in the research trends to convert our intellectual against available technology to and academic communities.
Its property into new tools using the ensure our R&D activities are quality attracts customers, latest nanotechnology techniques.
focused on the most commercially collaborators andemployees.
Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 09
