com Report of the Directors Directors The Directors present their Report and the Financial Statements of Oxford Instruments plc for the year ended Biographies of all the Directors at the date ofthis report, 31 March 2014. including the Non-Executive Directors, appear on pages 28to 29.
During the year, Jennifer Allerton was appointed Principal activity and business reviews asNon-Executive Director on 10 June 2013 and at the The Company is the ultimate holding company of a group conclusion of the AGM held on 10September 2013 of subsidiary undertakings the Group engaged in the MikeHughes retired asaNon-Executive Director, research, development, manufacture and sale of high CharlesHolroyd stepped down as an Executive Director technology tools and systems.
The Company is required to oftheCompany and Thomas Geitner took overfrom set out in this report a true and fair view of the business of NigelKeen as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
the Group during the financial year ended 31 March 2014, the position of the Group at the end of the financial year Directors conflicts of interest anda description of the principal risks and uncertainties With effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 facing the Group.
The information which fulfils these allows Directors of public companies to authorise conflicts requirements includes a business and financial review andpotential conflicts of interest, where appropriate.
Only onpages 5 to23 and Corporate Responsibility Review Directors with no interest in the matter under consideration onpages 24 to 27, which are incorporated inthis report may participate in the relevant decision and in doing so byreference.
The Business, the Strategic Review, the they must act in a way which they consider in good faith Research and Development Activities and likely future will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
prospects ofthe Group are reviewed in the Strategic Aconflicts policy has been drawn up and aregister of Report on pages 5 to 23. conflicts and potential conflicts ismaintained.
Results and dividends Directors interests The results for the year are shown in the Consolidated The beneficial interests of the Directors in the Companys Statement of Income on page 78.
The Directors recommend share capital, all in fully paid up shares at 31 March 2014, a final dividend of 9.04p per ordinary share, which together are shown below.
with the interim dividend of 3.36p per ordinary share makes a total of 12.4p per ordinary share for the year Details of share options for the Executive 2013: 11.2p.
Subject to Shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 23October 2014 to Shareholders Directors are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 65. registered atclose of business on 26 September 2014.
Risks and uncertainties 2014 2013 The Board exercises proper and appropriate corporate Shares Shares governance forthe Group.
It ensures that there are Jennifer Allerton 1,000 effective systems of internal controls in place to manage Kevin Boyd 91,611 78,761 Shareholders interests and the Groups assets, including the assessment and the management of the risks towhich Mike Brady 2,500 2,500 the businesses are exposed, and to monitor and manage Jonathan Flint 205,803 194,236 thecompliance with all the legal requirements that affect Thomas Geitner the Groups worldwide business activities.
However, such Nigel Keen 126,580 126,580 systems are designed tomanage rather than eliminate the Jock Lennox 3,500 3,500 risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance No Director was beneficially interested in the shares of any against material misstatement or loss.
subsidiary company at any time during the year.
In the year to 31 March 2014 noDirector had a material interest in The Executive Directors report to the Board on changes any contract of significance with the Company or any of inthe business and in the external environment which its subsidiaries other than as described in the Directors mayaffect the risks which the Group faces.
The Executive Remuneration Report on page 47.
Since the year end, there Directors alsoprovide the Board with monthly financial have been no changes to the above shareholdings apart information.
Key performance indicators are reviewed from for Jonathan Flint and Kevin Boyd who participate in bythe Board quarterly.
the Oxford Instruments Share Incentive Plan and since the There are a number of risks and uncertainties which may year end have each increased their beneficial shareholding have a material effect on the Oxford Instruments Group.
These are described in Principal Risks on pages 16 to 17.
30 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information During the year to 31 March 2014 the issuedshare capital Insurance cover and Directors indemnities was increased by 0.6% with theissue of 334,005 ordinary For a number of years the Group has purchased insurance shares 2013: 750,107 following the exercise of options under to cover itsDirectors and Officers against their costs in the Companys share option schemes.
At 31 March 2014, the defending themselves inlegal proceedings taken against issued sharecapital of the Company was therefore 57,250,835 them in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting ordinary shares of 5p each.
Inconnection withthe Companys from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
In equity incentive plans, aseparately administered trust held addition, to the extent permitted by UK law, the Group 183,145 ordinary shares at 31March 2014 representing indemnifies its Directors and Officers for liabilities arising 0.3% of the total issued share capital of the Company.
No shares in the Company were acquired bythe Company Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover during the year 2013: nil.
Details of the share capital and forsituations where the Director has acted fraudulently options outstanding as at 31March 2014 are set outin ordishonestly.
Notes 11 and 21 respectively ofthe Financial Statements.
At this years Annual General Meeting, the Directors Share capital propose to: a renew the authority granted to them at last The Company only has one class of share capital which years AGM to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate comprises ordinary shares of 5p each.
All shares forming nominal value of one-third of the Companys issued share part of the ordinary share capital have the same rights capital and, where full pre-emption rights areapplied, andcarry one vote each.
There are no unusual restrictions upto an aggregate nominal value of two-thirds of the on the transfer of a share.
The full rights and obligations Companys issued share capital: b allot ordinary shares up attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, as well as to an aggregate nominal value of 5% of the Companys thepowers of the Directors, are set out in the Companys issued share capital without first offering them to existing Articles of Association, a copy of which is available on Shareholders: and c to buy back up to 10% of the Companys theCompanys website.
These can also be obtained from issued share capital.
Shareholders will be requested to Companies House or by writing to theCompany Secretary.
renew these authorities at the AGM anddetails of these resolutions are set out in the notice ofthemeeting.
Substantial shareholdings The following are beneficial interests of 3% ormore where the holding is direct or of 5%or more where the holding is indirect ofwhich theDirectors have been notified in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the Companys issued ordinary share capital, the only class ofvoting capital, at 3June2014: Direct Shares % of indirect 000 total BlackRock Indirect 6,282,922 11.0 Ameriprise Financial Indirect direct 4,983,663 8.7 Aberdeen Asset ManagersLimited Indirect 3,182,304 5.6 Sir MF and Lady KA Wood Direct 3,105,530 5.4 Baillie Gifford Indirect 2,917,516 5.1 The Capital Group Companies Indirect 2,232,800 3.9 Of which 285,813 shares 0.5% are held in Contracts for Difference which are disclosable under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 31 www.
com Report of the Directors continued Change of control arrangements Payment of suppliers The Group does not follow a standard payment practice There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter but agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions or terminate upon a change of control of the Company with each of its suppliers.
Payment is then made in accordance following a takeover, such as banking agreements and with these terms.
At31March 2014 trade creditors of the company share plans.
On a change of control, the Companys Company and the Groups UK subsidiaries were equivalent committed credit facilities may be cancelled bylenders by to 32 days 2013: 31 and 72days 2013: 70 of purchases giving not less than three days notice.
It is also possible respectively, based on the amounts invoiced bysuppliers that pension plan funding arrangements would need to during the year and the amounts owed to trade creditors bechanged following a change of control if that resulted at the end of the year.
in a weakening of the employer covenant.
Charitable donations Corporate governance During the year, the Group made charitable donations The Board reviews its work on corporate governance of2,596 2013:3,145.
There have been no political intheCorporate Governance Review on pages 33 to 40. donations during the year.
Financial risk management Fixed assets Details of the Groups financial risk management objectives Whilst the market value of some fixed assets may differ and policies, including the exposure to price, credit and liquidity from book value, the Directors believe that the differences risk are set out in Note 19 to the Financial Statements.
Diversity and inclusion Disclosure of information to auditor The Board recognises that its employees are fundamental Pursuant to Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006 to the Groups success.
The Groups aim is to ensure there theDirectors who held office at the date of approval of are equal opportunities for all employees and that there is this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each an inclusive culture where differences are valued and people aware, there isno relevant audit information of which the are given the environment in which they can do their best Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has work.
The Corporate Responsibility Review on page 24 taken all the steps that he or she might reasonably have further describes how diversity and inclusion is managed been expected to have taken as a Director to make himself within Oxford Instruments.
or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of Greenhouse gas emissions thatinformation.
To meet the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 strategic and Directors Report Regulations 2013 CO 2 Annual General Meeting emissions are reported on aspart of our reporting on The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on greenhouse gas emissions in the Corporate Responsibility 9September 2014 is set out in a letter to Shareholders Review on page 24. together with explanatory notes relating to the resolutions.
Material events During the year, the external audit was put out to tender There were no material events since 31 March 2014 and Deloitte and  were invited to toreport.
tender alongside the incumbent firm, KPMG.
After careful consideration the Audit Committee decided to recommend By order of the Board tothe Board the re-appointment of KPMG.
TheBoard accepted the Audit Committees recommendation to re-appoint KPMG, notwithstanding the longevity of its Susan Johnson-Brett audittenure, and accordingly a resolution to re-appoint Company Secretary KPMG LLP as auditor and to authorise the Directors to 10 June 2014 setits remuneration will be proposed at the Annual GeneralMeeting.
32 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
