com Strategic Context Our tools and expertise now cross the boundaries of physics and biology Convergence is an increasingly important aspect Convergence gives the Group an opportunity totake of scientific research.
It is the merging of previously thetechnical tools and the disciplined design approach Watch Jonathan distinct areas of research and technology into a traditional to engineering and physics and apply them to Flint discuss the unified discipline that creates new scientific and life science research.
This provides the Group with a unique Groups strategy commercial opportunities.
opportunity to access a new set of customers who need available from towork at the molecular scale.
The use of techniques This new model is being adopted by many research September 2014 previously associated with the physical sciences, where institutions around the world in different forms.
oxford theGroup has great strength, in the biological sciences pastdecade has seen the emergence of interdisciplinary instruments.
com produces an important area of growth.
For example, the research areas such as nanobiology, bioinfomatics, strategyvideo convergence of nanotechnology and biotechnology engineered biomaterials and the human genome project.
Nano-Bio will leadto innovative advances in medicine, Inthese new fields the underlying research models energy production, agriculture, aerospace and manufacturing.
Thiscreates significant commercial Oxford Instruments acquisitions of Asylum in 2012, opportunities for Oxford Instruments as tools that were andAndor in the year justended, support this strategy once restricted toone discipline can now be utilised across ofextending our reach into analysis tools for a number ofresearch areas, increasing our addressable Nano-Bioresearch.
For example, the Andor Zyla sCMOS camera is atool used in both the life and physical science arenas.
Application areas include live-cell microscopy The convergence of the sciences and semiconductor analysis.
Oxford Instruments core markets and core Advances in information competencies are in the physical sciences arena.
technology, new materials, Sciences like physics and biology have previously imaging, and quantum physics, been separated but now they are moving closer have transformed physical science together and the boundaries are crossing.
Oxford Instruments has been the leading tool provider for this change.
These same advances are now beginning totransform the life sciences.
Nano-Bio Physics Biology Convergence offers new opportunities for our tools and systems 10 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 There are a number of cellularmechanisms that could potentially fail and lead to the formation ofcancerous cells andtumour development.
One of these important mechanisms is the cells ability to equally share its DNA between two daughter cells during cell division.
Using Andors Revolution XD system, researchers are investigating thefinedetail of microtubule alignment mechanisms in live cells, to better understand how these fail in the hope of finding atherapeutic treatment for cancer.
Revolution XG system A new level of cancerresearch One of the major benefits of the Revolution XD has todowiththe quickness of image acquisition at low intensity illumination.
Conventional confocal microscopy would not have allowed for acquisition of mitotic cells without severely impairing cellviability.
Dr Tatiana Moutinho dos Santos PhD, Molecular Genetics Lab, IBMC-INEB: Porto, Portugal Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 11
