Governance Board of Directors An expert team withstrong leadership 1 2 3 2014 has been a year of 4 5 execution and expansion.
Allan Leighton Member Chairman Allan was appointed a Non-executive Director in Previously he has held a wide range of public and A Audit & Risk Committee May 2011 and became Chairman on 21 June 2011. private company roles including President and R Remuneration Committee He is currently Non-executive Chair of The CEO of Pandora A S, CEO at ASDA, Chairman of N Nomination Committee Co-operative Group, Non-executive Director Royal Mail and Lastminute.
com, and Non-executive andChairman of Entertainment One Limited, Director of British Sky Broadcasting plc, Chairman of Office Retail Group Limited and DysonLimited and Scottish Power plc.
Matalan, and a Non-executive Director He is patron of Breast Cancer Care and has an ofBighams Limited.
honorary degree from Cranfield University and an Honorary Fellowship at the University of Lancaster 26 Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Financial statements A R N A R N 2.
Amanda Mesler Non-executive Director Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Director Pat was appointed a Non-executive Director Mike was appointed Chief Executive Officer on Amanda was appointed a Non-executive Director inFebruary 2005 and was Senior Independent 14December 2011, after nearly eight years as in September 2012.
She is a US citizen and is Director between May 2006 and November 2014.
In his role as CEO, also a Non-executive Director of Ensygnia, Mike is responsible for leading Paces global atechnology start-up.
She has over 36 years experience in the strategy.
As President of Pace Americas, Mike communications industry from senior roles in Previously she was the CEO of Business was responsible for the Companys businesses multinational internet and telecoms companies Consulting and an Executive Committee member inthe USA, Canada and Latin America LatAm.
toparticipating in technology company start-ups.
Prior to joining Logica, Amanda Mike was previously a Non-executive Director was a corporate officer and VP of Strategy and A founding partner and Chairman of the Cavell ofItron NASDAQ:ITRI, having been appointed in Organisation Design for Fortune 100, SYSCO.
Group, which specialises in operational consultancy January 2014 and resigning 31 December 2014.
IP and wireless technologies, she is also Chairman Prior to this Amanda was a senior partner of Penzias Ltd, a Board Adviser to the British Prior to joining Pace in 2004, Mike was CEO of atBearing Point Consulting formerly KPMG Standards Institute and a CEO Mentor with broadcasting company Digital Latin America DLA.
Consulting working out of Houston where she Merryck and Co. Pat is also a trustee of Finding Previously Mike spent eight years at Motorola in led a client portfolio including many leading oil Rhythms, a charity that works with music in prisons.
various senior management positions, including companies and spent time as the Global Leader Vice President of International Operations, and for Energy for EDS.
Her early career was with GE served in a variety of financial positions at as the Asia Pacific Market Manager.
A R N Allied-Signal, Inc. Mike holds a bachelors degree 5.
John Grant in accounting from Rider University and an MBA Non-executive Director A R N from Farleigh Dickinson University.
Mike Inglis John was appointed a Non-executive Director in Non-Executive Director August 2008 and became Senior Independent Mike was re-appointed a Non-executive Director in Director on 1 November 2014.
Mike was a non-executive director of executive career in a variety of senior international Pace plc from July 2008 until the Annual General Chief Financial Officer roles within the automotive industry and other Meeting in 2013, when he stepped down from the engineering businesses.
Mark Shuttleworth was appointed as Board in order to participate inthe Clipper Round ChiefFinancial Officer and joined the Board He was Chief Executive of Ascot plc between the World yacht race.
Prior to that, he was Group Currently a Non-executive Director of Advanced Finance Director of Lucas Industries plc Most recently, Mark served as the CFO of Emirates Micro Devices, Inc, Mike was formerly Chief subsequently Lucas Varity plc between 1992 Integrated Telecommunication Company PJSC, Commercial Officer of ARM Holdings until the end and 1996.
He previously held a number of senior known as du DU:UH.
He joined du in 2005 and of March 2013, having previously been EVP positions within Ford Motor Company inEurope was responsible for managing the financial and Processor Division and EVP Sales and Marketing.
business investment strategy of the start-up Before joining ARM, he worked inmanagement operator: leading the $660m IPO of the business John is a Non-executive Director of Melrose plc, consultancy with AT Kearney and held a number on the Dubai Financial Markets and building the MHP S. A. and Touch Bionics Ltd.
He is also of senior operational and marketing positions at business to a market capitalisation of $8bn and Chairman of the British Racing Drivers Club Ltd. Motorola.
He previously worked in semi-conductor revenues of $3bn.
sales, marketing, design and consultancy with Prior to du, Mark was CFO of Qatar Telecom Texas Instruments, Fairchild and BIS Macintosh QTel now Ooredoo, ORDS:YH from 2003 to and gained hisinitial industrial experience with GEC 2005.
Mark has also served as Group Finance Telecommunications.
Director of European Telecom PLC, Group Finance Director at ORA Telecom Ltd and held a number of senior finance roles at Sensormatic Electronics Corporation Inc. Mark qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Lubbock Fine and later worked at Price Waterhouse as a Senior Manager in Corporate Restructuring.
Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27
