Governance Directors Report Directors Report The directors present their report together with Disclaimer Dividend the audited consolidated financial statements The purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts The directors recommend the payment of a for the year ended 31 December 2014. is to provide information to the members of the final dividend of 4.75 cents per ordinary share Company.
The Annual Report and Accounts have 2013: 3.66 cents to be paid on 3 July 2015 to Principal activities been prepared for, and only for, the members of shareholders on the register at the close of The Groups principal activities are the the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
An interim dividend development, design and distribution of The Company, its directors and employees, of 2.25 cents per ordinary share was paid technologies, products and services for agents or advisers do not accept or assume during the year 2013: 1.83 cents.
managed subscription television, telephone responsibility to any other person to whom this Dividends will be paid in Sterling equivalent to and broadband services and the provision of document is shown or into whose hands it 3.093 pence per ordinary share.
This is based engineering design and software applications may come and any such responsibility or on an exchange rate of $1.5358, being the to its customers.
The Group also provides liability is expressly disclaimed.
rate applicable on 2 March 2015. related support services including systems The Annual Report and Accounts contain integration and customer care centres.
certain forward-looking statements with Going concern respect to the operations, performance The following statement has been included Strategic report andfinancial condition of the Group.
By their inaccordance with the Listing Rules: based The Companies Act 2006 requires us to nature, these statements involve uncertainty onnormal business planning and control present a fair review of the business during the since future events and circumstances can procedures, the directors have a reasonable year to 31 December 2014 and of the position cause results and developments to differ expectation that the Company and the Group of the Group at the end of the financial year materially from those anticipated.
The have adequate resources including committed along with a description of the principal risks forward-looking statements reflect knowledge finance facilities to continue in operational and uncertainties faced.
and information available at the date of preparation existence for the foreseeable future.
For this of this Annual Report and Accounts and the reason, the directors continue to adopt the The Strategic Report can be found Company undertakes no obligation to update going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
onpages 1 to 25 these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be Share capital construed as a profit forecast.
Corporate governance statement Details of the Companys share capital including The Disclosure and Transparency Rules changes for the year, the rights attaching to Financial results require certain information to be included the ordinary shares and restrictions on their inacorporate governance statement in the The consolidated income statement for the transfer are contained in Note 21 and are Directors Report.
Information that fulfils the year is set out on page 50 and the results are incorporated in this report by reference.
requirements of the corporate governance summarised in the Financial Review on pages statement can be found in the Corporate 20 to 22.
The profit before tax was $175.7 million Political donations Governance Report on pages 28 to 30 and 2013: $130.8 million and the profit before tax, No political donations were made in the year.
isincorporated into this Directors Report interest, exceptional items and amortisation byreference.
ofother intangibles was $241.1 million 2013:$193.6 million.
44 Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Financial statements Significant shareholdings The Company has been notified in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests of 3% or more in its ordinary share capital as at 31 December 2014: % of issued Number of shares share capital Prudential plc group of companies 31,033,554 9.85 Old Mutual 18,877,494 5.99 David Hood and related family trusts 16,117,559 5.12 BlackRock Inc 15,776,866 5.01 Schroders plc 14,276,376 4.53 Norges Bank 12,450,919 3.95 Save for the above, the Company has not been notified, as at 31 December 2014, of any material interest of 3% or more or any non-material interest exceeding 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Directors indemnify the directors of the Company and utilise this authority during the year.
The authority the former directors of the Company who held for the Company to purchase its own shares The names of the current directors of the Company office during the year, to the extent permitted expires at the conclusion of the Annual General are shown on pages 26 to 27.
All those listed by law and by the Companys Articles of Meeting in 2015 and a resolution to renew it held office throughout the year except for Mike Association, in respect of all liabilities incurred will be proposed at that meeting.
Inglis who was appointed 13 March 2014 and inconnection with the performance of their Mark Shuttleworth who joined the Company duties as a director of the Company or its Greenhouse gas emissions on12 January 2015.
During the year Roddy subsidiaries.
Copies of these indemnities Murray resigned 27July 2014 also held office All disclosures concerning the Groups areavailable for review at the Companys as a director.
greenhouse gas emissions as required to be registered office.
disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 All the directors will retire at the forthcoming Strategic Report and Directors Report Information provided by the Company pursuant Annual General Meeting of the Company and Regulations 2013 are contained in the to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is offer themselves for re-election.
The Board has Corporate Responsibility Report forming part publicly available via the regulatory information determined that all of the directors continue to ofthe Strategic Report on pages 23 to 25. services and on our website www.
make a very effective contribution to the Board and demonstrate a high level of commitment.
The consent of the Board is required in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities Details of the executive directors service contracts event that an executive director wishes to The directors are responsible for preparing and the non-executive directors letters of accept an external appointment.
It has been theAnnual Report and the group and parent appointment are disclosed in the Remuneration the practice of the Company to permit a director company financial statements in accordance Policy.
No director had a significant contract, to retain non-executive fees arising from any with applicable law and regulations.
other than a service contract or contract for such appointment.
Mike Pulli received fees services with any member of the Group at any of$167,374 in cash and equity in the year Company law requires the directors to prepare time during the year.
Further details relating asanon-executive director of Itron, Inc. group and parent company financial statements tothe appointment, removal and powers of for each financial year.
Under that law they are directors are contained in Note 21 and are Authority to purchase own shares required to prepare the group financial statements incorporated in this report by reference.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU At the Annual General Meeting in 2014 the and applicable law and have elected to prepare As at the date of this report, indemnities which Company was authorised by shareholders to the parent company financial statements are qualifying third party indemnity provisions purchase up to 47,107,953 of its own ordinary onthe same basis.
under the Companies Act 2006 are in place shares, representing 15% of it issued share under which the Company has agreed to capital as at March 2014.
The Company did not Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Governance Directors Report continued The directors are responsible for the maintenance We consider the annual report and accounts, Statement of Directors Responsibilities and integrity of the corporate and financial taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and continued information included on the Companys website.
understandable and provides the information Under company law the directors must not Legislation in the UK governing the preparation necessary for shareholders to assess the approve the financial statements unless they and dissemination of financial statements may Groups position and performance, business are satisfied that they give a true and fair view differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that By Order of the Board Responsibility statement of the period.
In preparing each of the group and directors in respect of the annual parent company financial statements, Anthony Dixon thedirectors are required to: financial report Company Secretary We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: R select suitable accounting policies and 3 March 2015 then apply them consistently: R the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of R make judgements and estimates that accounting standards, give a true and arereasonable and prudent: fairview of the assets, liabilities, financial R state whether they have been prepared position and profit or loss of the Company inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted and the undertakings included in the bythe EU: and consolidation taken as a whole: and R prepare the financial statements on the R the strategic report includes a fair review going concern basis unless it is inappropriate ofthe development and performance of to presume that the group and the parent thebusiness and the position of the issuer company will continue in business.
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together The directors are responsible for keeping with a description of the principal risks adequate accounting records that are sufficient anduncertainties that they face.
to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable Each of the persons who is a director as accuracy at any time the financial position atthedate of this report confirms that: ofthe parent company and enable them to R So far as the director is aware, there is ensure that its financial statements comply norelevant audit information of which the with the Companies Act 2006.
They have Companys auditors are unaware: and general responsibility for taking such steps asare reasonably open to them to safeguard R The director has taken all the steps that he the assets of the group and to prevent and or she ought to have taken as a director in detect fraud and other irregularities.
order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Under applicable law and regulations, the that the Companys auditors are aware directors are also responsible for preparing a ofthat information.
Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
46 Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
