Strategic report Our strategy Our strategy In November 2011, the Company laid out a clear Strategic Plan that aimed to develop a distinctive, scalable and profitable technology solutions provider to PayTV and Broadband industries by growing a broader platform across hardware, software and services.
We have continued to evolve and deliver against this Plan, within which there are three key objectives: Significant progress has been made in 5 R Underlying operating costs, excluding the Continue to improving the efficiency and effectiveness Networks SBU and the capitalisation and of the business.
As the major initiatives amortisation of development expenditure, transform which commenced in 2012 continue to reduced by $19.3m 7.4% in 2014 due to deliver tangible benefits, a cost-focused further efficiency programmes across the coreeconomics discipline and high level of accountability business.
Whilst reducing underlying operating is now ingrained across Pace and has expenses, Pace has continued to invest been implemented in the newly acquired further in Software and Services and Transform Networks business.
Maintain R Application of Pace efficiency and effectiveness principles to the Networks Widen out business enabled targeted cost and working capital synergies tobe achieved ahead ofplan.
Pace was reconfirmed as the market R Record PayTV Consumer Premise Equipment Maintain PayTV leader in PayTV hardware: global number CPE revenue in H2 2014 only partially offset 6 7 one in Set-top boxes, Media Servers aweaker H1 2014 resulting in a 4.8% revenue hardware leadership 8 andAdvanced Telco Gateways.
R STB and Media Server revenues wereup 1.2% to $2,003.5m in 2014 2013: $1,979.6m, driven largely by high demand in H2 2014 Transform following a number of major launches across all regions.
Maintain R The move to Media Servers and whole home solutions is continuing at speed Widen out across the globe with over 27% of Paces shipments in the STB and Media Server.
Pace has built on the momentum of 2013 R Pace achieved a 231.1% increase Widening out with wins across all areas ofour software 2013:5.4% increase innon-CPE revenue and services offerings and good progress to $376.8m 2013: $113.8m due tothe on product and customer project launches.
R Revenues in the Networks Strategic Business Unit SBU have been strong, reflecting cable operators need for increased Transform bandwidth and Pace Networks product set being an efficient way to upgrade network Maintain infrastructure.
Networks delivered astrong performance in 2014 and further progress Widen out is expected in 2015.
08 Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The various components of the transform core R Cash generation was strong throughout economics stream of the Strategic Plan are theyear: free cash flow was $204.0m now well embedded across the Company and 2013: $209.0m due to further realignment are delivering significant financial and ofworking capital and focused cash operational benefits.
Since the completion of believes significant opportunities remain for theacquisition of Networks for aheadline further improvement and will pursue areas consideration of $310m on 6January 2014 ofinefficiency and will relentlessly strive to pro forma debt of $279.2m, net debt has continually improve operating effectiveness been reduced by $186.1m 66.7% to achieve across all areas of the business.
a net debt of $93.1m at31 December 2014 net cash at 31December 2013: $33.0m.
5 See note 31 for a reconciliation of underlying operating costs.
category being Media Servers and related marketdemand remains strong for high R Gateway revenues were down 36.2% to client devices.
In the year, Pace announced performance Residential Gateways from $239.7m in 2014 2013: $375.8m due to Media Server wins and deployments witha Service Providers to effectively deliver high reduced demand for legacy products in number of customers including BeInSports, quality double and triple-play services.
However, the launch of a number Comcast, Foxtel and Liberty Global.
We of new products enabled a 110.9% increase 6 By volume 2013 IHS Set-Top Box Market have a strong Media Server pipeline and in revenue in H2 2014 compared to H1 2014.
Monitor Q1 Q2 2014. anticipate increased demand across the Wins were achieved with customers including 7 By volume 2013 IHS Set-Top Box Market globe in 2015 and beyond.
AT&T, GVT and a number of Independent Monitor Q1 Q2 2014.
Operating Companies IOCs in North R Demand for traditional STBs remains 8 By value 2013 .
In addition, Pace launched strong: in the year, Pace achieved next Subs-Mkt-Fcst.
arange of DOCSIS 3.0 Cable Gateways generation hardware wins at a number of inthe North American market, our first longstanding tier one customers, including development in this growing market.
AT&T, Net Brazil, Oi, Sky Italia, Tata Sky TheCompany believes the overall and Zon Optimus.
The Elements software platform including R Software and Services revenues were R The ECO Service Management Platform Titanium Conditional Access is currently down 1.4% to $112.2m 2013: $113.8m as isnow managing over 34.0m devices being used by over 9.3m subscribers an increase in revenue from Elements and 2013: 29.8m, a 14.1% increase in the last 2013: 6.9m, a 34.8% increase in the last ECO software products and the Customer twelve months.
New wins include Foxtel, twelve months.
In addition to shipping over Care business were offset by declines in Frontier Communications and Logic 5m Reference Design Kit RDK compliant legacy software contracts.
These wins build on devices, Paces role at the forefront of astrong global customer footprint that R The Pace Elements software platform theRDK initiative was reaffirmed with the includes AT&T, BSkyB, Telmex and Telstra.
continues to gain traction as part of announcement that the Elements Software anadvanced integrated solution with Platform now has full RDK compatibility.
anumber of wins for deployment in 2015 and the launch of the whole home iQ3 solution at Foxtel, Paces first integrated solution with a tier one service provider.
Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09 Strategic report Markets Market dynamics Global digital PayTV market revenue The markets which Pace serve continue R Subscriber growth beyond CAGR from 2014 to 2018 to remain strong: global digital PayTV maturemarkets: In emerging markets, revenue and subscribers are at record digital PayTV subscriber growth is still levels and a Compound Annual Growth strong with over 10% subscriber CAGR 9 9 Rate CAGR of 6% for revenue and 7% predicted from 2014 to 2018.
This growth 6% for subscribers is expected between 2014 isdriven by a number of factors such as and 2018.
Underlying the strength of the demographic transition, introduction of PayTV PayTV market are a number of key into greenfield markets, analogue to digital Global digital PayTV market subscriber dynamics, both from an operator transition, changing market regulation and growth CAGR from 2014 to 2018 andconsumer perspective: increasing consumer demand for high-quality video entertainment.
With our deep in-market R Operator consolidation: The rate of PayTV coverage and capability, a global scale and 7% and telecoms operator consolidation over broad portfolio of products and services the past 12 months, both rumoured and including integrated solutions Pace hardware, realised, is unprecedented.
These significant software and conditional access designed investments into the PayTV space reflect for emerging market service providers, Pace is Operator consolidation the strength of and confidence in the PayTV well placed to support service providers in anopportunity forPace model, and are likely to continue to reshape these markets during this growth period.
the industry landscape for many years to come.
Each of the transactions have specific strategic R Whole home and Media Servers rationale but a number of general strategic becoming the norm: The technology aims have been publicly stated.
These include: refresh cycle to Media Servers continues 10% greater scale, benefiting programming atpace across the industry with over 5m costs and service and technology innovation: devices shipped globally in 2013 and the subscriber growth inemergingmarkets provision of a broader offer of services: and total size of the market predicted to grow enabling the larger combined entities to 23.4% from 2014 to 2018 CAGR to over 9 compete more effectively in an increasingly $4.6bn.
A Media Server combines the crowded and competitive marketplace.
functionality of the STB and the Gateway, These enlarged service providers will aim to augmenting traditional broadcast with 14m offer better, more innovative and engaging IP-enabled services and enabling video Media Servers and thin client devices services to their customers supported by the content to be distributed around the shipped by Pace around the world in very best technology, with higher expectations home:a key component of the move thepast 3 years across more than and demands on their technology vendors that toTVEverywhere.
The Media Server 15service providers only the largest, most innovative and diversified product segment is evolving to become the companies such as Pace can provide.
main hub of the home, enabling any data connectivity video, voice, broadband, home automation, etc.
around the home with both operator-provided and consumer-purchased devices.
Pace has been widely acknowledged as a clear market leader in the Media Server segment, having shipped over 7 million Media Servers and over 7 million thin client devices over the last three years, with wins and deployments for more than 15service providers around the world.
10 Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Demand for high-speed data growing R Rapidly evolving advanced user isincreasing at a significant rate: atasignificant rate experiences: As communications and globalInternet traffic is predicted to reach entertainment services converge and 14 gigabytes GB per capita by 2018, up 10 wemove to an always-connected world, from5 GB per capita in 2013.
To respond increasingly technology-aware consumers to this demand and compete in highly 180% are demanding ever more advanced and competitive markets, service providers need growth to 14GB per capita rapidly evolving user experiences from their to upgrade their network capacity in a quick, from2013to2018 Service Providers.
TV Everywhere, Ultra effective and cost efficient manner.
Aurora, High Definition UHD and great in-home one of the largest suppliers of Optical wireless connectivity are three examples Transport and Access Network solutions, ofadvanced user experiences that are enables service providers to cost-efficiently resulting in technology change and faster increase network capacity whilst minimising 34m refresh cycles.
With TV Everywhere, service disruption to customers, saving on power, providers are marrying the best of the Over space and operating expenses and leveraging devices managed by Pace the Top OTT experiences with the great existing network investments.
content and support model of the traditional R Supporting the increasingly complex broadcast offering, enabling consumers to connected home: As service providers watch what they want to watch, whenever deliver more services to consumers and and wherever they want to watch it.
The 6m the number of connected devices in the expected emergence of UHD video, over home proliferates, the connected home calls handled per annum by Pace 60 million UHD televisions predicted to be continues to become increasingly more onbehalf of our customers 9 shipped in 2018 24% of total shipments, complex.
With the emergence of the brings not only a far greater picture resolution, Internet of Things it is estimated that in but a wider range of colours and faster refresh 2020, the average broadband-connected of picture resulting in a far more immersive 11 home will have over 50 connected devices.
Consumers As this complexity increases, the need for now expect to be able to access all their the service providers to be able to effectively services at any time on their in-home wireless and cost-efficiently support the consumer network.
To enable this, service providers becomes greater.
Through our ECO Service are rolling out advanced residential gateways Management Platform and next generation with next generation wireless network customer care centres, Pace manages over technologies such as Wi-Fi 802.11ac that 34 million devices and handles 6 million give greater coverage and increased bandwidth calls per annum on behalf of over 20 to the consumer.
With a strong track record service providers across the world.
as a technology innovator for the PayTV industry, Pace is at the forefront of supporting These dynamics are driving increased investment service providers to develop and deliver by service providers to deliver the best networks, these rapidly evolving user experiences the best user experiences and the best service totheir consumers.
experience they can to their end users.
As one of the leading providers of technology solutions R Bandwidth, bandwidth and more to the PayTV industry with a blue-chip customer bandwidth: With increasing numbers base, strong global footprint, broad portfolio of ofconnectable devices, growing usage products and services, the Board believes that ofvideo everywhere and other data Pace is strongly positioned to capitalise on these intensive applications such as wi-fi offload, major industry dynamics over the next 3-5 years.
consumer demand for high-speed data 10 Cisco Visual Networking Index VNI, 2014 11 OECD 2013 Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11
