STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL Our prime focus is to engage with clients, retailers, merchants and consumers across a multiCashless parking at channel payment spectrum.
This strategic evolution recognises that consumers demand increasing 155,000 parking spaces access and convenience and that clients need trusted partners to simplify the complexity of multiin City of Paris channel payments and services.
The City of Paris has awarded a partnership of PayByPhone and In order to increase focus on our offer, we have combined PayByPhone and our internet payments VINCI Park the contract to launch cashless parking for 155,000 into a new Mobile and Online business, which brings together our highly successful consumer parking spaces, the largest in the facing mobile apps and services with our deep expertise in card not present payment processing, world by number of spaces.
Initially helping web merchants to transact with their customers across all digital interfaces.
available in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th arrondisements in 2014, We have also refreshed our brand to create a dynamic identity, which works well in all channels PayByPhone will be extended to and ensures that the full breadth of our proposition is conveyed to clients, beyond any individual residential and business parking channel or service which attracted them originally.
areas and to all other areas of the city by the end of 2015.
In all the vertical sectors in which we specialise energy, telecoms & media, financial, gaming, PayByPhone was the first phone public sector, parking & transport and retail the nature of service delivery is being transformed parking payment service in France, away from restricted access to fully integrated platforms offering multiple touch points.
in Issy-les-Moulineaux, and is now On PayPoint platforms, payments will flow as part of the customer service experience as a available in more than 30 cities consequence of, rather than as an interruption to, the consumers choices.
Integrated service across the country, including the delivery can also extend to fulfilment through Collect, where appropriate.
Since autumn 2013, travellers in Ile fide France on An example of this evolution is the advent of smart metering for energy companies, which any of the 3,000 Taxis Bleus have will significantly expand the prepayment sector in which we are market leader, but will require been able to use their smartphones flexibility beyond retail cash payments by extension into mobile and online channels as well.
to pay for their taxis on their PayByPhone account.
PayPoint is well placed to deliver these multi-channel solutions.
The successful bid for central Also, our market leadership in mobile parking gives us a strong platform to extend into broader Paris follows other successes urban mobility solutions.
For example, in Nice, we also handle payments for bike and electric during the year in PayByPhones vehicle hire and public transport schemes through a city-wide passport application.
Mass key markets of the UK Lambeth, transportation schemes will extend demand for retail cash solutions.
Southwark, Chelmsford and Exeter and the USA Seattle, It follows that, to stay ahead in our chosen markets, we need to engage clients across this broader Massachusetts Bay Transport multi-channel scope.
In addition to our core payment expertise, we bring consumer insight to our solutions for clients.
Helping retailers become We have created a number of highly popular and heavily-used consumer services throughout our more profitable history.
Across each of the retail, mobile and online channels, we handle millions of transactions with During the year, PayPoint a value of billions of pounds, demonstrating our ability to create and deliver successful large scale introduced the single daily consumer payment schemes in partnership with our clients and directly.
We aim to use our consumer settlement system for retail insight to continue to add value to our client offers and, where appropriate, to build our own direct payment services.
In a significant propositions, enabling registered customers to benefit from a broad range of PayPoint services.
shift from having separate collections and payments to and from retailers for each of its In summary, our multi-channel delivery builds through three levels: products and services, PayPoint now collects or pays a net amount 1.
Core payments and services wherever you see the PayPoint logo simplified multi-channel each day, by deducting amounts consumer propositions for clients paid out through services, such as CashOut, the Simple Payment service, ATM withdrawals and 2.
Product and service diversification using our vertical market expertise, to maintain and extend Western Union receive transactions, our differentiation from the amounts paid in via the PayPoint terminal.
Generating additional shareholder value through services building on our consumer insight retailer to deposit the net amount owed to PayPoint into their bank each day.
Because of the level of We already provide services in the UK & Ireland, USA, France, Canada, Romania, Switzerland, charges that retailers pay on each Australia and for multi-national merchants.
We aim to extend our international reach.
Our Mobile transaction to deposit into or make and Online channel is international by its nature and this will continue and widen.
Our Retail payments from their bank account, Payments and Services are based in selected domestic markets.
We are ready to consider further net settlement is able to save our international retail expansion, building on our successful experiences in Romania.
retailers hundreds of pounds each year on bank charges.
In countries where we offer retail networks, we increase retail yield through delivering and extending a portfolio of retail services, further demonstrating the success of our product and While retailers enjoy the benefits service diversification.
of lower banking costs and extra sales from recycling the cash they take through PayPoint, single We recognise that many businesses are investing in mobile and online solutions and that success daily settlement brings additional will only come from those who really understand the consumer, can be trusted to deliver by benefits to retailers, particularly in the client and have a strongly differentiated and relevant offer.
We believe that we have these cash handling.
attributes through our unique strength across traditional retail and newer digital channels, our ability to bring new popular B2B2C services to market, our proven technology and our pedigree in building and operating successful services at scale.
Further information about our business model can be found at the beginning of the annual report in the section entitled Our business and should be considered as part of the strategic report.
