OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 4 Governance 85 PARt 2 SUmmARY OF REmUNERAtION POlIcY Introduction to summary of remuneration policy articulated in the policy that is, in exceptional or genuinely unforeseen circumstances.
The committee The companys policy on directors remuneration was considers that these circumstances would arise highly approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting infrequently, if at all, in the lifetime of the policy.
We issued an RNS statement of further committee would regard reliance on this discretion as a information on the remuneration policy on 9April 2014, matter of utmost seriousness and, in relation to our stated to clarify the use of the committees discretion over obligation to consult in advance with major shareholders, certain elements of remuneration in exceptional would not proceed unless there was clear consensus in circumstances.
Further, the committee To help shareholders understand the context of would ensure that the value of the remuneration remuneration practice reported in the annual arrangement put in place in reliance on this discretion remuneration report that follows, and specifically the would fall within the normal limit as stated in the policy limits applied to directors remuneration, we have for the element of remuneration to which the included below some key points and a summary of arrangement relates.
pertinent sections of the remuneration policy for As part of the approved policy, the committee also has information only.
For further detail, please refer to the discretion to award base salary increases, allowances and full remuneration policy and the clarification statement benefits, and long-term incentive plan awards in excess of on the Governance page of the companys website at the normal maximum limits to current or new directors.
com governance As clarified in the RNS statement, this discretion will Scope of policy only be exercised in exceptional circumstances other The policy applies to executive directors, the chairman than in the case of increases in the cost of benefits that and non-executive directors.
are outside Pearsons control and changes in benefit providers.
Again, Pearson would consult with major Reference is also made to the remuneration policy for shareholders before exercising any such discretion and other members of the Pearson executive currently such exercise would be limited by reference to the 12 innumber who are not directors but who fall within safeguards described above, including only proceeding the committees remit.
where there was clear consensus in favour among those Duration of policy consulted.
In these circumstances, the committee would The policy took effect on 25 April 2014 and is expected to ensure that the maximum value of the remuneration last until the next binding vote on our remuneration policy arrangement put in place in reliance on this discretion did which at present is planned for the 2017 AGM.
not exceed a margin of 25% over the normal maximum limit for the element in question as stated in the policy.
Use of discretion The committee has avoided, where possible, including legacy arrangements general discretions in the policy table.
However, Given the long-term nature of some of Pearsons exceptional or genuinely unforeseen circumstances may remuneration structures including obligations under arise in the future and in those circumstances it may be service contracts, incentive plans and pension in shareholders interests for Pearson to put in place arrangements a number of pre-existing obligations remuneration arrangements that are outside the terms remained in place at the time that the new policy became of the policy.
If this happens, the committee will be effective, including obligations that are grandfathered by permitted to implement remuneration arrangements that virtue ofbeing in force at 27 June 2012.
Pearsons policy is it considers appropriate in the circumstances.
In these to honour all pre-existing obligations, commitments or circumstances, Pearson would consult in advance with other entitlements that were entered into before the major shareholders before it does so and would explain effective date of this policy.
the exercise of this discretion in the following years Summary of remuneration policy table directors remuneration report.
For more information on how remuneration is operated, As clarified in the RNS statement of further information please refer to the full remuneration policy on the on the remuneration policy on 9 April 2014, this discretion Governance page of the companys website at would only be used in the very narrow circumstances www.
com governance 86 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Report on directors remuneration continued PARt 2 SUmmARY OF REmUNERAtION POlIcY Element of Exceptional limit as clarified in RNS remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Performance conditions Normal limit statement of 9 April 2014 Base salary Helps to recruit, reward and None, although performance of both Base salary increases are Up to 25% over normal limit in retain.
the company and the individual are not ordinarily more than specific individual situations including Reflects competitive market taken into account when determining 10% perannum.
internal promotions and material level, role, skills, experience an appropriate level of base salary changes to the business or the role.
Allowances Help to recruit and retain.
Total value not ordinarily in excess Up to 25% over normal limit in andbenefits Reflect the local competitive of15% of base salary inanyyear.
specific individual situations including market.
changes in individual circumstances such as health status and changes inthe role such as relocation.
In excess of 25% over normal limit in thecase of increases in the cost ofbenefits that are outside of Pearsons control and changes inbenefit providers.
Retirement Help to recruit andretain.
As set out in approved None.
benefits Recognise long-term remuneration policy.
Annual Motivate achievement of The committee has the discretion to Overall limit 200% ofbase salary.
select the performance measures, 2015 maximum opportunity is Focus on key targets and relative weightings from 180% for the chief executive and financialmetrics.
no more than 170% for other Reward individual Funded by Pearson global annual executive directors and members contribution.
financial results and weighted: of the Pearson executive.
60% on adjusted earnings pershare 20% on sales 20% on operating cash flow.
Pay-outs take into account individual performance against personal objectives.
long-term Help to recruit, reward The committee will determine the Maximum face value of 400% of Up to 25% over normal limit in incentives and retain.
performance measures, weightings base salary.
exceptional circumstances, for Drive long-term earnings, and targets governing an award of Other than in exceptional example, for retention purposes share price growth and restricted shares prior to grant to circumstances on recruitment, orto reflect particular business value creation, and align ensure continuing alignment with it is the companys normal policy situations.
The discretion to interests of executives strategy and to ensure the targets not to award restricted shares to award restricted shares without and shareholders.
executive directors and other performance conditions to executive Encourage long-term Awards vest subject to the following members of the Pearson executive directors will not be used other shareholding and performance conditions: one-half on without performance conditions.
than where it is appropriate to commitment to company.
earnings per sharegrowth: one-third compensate a new director on a Link managements longon return on invested capital ROIC : like-for-like basis for incentives term reward and wealth one-sixth on relative total shareholder foregone at a previous employer.
Performance tested over three years.
Total shareholder return TSR is the return to shareholders from any growth in Pearsons share priceand reinvested dividends over the performance period.
For long-term incentive awards, TSR is measured relative to the constituents of the FTSE World Media Index over a three-year period.
Companies that drop out of the index are normally excluded, i. e. only companies in the index for the entireperiod are counted.
Share price is averaged overthree months at the start and end of the performance period.
Dividends are treated as reinvested on the ex-dividend date, in line with the Datastream methodology.
The vesting of shares basedon relative TSR is subject to the committee satisfying itself that the recorded TSR is a genuine reflection of the underlying financial performance ofthebusiness.
Return on invested capital ROIC is adjusted operatingprofit less cash tax expressed as a percentageof gross invested capital net operating assets plus gross goodwill.
Adjusted earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the adjusted earnings attributable to equity shareholders of the company by the weighted averagenumber of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding any ordinary shares purchased by the company and held in trust see note 8 of the financial statements for a detailed description of adjusted earnings per share.
EPS growth is calculated using thepoint-to-point method.
This method compares theadjusted EPS in the companys accounts forthe financial year ended prior to the grant date with the adjusted EPS for the financial year ending three years later and calculates the implicit compound annual growth rate over the period.
OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 4 Governance 87 PARt 2 SUmmARY OF REmUNERAtION POlIcY Non-executive directors and chairman Pay and performance scenario analysis Non-executive director remuneration has been The remuneration policy approved by shareholders in designed to attract and retain high calibre individuals, 2014 required a scenario chart in the format set out with appropriate experience or industry relevant skills, below for 2014 remuneration.
Although not required, byoffering market competitive fee levels.
the company has updated the scenario charts below so as to apply to 2015 remuneration.
The structure of non-executive directors fees with effect from 1 May 2014 is as follows: Consistent with its policy, the committee places considerable emphasis on the performance-linked Director Fee elements, i. e. annual and long-term incentives.
Non-executive director 70,000 The chart below shows what each director couldexpect Chairmanship of audit committee 27,500 to receive in 2015 under different performancescenarios, Chairmanship of remuneration committee 22,000 based on the following definitions of performance: Chairmanship of reputation & Performance scenario Elements of remuneration and assumptions responsibility committee 10,000 Maximum 2015 base salary: allowances, Membership of audit committee 15,000 benefits, and retirement benefits at Membership of remuneration committee 10,000 thesame percentage of base salary Membership of reputation & asin2014: maximum individual responsibility committee 5,000 annualincentive as per policy: maximum value of 2014 long-term Senior independent director 22,000 incentive award The total fees payable to the non-executive directors are Target 2015 base salary: allowances, subject to the limit set out in the articles of association benefits, and retirement benefits at ofthe company currently 750,000 and are increased the same percentage of base salary byordinary resolution from time to time.
asin2014: target individual annual The chairmans fees remain unchanged at 500,000 incentive as per policy: target value per year.
of2014 long-term incentive award Towers Watsons independent For more information on non-executive directors assessment of the expected value remuneration, please refer to the full remuneration policy of the award, i. e. the net present on the Governance page of the companys website at value taking into account all www.
com governance the conditions Minimum 2015 base salary: allowances, benefits, and retirement benefits at thesame percentage of base salary asin 2014: no annual or long-term incentives Note The value of long-term incentives does not take into account dividend awards that are payable on the release of restricted shares nor any changes inshare price.
On this basis, the relative weighting of fixed and performance related remuneration and the absolute sizeof the remuneration packages for the chief executive and the chief financial officer as represented by the current incumbent are as follows on the nextpage.
88 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Report on directors remuneration continued PARt 2 SUmmARY OF REmUNERAtION POlIcY contribution arrangement with company contributions Chief executive o cer 000 not exceeding those set in our approved policy on Maximum 20% 25% 55% 5,660 the Governance page of the companys website at Target 31% 21% 48% 3,738 www.
com governance but would have regard Minimum 100% 1,158 forthe recruits existing arrangements, the market norms Base salary, allowances, Annual incentive in the home country and the existing pension vehicles Chief financial o cer 000 benets and pension Long-term incentives available within the company.
Maximum 21% 27% 52% 3,479 Target 33% 21% 46% 2,254 In making any decision on any aspect of the remuneration Minimum 100% 738 package for a new recruit, the committee would balance shareholder expectations, current best practice and the Base salary, allowances, Annual incentive benets and pension Long-term incentives requirements of any new recruit and would strive not to pay more than is necessary to achieve the recruitment.
We will continue to review the mix of fixed and The committee would give full details of the terms of performance-linked remuneration on an annual basis, the package of any new recruit in the next annual consistent with our overall policy.
Recruitment Pearson expects any new chairman or non-executive director to be engaged on terms that are consistent The committee expects any new executive directors with the general remuneration principles outlined in the to be engaged on the same terms and to be awarded relevant sections of this policy.
However, in the case of variable remuneration within the same normal limits thechairman, the committee may consider it appropriate and subject to the same conditions as for the current to offer a remuneration package that differs from that of executive directors outlined in the policy.
As clarified the existing incumbent if that is necessary to attract the in the RNS statement of further information on the most capable candidate or to reflect the individuals remuneration policy on 9 April 2014, this applies other expectedduties.
than in the circumstances set out below where it is appropriate to take account of the terms of the new Further information on remuneration policy directors existing employment and or their personal For further information on the following aspects of the circumstances.
remuneration policy, please refer to the full remuneration The committee recognises that it cannot always policy and the RNS statement of further information predictaccurately the circumstances in which any on the remuneration policy on 9April 2014 on the newdirectors may be recruited.
The committee may Governance page of the companys website at determine that it is in the interests of the company www.
com governance andshareholders to secure the services of a Selection of performance measures and target setting particularindividual which may require the committee totake account of the terms of that individuals existing Legacy arrangements under the annual bonus share employment and or their personal circumstances.
matching plan Examples of circumstances in which the committee Remuneration policy for other employees expects it might need to do this are outlined in full in the remuneration policy on the Governance page of the Service contracts and termination provisions companys website at www.
com governance Employment conditions elsewhere in the company In light of the various legacy pension arrangements Executive directors non-executive directorships enjoyed by the incumbent executive directors, in determining the pension arrangements for any new Shareholder views recruit, the committee expects to offer a defined
