h g t n i w t OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORmANcE OUR SOcIAl ImPAct GOvERNANcE FINANcIAl StAtEmENtS e o k r r a G M & t c u d o T r e P c h n o P l r o h o g c a y r f c a h e i e t. r s s r e s e o R i R o m & N E n y A c a a N l M c O S F E i O R n A a Section 2 Our performance 27 Operating performance continued Geography Growth Sales Adjusted operating profit 746m 35m Revenues grew 1% in headline terms, despite the strength of sterling against key emerging market currencies: grew by 11% at CER, benefiting from the acquisition of Grupo Multi: and were down 1% in underlying terms, primarily due to the phasing of purchasing and a stronger School textbook adoption in South Africa in 2013.
Growing English Language Learning enrolments in China and college enrolments in Saudi Arabia and South Africa were offset by a smaller School textbook market in South Africa, and lower revenues in Brazil from Sistemas, and ELT and Higher Education textbooks.
Excluding the textbook impact in South Africa, revenues grew 4% in underlying terms.
Adjusted operating profit declined by 3m to 35m reflecting a benefit from the acquisition of Grupo Multi offset by a slower adoption year in South Africa, launch costs associated with our new vocational colleges and a contract provision in Saudi Arabia, and weaker revenues and restructuring costs in Brazil.
In our statutory results, we wrote down the balance sheet value of our Indian business by 77m largely reflecting the reduced value of online tutoring which was primarily focused on the US market.
Our new operating and reporting structure Growth.
Our growth markets are made up of Brazil, South Africa, China, India and other fast-growing economies.
Around one third of our employees now work in these countries.
learn more about Our operating structure on p7 n E T c P e E S s N r i a O U A l C e o t C a o r o h o p H r c r u e S o m C a n R e s o u, r l e a c c n g e s a e n L i F & e n t y a g r o o e r i p t e t r a h a o r LEARNER t C c g S i u H d E 28 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Operating performance continued Growth continued School Professional In South Africa, we performed well, competitively In Pearson English, good growth in direct delivery in maintaining our market share of the School textbook China and inside services in Brazil due to the acquisition market, but volumes declined significantly to more normal of Grupo Multi was partly offset by declines in learning levels following a large adoption year, and significant share services in Brazil and Mexico.
Global student registrations for MyEnglishLab grew In Brazil, enrolments in our Sistemas were down 3% to 15% to more than 460,000 with strong growth in 481,000 with growth in our public Sistemas NAME Latin America.
offset by declines in our private Sistemas as we combined We launched the Global Scale of English GSE, a new our three sales forces into one.
72% of the municipalities global standard for scoring English language proficiency that adopted NAME for lower secondary education on a precise, numeric, universal scale for businesses, showed improvement in their IDEB score, Brazils governments and academic institutions.
The scale is being federally established measure of educational quality.
embedded into all Pearson English products and services.
In India, DigiClass, our multimedia teaching solution is In China, English direct delivery enrolments grew at now installed in more than 26,000 classrooms, up more both Wall Street English WSE, up 2% to 66,000, and than 10% on 2013.
We partnered with IBM to further Global Education, up 7% to 117,000.
To support longaccelerate our deployment across the country.
term growth, we consolidated our ERP systems in China Higher Education and deployed a Salesforce.
We divested our online vocational training operations.
In South Africa, student enrolments in CTI MGI, our private network of higher education institutions, grew In Brazil, we completed the acquisition of Grupo Multi, by 15% to 13,400 across 13 campuses.
the largest provider of private language schools in Brazil.
We successfully integrated the business despite In Mexico, our fully accredited online university challenging market conditions and disruption caused partnership, UTEL, increased the number of students by the World Cup and Presidential elections.
enrolled from under 5,000 last year to more than 9,000 in 2014 as a result of improved consumer marketing efforts and better student retention.
In India, Higher Education revenues declined due to high levels of returns.
Digiclass, our multimedia teaching solution is Student enrolments in ctI mGI, our now installed in more than 26,000 classrooms universities across South Africa, grew in India, up more than 10% on 2013. by 15% to 13,400 across 13 campuses.
za OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 2 Our performance 29 Penguin Random House Pearson owns 47% of Penguin Random House, the first published 206 Sunday Times bestsellers 2013 pro forma: truly global consumer book publishing company.
Penguin 207, also enjoying outstanding sales of John Green, Random House was reported post-tax for the full year in along with the continued strength of Kinneys Wimpy 2014, compared to only the second half in 2013 following Kid franchise.
Key Adult titles included Browns Inferno, the combination of Penguin with Random House on Olivers Jamies Comfort Food and Girl Online by YouTube 1 July 2013, which resulted in a 7m reduction in the sensation Zoella, which became the fastest-selling debut contribution to operating income with an equal benefit UK novel ever.
Penguin Random House has a strong publishing Penguin Random House performed well in 2014, programme for 2015, including new titles from John benefiting particularly from a strong publishing Grisham, Jamie Oliver, Toni Morrison, James Patterson, performance in Childrens around the world and Sylvia Day, Lee Child, Nick Hornby, Harlan Coben, multi-million-copy film and television tie-ins.
Danielle Steel, John Sandford, Janet Evanovich, Gayle Forman, Emily Giffin and Nora Roberts, as well as film The US business published 760 New York Times print and tie-ins for 50 Shades of Grey, John Greens Paper Towns, ebook bestsellers in 2014 2013 full year pro forma: 790, the sequel to James Dashers The Maze Runner, and enjoying exceptional success in childrens publishing with Star Wars.
John Greens The Fault in our Stars 29 weeks at number one on the New York Times bestsellers list and nearly eight The integration of the two businesses is progressing million copies sold and four million copies of his backlist well and is on track to deliver net benefits in 2015 and titles, tie-in titles from Disneys Frozen film more than beyond.
Organisational structures have been aligned, 17 million copies sold, Dashners The Maze Runner, systems integration is well underway and consolidation Formans If I Stay and continued strong sales of LEGO of North American warehousing will be completed in movie tie-in titles.
Notable Adult titles included Grishams the first half of 2015.
In March 2014, Penguin Random Gray Mountain, Childs Personal, Monk Kidds The Invention House acquired Santillana Ediciones Generales, a leading of Wings, Folletts Edge of Eternity, Bushs 41: A Portrait of trade book publisher in Spain, Portugal and across My Father, along with strong film and television tie-ins, Latin America, consolidating its leadership in Spanish such as Flynns Gone Girl, Hillenbrands Unbroken, and language publishing.
Martinss Song of Fire and Ice novels.
The UK business we launched Global Scale of English, a new Student enrolments at wall Street English we completed the acquisition of global standard for scoring English language in China grew to 66,000 2%.
Grupo multi, the largest provider of proficiency to be embedded into all Pearson private language schools in Brazil.
com English products and services.
