70 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Accountability AUDIt cOmmIttEE Audit committee role Chairman Ken Hydon The committee has been established by the board stands down at primarily for the purpose of overseeing the accounting, 2015 AGM financial reporting, internal control and risk management processes of the company and the audit of the financial statements of the company.
As a committee, we are Members David Arculus, Vivienne Cox, Ken Hydon, responsible for assisting the boards oversight of the Linda Lorimer, Tim Score quality and integrity of the companys external financial reporting and statements and the companys accounting In my nine years as audit committee policies and practices.
chairman I have learned a lot about The Groups internal auditor has a dual reporting line to the chief financial officer and me, and external auditors Pearson, its operations, its practices have direct access to the committee to raise any matter and its senior management and of concern and to report on the results of work directed by the committee.
I report to the full board at every board have enjoyed the stimulation meeting immediately following a committee meeting.
generated by so much change As a committee, we also review the independence of the and world class colleagues.
external auditors, including the provision of non-audit services further details of which can be found on page107 Ken Hydon chairman of audit committee and note 4 to the financial statements, ensure that there is an appropriate audit relationship and that auditor objectivity and independence are upheld.
For Audit committee meeting attendance see overview table on p66 Audit committee changes Linda Lorimer joined the audit committee in January 2014 cOmmIttEE RESPONSIBIlItIES INclUDE and we have also recently welcomed Tim Score who OvERSIGHt OF: joined the committee upon his appointment to the board on 1 January 2015.
Following nine years with Pearson, and 1.
Reporting The quality and integrity of financial as chairman of the audit committee, I will step down from reporting and statements and related disclosure the board at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Tim Score will take over the chairmanship of the committee 2.
Policy Group policies, including accounting policies, following my retirement and I am sure Tim will bring his and practices own challenge and rigour to the committees deliberations 3.
External audit External audit, including the as an experienced audit committee chairman.
appointment, qualification, independence and the performance ofthe external auditor Fair, balanced and understandable reporting 4.
Risk and internal control Risk management systems We are mindful of the Codes revised principle C. 1.1 and internal control environment including the relating to fair, balanced and understandable reporting performance of the internal audit function and accordingly we built in additional steps to our Annual report timetable to ensure that the full board was given 5. compliance Compliance with legal and regulatory sufficient opportunity to review, consider and comment requirements in relation to financial reporting and on the report as it progressed.
Learn more about Fair, accounting matters.
balanced and understandable reporting on p108 terms of reference The committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out its authority and duties.
These are reviewed annually and can be found on the company website at www.
com governance OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 4 Governance 71 AUDIt cOmmIttEE Risk assessment, assurance and integrity focus has been on our direct delivery businesses the areas of greatest risk and a training course is being A key part of the role of the committee is in providing developed for those staff who have contact with students.
oversight and reassurance to the board with regard to the We have also engaged throughout the Group to ensure integrity of the companys financial reporting, internal that our safeguarding is robust whenever we come into control policies, and procedures for the identification, contact with children, young people and vulnerable assessment and reporting of risk.
Corporate security is another key area of focus, our risk and control processes with the new organisational particularly in relation to the safety and security of our structure, and conducted a number of deep dives into staff working in, or travelling to, high-risk destinations.
Significant progress has been made in implementation Data security of the new policies across our businesses, although We view data privacy and cyber security breach as one of there remains work to be done, and the committee our principal operational risks, and this is a regular item on will maintain oversight as we move forward with our the audit committees agenda.
During 2014, a new chief health & safety and safeguarding strategies.
information officer and a chief information security officer Audit committee meetings and activities were appointed, and the committee met with both shortly following their appointments to receive their initial The committee met five times during the year with assessments on Pearsons data security programme, and the following in attendance: the chief financial officer: subsequently for progress updates throughout the year.
SVP internal audit and compliance: members of the The committee learned that the key areas of focus are to senior management team: and the external auditors.
ensure consistently secure applications and infrastructure Additionally, the chief executive and chairman periodically across all parts of the Group, with the aim of adopting attended committee meetings.
Since the remit of the best-in-class practices for our customers and employees.
SVP internal audit and compliance expanded to include compliance, the internal audit director and the VP Anti-bribery and corruption compliance and risk assurance have also attended Given our geographic focus and profile, and a number meetings, so the committee has direct contact with of recent acquisitions in growth markets, anti-bribery those areas.
The committee also met regularly in and corruption ABC is a specific risk for Pearson.
The private with the external auditors and the SVP internal committee conducted a deep dive into ABC risk in 2014, audit and compliance.
joined by legal advisers, the SVP general counsel and SVP internal audit and compliance.
The focus of the deep dive At every meeting, the committee considered reports included the increasingly co-ordinated approach taken on the activities of the Group internal audit function, by authorities in higher-risk jurisidictions in which we including the results of internal audits, risk reviews, project operate, as well as a review of recent enforcement actions assurance reviews and fraud and whistleblowing reports.
elsewhere in the education sector.
The committee noted The committee also monitored the companys financial that Pearsons ABC policy is updated on an ongoing basis reporting, internal controls and risk management to reflect legislative changes, and learned more about procedures, reviewed the non-audit services provided how the internal ABC training programme continues to byPwC and considered any significant legal claims and evolve to reflect our new business models and market regulatory issues in the context of their impact on specific risks.
Health & safety Finally, I would like to thank my fellow committee One year on from the introduction of our global health members, the chief financial officer and the SVP internal & safety policy, the committee conducted a deep dive audit and compliance for their enthusiasm and support.
reviewing implementation and findings to date.
As well Learnmore about the Key activities of the audit as reviewing findings of audits at Pearson sites around committee on p72 the world, the committee discussed the Groups health and safety priorities.
A primary focus is the safeguarding and protection of our students and, to this end, a new global safeguarding officer has been appointed and a safeguarding and protection policy introduced.
Our initial Ken Hydon Chairman of audit committee 72 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Accountability continued AUDIt cOmmIttEE Audit committee meetings during the year Every Feb 2014 Apr 2014 Jul 2014 Sep 2014 Dec 2014 meeting REPORtING T he 2013 Annual Interim R eview of the O verview of A ccounting report and accounts: management interim results 2014 Annual and technical preliminary statement and trading report process updates announcement, announcement financial statements and income statement I mpact of legal F orm 20-F and related claims and disclosures including regulatory the annual Sarbanesissues on Oxley Act section 404 financial attestation of financial reporting reporting internal controls POlIcY T ax reporting A nnual review and A nnual review of A ccounting process approval of external treasury policy matters and auditor policy and strategy Group Information security accounting and policy update policies EXtERNAl AUDIt R eceipt of the external 2014 external Update on audit Pro vision of auditors report on audit plan tendering requirements non-audit the Form 20-F and on Remuneration and R eview of the services the year end audit engagement letter effectiveness of the by PwC Reappointment of the of the external external auditors external auditors auditors Confirmation of Review opinion on auditor independence interim results RISK AND INtERNAl cONtROl In ternal audit A ssessment of the R isk deep dive: Annual internal R isk deep dive: 2015 internal activity reports effectiveness of the testing risk audit plan anti-bribery and audit plan and review of Groups internal R isk deep dive: corruption Crisis management key findings control environment business continuity Risk deep dive: tax and ebola E nterprise risk and risk management planning preparedness management systems R isk deep dive: Health & safety D ata security R eview of Group health & safety internal audit terms of reference cOmPlIANcE AND GOvERNANcE Compliance R eview of the committees Fr aud, whistleblowing with the Code terms of reference Compliance with R eview of the reports and Code of SEC and NYSE effectiveness of the requirements including committee and the group Conduct matters Sarbanes-Oxley Act internal audit function OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 4 Governance 73 AUDIt cOmmIttEE members In addition, in accordance with our external auditor policy, Group internal audit performs an annual assessment of All of the audit committee members are independent audit fees, services and independence which forms the non-executive directors and have financial and or related basis for a recommendation by the committee to the business experience due to the senior positions they hold board in respect of the appointment and compensation or have held in other listed or publicly traded companies of our external auditor.
Learnmore about Auditors and or similar public organisations.
Ken Hydon, current independence on p107 chairman of the committee, is the companys designated financial expert.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute The committee will continue to review the performance of Management Accountants, the Association of of the external auditors on an annual basis and will Chartered Certified Accountants and the Association of consider their independence and objectivity, taking Corporate Treasurers.
He also serves as audit committee account of all appropriate guidelines.
There are no chairman for Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Merlin contractual obligations restricting the committees choice Entertainments plc, and until 2012 for Tesco plc and Royal of external auditors.
In any event, the external auditors Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust.
Tim Score, who will are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for assume the chairmanship of the committee during 2015, the Group audit every five years.
The current lead audit is an Associate Chartered Accountant.
He also serves as partner rotated onto the Groups audit in 2013. audit committee chairman for The British Land Company Pearsons last audit tender was in respect of the 1996 year plc and until 2014 for National Express Group plc.
end resulting in the appointment of Price Waterhouse as The qualifications and relevant experience of the other auditors.
We reported last year that a tender process committee members are detailed on p60-61 would commence no later than 2017 to ensure auditors have been appointed in time for the 2018 year end audit, Audit committee meetings during the year 2014 following the end of the current lead partners term, in line During the year, the matters considered by the with the FRCs suggested transitional arrangements on committee included those shown on the table opposite.
Developments at an EU level regarding mandatory audit rotation for listed companies have In February 2015, the committee also considered the 2014 changed the UK landscape on audit tendering and rotation Annual report and accounts, including the preliminary and, as a result, Pearson would be required to change announcement, financial statements, strategic report, auditors no later than the next audit appointment after directors report and corporate governance compliance 17June 2023.
The audit committee will continue to monitor statement.
developments in this area and to consider the timing of the External audit next tender so as to achieve the most efficient and effective outcome and expects to have concluded on its planned Based on managements recommendations, the approach within the next year.
Once the next audit tender committee reviews the proposal on the appointment occurs, the Group will adopt a policy of putting the audit of the external auditors.
The committee reviewed the contract out to tender at least every ten years.
effectiveness and independence of the external auditors during 2014 and remains satisfied that the auditors provide Audit committee training effective independent challenge to management.
The committee receives regular technical updates as The review was conducted by distributing a questionnaire well as specific or personal training as appropriate.
In to key audit stakeholders including members of the audit September 2014, as part of a deep dive into anti-bribery committee, the chief executive, chief financial officer, SVP and corruption ABC risk, the committee held a company secretarial, SVP internal audit and compliance, session with legal advisers to better understand global SVP finance for each Geography and Line of Business and ABC developments.
Feedback overall was very Committee members also meet with local management positive, indicating an effective external audit process.
on an ongoing basis in order to gain a better The lead audit partner explained to the committee how understanding of how Group policies are embedded PwC were monitoring and reviewing each highlighted area inoperations.
and confirmed that they would consider how to adapt their approach in light of specific comments received.
74 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Accountability continued AUDIt cOmmIttEE Significant issues AREA OF FOcUS ISSUE ActION tAKEN BY AUDIt cOmmIttEE OUtcOmE New Following the introduction of the The committee reviewed restated financials and Segments and organisation new management structure and discussed the conclusion that the Groups primary CGUs redefined.
structure operating model, the Group has segments were now made up of the businesses within and IFRS 8 changed its externally reported the three regions North America, Core and Growth.
segments in 2014 in accordance The committee confirmed that reporting for the new with the guidance in IFRS 8 segments was consistent with board reporting for Operating Segments.
The committee also discussed the of the exercise to identify new definition of CGUs and the allocation of goodwill to segments and restate financial these CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
reports, underlying cash generating units CGUs were also defined.
Impairment The Group carries significant The committee considered the results of the Groups Annual reviews goodwill intangible asset balances.
annual goodwill impairment review in the light of new impairment There is judgement exercised in and aggregate CGUs.
The key assumptions are review the identification of CGUs and the considered to be the cash flows derived from strategic finalised with process of allocating goodwill to and operating plans, long term growth rates and the confirmation of CGUs and aggregate CGUs and in weighted average cost of capital.
The committee an impairment the assumptions underlying the considered the sensitivities to changes in assumptions in India and impairment review.
and the related disclosures required by IAS 36 sufficient Impairment of Assets.
In particular the committee headroom in all reviewed the analysis and disclosure relating to the other CGUs.
Growth CGUs where valuations indicated an impairment in the India business and sensitivity to assumptions was also reviewed in relation to other businesses.
Revenue Pearson has a number of revenue The committee regularly reviews revenue recognition Assumptions recognition streams where revenue practice and the underlying assumptions and estimates.
underlying recognition practices are complex In addition, the committee has visibility of internal audit revenue and management assumptions findings relating to revenue recognition controls and recognition were and estimates are necessary.
processes and routinely monitors the views of external reviewed and auditors on revenue recognition issues.
the committee reviewed revenue recognition in respect of services provided to universities and higher education institutions to facilitate online courses and looked at significant new school testing and teacher certification contracts.
The committee also discussed the impact of the new revenue recognition standard, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and noted that although the standard would not be adopted by Pearson until 2017 the committee would need to understand the implications of the change well before that date.
tax There are a number of issues The committee considered the Groups approach to tax The committee in different countries where provisioning.
The Group operates in a large number of was satisfied management judgements and countries and, accordingly, its earnings are subject to with the Groups assumptions are made as to the tax in many jurisdictions.
The judgement in relation to approach to tax correct tax treatment.
tax provisioning is a combination of the committees provisioning assessment of the specific open tax issues and also a taking account review of the time periods in which the Groups tax of the views of affairs are open to enquiry by local tax inspectors in management and jurisdictions where the Group has a larger taxable the assessment presence.
The committee addressed this matter of the external through the presentation of a management report auditors.
on the Groups tax affairs by the head of group tax and through a presentation of the external auditors assessment of the Groups tax provisioning.
OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 4 Governance 75 AUDIt cOmmIttEE Significant issues continued AREA OF FOcUS ISSUE ActION tAKEN BY AUDIt cOmmIttEE OUtcOmE Grupo multi Pearson acquired Grupo Multi The committee monitored progress on the acquisition Acquisition acquisition in February 2014 for 437m.
accounting and fair value adjustments proposed with accounting Management assumptions and particular emphasis on tax and legal provisions and on reviewed and estimates were necessary in the external valuation of intangible assets.
significant establishing fair values for the judgements assets and liabilities acquired.
Disposal Pearson disposed of its 100% The committee reviewed the disposal accounting and Accounting accounting interest in Mergermarket, its joint disclosure and considered the main judgements relating treatments venture interest in Safari Books to tax treatments, pension accounting in relation to and valuations Online, its 5% investment in Nook Penguin and contingent consideration relating to Safari.
Media and made adjustments to The committee also discussed the valuation of the Nook the disposal of Penguin recorded Media investment at various meetings during the year in 2013. prior to its eventual disposal in December 2014.
Significant issues During the year, the committee discussed the planning, The work they had done to understand the Groups tax conduct and conclusions of the external audit as it strategy and identify business and legislative risks, to proceeded.
evaluate key underlying assumptions and assess the recoverability of deferred tax assets At the July 2014 audit committee meeting, the committee discussed and approved the auditors Group audit plan Their evaluation of the recoverability of digital platforms and reviewed the key risks of misstatement of the and pre-publication assets Groups financial statements, which were updated at Their focus on segments, CGUs and goodwill impairment the December 2014 committee meeting.
and the impact of the Groups transformation on those The table opposite sets out the significant issues The results of their controls testing to date for Sarbanesconsidered by the audit committee together with details Oxley Act section 404 reporting purposes and in support of how these items have been addressed.
The committee of their financial statements audit discussed these issues with the auditors at the time of their review of the half year interim financial statements in The review of the companys going concern reports.
July 2014 and again at the conclusion of their audit of the Theauditors also reported to the committee the financial statements for the full year in February 2015. misstatements that they had found in the course of their work, which were insignificant, and the committee All the significant issues were areas of focus for the confirmed that there were no material items remaining auditors.
Learn more in the Independent auditors report unadjusted in these financial statements.
on p114-121 In December 2014, the committee discussed with the auditors the status of their work, focusing in particular on internal controls and Sarbanes-Oxley testing, and covering the significant issues outlined above.
As the auditors concluded their audit, they explained to the committee: The work they had conducted over revenue, working alongside management to assess several complex revenue contracts 76 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Accountability continued RISK GOvERNANcE AND cONtROl Internal control and risk management control environment The directors confirm they have conducted a review The board of directors has overall responsibility for of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk Pearsons system of internal control, which is designed management and internal controls, including strategic, to manage, and where possible mitigate, the risks facing financial, operational and compliance controls and risk the Group, safeguard assets and provide reasonable, management systems, in accordance with the Code and but not absolute, assurance against material financial Turnbull guidance.
These systems have been operating misstatement or loss.
throughout the year and to the date of this report.
Responsibility for monitoring financial management and In September 2014, the Financial Reporting Council reporting and risk management and internal control published updated Guidance on Risk Management, systems has been delegated to the audit committee Internal Control and Related Financial and Business by the board.
At each meeting, the audit committee Reporting, which takes effect for our 2015 year end considers reports from management, Group internal reporting.
The changes were discussed by executive audit and the external auditors, with the aim of reviewing management and the audit committee and a plan has been the effectiveness of the internal financial and operating developed to set a clear path to compliance with the new control environment of the Group.
requirements, including ongoing robust assessment of risk The identification and mitigation of significant business and preparation of a viability statement.
risks is the responsibility of Group senior management An enterprise risk management ERM framework is in and the management team for each business area place to identify, evaluate and manage risks, including key being the heads of the Lines of Business, Geographies financial reporting risks.
Business areas undertake semiand enabling functions.
Each business area, including annual risk reviews to identify new or potentially underthe corporate centre, maintains internal controls and managed risks.
Throughout the year, risk discussions are procedures appropriate to its structure, business facilitated by the risk assurance team with Group and environment and risk assessment, whilst complying business area management to identify the key risks the with Group policies, standards and guidelines.
company faces in achieving its objectives, to assess the Financial management and reporting probability and impact of those risks and to document the actions being taken to manage those risks.
The Pearson There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting Executive reviews the output of these sessions, focusing and forecasting system with an annual operating plan on the key risks facing the business.
Management has the approved by the board of directors.
Monthly financial responsibility to consider and execute appropriate action information, including trading results, balance sheets, cash to mitigate these risks whenever possible.
The results of flow statements, capital expenditures and indebtedness, these reviews are reported to the audit committee and is reported against the corresponding figures for the plan the board in detail.
and prior years, with corrective action outlined by the appropriate senior executive.
Group senior management During 2014, the semi-annual reporting of top risks meet periodically with business area management to was reviewed by executive management as well as the review their business and financial performance against board and audit committee.
During the year, the audit plan and forecast.
Major risks relevant to each business committee considered the oversight of specific selected area as well as performance against the stated financial principal risks, through a series of risk deep dives.
This is and strategic objectives are reviewed in these meetings.
covered in more detail in the separate report on the audit committee.
The key elements and procedures that have We have an ongoing process to monitor the risks and been established to provide effective risk management effectiveness of controls in relation to the financial and internal control systems are described below.
reporting and consolidation process including the related During 2014, we aligned these procedures to the new information systems.
This includes up-to-date Group organisation structure.
financial policies, formal requirements for finance Learnmore about our Principal risks and mitigating factors on p34 OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 4 Governance 77 RISK GOvERNANcE AND cONtROl functions, Group consolidation reviews and analysis of The SVP internal audit and compliance oversees material variances, Group finance technical reviews, compliance with our Code of Conduct and works with including the use of technical specialists, and review and senior legal and human resources personnel to investigate sign-off by senior finance managers.
These processes are any reported incidents including ethical, corruption and subject to reviews based on Group internal audits riskfraud allegations.
The audit committee is provided with based audit programme.
The Group finance function also an update of all significant matters received through monitors and assesses these processes, through a finance our whistle-blowing reporting system, together with compliance function.
an annual review of the effectiveness of this system.
The Pearson anti-bribery and corruption programme These controls include those over external financial provides the framework to support our compliance with reporting which are documented and tested in various anti-bribery and corruption regulations such as accordance with the requirements of section 404 of the the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the US Foreign Corrupt Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which is relevant to our US listing.
One key control in this area is the disclosure committee, which submits reports to the audit committee.
This treasury management committee is chaired by the SVP internal audit and The treasury department operates within policies compliance, and members include the chief financial approved by the board and its procedures are reviewed officer, general counsel, SVP investor relations, SVP regularly by the audit committee.
Major transactions company secretarial as well as senior members of are authorised outside the department at the requisite financial management.
The primary responsibility of level, and there is an appropriate segregation of duties.
this committee is to review Pearsons public reporting Frequent reports are made to the chief financial officer and disclosures to ensure that information provided to and regular reports are prepared for the audit committee shareholders is complete, accurate and compliant with and the board.
all applicable legislation and listing regulations.
Insurance The effectiveness of key financial controls is subject to management review and self-certification and Pearson purchases comprehensive insurance coverage independent evaluation by Group internal audit.
where this is available on a cost-effective basis.
Pearsons insurance subsidiary, Spear Insurance Company Limited, Group internal audit is used to leverage the risk retention capability of the The Group internal audit function is responsible for Group and to achieve a balance between retaining providing independent assurance to management and insurance risk and transferring it to external insurers.
the audit committee on the design and effectiveness of internal controls to mitigate strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks.
The risk-based annual internal audit plan is approved by the audit committee.
Management action plans to improve internal controls and to mitigate risks, or both, are agreed with each business area after each audit.
Formal follow-up procedures allow Group internal audit to monitor business areas progress in implementing its recommendations and to resolve any control deficiencies.
Group internal audit has a formal collaboration process in place with the external auditors to ensure efficient coverage of internal controls.
Regular reports on the work of Group internal audit are provided to executive management and, via the audit committee, to the board.
