78 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Engagement REPUtAtION & RESPONSIBIlItY cOmmIttEE Reputation & responsibility committee role Chairman Vivienne Cox The reputation & responsibility committee became a formal committee of the board in 2014.
This reflects the board and Pearson executives growing awareness and ambition around Pearsons corporate reputation, and our belief in the importance of fulfilling our obligations to the Members Vivienne Cox, Linda Lorimer, Harish Manwani communities in which we work, and maximising Pearsons positive impact on society.
As Pearson takes a more active role terms of reference in education worldwide, we have a The committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out its authority and duties.
responsibility to our learners and These can be found on the company website at to our shareholders to grasp new www.
com governance opportunities which have a positive The committees responsibilities are shown in more detail below.
We are working to build our brand and to sharpen For reputation & responsibility committee meeting attendance see overview table on p66 our awareness and management of anything that risks damaging it.
vivienne cox chairman of reputation &  cOmmIttEE RESPONSIBIlItIES: BOARD vISIt tO wASHINGtON, Dc 1.
Reputation Pearsons reputation among major In June 2014, the board visited stakeholders, including governments, investors, Washington, DC for a three-day employees, customers, learners and the education community meeting to understand the forces 2.
Strategy Communications strategies, policies and behind changes in the education plans related to reputational issues landscape across the US and the 3.
Social Social impact initiatives implications for Pearsons brand 4.
Brand Brand and culture development and reputation in our largest, most 5.
Ethics Ethical business standards successful market.
Risk Oversight of reputational risk presentations and discussions focused on four key areas, outlined opposite... OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 4 Governance 79 REPUtAtION & RESPONSIBIlItY cOmmIttEE Key activities in 2014 committee aims for 2015 In the second year of Pearsons transformation, the In 2015 the committee will continue to focus on how our committee acted to scrutinise and challenge the long-term strategy for managing our reputation and maximising our strategy and approach throughout 2014, meeting three contribution to society is changing with the organisation.
times and receiving presentations from business leaders The committee will adopt oversight of health & safety across a number of key areas.
management, policy and issues, reflecting its increasingly significant role in safeguarding our reputation as we In particular, the committee reviewed and provided become more active in the direct delivery of education inputon: to students.
In particular, the committee will review Our long-term vision for corporate transparency and progress on the integration of social impact into Pearsons reporting, in particular adopting oversight of our political business following the closure of the Pearson Charitable contributions policy and spending Foundation, the development of our reputation management approach in our newer markets, and our The wind-down of the Pearson Charitable Foundation progress towards our 2018 efficacy commitment.
and our revised approach to social impact activity The rationale and future strategy for the Pearson Affordable Learning Fund The review of the Pearson master brand and employee Vivienne Cox Chairman of reputation & values, and our approach to tracking the equity of the  Pearson brand globally.
BOARD vISIt tO wASHINGtON, Dc 1.
How to increase productivity and demonstrate return The board had a deep dive session examining how on investment in our schools and colleges, and how to Pearson was building and executing a more robust, prepare more students to compete and succeed in a proactive government relations and reputation 21st century global economy management capability.
Increasing polarisation and politicisation of education The board spent time getting a first-hand look at issues and how the explosion of social media has altered blended learning in action meeting educators, parents the public policy landscape and the rules of the game and learners during a visit to College Park Academy, an innovative charter school run by our Connections team 3.
Learning to engage with new players and new issues in partnership with the University of Marylands School that come from increasing private sector investment in of Education.
education, particularly from venture capital and philanthropy, and the shift into new digital and services-led There was an opportunity for the board to engage with businesses key national opinion leaders, policymakers, reformers and innovators in education, including Melody Barnes, 4.
Growing public scrutiny of Pearsons role in education, former domestic policy adviser to President Obama, in particular how our size and our success makes Pearson and Ted Mitchell, US Under Secretary of Education.
a target for critics and competitors and how the public demand for transparency and proof of positive social Finally, the board heard from the Pearson executive impact is posing new challenges and opportunities team about how our new operating model was helping for companies.
to accelerate our shift to digital and services business across K-12 and higher education, followed by an update on the efficacy initiative.
80 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Engagement continued SHAREHOlDER ENGAGEmENt Engaging with shareholders Consultations During the year we also consulted with our major shareholders and with shareholder representative Pearson has an extensive programme of communication bodies on our directors remuneration policy.
Read about with all of its shareholders large and small, institutional Remuneration on p82 and private.
Seminars We have an established programme of Shareholder outreach In 2014, we continued with our educational seminars for our institutional shareholders shareholder outreach programme, seeing approximately focusing on individual parts of Pearson.
These seminars 690 institutional and private investors at more than 420 are available to all shareholders via webcast on different institutions inAustralia, Brazil, Brunei, Canada, www.
com Greater China, Continental Europe, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, theUK and the US.
Private investors represent over 80% of the shareholders on our register and we make a concerted effort to engage Trading updates There are five trading updates each year with them regularly.
Shareholders who cannot attend the and the chief executive and chief financial officer present AGM are invited to email questions to the chairman in our preliminary and interim results updates.
They also advance at glenmoreno-agm@pearson.
com attend regular meetings throughout the year with investors in the UK and around the world, tailored to We encourage our private shareholders to become investor requirements, to discuss the performance of more informed investors and have provided a wealth of the company, the companys strategy, our restructuring information on our website about managing Pearson programme, structural changes in our markets and risks shareholdings, see www.
com investors and opportunities for the future.
html for further information, or turn to page 212 of this report.
We also encourage all Chairman meetings The chairman meets regularly with shareholders, who have not already done so, to register significant shareholders to understand any issues and their email addresses through our website and with our concerns they may have.
This is in accordance with both registrar.
This enables them to receive email alerts when the Code and the UK Stewardship Code.
The nontrading updates and other important announcements are executive directors meet informally with shareholders added to our website.
both before and after the AGM and respond to shareholder queries and requests as necessary.
The See additional Shareholder information on p212 chairman ensures that the board is kept informed of principal investors and advisers views on strategy, and corporate governance.
Our programme of educational seminarsis available for  via AGM webcast on pearson.
com 24 April 2015 8 Northumberland Avenue London, England WC2N 5BY 690 institutional and private investor meetings in 2014 OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 4 Governance 81 SHAREHOlDER ENGAGEmENt wIDER ENGAGEmENt Share dealing Engaging with all stakeholders Due to its continued popularity we again provided We post all company announcements on our website, shareholders with smaller holdings the opportunity to use www.
com, as soon as they are released, and our registrars low-cost share dealing service, giving them major shareholder presentations are made accessible the chance to add to or reduce their stake in Pearson at via webcast or conference call.
Our website contains a significantly reduced dealing rates, or to donate shares to dedicated investor relations section with an extensive charity with ease.
This service proved very popular with archive of past announcements and presentations, shareholders, and consequently we intend to offer this historical financial performance, share price data and a service again at a future date.
It also includes information about all of our businesses, links to their websites and details of We believe it is important that our employees have a our corporate responsibility policies and activities.
shared interest in the direction and achievements of Pearson and are pleased to say that a large number of Learn more about our approach to corporate our employees are shareholders in the company.
responsibility in the Social impact section on p45-56 Annual General meeting Our AGM, on 24 April 2015, is an opportunity for all shareholders to meet the board and to hear presentations about Pearsons businesses and results.
com for: Investor relations information Share price data Company announcements and Calendar of events shareholder presentations, Information about our businesses webcasts and conference calls and their websites Past announcements Corporate responsibility and presentations policies and activities Historical financial performance
