h g t n i w t OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORmANcE OUR SOcIAl ImPAct GOvERNANcE FINANcIAl StAtEmENtS e o k r r a G M & t c u d o T r e P c h n o P l r o h o g c a y r f c a h e i e t. r s s r e s e o R i R o m & N E n y A c a a N l M c O S F E i O R n A a S Se ec ct tiio on 2 n 2 O Ou ur r p pe er rf for orma man nc ce e 23 23 Operating performance continued Geography Core Sales Adjusted operating profit 1.2bn 152m Revenues declined by 8% in headline terms and by 5% at both CER and in underlying terms.
Modest growth in Italy and good growth at VUE was offset by declines in UK assessment revenues, due to the impact of policy changes on our UK school qualifications business: and reduction in partner market revenues, due to divestments and a move to distributor models implemented in 2013.
FT revenues were broadly level at CER, with digital content growth offset by declines in print content and advertising.
Adjusted operating profit excluding Mergermarket increased by 32m to 152m, driven by the benefits of restructuring actions taken over the last two years in all markets and by profit growth at the FT. Our new operating and reporting structure core.
Our biggest Core markets are the UK, Australia, Germany, France, Benelux and Italy.
Additionally we have around 100 partner markets, where we do not have scale ourselves, so we collaborate with others.
learn more about Our operating structure on p7 n E T c P e E S s N r i a O U A l C e o t C a o r o h o p H r c r u e S o m C a n R e s o u, r l e a c c n g e s a e n L i F & e n t y a g r o o e r i p t e t r a h a o r LEARNER t C c g S i u H d E 24 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Operating performance continued School Core continued In the UK, qualifications have been impacted by government policy, where changes to accountability measures and a shift to end of course assessments in GCSE have led to a 21% decline in BTECs and 11% decline in General Qualifications in the year.
We marked almost four million National Curriculum Tests, up 24% on 2013.
Our contract to administer the National Curriculum Test NCT was extended to 2017.
More than 4,600 schools, with almost 850,000 children, now subscribe to at least one of the Bug Club services, our primary school blended reading programme.
In Australia, we benefited from a stronger adoption year and the launch of the locally standardised version of the Wechsler Pre and Primary Scales of Intelligence fourth edition.
In Italy, we gained share in both primary and secondary with new titles combined with professional development and online cross-curricula support.
In primary, we developed Top Secret and adapted Our Discovery Island English Language Learning programmes.
In secondary, we extended our market leadership in the Humanities.
Revenues declined significantly in our partner markets due to challenging market conditions in Africa and Scandinavia and the move to a distributor model in certain markets.
We disposed of our local schools lists in the Caribbean as we continue to focus on our largest global geographic opportunities.
Higher Education In the UK, our learning services revenues declined, primarily due to enrolment contraction following policy we continue to invest to build Pearson college in the changes in the vocational markets.
We continue to UK, and graduated our first 32 students during the year.
invest to build Pearson College and graduated our first Pearson College was one of only four private colleges to pass Quality Assurance Agency QAA review first time.
com more than 4,600 schools in the UK, with almost 850,000 children, now subscribe to at least one of the Bug Club services, our primary school reading programme.
co. uk OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 2 Our performance 25 32 students during the year.
Pearson College was one Financial Times Group of only four private colleges to pass Quality Assurance Agency QAA review first time.
In Australia, learning services revenues grew modestly benefiting from growth in core subjects, such as Biology, and  sales of digital learning products At the Financial Times Group, the FT grew its total offset by our exit from vocational publishing.
Monash circulation by 10% year-on-year to a record high of Online, our collaboration with Monash University, nearly 720,000 across print and online.
Digital continues to show good growth and will launch additional subscriptions increased 21% year-on-year to almost courses in the second half of 2015.
In addition we 504,000 and now represent 70% of the FTs total collaborated with another leading university in Australia paying audience.
The strong digital circulation growth to provide course development, recruitment, enrolment, offset continued structural declines in print content and student support services for post-graduate courses.
and advertising, where the FT continues to take market share.
Professional Product innovation and launches, including an FT At VUE, test volumes grew strongly following the Weekend app, daily FirstFT briefing with editors successful launch of a new contract with CPA Australia selection of essential news and comment from across to deliver Professional level exams and continued good the web, follow the author alerts and a new FT growth in UK Driving Theory test volumes.
We will Android App continue to result in steady growth in continue to deliver our UK contract to administer the mobile usage and time spent on FT. com.
Mobile is Driving Theory test for the DVSA until September 2016. the fastest growing channel.
We launched the FT | IE VUE entered into ten year partnerships with the Corporate Learning Alliance, a joint venture with IE Chartered Institute of Management Accountants CIMA Business School, which provides premium custom and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants learning to business leaders around the globe.
The ACCA in the UK to transform a selection of their exams partnership connects the academic excellence of from pen and paper to computer-based testing.
prominent business schools with the FTs awardThe contribution from The Economist Group was lower winning journalism and insight into real world and due to a decline in advertising revenue, a weaker US dollar real-time business challenges.
and lower profits at CQ Roll Call.
The circulation of The Economist remains robust at 1.6 million, with an increase of 23% in digital subscriptions.
The Economists new daily app, Espresso, was downloaded almost 400,000 times.
The Groups content marketing services continue to grow, with revenue increasing by 20% at CER.
Financial Times product innovations FT digital subscriptions include the Ftweekend web app, increased and FirstFt, a daily email briefing 21% of must-reads from its website and other sources.
504,000 Learn more at ft. com 26 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014
