54 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Impact: Introducing our flagship campaign Project Literacy We know too that basic literacy is only part of the story.
Pearson is committed to maximising The skills that individuals and economies need to progress our impact through community and to prosper grow increasingly complex in the face of technology.
Functional illiteracy costs the world investment.
In 2014 we reviewed our $1.19 trillion per year equivalent to the GDP of South approach and believe that we can Korea or Mexico.
make more of a difference by focusing campaign goals and campaigning on a single issue that Project Literacy sets out to help make this the last generation to be held back by poor literacy.
The new has the potential to transform lives.
Sustainable Development Goals, due to be signed at the United Nations General Assembly in September 2015, A clear focus will allow us to inspire our people to get will set ambitious goals for education for the next 15 years.
involved, to harness our products and expertise and We believe that it is within reach to ensure that, by 2030, to build partnerships and programmes that make a every child born can grow up to be a literate adult.
Furthermore, achieving this will be core to the success In June 2014, the Pearson board approved increasing of the other development goals.
literacy rates worldwide as our anchor social impact campaign issue for the next five years.
Literacy is an area of need where we see clear overlap between the opportunity for impact and Pearsons As we fight to end poverty, literacy is critical.
With words products, expertise and networks.
We have significant we can make sense of the world around us, pursue lifeexperience in providing resources to communities around changing opportunities and stand up for the rights of the world that help improve reading and writing skills.
Our longstanding heritage in publishing and the history Despite rapid progress in the decade prior, illiteracy rates of our community investment makes ending global for adults and children worldwide have hovered at around illiteracy stand out for Pearson as an area in which we 800 million since 2000, with 781 million people illiterate can contribute a mix of product, content, employee time, today.
Of those, 123 million are young people under the energy and interest to drive impact.
Global demand for literacy 60m 781m children are not in primary school people are illiterate today OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 3 Our social impact 55 We envisage Pearsons contribution in three broad We also asked that they share issues where increased categories.
action is needed and contribute to our goals by issuing a challenge to us.
To date, weve received 181 inspiring We have a role to play in energising the debate literacy submissions via the website.
We will act to identify, celebrate and support good practice to scale, invest in research These projects and challenges are fundamental to to uncover new opportunities and to increase the informing the new activities, investments and partnerships prominence of literacy in national and international which we will be announcing in the course of 2015 and policy discourse.
com will act as the one-stop shop for the campaign as a whole sharing We have a responsibility to activate our own business research, partnerships and reporting on impact.
2 assets and influence towards the thematic and geographic areas where we see opportunity to improve In late 2014, we kicked off a first partnership with GOOD.
We will place an emphasis on supporting our is.
The partnership has begun by issuing literacy employees to participate and contribute to literacy related stories and engaging non-profit organisations who initiatives around the world, with the aim of launching understand the challenges of literacy.
It will also bring a number of these opportunities midway into 2015. together Pearson employees and local communities in volunteer work.
We will invest in partnerships that pursue new 3 innovations in literacy.
Where relevant, our product Literacy is an issue on which many different not for profit, development will also take account of and seek to address community and commercial organisations are already barriers presented by poor literacy.
working hard to make a difference.
As part of this campaign we will bring the private and public sectors Progress in 2014 together with a single ambition to accelerate progress Our Project Literacy campaign kicked off in late and test new ideas.
September with a global listening and awareness raising Visit projectliteracy.
com to learn more exercise hosted on projectliteracy.
We invited individuals and organisations already working to improve literacy to highlight publicly on the website the programmes and projects which inspire them.
taking literacy to the next level Our new social impact campaign Project literacy builds on existing community activity: Jumpstarts Read for the Record saw more Read for my School doubled its participation We helped Book Aid International support than 2.3 million adults and children join rates on the previous year with 212,000 pupils the development of libraries in schools and together to read Bunny Cakes, by bestselling across England together reading 876,000 communities across sub-Saharan Africa.
author and illustrator, Rosemary Wells.
The competition encourages pupils We were the largest donor giving a third of to read as many books as possible in a twothe 1million books supplied by the charity month period drawing from an online free this year.
library of books offered by Pearson and Penguin Random House.
For 2015, we will review how we report on our community partnerships in light of our new approach.
