h g t n i w t OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORmANcE OUR SOcIAl ImPAct GOvERNANcE FINANcIAl StAtEmENtS e o k r r a G M & t c u d o T r e P c h n o P l r o h o g c a y r f c a h e i e t. r s s r e s e o R i R o m & N E n y A c a a N l M c O S F E i O R n A a Section 2 Our performance 19 Operating performance continued Geography North America Sales Adjusted operating profit 3.0bn 464m Revenues declined 3% in headline terms, due to the strengthening of sterling against the US dollar, but increased by 2% at both CER and in underlying terms.
Revenue growth in Connections Education, VUE, Clinical and Higher Education was partially offset by declines in School learning services and State Assessments.
Adjusted operating profits declined 2% in headline terms due to currency movements, but grew 5% at both CER and underlying, reflecting revenue mix, lower returns provision, reduced US pension costs and lower restructuring charges.
In our statutory results, we recognised a 38m loss on disposal of our 5% stake in Nook Media and a 40m gain on the disposal of our stakes in Safari Books Online and CourseSmart.
Our new operating and reporting structure North America.
Our largest market, accounting for 61% of revenues in 2014. learn more about Our operating structure on p7 n E T c P e E S s N r i a O U A l C e o t C a o r o h o p H r c r u e S o m C a n R e s o u, r l e a c c n g e s a e n L i F & e n t y a g r o o e r i p t e t r a h a o r LEARNER t C c g S i u H d E 20 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Operating performance continued also the impact of legislative changes in Texas and California.
North America We were awarded contracts to administer Partnership for Assessment of Readiness for College and Careers PARCC continued assessments in 11 states and extended our contracts to administer Virginia Standards of Learning SOL Assessments and the Maryland High School Assessment.
We will continue to administer the Florida Comprehensive School Assessment Test FCAT until summer 2016.
In School, good growth in Connections Education, our Clinical Assessment grew strongly, benefiting from the virtual schools business, was offset by declines in our launch of the fifth edition of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale State Assessments business due to the impact of legislative for Children WISC-V and strong growth in Q-Interactive, changes in Texas and California: and in learning services, where early studies are showing good improvements in due to some loss of market share as reported at the half mental health professional productivity and student year, revenue deferral on blended programmes and engagement levels.
softness in the Open Territories.
PowerSchool supported almost 13 million students in Connections Education served over 62,000 Full Time more than 70 countries, broadly level with 2013, while Equivalent students during 2014 through full-time virtual licensed Schoolnet student counts rose more than 10% to and blended programmes, up more than 15% from 2013. over 10 million.
In New Jersey we launched Schoolnet in 27 Three new full-time virtual public schools were launched in school districts, with 14 more implementations in progress, 2014 and an additional one will launch in 2015.
At full-time and have delivered over 400,000 assessments since launch.
virtual schools supported by Connections Education, Learning services revenues declined due to the impact of students consistently outperform their virtual school revenue deferrals from blended digital programmes and peers on state standardised tests.
Students at College a loss of market share, with a weaker performance in Park Academy, a blended school in Maryland using the Grades 6-8 Science and Math in Texas, and Grades 6-12 Connections Education curriculum, scored significantly Literature and Grades 6-8 Math in Florida only partly higher than their in-state peers in reading and math in offset by a stronger performance in K-6 Math in Texas, the Maryland School Assessment MSA for 6th and Grades 6-12 Social Studies in Tennessee and Grades 7th Grades.
We won an estimated 25% of In State and National Assessments, high stakes online test the total new adoptions market of $910m in 2014. volumes grew strongly, up 40% on 2013 to 11 million, as enVisionMATH, which now has the largest installed base customers transitioned to computer-based testing.
Paperof elementary students in the US, continues to drive based high stakes test volumes declined 17% to 32 million, significant improvements in student computation and in part due to the growth of computer-based testing, but problem solving.
connections Education served over 62,000 15% full time equivalent students during 2014 through full-time virtual and blended programmes.
At full-time virtual schools supported by Connections Education, students consistently outperform their virtual school peers on state standardised tests.
com OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 2 Our performance 21 Higher Education Pearson On Line Services, where we run fully online undergraduate and graduate learning programmes and In Higher Education, total college enrolments fell, as earn certain revenues based on the success of the students expected, by 1.3%.
Career enrolments in two-year public and the institution, grew course enrolments by 22% during community and four-year for-profit colleges declined the year with continued strong growth in programmes 3%, with rising employment rates and regulatory change at Arizona State University Online and University of affecting the for-profit and developmental learning sectors.
We signed new programmes with Learning services grew modestly, primarily due to market Bradley University, to create five online graduate degree share gains, continued growth in digital courseware programmes in nursing and counselling: and University of registrations, a stronger new edition cycle and less Texas at Austin, Dana Center where we are partnering for pronounced seasonality.
MyLab registrations in North the web delivery of math courses for its New Mathways America grew 3% to almost 11 million.
Lecturer generated Project NMP, which will become part of a state-wide case studies indicate that the use of MyLab programmes, reform initiative in a collaboration between Dana Center as part of a broader course redesign, can support and the Texas Association of Community Colleges.
improvements in student test scores http: pear.
sn We expanded our collaboration with the American IZxLE.
We launched REVEL, which combines trusted Health Information Management Association AHIMA content with interactive videos, quizzes, a mobile user to administer its online education business, which serves interface, study tools, assignment calendar and AHIMAs 71,000 members including 10,000 higher performance dashboard for 17 humanities and social education students each year.
We now provide our sciences subjects.
The launch of REVEL is the first of learning management system hosting 100 courses based numerous product lines taking advantage of our new on AHIMA content: technical support: a next generation cloud-based, mobile-ready, and data analytics capabilities.
Virtual Lab Product: and are launching a Coding Basics New editions launched in 2014 included Tro, The Structures course combining AHIMA and Pearson content.
and Properties of Chemistry: Acemoglu, Laibson and List, Professional Economics: and Pearson Writer, an application built for mobile devices that helps students in developing writing At VUE, global test volumes grew 9% year-on-year to skills.
We published a range of digital titles for The Boy almost 13 million boosted by continued growth in IT, Scouts of America and implemented a new digital State Regulatory and Professional certifications.
curriculum incorporating enhanced Merit Badge New contracts include a deal to administer the Microsoft programmes in subjects including Robotics, Digital Certified Professional MCP Program globally, which Technology and First Aid for the organisations 2.7 million significantly expands our existing partnership with youth members.
Microsoft through Certiports Microsoft Office Specialist MOS and Microsoft Technology Associate MTA exams.
registrations in North America In 2014, we launched REvEl combining trusted content grew 3% to almost 11 million.
with rich interactivity and content across 17 humanities Lecturer generated case studies indicate that and social sciences subjects.
REVEL is the first of our the use of MyLab programmes can support product lines taking full advantage of our new cloud-based, improvements in test scores.
mobile-ready, and data analytics capabilities.
com Learn more at pearsonhighered.
com revel 22 22 P Pe ea ar rs son on pl plc c A An nn nu ua al l r re ep po or rt t a an nd d a ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4
