OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 4 Governance 107 Additional disclosures REPORt OF tHE DIREctORS Pages 57 to 112 of this document comprise the directors Information provided to the company pursuant to report for the year ended 31December 2014. the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR is published on a Regulatory Other information that is required by the Companies Act Information Service and on the companys website.
2006 the Act to be included in the directors report, and which is incorporated by reference, can be located As at 4 March 2015, being the latest practicable date as follows: before the publication of this report, the company had been notified under DTR5 of the following significant Summary disclosures index See more voting rights in its shares.
Dividend recommendation p12 Percentage Financial instruments and financial risk management Note 19 Number of as at date of voting rights notification Important events since year end p193 BlackRock, Inc. 41,458,030 5.05% Future development of the business p06-09 Annual General meeting Research and development activities p43 Employment of disabled persons p50 The notice convening the AGM, to be held at 12 noon on Friday, 24 April 2015 at 8 Northumberland Avenue, Employee involvement p48 London WC2N 5BY, is contained in a circular to Greenhouse gas emissions p53 shareholders to be dated 20 March 2015.
There is no information to be disclosed in accordance Registered auditors with Listing Rule 9.8.
In accordance with section 489 of the Act, a Going concern resolution proposing the reappointment of Having reviewed the Groups liquid resources and  LLP PwC as auditors to borrowing facilities and the Groups 2015 and 2016 cash the company will be proposed at the AGM, at a level flow forecasts, the directors believe that the Group has of remuneration to be agreed by the directors.
adequate resources to continue as a going concern for at Auditors independence least the next 12 months.
For this reason, the financial statements have, as usual, been prepared on that basis.
In line with best practice, our relationship with PwC is Information regarding the Groups borrowing liabilities governed by our external auditors policy, which is and financial risk management can be found in notes 18 reviewed and approved annually by the audit committee.
The policy establishes procedures to ensure the auditors independence is not compromised, as well as defining Share capital those non-audit services that PwC may or may not Details of share issues are given in note 27 to the provide to Pearson.
The company has a single class of These allowable services are in accordance with relevant shares which is divided into ordinary shares of 25p each.
The audit committee approves all The ordinary shares are in registered form.
As at audit and non-audit services provided by PwC.
Certain 31December 2014, 819,882,967 ordinary shares were in categories of allowable non-audit services have been issue.
At the AGM held on 25 April 2014, the company pre-approved by the audit committee subject to the was authorised, subject to certain conditions, to acquire authorities below: up to 81,903,781 ordinary shares by market purchase.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority at the Pre-approved non-audit services can be authorised by AGM on 24 April 2015. the chief financial officer up to 100,000 per project, subject to a cumulative limit of 500,000 per annum 108 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Additional disclosures continued REPORt OF tHE DIREctORS Acquisition or disposal transactions and due diligence Audit-related work in relation to potential and actual up to 100,000 per project may be performed by our corporate finance transactions external auditors, in light of the need for confidentiality.
Assurance services on a corporate bond issued in Any project transaction generating fees in excess May 2014. of 100,000 must be specifically approved by the audit committee A full statement of the fees for audit and services is provided in note 4 to the accounts on page 140.
Tax compliance and related activities up to the greater of 1,000,000 per annum or 50% of the external audit fee Fair, balanced and understandable reporting For forward-looking tax advisory services we use the As required by the Code, we have established most appropriate adviser, usually after a tender process.
arrangements to ensure that all information we Where we decide to use our independent auditors, report to investors and regulators is fair, balanced authority, up to 100,000 per project subject to a and understandable.
A process and timetable for the cumulative limit of 500,000 per annum, has been production and approval of this years report was agreed delegated by the audit committee to management.
by the board and audit committee at their meetings in December 2014.
The full board then had opportunity to Services provided by PwC above these limits and all other review and comment on the report as it progressed.
allowable non-audit services, irrespective of value, must be approved by the audit committee.
Where appropriate, Representatives from financial reporting, corporate services will be tendered prior to a decision being made affairs, company secretarial and internal audit and as to whether to award work to the auditors.
compliance are involved in the preparation of the Annual report to ensure a cohesive and balanced approach and, The audit committee receives regular reports as with all of our financial reporting, our disclosure summarising the amount of fees paid to the auditors.
committee conducts a thorough verification of narrative During 2014, Pearson spent considerably less on nonand financial statements.
audit fees with PwC compared to 2013, when there was significant expenditure related to specific assurance and The audit committee is also available to advise the board tax advisory services associated with the creation of the on certain aspects of the report, to enable the directors venture between Penguin and Random House.
For 2014, to fulfil their responsibility in this regard.
non-audit fees represented 37% of external audit fees Directors in office 89% in 2013.
The following directors were in office during the year and For all non-audit work in 2014, PwC were selected only up until signing of the financial statements: after consideration that they were best able to provide the services we required at a reasonable fee and within G R Moreno the terms of our external auditors policy.
To assist in J J Fallon ensuring that independence and objectivity is maintained, R A D Freestone for forward-looking tax advisory and due diligence work T D G Arculus PwC assign a different partner from the one leading the E P L Corley appointed 1 May 2014 external audit.
V Cox K J Hydon Significant non-audit work performed by PwC during S J Lewis 2014 included: L K Lorimer Tax compliance services related to a routine audit by H Manwani the US Internal Revenue Service T Score appointed 1 January 2015 Tax advisory work on a number of UK, US and international tax matters OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 4 Governance 109 REPORt OF tHE DIREctORS Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual UK governing the preparation and dissemination of report, the report on directors remuneration and the financial statements may differ from legislation in financial statements in accordance with applicable law other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors listed above confirms that to the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial best of their knowledge: statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group and parent company The Group financial statements, which have been financial statements in accordance with International prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, European Union.
Under company law the directors must liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group not approve the financial statements unless they are and company satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of The directors report contained in the Annual affairs of the company and the Group and of the profit or report includes a fair review of the development and loss of the Group for that period.
performance of the business and the position of the In preparing these financial statements, the directors company and Group, together with a description of are required to: the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply The directors also confirm that, for all directors in office them consistently at the date of this report: Make judgements and accounting estimates that are So far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit reasonable and prudent information of which the companys auditors are unaware State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the They have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken European Union have been followed, subject to any as directors in order to make themselves aware of any material departures disclosed and explained in the relevant audit information and to establish that the financial statements companys auditors are aware of that information.
Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, In addition, the directors as at the date of this report unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company consider that the Annual report, taken as a whole, and or the Group will continue in business.
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the The directors are responsible for keeping adequate companys performance, business model and strategy.
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable Approved by the board on 9 March 2015 and signed on its accuracy at any time the financial position of the company behalf by and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the report on directors remuneration comply with the Act and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding Philip Hoffman Secretary the assets of the company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
110 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Additional disclosures continued ADDItIONAl SHAREHOlDER INFORmAtION Additional information for shareholders The board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, offer any shareholder the right to elect Set out below is other statutory and regulatory to receive new ordinary shares, which will be credited as information that Pearson is required to disclose in fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for 12 years Amendment to articles of association after it became due for payment will be forfeited and Any amendments to the articles of association of the will then belong to the company, unless the directors company the Articles may be made in accordance with decide otherwise.
the provisions of the Act by way of a special resolution.
If the company is wound up, the liquidator can, with Rights attaching to shares the sanction of a special resolution passed by the shareholders, divide among the shareholders all or any The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined in part of the assets of the company and he she can value the Articles.
A shareholder whose name appears on the assets and determine how the division shall be carried companys register of members can choose whether out as between the shareholders or different classes of his her shares are evidenced by share certificates i. e. in shareholders.
The liquidator can also, with the same certificated form or held electronically i. e. uncertificated sanction, transfer the whole or any part of the assets form in CREST the electronic settlement system in to trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of theUK.
Subject to any restrictions below, shareholders may voting at general meetings attend any general meeting of the company and, on a show of hands, every shareholder or his her Any form of proxy sent by the shareholders to the representative who is present at a general meeting has company in relation to any general meeting must be one vote on each resolution for every ordinary share of delivered to the company via its registrars, whether in which they are the registered holder.
A resolution put written or electronic form, not less than 48 hours before to the vote at a general meeting is decided on a show of the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned hands unless before, or on the declaration of the result of, meeting at which the person named in the appointment a vote on a show of hands, a poll is demanded.
A poll can proposes to vote.
be demanded by the chairman of the meeting, or by No shareholder is, unless the board decides otherwise, at least three shareholders or their representatives entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at present in person and having the right to vote, or by a general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred any shareholders or their representatives present by being a shareholder if he she or any person with an in person having at least 10% of the total voting rights interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of all shareholders, or by any shareholders or their of the Act which confers upon public companies the representatives present in person holding ordinary power to require information with respect to interests shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up of at in their voting shares and he she or any interested least 10% of the total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
person failed to supply the company with the information At this years AGM voting will again be conducted on a requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
poll, consistent with best practice.
The board may also decide, where the relevant Shareholders can declare a final dividend by passing an shareholding comprises at least 0.25% of the nominal ordinary resolution but the amount of the dividend value of the issued shares of that class, that no dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by the board.
is payable in respect of those default shares and that The board can pay interim dividends on any class of shares no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
of the amounts and on the dates and for the periods they decide.
In all cases the distributable profits of the company must be sufficient to justify the payment of the relevant dividend.
OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 4 Governance 111 ADDItIONAl SHAREHOlDER INFORmAtION Pearson operates two employee benefit trusts to hold Without prejudice to any special rights previously shares, pending employees becoming entitled to them conferred on the holders of any existing shares or class under the companys employee share plans.
There were ofshares, any share may be issued with such preferred, 7,192,412 shares held as at 31 December 2014.
Each trust deferred, or other special rights, or such restrictions, has an independent trustee which has full discretion in whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital relation to the voting of such shares.
Adividend waiver orotherwise as the company may from time to time by operates on the shares held in thesetrusts.
Pearson also operates a nominee shareholding Appointment and replacement of directors arrangement known as Sharestore which holds shares The Articles contain the following provisions in relation on behalf of employees.
There were 4,709,325 shares so todirectors: held as at 31 December 2014.
The beneficial owners of shares held through Sharestore are invited to submit Directors shall be no less than two in number.
Directors voting instructions online at www.
If no may be appointed by the company by ordinary resolution instructions are given by the beneficial owner, the trustees or by the board.
A director appointed by the board shall holding these shares will not exercise the voting rights.
hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for reappointment, but shall not be taken into transfer of shares account in determining the directors or the number of The board may refuse to register a transfer of a directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the The board may from time to time appoint one or more refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the company directors to hold executive office with the company for from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The board such period subject to the provisions of the Act and may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated upon such terms as the board may decide and may revoke share unless i the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly or terminate any appointment so made.
stamped if stampable, at the registered office of the The Articles provide that, at every AGM of the company, company or any other place decided by the board, and at least one-third of the directors shall retire by rotation is accompanied by the certificate for the share to which or, if their number is not a multiple of three, the number it relates and such other evidence as the board may nearest to one-third.
The first directors to retire by reasonably require to show the right of the transferor rotation shall be those who wish to retire and not offer to make the transfer: ii it is in respect of only one themselves for re-election.
Any further directors so to class of shares: and iii it is in favour of not more than retire shall be those of the other directors subject to four transferees.
retirement by rotation who have been longest in office Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out since they were last re-elected but, as between persons using CREST and the board can refuse to register a who became or were last re-elected on the same day, transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with those to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among theregulations governing the operation of CREST.
themselves be determined by lot.
In addition, any director who would not otherwise be required to retire variation of rights shall retire by rotation at the third AGM after they were If at any time the capital of the company is divided into last re-elected.
different classes of shares, the special rights attaching to Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, the board any class may be varied or revoked either: has resolved that all directors should offer themselves for i with the written consent of the holders of at least re-election annually, in accordance with the Code.
75% in nominal value of the issued shares of the relevant The company may by ordinary resolution remove any class or director before the expiration of his her term of office.
ii with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a Inaddition, the board may terminate an agreement or separate general meeting of the holders of the shares arrangement with any director for the provision of his her ofthe relevant class.
112 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Additional disclosures continued ADDItIONAl SHAREHOlDER INFORmAtION Powers of the directors Subject to the companys Articles, the Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the company will be managed by the board who may exercise all the powers of the company, including powers relating to the issue and or buying back of shares by the company subject to any statutory restrictions or restrictions imposed by shareholders in general meeting.
Significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the company: Under the $1,750,000,000 revolving credit facility agreement dated August 2014 which matures in August 2019 between, amongst others, the company, Barclays Bank plc as facility agent and the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders the Facility, any such bank may, upon a change of control of the company, require its outstanding advances, together with accrued interest and any other amounts payable in respect of such Facility, and its commitments, to be cancelled, each within 60 days of notification to the banks by the facility agent.
For these purposes, a change of control occurs if the company becomes a subsidiary of any other company orone or more persons acting either individually or in concert, obtains control as defined in section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 of the company.
Shares acquired through the companys employee share plans rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
For legal and practical reasons, the rules ofthese plans set out the consequences of a change of control of the company.
