Strategic report - Strategic overview How we generate and preserve value Business model Pennons business model is driven by its strategy of promoting the success of the Group for the benefit of shareholders, customers and other stakeholders through its focus on the business areas of water and sewerage services, recycling, renewable energy generation and waste management.
We aim to be a pre-eminent provider of customer services to high standards of quality, efficiency and reliability, and to provide value for our shareholders.
Shareholder returns Pennon Group Strong governance Viridor South West Water How we create value We create value for our shareholders by developing our two environmental utility infrastructure businesses, South West Water and Viridor, and by efficient financing and strong management of the Group as a whole.
Customer Financial Employee satisfaction performance engagement South West Water Viridor The water and sewerage services provider for Devon, Focused on transforming waste into a resource, Cornwall and parts of Dorset and Somerset, is focused having developed from being a traditional waste on delivering further efficiencies, improving operating management company to a leading UK recycling, standards and providing a high quality service to its renewable energy and waste management business.
Viridors business model is based on growing and South West Waters business model is based on adding value by maximising sale of high quality delivering its Pure Water, Pure Service and Pure recyclate, growing its EfW and PPP operations and Environment strategy, while ensuring long-term exploiting the huge potential inherent in waste-based profitability, resilience and sustainability.
8 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 How we manage our businesses to create value Customer Financial Shareholder Strong Employee satisfaction performance returns governance engagement Our Group has set Both South West We are committed We are aware that We know that the challenging financial Water and Viridor to delivering our businesses can, success of our Group targets against are fully committed sustainable and do, have a is due to the talent, which performance to meeting the shareholder returns.
material impact on commitment and is measured through needs of their An example of this the environment hard work of our a range of key customers.
This is is our policy to grow and communities in employees and we performance key to the success the Group dividend which they operate.
aim to be a indicators KPIs.
by 4% above To address this we responsible employer.
These KPIs include inflation per annum take a responsible How we respond to We are focused on profit before tax up to the end of and transparent our customers ensuring employee before exceptional 2014 15. approach to needs and assess well-being, retention, net charges, environmental, customer We will announce efficiency and earnings per share social and satisfaction is set our dividend policy productivity.
before exceptional governance ESG out on pages 12, for the next period net charges and matters.
More information on 13, 16, 21 and 23 of at the 2014 15 deferred tax, the initiatives we have the strategic report.
Our sustainable dividend per share introduced to practices not only and the interest rate improve employee benefit communities on average net engagement in each but enable our debt.
of our businesses is businesses to be set out on pages 15, Our focus in setting more successful.
23, 43 and 55. such targets is to More information on achieve sustainable our sustainability performance over activities are set out the short and on pages 36-47 in long-term.
our sustainability Our financial report.
performance is set out in more detail on pages 24-29.
How we operate and manage risks Essential to achieving our strategic aims and creating value within our businesses is our operating framework, which is based on the principles of good governance.
Our operating framework includes a comprehensive and fully embedded risk management process which assists us in managing our risks and opportunities to deliver the Groups strategy and the other essential elements of our business model.
Further information on our control and risk management environment is described on page 59 and our principal risks and uncertainties and how we mitigate them are set out on pages 30-35. www.
co. uk 2014 9 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements
