Strategic report - Viridor Strategic review UK landfill diversion is being achieved by a major increase in recycling and energy recovery from residual waste.
Strategy and UK context The UK is required under the EU Landfill Directive to reduce the amount of biodegradable municipal waste going to landfill sites.
This is being achieved by a major increase in recycling, with residual waste increasingly being used for energy recovery.
Energy recovery from waste both biodegradable and nonbiodegradable accounted for 8% of total UK renewable energy generated in 2012.
Viridor believes that by 2020 UK energy recovery from waste could produce 15,000 GWh of the total forecasted UK renewable energy generation 120,000 GWh, accounting for circa 13%.
This is particularly significant given predicted capacity shortages in the energy sector.
The Governments main mechanism for diverting EfW is central to the UKs waste and renewable waste from landfill and incentivising recycling and energy strategies as the long-term, low-cost ERFs remains landfill tax.
The Government has alternative to landfill for disposal of residual waste.
confirmed that landfill tax will rise in line with inflation Viridor expects to have 15% market share by 2020 from 1 April 2015 from the current rate of 80 per with a network of strategic ERFs which will underpin tonne.
This continues to influence the long-term the companys long-term profit growth.
economics of both recycling and energy recovery.
For the landfill energy business the focus is to In addition, recyclate costs are typically significantly maximise the value of landfill gas generation across lower than the cost of using virgin materials for all sites, managing the expected decline in landfill manufacturers.
inputs by concentrating on strategic operational sites Viridor is giving resources new life through its focus and optimising returns on other sites through on recycling and waste-based renewable energy.
alternative uses such as photovoltaic installation.
Investment in technology and operational practices To align the structure of the organisation with its has been successfully made to enhance recyclate strategy, two divisions have been created: Recycling quality to differentiate Viridor from its competitors.
& Resources comprising recycling, contracts and This, aligned with management of the cost base, collection and Energy comprising ERFs, landfill continues to improve recycling margins.
energy and other renewable power.
Significant progress has also been made in the development of the EfW business, with a substantial asset base being constructed in conjunction with the development of the associated business capability processes across the whole 'source to supply' EfW production cycle.
Figures for 2013 not yet available 20 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Action has been, and continues to be, taken to Business performance reduce the cost base with the average cost per tonne Revenue was up 14% to 802 million.
Landfill revenue reduced to 83 from last years total of 93, including was up 43.1 million due to higher landfill tax revenues the benefit of circa 3 per tonne from the 2012 13 and construction revenues were up reflecting growth impairment charge.
Allied to an emphasis on the in assets under construction, partly offset by a production of high quality recyclate, the business has decrease in recycling revenue of 17.1 million primarily been benefitting from improvements in margins.
company remains cautious on the prospects for recyclate prices and therefore continues to focus on Before exceptional charges Viridors earnings before revenue optimisation, facilities rationalisation and cost interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA reduction.
for the year were broadly flat, with a small decrease of 1.4 million 1.8% to 76.3 million.
PBIT fell 0.4 Investment is also being made in technology with a million 1.3% to 30.2 million.
PBIT plus joint ventures new plastic polymer separation plant at Rochester, decreased by 2.1 million 4.6% to 43.6 million.
costing circa 15 million, and a new glass reprocessing plant in Scotland, costing circa 10 Profit before tax and exceptional charges decreased million.
These investments will enable Viridor to 6.7 million 19.5% to 27.6 million reflecting lower enhance product quality and continue to differentiate PBIT plus joint ventures and the increased interest itself in the sector.
Viridor now has the most extensive charge from higher landfill provisions.
Materials Recycling Facility MRF capacity in the UK Exceptional charges with accreditations for export to China, and is established as a quality brand in other Asian markets.
The profitability of the landfill business has declined faster than anticipated due to aggressive pricing from Profits in 'Contracts & Other' were up overall across other landfill operators in response to local authority the 15 municipal contracts around the UK the more austerity and increasing levels of landfill tax who are significant contracts include Lancashire, Glasgow, competing for volume to allow closure of their sites Lakeside, Manchester, Somerset and West Sussex with suitable landforms, and higher ongoing capital and the Thames Water contract.
reflected higher profits on property sales.
Profits in the collection business were also ahead, reflecting While there will always be a need for strategically increased management action.
located landfill sites, Viridor expects these trends to continue for the foreseeable future.
As a result a Additional contracts have been won since the yearnet pre-tax exceptional impairment charge of 42.9 end but profits in the first half of 2014 15 are million has been recognised to write-down the carrying expected to be impacted by the expiry of some old value of landfill property, plant and equipment.
impairment charge has no immediate cash impact.
Landfill provisioning has been increased by 5.7 million due to revisions to site life costings.
Energy Investment Energy can be recovered in two ways, either via gas Investments in the future capabilities and strength of notably landfill gas and anaerobic digestion AD Viridors business included capital investment of 292 or combustion in ERF and similar facilities, some of million 2012 13 324 million, of which 254 million which may be a part of Combined Heat and Power was for growth projects largely EfW.
Bio-energy including landfill gas, is part of the overall 1.5 billion programme to deliver biodegradable EfW and AD and energy recovery from essential infrastructure which will make a substantial non-biodegradable waste accounted for 39% of total contribution to energy and resource security in the UK.
renewable energy in 2012. a Landfill gas power generation Profit contribution from gas generation was 30.1 Recycling and resources million, an increase of 26.5% on 2012 13.
Viridors landfill gas power generation output fell 2% to 606 During the year recycling volumes traded decreased Gigawatt hours GWh after reaching peak output in marginally by 63,000 tonnes 3.0% to 1.8 million 2012 13 and is expected to reduce gradually over the tonnes.
Recyclate prices have stabilised to some coming years.
degree for most commodities but remain under pressure, reflecting world economic conditions and Average revenue per Megawatt hour MWh increased competitive markets and, in the near term, higher by 9.2% to 89.74 reflecting the switch from Non shipping costs.
Overall average revenues per tonne Fossil Fuel Obligation NFFO contracts to from recyclate sales and gate fees for the year fell to Renewables Obligation Certificates ROCs.
Total 93, 6.1% lower than for 2012 13. landfill gas power generation operational capacity Figures for 2013 not yet available www.
co. uk 2014 21 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Strategic report - Viridor Strategic review Continued declined by 2MW to 105MW excluding 3MW capacity at Future alternative uses for sites are now also being assessed in sub-contract sites in Suffolk.
The proportion of operational detail.
Early success has been achieved at Westbury with capacity eligible for ROCs increased to 85%, with the remaining planning permission granted for a 2.75MW photovoltaic 15% being on lower priced NFFO contracts.
An 8 million migrate to ROCs during 2014 15 with the balance moving partnership with, and fully funded by, the Department of Energy across by 2016 17. and Climate Change to deliver a demonstration cryogenic energy storage plant has been signed and construction is Average costs were reduced by 8.4% to 40.05 per MWh with scheduled to commence in the first quarter of 2014 15. a continuing focus on managing the cost base.
Landfill tax, which is passed directly to the customer, was 72 b Energy Recovery Facilities ERFs and Anaerobic per tonne throughout the year and rose further to 80 per tonne Digestion AD in April 2014.
As well as the 105MW of landfill gas capacity, Viridor has a further 31MW of renewable energy capacity across its share of the Lakeside ERF, the Bolton ERF and its AD operations.
Joint ventures In addition to the above operational projects, Viridor is pursuing Total joint ventures contribution, which consists of interest on a number of other renewable energy opportunities.
Most shareholder loans and share of profit after tax, fell 11.3% to notably, the company has been successfully implementing its 13.4 million 2012 13 15.1 million reflecting developments strategy to develop the EfW business, which will drive long-term explained below.
This includes establishing a significant asset base of ERFs.
Viridor and its partners have a total operational a Lakeside committed ERF capacity of 2.5 million tonnes.
The company Lakeside, the first of Viridors EfW pipeline projects, continues to has now secured circa 80% of the required waste inputs for the perform very strongly and is ahead of original expectations in opening of the committed ERFs, of which circa 60% is from terms of both waste inputs and energy output.
was 5.9 million in 2013 14: comprising interest receivable on Five plants, being Runcorn Phases I and 2, Exeter, Ardley shareholder loans unchanged at 1.4 million and share of profit Oxfordshire and Trident Park Cardiff, have reached advanced after tax from Lakeside 4.5 million down 1.3 million on the stages of build with all expected to come on-stream in financial previous year reflecting higher outage costs.
Two others, Glasgow and Peterborough, million contribution came from the sub-contract profit.
commenced construction in the year.
70% of spend on ERF b Viridor Laing Greater Manchester VLGM projects under construction is now complete.
The 25-year Greater Manchester Waste PFI contract being At the start of 2014 there was a successful appeal to have the delivered through VLGM is the UKs largest ever combined planning restriction on road-borne waste inputs to both phases waste and renewable energy project.
VLGM is a joint venture of Runcorn lifted from 85,000 to 480,000 tonnes per annum.
between Viridor and John Laing Infrastructure.
Operation of the Planning consent for the Beddington ERF was issued in March associated facilities both existing facilities and those which are 2014.
However the project has been delayed pending a judicial to be developed is being carried out on a sub-contract basis by review, which was expected.
As part of continuing to secure waste for the ERFs, the South Solid recovered fuel produced from the waste will be used to East Wales residual waste project Prosiect Gwyrdd was signed generate heat and power at a plant being built at Runcorn in in December 2013.
Runcorn Phase 1 is being built primarily for the Viridor has also reached the final bid stage as one of two Greater Manchester Waste PFI contract.
bidders on the Edinburgh and Midlothian residual waste As part of the VLGM contract, a separate contractor was contract.
As at 31 March 2014, 42 of The Walpole AD plant, which has a 1MW export capacity, is these facilities had been formally taken over by Viridor.
A further 'closed loop' opportunity to use facilities include four mechanical biological treatment MBT digestate as a biofertiliser is being assessed with the plants.
Three of these MBTs have been taken over and the Environment Agency.
remaining one is substantially complete, but has not yet been taken over due to isolated process elements not performing EfW contracts and projects already contribute to the bottom line satisfactorily.
The delay in takeover of the remaining plant is and reflect the realisation of a strategy which is expected to being addressed and is not expected to affect the financing of contribute around 100 million to Viridors EBITDA within the the project or have a material impact on the performance of the next three years.
c Landfill Interest receivable on shareholder loans from the VLGM joint The business continues to be strongly cash generative and venture was 5.3 million, up 0.2 million 2012 13 5.1 million.
contributed 33.6 million to EBITDA in the year.
Volumes Share of results after tax from VLGM on an IFRIC 12 basis was increased marginally 0.8% to 2.7 million tonnes over the year.
a loss of 0.5 million, down 0.5 million due to a reduction in construction margin profits as construction completion is Average gate fees decreased by 9.0% to 23.06 per tonne.
Consented landfill capacity reduced from 61.5 million m at 31 3 March 2013 to 57.7 million m at 31 March 2014, reflecting usage during the year.
As previously stated and provided for last 3 year, around 39 million m is not expected to be used.
22 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 c Runcorn Phase 1 TPSCo performance.
A full company-wide health and safety survey is informing developing action plans that will be Interest receivable on shareholder loans from the implemented during 2014 15.
There was a continued Runcorn Phase 1 EfW joint venture was 3.0 million, fall in the RIDDOR incidence rate over the previous up 0.2 million on 2012 13.
Share of profit after tax year, with 37 reportable incidents, giving a rate of 1,197 was a loss of 0.3 million, down 0.3 million on per 100,000 employees 1,429 last year.
The company remains committed to the ongoing Hot commissioning has now commenced on-site.
First training, professional development and upskilling of its burn of waste occurred in March 2014.
4,352 training days and an additional rail operations has been completed and rail-borne fuel 1,001 Certificate of Professional Competence driver transfer from Greater Manchester is now operational.
training days were delivered across the company.
245 Viridor does not expect previously reported delays to employees are participating in sustainable resource have a material impact on the completion and management apprenticeships, alongside 17 current operation of the Greater Manchester PFI or TPSCo.
full-time apprentices in the business.
41 managers are enrolled in the innovative and sector-leading Viridor Foundation Degree course, developed and delivered in Key relationships partnership with Edge Hill University.
With regard to Viridors largest customer groups, local authorities account for 31% of the companys revenue, although no individual authority accounts for more Outlook for Viridor than 12%.
Viridors ROC energy contracts account for Viridor continues its transformation from being 7% of revenue, primarily with one customer.
predominantly a landfill and collections operator to becoming one of the countrys leading recycling, Recycling and waste management operations in renewable energy and waste management companies.
England and Wales require Environmental Permits issued and regulated by the Environment Agency EA While there are some signs of improving economic and Natural Resources Wales.
In Scotland the Scottish trends, the company remains appropriately cautious Environmental Protection Agency issues and regulates about the future prospects for recyclate prices.
Viridor similar waste management licences or pollution, remains strongly focused on a stringent programme to prevention and control PPC permits.
Viridor maintains optimise revenues, achieve efficiencies through facilities a positive working relationship with these and other rationalisation and cost reduction to sustain margin relevant regulatory bodies by means of proactive improvement.
liaison and management of any issues at both site and strategic levels.
Excellent progress has been achieved in the realisation of the EfW business.
Five major ERFs are due to A full update of Viridors industry-leading become operational in the current financial year while OpenSpace web portal, through which live data is two others started construction in 2013 14 and the shared with the regulators, was completed during the Beddington ERF recently gained planning permission.
This transparent and proactive approach continues to save time and resources for all parties.
Viridors first half year EBITDA figure in 2014 15 is expected to be materially lower than the half year figure for 2013 14 primarily due to the expected continuation of landfill decline but also the gradual decline in power People generation and the near term recycling and contracts Recognising the importance and performance benefits factors noted above.
However the ERFs coming of an engaged workforce, Viridor has developed plans on-stream this year are expected to increase EBITDA to fully monitor and improve engagement across the in the second half of the year resulting in the full year company.
This includes a commissioned survey, EBITDA for 2014 15 exceeding 2013 14.
These assets roadshows and other programmes as it rolls out its represent a strategic ERF portfolio which is already Enterprise Resource Platform and associated business making a significant contribution to Viridors bottom line process improvements.
and reflect the realisation of a strategy which is expected to contribute circa 100 million to Viridors Viridor has reviewed its overall approach to the health, EBITDA within the next three years.
safety and welfare of its employees and is aiming to achieve a step change in overall health and safety From 2012 reportable incidents are now reported on seven days absence: in previous years they would have been reported on three days absence.
co. uk 2014 23 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements
