Strategic r Strategic report - South W eport - South West W est Water ater - Highlights Strategic review South West Water continued to outperform its efficiency targets for the current regulatory period, delivering strong financial results supported by robust operational performance despite extremes of weather, including a hot dry summer followed by severe storms in winter 2013 14.
The focus for the programme remains weighted Business performance towards the maintenance of our existing assets, Increased revenue and rigorous cost control were increasing the resilience of our infrastructure and underpinned by the continued delivery of efficiencies delivering environmental improvements.
Investments resulting in operating profit increasing by 12.2 during the year included: million to 227.0 million.
improvements in water quality with treatment An overall reduction in demand of 1.0% and the upgrades at two key sites Restormel and effect of customers switching to a metered tariff was Wendron which provide 50% of the water supply offset by tariff increases and new connections with for Cornwall revenue rising by 4.3% to 520.0 million.
Excluding investments in assets to improve bathing water exceptional net income in 2012 13 profit before tax quality to meet revised European Guidelines in increased by 10.8% to 162.5 million.
2015 The company front-end loaded delivery of the delivering additional capacity to meet growth required 2.8% per annum average cost efficiencies.
including supply to two new towns within the Cumulatively the efficiency delivered for the four region years of K5 is 14% ahead of Ofwat's target as a focusing on compliance at waste water sites to result of early delivery.
Annual operating costs are manage periods of extreme weather conditions 22.2 million lower as a consequence with 3.6 million delivered in 2013 14 through a combination safeguarding water resources upgrades to four of the following: reservoirs across the region innovative investments to reduce flooding for improved operational ways of working from the those customers previously highlighted as at risk.
integration of customer services management and asset improvements through the PUROS programme South West Water continues energy procurement and usage energy efficiency schemes alongside additional power to deliver capital projects in generation through renewable sources line with Ofwat, the Drinking rationalising administration and support services right-sourcing and innovative contracting Water Inspectorate and tendering to achieve the right price.
Capital expenditure for the year was 141.6 million Environment Agency compared with 116.5 million in 2012 13. expectations.
Performance cumulatively to date is in line Phased Utilisation of Remote Operating Systems with targets.
12 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Pure Water Pure Service Drinking water quality Customer satisfaction Despite the challenges of a dry summer with high Since the start of K5 2010-2015 the investment levels of demand followed by an intensely wet winter, South West Water has made in its frontline customer South West Water continued to deliver outstanding services has, alongside operational improvements, water quality with an official result as measured by resulted in a 97% increase in its customer service Mean Zonal Compliance of 99.98%.
This reflects score, as measured by the Service Incentive investment made in water mains rehabilitation: the Mechanism which takes into account a range of maintenance and improvement of treatment works customer service aspects and the results of customer and processes: and the efforts and expertise of satisfaction surveys.
The number of written operational staff.
complaints has also more than halved over this period.
South West Water also took steps to improve the Recognising that there is still work to be done to aesthetic qualities taste, smell and colour of its water improve customer satisfaction levels, the company is supplies, recognising the importance of this to targeting a range of improvements including customers.
Significant investments during the year enhancements to the systems and processes for included water treatment process enhancements at its dealing with queries, complaints and requests for Restormel and Wendron water treatment works, both information.
The more integrated approach to resolving issues first Water resources time is being complemented by the increased use of digital media to provide better outbound Despite the very dry weather over the summer months coinciding with the peak tourist season, South West communications.
This reduces the likelihood of a customer needing to contact the company.
Water continued to deliver unrestricted supplies to its customers for the 17th consecutive year.
Metering Building on the significant investment made in In 2013 14 there were fewer new meter installations reservoirs and the supply network in previous years, than in previous years, which reflects the already high the companys water resources strategy is now level of meter penetration in the region.
At the year-end focused on targeting the careful management and the percentage of South West Water household optimisation of water resources in order to continue to customers on a metered supply had increased to meet its customers needs.
Reservoir levels reached near 100% capacity in early Affordability 2014 and consequently the company is in a healthy Recognising that there are customers in the region resource position for the coming year.
who genuinely struggle to pay their bills, South West Leakage control Water continues to offer a range of affordability schemes and initiatives, in addition to advice and South West Waters solid track record in controlling support on aspects such as water efficiency.
leakage was maintained in 2013 14 with the company minimising leakage in line with its target of no more In 2013 the company was one of the first water than 84 megalitres lost on average per day.
Improved companies to launch a social tariff.
Means-tested, the response times to leaks and bursts are now being tariff has already assisted 1,100 customers in the targeted alongside ongoing investment in the region by reducing their bills to an amount they can maintenance of the supply network and assets.
The company also successfully managed the implementation of the 50 Government A key part of the companys leakage strategy is the payment for eligible household customers.
use of improved monitoring and control technologies.
This includes advanced diagnostic tools and remote Furthermore, and in recognition of the importance communication technologies in order to better predict, customers attach to keeping bills as low as possible, and respond to, any issues on the drinking water the company has frozen prices for 2014 15.
announcement coincided with the publication of the company's business plan to 2020 in December 2013 Upstream Thinking and has been well received by customers, regional South West Water is investing circa 8 million during MPs, media and stakeholder groups.
2010-2015 in its award-winning catchment management programme, known as Upstream Business customers Thinking.
South West Water provides water and waste water services to over 73,000 businesses and other nonDesigned to improve natural water quality and storage household customers such as schools and hospitals.
in the landscape using low-impact ecologically Many of them are small to medium-sized enterprises sensitive solutions, the two main strands of activity are with the tourism and agriculture sectors accounting for moorland restoration work and farm improvements to 45% of non-household water use.
reduce the impact of agricultural activity on the regions watercourses.
In early 2014 independent studies by the University of Exeter confirmed that the restoration work on Exmoor Exmoor Mires Project was making significant headway in improving water quality and reducing flood risk by easing the flow of water from the land.
Upstream Thinking won the Chartered Institution of Water and Environment Management CIWEM Living Wetlands Award in 2013. www.
co. uk 2014 13 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Strategic r Strategic report - South W eport - South West W est Water ater - Highlights Strategic review Continued Through the Source for Business service brand, South West Downstream Thinking Water provides additional commercial services, including In 2013 South West Water began preparatory work on the first dedicated contact routes to business customer specialists: of a series of pilot schemes designed to tackle the root causes account managers for larger organisations: water efficiency of sewer flooding and pollution.
support: and a range of innovative supplementary products and Taking a lead from the holistic approach to catchment services.
management adopted for Upstream Thinking, Downstream From 2017 onwards all non-household customers will be able Thinking spans a range of low-impact activities including to choose their water and waste water service provider.
South Sustainable Urban Drainage schemes SuDs, habitat West Water is currently preparing for these changes and management and the targeting of minimising misconnections.
exploring the options for diversification as new opportunities This initiative is being led by South West Water and is set to be arise.
rolled out in 2014 15 in partnership with a range of stakeholder groups including the Environment Agency, local councils, the Highways Agency and lead local flood authorities.
Pure Environment Bathing waters Waste water treatment standards Targeted investment to raise the compliance rate of South West In 2013 the regions bathing water quality reached the highest Waters waste water treatment assets continued in 2013 14. standards in seven years.
Out of the 145 designated bathing waters sampled, only one failed to meet the minimum The below target performance of two waste water treatment mandatory European water quality standard while 132 or 91% works earmarked for improvement caused a noticeable drop in met the tighter guideline standard.
compliance to 94.38% from 99.98% the previous year as measured by the percentage of population served by works that South West Water recognises the major benefits that high quality bathing water brings to the region, both in terms of meet the criteria Population Equivalent Sanitary Compliance.
attracting visitors and enhancing quality of life for residents.
In Improvement work on those sites has since been carried out preparation for the more stringent standards of the European and the company continues to work towards delivering Unions revised Bathing Water Directive, which comes into force improved treatment standards in line with the revised Bathing in 2015, the company is investing circa 18 million on a range Water Directive.
of bathing water quality improvement schemes.
Pollution prevention South West Water also continues to work alongside partner Compared with the previous year, 2013 saw a rise in the total organisations such as local councils and tourism authorities to number of pollutions although South West Water successfully look at how the variety of factors that potentially affect water avoided any major or Category 1 incidents.
The number of quality for example agricultural run-off, misconnections, serious or harmful pollution incidents which relates to both impurities from birds and animals can be addressed.
Categories 1 & 2 did increase to 10 from four the previous year.
Of these, six related to cases in which amenities such as beaches were closed as a precautionary measure.
14 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Flooding People After the extremely wet weather of the previous year, Integral to the long-term success of South West Water 2013 14 saw an overall reduction in floodings.
This are the efforts and ingenuity of its 1,400-strong was despite above average rainfall and a spate of workforce.
In 2013 14 the company continued to severe storms and high seas causing disruption and develop its People Strategy, which is designed to damage to infrastructure during the winter.
attract, develop and retain a motivated and highly skilled staff base, not least through a number of The number of internal floodings caused by hydraulic internal development and upskilling programmes and overload sewers becoming overwhelmed by the sheer initiatives.
volume of water was 50 significantly fewer than the previous year although above the average for the 2010 With the recruitment of 24 new apprentices, the total 2015 regulatory period.
number rose to 43 across the business.
The apprenticeship programme has been developed The number of floodings resulting from other causes alongside regional educational establishments.
South for example blockages and sewer collapses remained West Water is also playing a key role in the creation of below the K5 average although additional work is a new University Technical College UTC in the area, required in order to reduce this number further.
This will help to educate Energy and carbon and develop the next generation of engineers and scientists.
In 2013 14 South West Water successfully reduced greenhouse gas emissions.
Emissions were kept at a The company continually reviews its health and safety level lower than the companys baseline position at the standards and makes improvements as appropriate to beginning of the K5 investment period.
South West Water has maintained its investment in In 2013 14 the number of injuries to our staff renewable energy, bringing the total expenditure for K5 reportable under the RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, to over 4 million.
This has included the installation of Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations the companys largest solar panel array to date at its was three.
Along with hydro generation, combined heat and power CHP and the wind turbine The incident which resulted in a fatality at the at Lowermoor Water Treatment Works, South West companys Falmouth Waste Water Treatment Works Waters 34 solar panel schemes now bring the total on 30 December 2013 is not included in this figure.
capacity for renewable energy generation to over The coroners inquest to establish the cause of death 10MW.
South West Water very much regrets that this incident occurred and our thoughts are with the family, friends and colleagues who have been deeply affected.
South West Water wishes to thank its staff both for their hard work over the past year and their ongoing dedication and commitment as the company prepares for the new regulatory period 2015-2020. www.
co. uk 2014 15 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Strategic r Strategic report - South W eport - South West W est Water ater - Highlights Strategic review Continued Procurement and suppliers Key relationships South West Waters procurement strategy is focused on Regulators and others partnering and strategic alliances with around 60 key suppliers South West Water actively engages with a wide range of who account for the large majority of expenditure.
All aspects of environmental and regulatory stakeholders.
The company sustainability are included in the procurement process and this ensures that communication is handled in the most appropriate is a central theme of the companys procurement strategy and way and that the information provided is of high quality and support for the regional economy.
At the start of the K5 period an innovative mixed economy A range of commercial channels including traditional and online model was introduced to source capital programme suppliers.
platforms are used to communicate with the company's This means using a significant number of smaller local stakeholders.
contractors to provide specialised services as well as developing long-term relationships with more major supply The company contributes to national policy on developing chain partners.
issues through its membership of Water UK, the industry trade body, and its work with the Consumer Council for Water to No supplier revenue accounts for more than 5% of the ensure that customers issues and concerns are addressed and companys revenue and South West Water sources all its a full understanding of the companys activities is maintained.
WaterFuture customer panel Business Plan to 2020 The independent challenge panel comprising regional On 2 December 2013 South West Water submitted its K6 regulatory, business and consumer representatives played a key 2015-2020 business plan and following Ofwat's risk-based role in scrutinising and challenging South West Waters review, on 4 April 2014 Ofwat assessed the plan as 'enhanced'.
proposals and customer engagement process in the run-up to An early Draft Determination was received on 30 April 2014. the publication in December 2013 of its business plan to 2020.
The Final Determination will follow on 12 December 2014.
Tasked with ensuring that the business plan would meet the The business plan was balanced, well evidenced and well needs and priorities of customers while also fulfilling legislative supported and met or exceeded all of Ofwat's assessment and regulatory obligations, the panel met regularly with the areas.
Ofwat commended South West Water on achieving South West Water management and executive teams.
'enhanced' status through an excellent business plan and strong management.
It acknowledged that South West Water had risen to the challenge set by the regulatory approach for the 2014 price review and considered the company's business plan to be an example of good practice.
The Environment Agency also welcomed the commitment made by South West Water to meet its environmental obligations.
The benefits received from the enhanced assessment include an initial financial award of 11 million reflected as an addition to the Regulatory Capital Value with up to 50% invested.
It also includes an enhanced total expenditure Totex menu with an extra 5% enhanced sharing rate and a do no harm principle as the company and Ofwat work towards the Final Determination.
Water Act The new Water Act became statute in May 2014.
As well as setting out a range of reforms for the water sector in England, the Act enables further retail and wholesale competition.
Preparations are underway for the retail market opening in April 2017.
South West Water is fully engaged in the Open Water programme, governed by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and Ofwat, which will shape market reform in the sector.
Building on the success of its Source for Business range of specialist advice and support measures, the company has been awarded supply licences covering Scotland, England and Wales, which will allow it to retail water to customers outside the region currently served.
16 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 South West Water continues to focus on efficient Outlook for South West Water service delivery, improvements in service to customers South West Water enters the final year of the current and the satisfaction of its regulatory and legislative regulatory period in a strong and confident position.
It is on track to outperform the K5 regulatory contract.
Profits for 2014 15 will be To date the company has delivered substantial impacted by the 2014 15 tariff freeze already efficiencies which benefit all stakeholders and is announced.
However, the revenues foregone have focused on the continued delivery of efficiencies been taken account of in the Draft Determination for through a combination of innovation, investment in K6 on an NPV neutral basis.
new technologies and the pioneering of cost-effective sustainable solutions.
With an enhanced business plan for K6, South West Water has already received the Draft Determination for In 2014 15 the company will continue to target: the 2015-2020 period.
The company is engaged in outperformance of the regulatory contract the development of Ofwats ongoing regulatory reform agenda and is well positioned for future Government rigorous cost control legislative changes.
investment in the asset base to safeguard past successes and prepare for the challenges and opportunities of the future.
co. uk 2014 17 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements
