Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 8 Strategy in action 1 Build sustainable homes We build sustainable energy efficient homes across the country, achieving a Standard Assessment Procedure rating of 83 out of 100 in 2014.
Our manufacturing plant at Space4 provided over 5,000 energy efficient insulated timber frames in 2014.
Above: Richard Cottier working at our Space4 timber frame factory Standard Assessment Procedure is the Governments energy rating of residential dwellings.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 9 2 Excellent customer focus We aim to take care of our customers, not just when they are buying but also after they have moved into their new home.
Achieving our customers satisfaction of value, quality and service is at the heart of what we endeavour to do.
Above: Sales advisor Katie Waller at our Bridleways site in Giltbrook, Nottingham Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 10 Strategy in action continued 3 Robust health and safety Our approach to health and safety centres on the concept that planning for and management of work activities on site should involve everyone.
We encourage both collective and individual responsibility for health and safety risk identification and mitigation during pre-start and construction phases of our developments.
Above: Site manager Jim Robinson and Tom Waddell at our site in Earnock Glen, Hamilton, Scotland Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 11 4 Selective new site acquisitions Strategic land forms a core component of the Groups strategy.
We identify opportunities for promoting land through the planning system under the National Planning Policy Framework.
Strategic land activity is undertaken within each of our regional offices allowing us to benefit from local expertise and knowledge, supported by Group resources and financial strength.
Above: Strategic land at Cardea, Stanground, Peterborough Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 12 Strategy in action continued 5 Improve margins Our underlying operating margin improved again during 2014 to 18.4% as a result of our focus on buying land at the right price in the right location, controlling our build costs and the improved efficiency of our business created by the increase in our annual new home sales to 13,509 units.
Above: Persimmon Homes, Pointers Way, Ludlow Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 13 6 Strong cash generation During 2014 our net free cash flow generation of 389m improved by 65% reflecting the increasing efficiency of our business, notwithstanding our strong land investment of over 570m which increased our landbank to 87,720 plots.
Above: Charles Church, Portishead, Bristol
