Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 56 Annual report on remuneration The Remuneration Committees Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2014 is set out below, including remuneration for 2014 and the proposed implementation of the approved Remuneration Policy for 2015.
The auditor is required to report on the following information up to and including the Statement of Directors shareholding requirements and share interests.
Mark Prestons fees are paid in full to his employing company, Grosvenor Estate Holdings.
The original 2013 figures were estimates, please see page 58.
There is a salary sacrifice arrangement in place for the Companys defined benefit pension scheme.
As a result the actual salary paid to an Executive Director while accruing service in this scheme was reduced by 9% of pensionable salary, which would have been the member rate of contribution to the scheme.
During the year no Director waived his entitlement to any emoluments.
Additional information on the amounts which make up the single figure for total remuneration is set out below.
Benefits Benefits include fully financed cars or cash car allowance, private medical scheme membership, life assurance benefits, income protection scheme membership, professional subscriptions and some telephone costs.
Annual bonus 2014 The performance condition for Executive Directors 2014 annual bonus was made up of two financial metrics, being profit and cash generation measures up to 50% and 40% of maximum bonus potential, respectively, and also included two non-financial metrics, being a customer care measure up to 10% of maximum bonus and a health and safety measure which could act as a downward modifier of up to 10% of bonus.
The profit performance condition for 2014 annual bonuses was the achievement of Group profit before tax before exceptional items and goodwill impairment for the year the profit measure.
The cash generation performance condition was the Group net cash inflow together with capital return plan payments for the year the cash generation measure.
