Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 33 Current trading outlook The typical seasonality of trading in the The achievements of the Persimmon Current trading outlook industry may be disturbed this year with team during 2014 provide us with great Customer activity during the first few sales rates picking up into the autumn confidence in the future prospects of weeks of the spring market in 2015 has depending upon the implications of the the Group.
We would like to thank all our been encouraging.
Whilst the broader result of the General Election.
To mitigate employees for their hard work, tenacity economic outlook remains uncertain, the the risk to sales rates in the short term and dedication in delivering such an personal finances of hard working families we are working extremely hard to open outstanding performance for the business.
across the UK are forecast to improve new sites as early in the spring season as We will remain focused on the basics of this year.
The UK population continues to possible.
Whilst planning-related pre-start good housebuilding, buying good land, prioritise home ownership as its preferred conditions continue to increase the time building quality homes and creating choice with respect to housing provision.
taken to bring new outlets to market, we sustainable communities in locations We are confident that increasing numbers are pleased to have already opened 60 where people want to live.
This lies at the of home buyers will select a new home of the 120 new outlets planned for the heart of our strategy and we are confident from the Group as being the right choice first half of 2015.
We are working hard of making further progress in fulfilling our for them, securing a high quality home to increase our active outlet network to strategic objectives over the coming year.
in locations they wish to live and work.
around 400 sites by the middle of 2015 up We expect the recent reduction in the cost from c. 375 sites at the start of the year.
of stamp duty on buying a new home to Our forward sales revenue including legal support increased access to the market, completions in the first eight weeks of particularly for first time buyers.
2015 is up 5% year on year at 1.49bn Against comparatives which reflect a 2014: 1.42bn and the order book Strategic Report particularly strong period in the market last points to further margin improvement to year buoyed by the introduction of Help come.
This is supported by our drive to The Strategic Report to Buy, our weekly private sales rate per capture further operational efficiencies and contained on pages 1 to site is 5% stronger for the year to date.
our plans to expand our sales network Despite the expectation of a little continued 33 has been approved by during 2015. weakness in the short term due to the the Board of Directors and We plan to continue significant investment approach of the General Election, with signed on its behalf by in new land during 2015 to support the improved mortgage lender support we further growth of our regional businesses anticipate that the market will continue a towards optimal sustainable scale in more balanced recovery as we progress Jeff Fairburn their markets.
We expect our free cash Group Chief Executive through 2015.
Customers remain keen generation will support land replacement to secure mortgages supported by the activity at healthy levels whilst also provision of Help to Buy and we have sold Mike Killoran providing increasing levels of confidence c. 39% of our volume so far this year to Group Finance Director regarding the delivery of the Capital Return customers using these mortgage products.
23 February 2015 Plan to our shareholders.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 34 Charles Church, Picket Twenty, Andover, Hampshire Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 35 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 36 Westbury Partnerships, Lavender Copse, Basingstoke, Hampshire Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 37 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 38 Persimmon Homes, Quakers Walk, Devizes, Wiltshire Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 39
