Petrofac 30 Annual report and accounts 2014 Segmental performance ENGINEERING, CONSTRUCTION, OPERATIONS & MAINTENANCE ECOM Onshore Engineering & Construction Achieved order intake in 2014 of US$6.3 billion, securing major new awards inKuwait, Oman, Algeria and Malaysia Agreed capacity enhancements on the Upper Zakum eld development in Abu Dhabi and fully remobilised on the In Salah southern elds development in Algeria in early 2014 Recognised a cumulative loss of around US$180 million on the Laggan-Tormore project and agreed a commercial settlement which should see us recognise no further profit or loss Reached final agreement on a number of other long-outstanding commercial settlements with our clients Offshore Projects & Operations Secured a number of extensions and new awards for services provided in the UK North Sea, including for BP, Total, GDF SUEZ, Maersk, Centrica, EnQuest and Chevron Secured a second contract extension with South Oil Company in Iraq and awarded a three-year general construction management services contract by BP Iraq for the Rumaila eld Awarded our largest offshore EPCI project to date with the award of a contract from TenneT, for the BorWin3 offshore wind farm We are marketing the Petrofac JSD6000 which is scheduled to be available in mid-2017 but we retain the exibility to delay the delivery of the vessel further, dependent on project awards Engineering & Consulting Services Awarded an engineering and procurement contract to provide services for the Rabab Harweel Integrated Project facility worth more than US$1 billion Undertaken a wide range of studies during the year, including a FEED study for the Thamama production zone for ADCO and a development study to work with the Government of Nova Scotia INTEGRATED ENERGY SERVICES IES Commenced production from Cendor phase 2 on Block PM304 with production expected to continue to increase over the near-term First production from Greater Stella Area development now expected in mid-2016 Continue to make good progress on our PECs in Mexico while engaging in contract migration discussions as part of Mexicos energy reforms Taken the decision to exit the Ticleni PEC in Romania which, when coupled with the impact of the latest view of cost and timing on the Greater Stella Area project and reduced commodity price expectations, resulted in substantial impairment and other charges.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 31 Annual report and accounts 2014 Segmental analysis The Group reports the financial results of its seven service lines under four segments: Divisions Engineering, Construction, Operations Integrated Energy Services IES & Maintenance ECOM Chief Operating officer Rob Jewkes Chief Executive Marwan Chedid Reporting Onshore Engineering segments Engineering & Offshore Projects & Operations & Consulting Integrated Energy Services Construction OPO Services OEC ECS Service Onshore Offshore Offshore Engineering lines Training Production Engineering & Projects & Capital & Consulting Developments Services Solutions Construction Operations Projects Services We present below an update on each of the Groups reporting segments : 1,2 3 2 Revenue Operating profit Net profit EBITDA 4 US$ millions 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Onshore Engineering & Construction 3,241 3,534 395 483 403 433 438 539 Offshore Projects & Operations 2,009 1,671 89 99 64 71 107 118 Engineering & Consulting Services 437 362 39 33 33 32 45 38 Integrated Energy Services 782 934 172 166 131 125 345 315 Corporate, consolidation & elimination 228 172 4 12 50 11 21 Group 6,241 6,329 691 793 581 650 935 1,031 Revenue growth Operating margin Net margin EBITDA margin 4 Growth margin analysis % 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Onshore Engineering & Construction 8.3 17.6 12.2 13.7 12.4 12.3 13.5 15.3 Offshore Projects & Operations 20.2 19.1 4.4 5.9 3.2 4.2 5.3 7.1 Engineering & Consulting Services 20.7 47.8 8.9 9.1 7.6 8.8 10.3 10.5 Integrated Energy Services 16.3 31.9 22.0 17.8 16.8 13.4 44.1 33.7 Group 1.4 1.4 11.1 12.5 9.3 10.3 15.0 16.3 1 profit from operations before tax and finance costs.
2 Operating profit and EBITDA includes the Groups share of results of associates.
3 profit for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders.
Before exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
Petrofac 32 Annual report and accounts 2014 Water injection project, The recently completed Kuwait Of course, in many oilelds around the world, Water Injection project, water injection techniques are used to boost production.
But what sets this particular initiative apart is its sheer scale and the high handedover to our client the levels of injection pressure being deployed.
Awarded through a competitive tender back Kuwait Oil Company KOC in in 2010, the US$430 million engineering, procurement and construction project involved the installation of a new central injection and August 2014, is one of a kind.
pumping facility, as well as modications to three existing gathering centres and a seawater treatment facility.
The completed plant enables both efuent water and sea water to be injected, at high pressure, through an intricate network of high-density polythene HDPE lined pipelines, into the wells of nearby oil elds thereby enhancing their oilrecovery capacity.
It is the first time anywhere in the world that such high levels of injection pressure have beenexerted on HDPE-lined pipes.
And this, combined with the corrosive properties of the efuent and sea water, presented some complex safety and integrity considerations.
Even so, the project was delivered to KOCs satisfaction with an excellent safety record throughout.
The team achieved more than 21 million man-hours with just one lost time incident and the project won two consecutive American Society of Safety Engineers gold awards for health and safety excellence.
Design Build Manage and maintain Train Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 33 Annual report and accounts 2014 Segmental performance continued Engineering, Construction, Operations & Maintenance ECOM Following the terrorist attack which took place in January 2013 Onshore Engineering & Construction at the In Amenas natural gas site in Algeria, at the request of our client, we evacuated our staff on a temporary basis from Onshore Engineering & Construction delivers the In Salah southern elds development.
Full remobilisation onshore engineering, procurement and to site commenced in early 2014 and we expect to complete construction projects.
We are predominantly construction of the project during 2016. focused on markets in the Middle East, Africa We also agreed capacity enhancements and the commercial andCaspian region of the CIS.
impact of the changes on the Upper Zakum eld development inAbu Dhabi during the first half of 2014.
Employees New awards Order intake for the year totalled US$6.3 billion 2013: 5,900 2013: 6,100 US$6.2 billion, including the following major awards: Contribution to Contribution to Clean Fuels Project, Kuwait Group revenue Group net profit In February 2014, leading a joint venture with Korean based Samsung Engineering Co Ltd and CB&I Nederland BV, we received an award notication for Kuwait National Petroleum Companys Clean Fuels Project, Mina Abdulla renery in Kuwait.
The project is worth US$3.7 billion of which Petrofacs 50% 64% share is US$1.7 billion and will be completed over a period of approximately four years.
The lump-sum engineering, procurement and construction scope of work includes the provision of 19 new rening units at Mina Abdulla, revamping of five existing units at the Shouaiba renery site and the accompanying inter-renery transfer lines.
Activity levels on our portfolio of engineering and construction projects increased substantially during the year and we expect Khazzan central processing facility, Oman activity levels to remain high throughout 2015 as we move into In February 2014, we were awarded a contract by BP for the CPF the execution phase on a number of projects secured over for the Khazzan gas project in the Sultanate of Oman.
These include the Clean Fuels Project in Kuwait, been awarded on a convertible lump-sum basis and will convert the Khazzan central processing facility CPF in Oman and the to a full lump-sum contract worth approximately US$1.2 billion Reggane North Development Project in Algeria.
at a pre-determined point during execution.
The scope of work includes engineering, procurement and construction of the CPF During 2014, we substantially completed the gas sweetening at the Khazzan eld.
The CPF will include two process trains, facilities project in Qatar for Qatar Petroleum and the new power each having a capacity of 525 million standard cubic feet of gas distribution network project for Kuwait Oil Company.
per day, an associated condensate processing system, power In respect of the Laggan-Tormore project in Shetland, in line with generation plant, water treatment system and all associated our latest assessment of the schedule and cost-to-complete, utilities and infrastructure.
The project is expected to be and the final commercial settlement agreed with our client, completed in 2017. we have recognised a loss on the project in 2014 of around US$200 million.
The impact of the loss on Laggan-Tormore was Reggane North Development Project, Algeria mitigated by a good margin performance on a number of late-life In May 2014, we were awarded a three-year contract worth contracts and the net release of tax provisions.
With a further loss more than US$970 million for the gas gathering, treatment and of around US$30 million being recognised in Offshore Projects export facilities package of the Reggane North Development & Operations in 2014 on their scope of the project and around Project located in the Reggane basin of the Algerian Sahara US$50 million of profits having been recognised in previous years desert, 1,500 km south-west of Algiers.
The scope of the project across the Group, overall the Group has recorded a cumulative includes engineering, procurement, construction, commissioning loss on Laggan-Tormore of around US$180 million.
and start-up of the gas treatment plant, gathering system and export pipeline.
Before exceptional items and re-measurements.
Petrofac 34 Annual report and accounts 2014 Segmental performance continued which will transport heavy crude oil from the CPF to the south Gathering Centre 29, Kuwait In July 2014, we received an award notication for Kuwait tank farm located in Ahmadi, from where KOC has the option to send it to the proposed Al-Zour renery in the south of Kuwait.
Oil Companys Gathering Centre 29 GC29 which is located approximately 70 km north of Kuwait City.
Valued at approximately US$700 million, the project will be completed over a period of Financial performance approximately three years.
The competitively tendered lump-sum Revenue for the year was lower at US$3,241 million 2013: greeneld scope of workincludes the engineering, procurement, US$3,534 million, reecting the phasing of project delivery.
construction, pre-commissioning and commissioning of GC29.
In comparison with 2013, when several large projects were substantially completed, activity levels and revenue in the first half RAPID project, Malaysia of 2014 were low while the projects were in their early stages.
In August 2014, we were awarded an engineering, procurement, Activity levels and revenue increased substantially in the second construction and commissioning EPCC contract by PRPC half of 2014 as we moved into the execution phase on a number Renery and Cracker Sdn.
Bhd, a subsidiary of PETRONAS, of projects.
for a renery package in the renery and petrochemicals Net profit for the year was US$403 million 2013 restated: integrated development RAPID project in Pengerang, Johor, US$433 million, representing a net margin of 12.4% 2013 Malaysia.
Worth more than US$500 million, the competitively restated: 12.3%, broadly in line with the prior year.
The impact tendered lump-sum EPCC scope of work includes three sulphur in 2014 of the loss of around US$200 million recognised on the recovery units, two amine regeneration units, two sour water Laggan-Tormore project noted above has been mitigated by the stripping units, a liquid sulphur storage unit and a sulphur net release of tax provisions and other financial outperformance solidication package unit.
on late-life contracts elsewhere in the contract portfolio.
We were also successful in securing the following project in Onshore Engineering & Construction headcount stood at 5,900 early 2015: at 31 December 2014 2013: 6,100.
While lower than the prior year-end, this represents a significant increase from 5,200 at Lower Fars heavy oil project, Kuwait 30 June 2014, reecting an increase in activity levels as we move In January 2015, we announced that we had been awarded the into the execution phase on a number of projects secured over Lower Fars heavy oil project in Kuwait for Kuwait Oil Company.
With a project value in excess of US$4 billion, Petrofac is leading a consortium with Athens-based Consolidated Contractors Onshore Engineering & Construction backlog increased by 38% Company.
The award represents the first phase of the substantial over the year to stand at US$10.8 billion at 31 December 2014 Lower Fars heavy oil development programme.
Our scope of 2013: US$7.8 billion, reecting the strong order intake in 2014, work covers greeneld and browneld facilities and includes as noted above.
The year-end backlog has been further engineering, procurement, construction, pre-commissioning, augmented by the award of the Lower Fars heavy oil project commissioning, start-up and operations and maintenance work in Kuwait in January 2015. for the main CPF and associated infrastructure as well as the production support complex.
This includes a 162 km pipeline Timeline for ECOM key projects 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Original contract value to Petrofac Laggan-Tormore gas processing plant, UKCS US$800m In Salah southern elds development, Algeria US$1,200m Badra oileld, Iraq US$330m Petro Rabigh, Saudi Arabia Undisclosed Jazan oil renery, Saudi Arabia US$1,400m SARB3, Abu Dhabi US$500m Upper Zakum eld development, Abu Dhabi US$2,900m Bab Compression and Bab Habshan, Abu Dhabi US$700m Alrar gas eld, Algeria US$450m Sohar renery improvement project, Oman US$1,050m Clean Fuels Project, Kuwait US$1,700m Rabab Harweel Integrated Project, Oman US$1,000m Khazzan central processing facility, Oman US$1,200m BorWin 3, German North Sea Undisclosed Reggane North Development Project, Algeria US$970m Gathering Centre 29, Kuwait US$700m RAPID renery project, Malaysia US$500m Lower Fars heavy oil project, Kuwait US$3,000m NOC NOC led company consortium Joint NOC IOC company consortium IOC IOC led company consortium Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 35 Annual report and accounts 2014 Integrated Services In the UKCS, Offshore Contract, UKCS The Cygnus eld, operated by GDF SUEZ Projects & Operations is E&PUK Ltd 38.75% with partners Centrica 48.75% and Bayerngas 12.5% has reserves of approximately 18 billion cubic metres of playing a key role in supporting gas.
By 2016, it will be the second largest producing gas eld in the UK and is expected to contribute 5% to UK gas production at peak GDF SUEZ E&P UK and its supplying gas to the equivalent of 1.5 million homes in Britain.
partners to deliver the largest Cygnus is the first project of a multi-million dollar frame contract, awarded in June 2014 for three years.
It combines services that we gas eld discovery in the were already providing under two previous contracts an Integrated Services Contract and an Engineering Services contract both originally awarded in 2011.
Our immediate Southern North Sea for focus is on operational readiness support, followed by the provision of operations and maintenance services for the Cygnus 25 years.
OPO has recruited a crew of around 60 offshore staff and ten onshore supporting staff.
We are also delivering the maintenance build: sub-contractor management: operation procedure co-ordination, small bore pipework surveys and management: and commissioning documentation development.
The Cygnus infrastructure comprises three bridge-linked platforms Alpha and a second, remote well head platform Bravo.
The Alpha wellhead topsides sailed from Heeremas Hartlepool yard in May 2014 and is expected tobe followed by the remaining topsides infrastructure in June, ahead of targeted first gas in late 2015.
Design Build Manage and maintain Train Petrofac 36 Annual report and accounts 2014 Segmental performance continued New awards and extensions: Offshore Projects & Operations We secured a number of extensions during the year for services provided in the UK North Sea from a range of clients including: Offshore Projects & Operations, which includes BP, Total, Maersk, Centrica and EnQuest in respect of duty our Offshore Capital Projects OCP service line, holder services on the Kittiwake platform.
In addition, we secured specialises in both offshore engineering and a second contract extension from South Oil Company SOC for construction services, for greeneld and browneld support on its Iraq crude oil expansion project.
oil and gas projects, and the provision of operations and maintenance support, onshore and offshore.
We also secured the following major new contracts during the year: Employees BorWin3 offshore wind farm grid connection, Germany In April 2014, we secured our largest offshore engineering, procurement, construction and installation project to date with 5,500 2013: 5,100 the award of a major contract from TenneT in consortium with Siemens, the German-Dutch transmission grid operator, for the Contribution to Contribution to BorWin3 offshore wind farm grid connection in the North Sea.
Group revenue Group net profit Our scope includes the construction and offshore installation of the BorWin3 platform, which will house a Siemens high voltage direct current HVDC station that converts the alternating current produced by the wind turbines to direct current before transmitting it onshore to the German national grid.
The HVDC 31% 10% station will be one of the biggest of its kind with a transmission capacity of 900 megawatts.
The commencement of commercial operation of Borwin3 is scheduled for 2019.
EnQuest North Sea operations and maintenance contract, UK Overall, activity levels in 2014 on operations support contracts In May 2014, we were awarded a ten-year operations and were similar to 2013.
There was a significant increase in the level maintenance contract with EnQuest, which supersedes an of activity on capital projects, such as the Laggan-Tormore gas initial five year contract awarded to Petrofac in 2013, and which plant on Shetland in the UK, the upgrade and modication of the will see us continue to provide operations and maintenance FPF1 which will subsequently be deployed on the Greater Stella services on the Thistle, Heather and Northern Producer assets, Area see Integrated Energy Services section and the Satah and the EnQuest Producer oating production, storage and Al Razboot package 3 SARB3 engineering, procurement, ofoading vessel.
construction and installation EPCI project in Abu Dhabi, which was awarded in April 2013.
GDF SUEZ Integrated Services Contract, UK In August 2014, we announced the renewal of our Integrated Services Contract with GDF SUEZ E&P UK.
The three-year multimillion dollar frame contract covers operations, maintenance and engineering services support to GDF SUEZ E&P UK throughout its operations in the UKCS, including Cygnus, the largest gas eld discovery in the Southern North Sea for 25 years.
The contract will initially continue to support Cygnus operational readiness, followed by the provision of operations and maintenance services for the Cygnus asset offshore.
The contract combines the services previously provided under the Integrated Services Contract and Engineering Services Contract, both originally awarded in 2011.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 37 Annual report and accounts 2014 General construction management services, Iraq Financial reporting exchange rates In October 2014, we were awarded a major contract in Iraq to Year ended Year ended provide general construction management services to BP Iraq NV US$ sterling 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 BP on the Rumaila eld near Basra in the south of the country.
Average rate for period 1.65 1.57 Petrofac will provide management and personnel to manage Year-end rate 1.55 1.66 browneld modications to assist BP and its partners in the Rumaila Operations Organisation, China National Petroleum Net profit for the year was lower at US$64 million 2013 restated: Company and South Oil Company in executing its strategy US$71 million, reecting a loss of around US$30 million on to increase production safely from one of the worlds largest Offshore Projects & Operations scope of work on the Lagganelds.
The contract, which runs for three years, with an option Tormore gas plant and no margin on the FPF1 upgrade and for further extension of two years, has a potential value of up to modication.
In addition, there was a US$8 million foreign US$500 million.
Petrofac will provide the overall management exchange loss on forward contracts on a long-term project which and co-ordination of multiple construction projects, including management considers provide effective hedges in economic construction management and supervision of work undertaken terms but which do not meet the requirements to be accounted by third party contractors on the eld.
for as hedging instruments under IAS39.
Consequently, net margins were lower at 3.2% 2013 restated: 4.2%.
Chevron North Sea engineering and construction support, UK The Groups results for the year ended 31 December 2013 In October 2014, we were awarded a contract worth up to included a one-off gain of US$22 million reported within US$120 million to provide engineering and construction support Consolidation adjustments & eliminations, reecting the for Chevrons three operated assets: the Captain, Alba and recognition, on granting a finance lease over the FPF5 to the Erskine platforms in the North Sea.
The contract, awarded partners on the PM304 Production Sharing Contract in Malaysia, under a competitive tender, is for up to three years, plus two of margin from the modication and upgrade of the FPF5 one year options.
by Offshore Projects & Operations which was eliminated on consolidation in prior years.
Awards in 2015 Headcount increased to 5,500 at 31 December 2014 With the award of the Lower Fars heavy oil project in Kuwait 2013: 5,100, reecting the significant increase in activity.
in January 2015, Offshore Projects & Operations will book approximately US$125 million in backlog for the operations and Offshore Projects & Operations backlog stood at US$3.4 billion maintenance scope of the project which will follow the EPC phase.
at31 December 2014 2013: US$3.1 billion, with a number of new awards and extensions offsetting the unwinding of backlog as we Financial performance make progress on the existing portfolio of projects.
Revenue for the year increased 20.2% to US$2,009 million 2013: US$1,671 million reecting higher levels of activity, particularly on capital projects such as the Laggan-Tormore gas plant project in Shetland, the FPF1 modication and upgrade and the SARB3 project in Abu Dhabi.
Around 70% of Offshore Projects & Operations revenue was generated in the UK and those revenues are generally denominated in sterling.
The average US dollar to sterling exchange rate for the year was slightly higher than the prior year.
Excluding the impact of the exchange rate movement, revenue growth would have been marginally lower than reported, at approximately 16%.
Petrofac 38 Annual report and accounts 2014 Full range of services With our work on the on Rabab Harweel Integrated Project, Rabab Harweel Integrated Oman Project RHIP in Oman, we In March 2014, we secured a four and a half year, engineering and procurement contract with Petroleum Development Oman PDO are extending our engineering, through which we are providing a full range ofservices for the RHIP development, whichisin the south of the Sultanate, which procurement and construction encompasses gathering systems, sour gas processing facilities, injection systems and associated owlines and pipelines.
management service thereby The contract sees us providing detailed engineering and construction and commissioning management support services bringing more value to our on a reimbursable basis, and procurement services on a reimbursable pass-through basis.
The total value is expected to be more than clients and supplementing US$1 billion, with around a quarter of the revenues relating to the provision of professional services.
our wider engineering, Having won the contract, we quickly mobilised some 300 Petrofac people across our various sites, and accommodated around 70 PDO procurement and employees in our Sharjah ofces.
As the projectprogresses, there will be a concerted emphasis on local delivery, which will see us construction business.
employ many more Omanis and prioritise local service providers and manufacturers.
At the peak, more than 500 people will be working onthe project.
Design Build Manage and maintain Train Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 39 Annual report and accounts 2014 Segmental performance continued Shah Deniz 2 project, Azerbaijan Engineering & Consulting Services In July 2014, we secured a contract with the BP-operated Shah Deniz 2 project to provide maintenance build capabilities.
Engineering & Consulting Services operates as The contract, valued at around 5 million, covers new onshore, our centre of technical engineering excellence.
offshore and pipeline assets in the Azerbaijan sector of the From ofces across the Middle East and North Caspian Sea for what is one of the largest gas developments in Africa, CIS, Asia-Pacic, Europe and The Americas, the world.
Plant Asset Management, Petrofacs asset performance we provide engineering services across the life management consulting business, will be responsible for the cycle of oil and gas assets.
Our teams execute delivery of the work.
all aspects of engineering, including conceptual studies, front-end engineering and design FEED Deepwater development project, Canada and detailed design work, for onshore and offshore In October 2014, we secured a contract to work with the oil and gas elds and facilities.
Government of Nova Scotia to help it identify the best way to exploit its ultra-deepwater oil potential.
Under the terms of Employees the contract, Petrofac will deliver a development study for a prospective oil reservoir 3,000 metres beneath the seabed, lying in 2,000 metres of water.
This is a multi-discipline, integrated project, being led by Petrofacs specialist subsea engineering business, 4,900 2013: 3,900 KW Subsea.
Teams from across the Group will provide support to the project, ranging from process design, naval architecture, Contribution to Contribution to subsea engineering, cost estimating as well as a specic drilling Group revenue Group net profit scope.
We expect to complete the project in early 2015.
Awards in 2015 In early 2015, we also announced two strategic contract agreements with Algerian state-owned Sonatrach.
The first 7% 5% is a five year contract where we will be providing a range of multi-discipline engineering design and procurement services in support of Sonatrachs upstream hydrocarbon development programme within the procedures that govern the tendering process.
Under the terms of the second agreement, we signed As well as supporting the rest of the Group, Engineering & Consulting a Memorandum of Understanding with Sonatrach, committing Services has secured and undertaken a wide range of conceptual both parties to establish an Algerian Joint Venture to undertake studies and FEED studies during the year for external customers.
engineering and project execution of selected upstream and Engineering & Consulting Services larger awards during 2014 included: downstream developments.
The Joint Venture is expected to be nalised by mid-2015 Thamama front end engineering design, AbuDhabi In February 2014, we announced the award of a US$21 million Financial performance FEED contract by Abu Dhabi Company for Onshore Oil Operations Revenue for the year increased 20.7% to US$437 million 2013: ADCO.
The project, in the Thamama production zone, forms US$362 million, reecting a substantial increase in activity levels, part of ADCOs Bab Integrated Facilities Project, located 150 km including: RHIP and the In Salah Gas and In Amenas consultancy south-west of Abu Dhabi city.
Prior to award of the FEED, we contract, which was awarded in January 2013, but on which also successfully completed conceptual studies for the same substantial activity only commenced in 2014. development.
The scope of work specifically looked at enhancing Net profit for the year was marginally higher at US$33 million aspects of the eld for its future development and expansion.
While activity levels were signicantly higher than the prior year, much of the activity on RHIP is at lower margin Rabab Harweel Integrated Project RHIP, Oman as the procurement is undertaken on an incentivised passIn March 2014, we were awarded Engineering & Consulting through basis.
Services largest project to date: an engineering and procurement contract with Petroleum Development Oman PDO to provide Headcount increased to 4,900 at 31 December 2014 services for the RHIP facility located in the Harweel Cluster of 2013: 3,900, with significant increases in our Indian ofces to elds in the south of the Sultanate of Oman.
The RHIP facility will support increased activity in Onshore Engineering & Construction include sour gas processing facilities and associated gathering and in Sharjah, UAE to support RHIP and other projects in the and injection systems and export pipelines.
Under the terms of Middle East and North Africa.
the four and a half year RHIP contract, we will provide detailed Engineering & Consulting Services backlog stood at engineering and construction and commissioning management US$1.4 billion at 31 December 2014 2013: US$0.3 billion support services on a reimbursable basis and procurement on following the award of the Rabab Harweel Integrated Project an incentivised pass-through basis.
The total contract value is inOman in March 2014. expected to be more than US$1 billion with around one-quarter of the revenues relating to professional services engineering, construction and commissioning management.
Petrofac 40 Annual report and accounts 2014 Combination of A highlight for IES in 2014 capabilities on Cendor Field Development, was the successful transition Malaysia from Phase 1 to Phase 2 Part of Malaysias Block PM304, this was originally classed as a marginal resource, deemed too challenging to develop.
So, ever of the Cendor eld since Petrofac began its production sharing agreement with PETRONAS, we have used a combination of broad operational capability, development contract.
For the shift from Phase 1 to Phase 2, it was necessary to remove the existing mobile offshore production unit MOPU, and introduce a new oating production storage and ofoading vessel FPSO alongside two newly installed production platforms.
As the final piece of the jigsaw, the team came up with a novel idea for a bridge that is, a exible riser, which would allow oil to ow from the existing wells, over both of the production platforms, and on to the new FPSO.
In total, the task entailed more than 9 million man-hours of construction and commissioning work, without a single LTI.
It will enable us toincrease production from the Cendor eld and also receive oil from the nearby West Desaru eld.
Meanwhile, our innovative work in visualising the oilelds complex and highly stratied geology was recognised through a technology award from Schlumberger.
Design Build Manage and maintain Train Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 41 Annual report and accounts 2014 Segmental performance continued Production Enhancement Contracts Integrated Energy Services We continue to make good progress on our PECs in Mexico, including early appraisal success on Santuario.
Initial activity Integrated Energy Services provides an integrated on Pnuco has focused on drilling new wells, undertaking new service for hydrocarbon resource holders under seismic studies and production optimisation initiatives with a view innovative commercial models that are aligned to agreeing a Field Development Plan in early 2015.
Early activities with their requirements.
Projects cover upstream on Arenque have focused on asset integrity studies and drilling developments, both greeneld and browneld, our first offshore well to help establish a Field Development Plan andrelated energy infrastructure projects, later in 2015. andcaninclude investment.
As part of the ongoing energy reforms in Mexico, we have the Employees opportunity to migrate our portfolio of PECs to a new form of contract.
At this stage, the detailed commercial terms of the new contractual arrangements are unknown and we cannot therefore forecast the financial impact, but anticipate being able to provide 3,300 2013: 3,200 further clarity during 2015.
During 2014, we worked towards a revised Field Development Contribution to Contribution to Plan and contractual framework for the Ticleni PEC in Romania.
Group revenue Group net profit However, following a review of the project in early 2015, we have decided to exit the contract.
We have therefore recorded an impairment of the full carrying value of the contract and provided for anticipated exit costs to reect the current situation and will be 12% 21% discussing exit options with OMV Petrom.
We earn a tariff per barrel on PECs for an agreed level of baseline production and an enhanced tariff per barrel on incremental production.
During the year we earned tariff income on a total of 9.2 million barrels of oil equivalent mboe 2013: 7.8 mboe, Integrated Energy Services deploys the Groups capabilities reecting improvement in average production from Magallanes to meet the individual needs of customers using a range of and Santuario and a full year of production on Arenque and commercial frameworks, including: Pnuco, which offset lower production on Ticleni.
Production Enhancement Contracts PECs Risk Service Contracts Risk Service Contracts RSCs Production from the Berantai risk service contract continues in line with expectations and we have commenced early activities on traditional Equity Upstream Investment models including OML119 in Nigeria but do not expect material investment until the both Production Sharing Contracts PSCs and Field Development Plan has been nalised and agreed.
concession agreements Following the announcement of Bowlevens farm-out transaction Our service offering is underpinned by our ability to develop on 24 June 2014, we reached a mutually acceptable agreement resource holders local capability through the provision to terminate our Strategic Alliance Agreement in respect of the of skills training with competency development and Etinde Permit in Cameroon.
Under the arrangement, Bowleven assurance frameworks.
has agreed to pay US$9 million to Petrofac following completion of the farm-out transaction as full and final settlement and the Strategic Alliance Agreement shall then terminate.
Equity Upstream Investments First oil was achieved from Cendor phase 2 in early September, marking a major milestone in the development of Block PM304.
We have disconnected the original Cendor phase 1 mobile offshore production unit MOPU and installed a bridge linking the Cendor phase 1 wells to the Cendor phase 2 wellhead platforms.
The West Desaru tie-in to the Cendor phase 2 FPSO has been safely and successfully completed.
Production from Block PM304 is expected to continue to increase in the near term as the facilities are fully commissioned and new wells are brought on line.
Petrofac 42 Annual report and accounts 2014 Segmental performance continued On the FPF1 modication works for the Greater Stella Area Petrofac Training project, progress has been slower than expected over the winter.
In March 2014, we signed an agreement with Oman Oil Company, While the unit is in an advanced state with all topside equipment to establish an industry-leading Centre of Excellence to train placed, 85% of piping erected, 68% of cables run, and preOmans energy and energy-related workforce to international commissioning check-sheets being progressed, mechanical standards.
Also in March, we opened the INSTEP training completion is now expected in the third quarter of 2015.
We have facilities in Malaysia, through our joint venture with PETRONAS.
agreed an incentivised schedule with the fabrication yard to The facilities include three high-specication training facilities that deliver mechanical completion.
We have good visibility on the Petrofac is building to support PETRONAS workforce capability scope and the required resources are in place to complete the enhancement programme.
Given the lower oil price environment, we are prioritising cost optimisation, certainty of delivery and Seven Energy completion of all works prior to sailaway, ahead of the timing of Following Seven Energys capital raising on 15 April 2014, first production.
Sailaway is now expected in early 2016, following our equity interest has been diluted to approximately 15%.
the winter weather window, with first production scheduled Consequently, we are no longer accounting for Seven Energy as for mid-2016.
Petrofac, as modications contractor, has made an associate and are therefore no longer recognising our share a number of variation requests and other claims on the eld of the results of Seven Energy from this date.
ownersand we are continuing to discuss these with them.
First Reserve In Tunisia, we have commenced production from a fifth well, In June 2014, Petrofac entered into a framework agreement with and successfully completed debottlenecking of the plant during First Reserve, the global energy-focused infrastructure investment a short planned shutdown of the central processing facility on rm, to create PetroFirst Infrastructure Partners.
The new venture will be funded 80% by First Reserve and its Our net entitlement from production for 2014 from Block investors, with Petrofac retaining the balance of ownership.
Up PM304 and the Chergui gas plant increased to 2.1 million to US$1 billion is expected to be committed by the First Reserve barrels of oil equivalent mboe 2013: 1.6 mboe, reecting a Energy Infrastructure Funds and its investors and Petrofac expects significant increase in production from Block PM304 following to contribute up to a maximum of US$250 million in the form of commencement of production from West Desaru in August 2013. existing assets and cash.
Summary of Integrated Energy Services key projects 2011 2012 2013 2014 Production Enhancement End date Contracts PECs 2037 Magallanes and Santuario, Transition period Mexico Transition period 2043 Pnuco, Mexico Arenque, Mexico Transition period 2043 Risk Service Contracts RSCs Berantai development, 2020 Malaysia Equity Upstream Investments Block PM304, Malaysia 2026 Chergui gas plant, Tunisia 2031 Greater Stella Area, UK Life of eld In joint venture with Schlumberger Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 43 Annual report and accounts 2014 As part of our normal year-end process, we reviewed the carrying The first transaction under the agreement saw Petrofac and First Reserve establish a joint venture in respect of three of value of the IES portfolio for potential impairment.
Given the decision to exit Ticleni noted above, the rapid reduction in oil prices and the Petrofacs deployed and contracted oating production facilities.
Petrofac sold 80% of the share capital of Petrofac FPSO Holding anticipated outcome of the Greater Stella Area project, we have Limited to PetroFirst Infrastructure Limited, wholly owned by the recorded a provision for impairment, re-measurement and exit First Reserve Energy Infrastructure Holdings Fund I.
Through its costs totalling US$461 million after tax at 31 December 2014, subsidiaries, Petrofac FPSO Holding Limited owns interests in as detailed in the Financial review onpage44.
the FPSO Berantai, FPF3 formerly Jasmine Venture and FPF5 Headcount increased marginally to 3,300 at 31 December 2014 formerly Ocean Legend.
The total consideration was US$341 million and US$128 million Integrated Energy Services backlog stood at US$3.3 billion at of existing project finance in relation to the Berantai FPSO 31 December 2014 2013: US$3.9 billion, reecting the anticipated was transferred to PetroFirst Infrastructure Holdings Limited.
exit of the Ticleni Production Enhancement Contract and the sale Petrofac is entitled to a share of additional future cashows upon of oating production facilities to PetroFirst.
renewal or redeployment of the facilities at the end of their current deployment contracts.
Prior to this transaction, Petrofac had expected to recognise a net trading profit of between US$50 million and US$60 million in the full year ending 31 December 2014 from the oating production facilities that were sold.
Petrofac reported 100% of the earnings from the oating production facilities up to the closing date and 20% of the earnings of Petrofac FPSO Holding Limited thereafter.
Petrofac FPSO Holding Limited has retained a put option, such that Petrofac may be required to repurchase one or more of the facilities or their holding companies for agreed aggregate consideration of between US$39 million and US$105 million atthe end of their deployment or at certain other key junctures.
We believe that the repurchase consideration accurately reects the forecast residual values of the oating production facilities at the times when the put options would vest.
Financial performance Integrated Energy Services revenue was lower at US$782 million 2013: US$934 million, reecting a reduction in revenue on the Berantai Risk Service Contract which is now in its operational phase: a reduction in revenue from our Production Enhancement Contracts in Mexico, due to the rephasing of certain eld development activities and in Romania, as we managed eld investment prudently while we sought to agree revised commercial terms on the Ticleni Production Enhancement Contract, and the sale of oating production facilities to PetroFirst see above.
Net profit before exceptional items and certain re-measurements increased to US$131 million 2013: US$125 million.
Net profit in 2014 includes a gain of US$56 million from the sale of oating production facilities to PetroFirst, which more than offset the earnings foregone following the sale of the oating production facilities to PetroFirst and a reduction in earnings on the Berantai Risk Service Contract which is now in its operational phase.
