Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 113 Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors statements Directors responsibilities Going concern The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely and the financial statements in accordance with applicable to affect its future development, performance and position are law and regulations.
The Directors have chosen to prepare the set out in the Strategic Report on pages 11 to 22.
The financial financial statements in accordance with International Financial position of the Company, its cash ows, liquidity position and Reporting Standards IFRS.
The Directors are also responsible for borrowing facilities are described in the financial review on pages the preparation of the Directors remuneration report, which they 44 to 47.
In addition, note 32 to the financial statements include have chosen to prepare, being under no obligation to do so under the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing Jersey law.
The Directors are also responsible for the preparation its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its of the corporate governance report under the Listing Rules.
financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Jersey Company law the Law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period in accordance The Company has considerable financial resources together with generally accepted accounting principles.
The financial with long-term contracts with a number of customers and statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
state of affairs of the Company at the period end and the profit or As aconsequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well loss of the Company for the period then ended.
In preparing these placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors financial statements, the Directors should: have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Select suitable accounting policies and then apply future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of them consistently: accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable: Responsibility statement under the Specify which generally accepted accounting principles have Disclosure and Transparency Rules been adopted in their presentation: and Each of the Directors listed on pages 68 and 69 confirms that, Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis to the best of their knowledge: unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, continue in business.
balanced and understandable and provides the information The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys records which are sufficient to show and explain the Companys performance, business model and strategy: transactions and as such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position to ensure that the financial statements prepared by the Company and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the comply with the Law.
They are also responsible for safeguarding consolidation taken as a whole: and the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and The Strategic Report contained on pages 2 to 65 includes a fair other irregularities.
view of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description integrity of the corporate and financial information included on of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ By order of the Board from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Tim Weller Directors approach Chief Financial officer The Boards objective is to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects, particularly in the annual report, half year report formerly the interim report and other published documents and reports to regulators.
The Board has established an Audit Committee to assist with this obligation.
