Q u a l i t y a n l d a c C i o h t s E t C o n s c i o u s R e s e p f o Petrofac 16 Annual report and accounts 2014 Our business model Petrofac is an oileld services company.
Working across the international oil and gas industry, we help our clients unlock the full value of their energy assets.
Activities Design From the concept to the detail, we provide design and engineering services across the life cycle of oil and gas assets.
Train Build We assess needs, build Onshore or off, greeneld facilities, design curricula or brown, upstream or Operational and deliver programmes down, we provide the full excellence to develop safe and spectrum of EPC, EPCI effective workforces.
Manage and maintain On behalf of owners, we operate oiland gas assets, and or enhance their production, and or take responsibility for maintenance.
All of our projects and operations deploy one or more of these activities.
They can be seen throughout the report and are indicated on our case studies using the following icons: Design Build Manage and maintain Train a n S s i v e r e v i I l n e n D o o v t a t n i e v e v i r D Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 17 Annual report and accounts 2014 Resources and relationships Our Risk processes and Our supply chain Financial people risk management and contractors capital As a people-based By thinking through With deep knowledge Exerting capital business, we have every eventuality, we of the many businesses discipline, we operate a problem-solving fide-risk our projects in our supply chain, a balanced portfolio, culture, clear values and bring certainty we know when and we judiciously co-invest, and strong leadership.
how to call on their and sometimes tap into respective strengths.
Read more on page 18 Innovative commercial models Outcomes Reimbursable services Production Enhancement Shareholder value Where the cost of our services is reimbursed Contracts PECs Delivering sustainable, long-term value, by the client plus an agreed margin.
Where we are paid a tariff per barrel for through dividend payments to our enhancing oil and gas production above Cost plus KPIs shareholders and the financial returns anagreed baseline and therefore have little Often our reimbursable contracts will include fromshare price growth.
PECs are income linked to the successful delivery typically long-term and appropriate for ofkey performance indicators KPIs.
mature elds with long production histories.
In-country value Lump-sum turnkey Developing local skills and capabilities, Equity Upstream Investments Projects where we are remunerated on benefiting local development, and Upstream investments made through axed-price or lump-sum basis.
stimulating productivity in local economies.
production sharing contracts or concession agreements, which will typically have Risk Service Contracts RSCs production and commodity price exposure.
Where we develop, operate and maintain Client value aeld, while the resource holder retains benefiting from certainty ofcostand delivery, ownership and control of the reserves.
and taking advantage of commercial Oftenwe co-invest in the development and models that meet client needs.
are reimbursed based on our performance.
