Petrofac 20 Annual report and accounts 2014 Market outlook Cumulative global energy supply investment by fuel and type Our long-term market fundamentals are robust in the New Policies Scenario, 2014-2040 US$2013 billion Irrespective of recent falls and uctuations in the price of oil, the longer-term market fundamentals are robust and Petrofac is well N Biofuels 437 M A L positioned to benefit.
B K Global energy demand is set to grow strongly and hydrocarbons Gas 11,172 will continue to play a significant role.
Large-scale investments in C oil and gas infrastructure will continue to be needed to meet this J Coal 1,395 demand and to offset a natural decline in existing production.
D I H Power 20,836 In terms of the global appetite for energy, the most recent analysis G from the International Energy Agency IEA estimates that demand Oil 17,304 is set to grow by 37% by 2040 by which time, the worlds energy E Total 51,143 supply mix will divide into four almost equal parts: oil, gas, coal 1 F and low-carbon sources.
This presupposes that demand for oil will grow by 14 million Power Oil barrels per day to reach a total of 104 million barrels per day.
A Transmission 2,281 F Upstream 14,379 Meanwhile, demand for gas is estimated to grow by more 2 B Distribution 6,405 G Transport 1,167 than50%.
C Fossil-fuel plants 3,240 H Rening 1,757 Clearly, in order to meet this demand, continued investment in D Nuclear 1,533 the exploration and production of hydrocarbons will be required.
Gas E Renewables 7,377 Indeed, the IEA suggests that, by 2040, annual investment in K Upstream 7,954 energy supply infrastructure will reach US$2 trillion, compared Coal L Transmission & distribution 2,425 with just over US$1.6 trillion in 2013.
Cumulatively, this amounts I Mining 1,027 M LNG 793 to a spend of over US$50 trillion, with fossil fuel extraction, 3 J Transport 368 transportation and oil rening accounting for 60% of the total.
Biofuels Whilst many oil and gas companies may face financial pressure, N 437 particularly in the short term, we expect that many of the National Source: World Energy Outlook 2014 Oil Companies NOCs will continue to invest in long-term Figure 2.18, page 85. strategic projects especially in regions with lower marginal costsof production.
Compound average annual growth rate.
1, 2, 3 International Energy Agency, World Energy Outlook 2014.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 21 Annual report and accounts 2014 Meanwhile, we see an in-built need for re-investment in existing Continued investment from NOCs where Petrofac elds in order to arrest their declining production.
Indeed, once can draw on strong relationships production has peaked, a conventional oil eld can expect to see NOCs collectively control around 80% of the worlds combined 4 average declines of around 6% per year and, especially in a conventional and unconventional reserves.
Given that NOCs are typically less sensitive to short-term financial pressures and are period of lower oil prices, re-investing in these assets can deliver a more immediate return on capital employed than more speculative relatively immune to market sentiment, they will continue to invest exploration and production projects.
By building on strong, well established relationships with many of Petrofac is well positioned in the most promising the worlds leading NOCs, Petrofac is well positioned in this area.
market segment 5 While upstream spending is expected to fall by more than 15% A compelling case for re-investment in mature elds in 2015, over the long term, we expect upstream capital spending where Petrofac has strong credentials to grow to offset the underlying production decline.
Again, mature elds are expected to play an important role in Certain segments of the market are poised for higher levels of meeting long-term energy demand.
investment, from which Petrofac is well positioned to benefit.
The number of producing elds is growing and the global portfolio is ageing, consequently the related spend is increasing.
Good prospects in our core markets where Petrofac In particular, we see potential for improving the management iswellestablished of mature elds.
Innovative commercial models, such as the Petrofacs operations tend to be concentrated in those regions Production Enhancement Contracts pioneered by Petrofac, which are expected to make the most significant contribution provide an additional incentive for resource holders and minimise to long-term energy supplies.
Petrofac is particularly strong in the Middle East and North Africa These trends are important for both our Integrated Energy and, according to the IEA, meeting long-term demand will depend Services and Offshore Projects & Operations segments.
increasingly on the larger resource-holders in these regions.
Our experience in Mexico is a good demonstration of the ongoing By 2040, for example, oil production from the OPEC members potential of this model where, since taking over operations, located in the Middle East is forecast to rise by more than wehave substantially increased production of the Magallanes 10 million barrels per day up from 26.7 million barrels per day and Santuario blocks.
in 2013 to 36.9 million barrels per day in 2040.
In addition to sustained spending on upstream oil and gas The IEA also forecasts strong growth in Mexico where, again, projects, Petrofac is well placed to participate in a market of Petrofac has established a rm presence.
Here, production is downstream opportunities in the rening and petrochemicals expected to reach 3.4 million barrels per day by 2030 up from sectors.
For example, we were recently selected as a 50 50 less than 3.0 million barrels per day in2013, before falling back partner in the US$2.1 billion renery improvement programme slightly to 3.3 million barrels per day by 2040. in Sohar, Oman, and were awarded a US$1.7 billion share of Meanwhile, the region that IEA refers to as Asia & Oceania, which the Clean Fuels Project in Kuwait.
includes Petrofacs operations in Malaysia and Central Asia, is expected to experience a compound average annual growth rate 6 in oil production of 1.7% through to 2040.
Change in energy production by region Marginal cost of new production in the New Policies Scenario, 20122040 100 JPM 2019 Brent oil price assumption $90 bbl 90 Other non-OECD Greeneld oil sands mining 80 Middle East Second generation deep and ultra deep water Gulf of Mexico 70 Other OECD West Africa US 60 LRS China First generation DW Gulf of Mexico and W. Africa 50 India current pre-salt Brazil 40 United States Central Asia 30 Africa, Russia onshore Russia 20 IEA global demand Middle East, OECD Europe 10 2014E 92.4 million bopd Libya onshore 2015E 93.3 million bopd 300 0300 600 900 1200 1500 1800 0 million tonnes of oil equivalent 5101520253035404550556065707580859095 Global oil production million bopd Coal Oil Gas Nuclear Renewables Source: World Energy Outlook 2014 Figure 2.14, page 76.
Source: JP Morgan Cazenove Research, 30 January 2015.
4 International Energy Agency, World Energy Outlook 2013.
5 JP Morgan Cazenove Research, 19 January 2015.
6 International Energy Agency, World Energy Outlook 2014.
Oil price threshold for economic return $ bbl Petrofac 22 Annual report and accounts 2014 Market outlook continued Compared with a number of its peers, Turning an industry challenge to our advantage Petrofac isless exposed to lower oil prices We believe that the dynamic economics within the industry play Petrofac is relatively well positioned to succeed in a period of to Petrofacs strengths in operational excellence as well as lower oil prices.
our exible approach and our expertise in developing innovative commercial approaches with our clients.
More specifically, our direct exposure to oil price uctuations is limited to our equity upstream investments within IES, and our With our strong ethos of balancing quality with costrecord year-end backlog gives us the best visibility of future consciousness, we had already begun to adapt to price revenues in our 34-year history.
Indeed, we enter 2015 with an constraints in the industry, and we remain convinced that our order book of US$18.9 billion, augmented by the award of the approach will stand us in good stead during a period of lower Lower Fars Heavy Oil project in Kuwait in January 2015. oil prices.
Also, our existing operations tend to be concentrated in those As clients consider any new investments, or seek to improve geographies with lower production costs, and, again, much of theirexisting operational efficiency, it is abundantly clear that now, our income comes from NOCs who we expect to continue to more than ever, they will demand certainty of delivery and budget, invest in their assets.
and will incentivise gains in efficiency.
In particular, we believe they will look for three key things from their suppliers: We are, of course, particularly well established in the Middle East and North Africa MENA.
These markets are the source of a clear capability to deliver the work on the ground the majority of our backlog and we continue to see an attractive a competitive cost base with a culture of cost control and pipeline of bidding opportunities.
incremental improvement As is well documented, the leaders of the Gulf Cooperation a willingness to share in the risk of delivery whether that Council GCC States have stated that the region is ready for an be through a lump-sum EPC contract, a performanceextended period of low oil prices, and has no intention of reducing related operational contract, or co-investment and a fully production or cutting back on planned investments.
In auseful integrated contract summary of the situation, an editorial in a December 2014 issue of the Middle East Economic Digest concluded: There are, Also, while we would not want to downplay the challenges faced therefore, three messages for the world to consider as the old by our sector, it is clear that a low price environment will also offer year dies.
It needs GCC oil producers as much as it ever did.
up some new opportunities for a company such as Petrofac, GCC states are better equipped to cope with an extended period including: of low oil prices than any other.
And, when it is over, GCC states reduced execution risk in a low-ination or perhaps even a will be even stronger and more important than they were when deationary environment, executional risks such as cost over- 7 the slump started.
runs and shortages of key materials, equipment or components, Improving our cost-effectiveness can be reduced in the North Sea business increased availability of hitherto scarce skills in recent years the There is, of course, greater uncertainty surrounding Petrofacs industry has faced a crippling skills shortage.
The new industry operations in the UK Continental Shelf UKCS.
Here, the future of economics may alleviate this pressure, making it easier and the oil and gas sector rests on structural and scal considerations cheaper to access expertise as well as the prospects for the oil price.
It should be noted, however, that our business in this region is more reliant on improved access to adjacent market segments again, decisions on operational expenditure than on capital spending, any reining-in of production by denition opens up and we are working with clients to improve cost-effectiveness access to a potentially lucrative decommissioning market.
We also believe Petrofac is in prime position to Meanwhile Petrofac is continuing to build its credentials compete for a substantial decommissioning market that, through in the downstream market, which is less sensitive to oil 8 to 2040, is valued at some 37 billion.
price uctuations Pursuing our deepwater ambitions Given our business model and our distinctive, delivery-focused A longer-term consideration is our ambition in the deepwater culture, the new environment represents a definite opportunity offshore market.
Here, we are building a differentiated top-tier for Petrofac to increase market share, grow earnings and retain position, which includes the construction of a new, uniquely differentiated margins.
It also means that, as oil prices recover, congured installation vessel, the Petrofac JSD6000.
Petrofac can emerge in an even stronger position.
As yet, there is no real consensus on the short-to-medium term prospects for the deepwater market, although sentiment has been weakened by a number of project delays and cancellations.
It should be noted, however, a substantial proportion of deepwater projects remain economic at the current oil price forward curve.
We are therefore confident that the  fundamentals are robust.
7 Why GCC producers are happy to see oil fall, Middle East Economic Digest, 17 December 2014.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 23 Annual report and accounts 2014 Innovating our Petrofac has a track commercial models In 2014, the creation of PetroFirst record of creating innovative Infrastructure Partners, added another stringto our bow.
The deal, which released more than US$400 million from the Groups deployed assets saw us partner with First Reserve, For example, we pioneered theworlds largest private equity and infrastructure investment rm exclusively focused on energy.
the duty holder model in the Together, we committed up to US$1.25 billion toPetroFirst.
With borrowing, the available capital could reach US$4 billion.
And this UK North Sea, and now offer putsPetrofac in contention for a range of interesting opportunities where potential clients need a financial partner just as much a range of commercial models as they need a service company.
In the first transaction, PetroFirst purchased each of which is designed to three of our existing oating production vessels, which released significant capital that we had tied-up in these assets.
For the future, we aim to help our clients create value where recognise clients commercial they require access to capital alongside Petrofacs project execution capability.
goals and reward Petrofac for the added value we bring.
