Our strategy Playtechs strategy of organic development, new business, targeted acquisitions, strategic agreements and joint ventures has enabled it to maximise opportunities created by the significant changes afoot in the online gambling industry.
The industry is moving towards locally regulated markets as governments see the implementation of gambling taxes and the sale of regulatory licenses as significant revenue streams.
Land-based and digital channels are converging as regulatory authorities issue gambling licenses to land-based operators for both traditional and online offerings.
Through being able to offer a full turnkey solution, Playtech is able to partner with established operators and new entrants to take advantage of these opportunities.
Mobile gambling is one of the most significant growth drivers of the global online gambling industry.
Playtechs Mobile Hub has combined the established Mobenga mobile sports betting solution with other gambling products.
This combination uniquely positions the Company to capitalise on further developments in this sector.
Mobile gambling is essential to Playtechs future success and we have invested heavily to develop the next generation of products, maximising new functionality on tablets and smartphones, while continuing to roll out products across all mobile platforms, including Android, Apple iOS and HTML5.
Our progress against our strategic objectives in 2014 1.
Support organic growth In 2014, Playtechs licensees achieved organic growth Cross-sell products of 20%, exceeding the growth of the underlying global market.
The breadth and depth of Playtechs offering and services enables Playtechs licensees to run some of the most On average, Playtechs licensees take a limited successful online gambling businesses.
There is a trend for larger licensees e. g. Gala Coral, Ladbrokes and Paddy Power to leverage Playtechs IMS and take more products from Playtechs Organic growth product suite, enhancing their cross-sell ability.
Playtech also supports its licensees as they 20% enter new markets e. g. Ladbrokes moving to Spain, Denmark and Mexico.
See page 20 for more detail See page 20 for more detail 18 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Playtechs strategy as the leading technology provider in the online gambling industry, is to offer all product 4. verticals across all distribution channels.
Playtech invests to expand its offering to support its licensees with new Enhance technologies, avenues to market and the products e. g. the Mobile Hub, virtual racing, binary options, social gaming.
Companys leading position: increase 2014: 36% product, service and 2013: 35% distribution capability 5.
See page 20 for more detail Improve quality of earnings through greater regulated market penetration 3.
Playtech is focused on growing its presencein regulated markets, increasing Attract new the proportion of regulated revenue to 36% in 2014 2013: 35%.
Future regulation licensees will provide an opportunity to increase this Playtech has enjoyed a successful track proportion further and the Group continues record of attracting approximately five to towork on progressing in regulated markets 10 new licensees every year, attracted by such as our recent agreements with Caliente, our market-leading product and service RCS Media, Skybet and Trinity Mirror.
offering, the unique capabilities of the IMS See page 20 for more detail and support for both established and new operators in regulating markets.
Acquisitions remain key Playtech has an outstanding acquisition track record, investing in new technology, exciting content, and new products.
Companies have mostly been acquired on an earn-out basis, enabling Playtech to leverage its existing business and licensee base to create strong See page 20 for more detail synergies.
Playtech is focused on making further, similar bolt-on acquisitions.
Given the Groups ability to generate cash and strength of its balance sheet, along with the 297 million convertible bond issue, the Board is seeking strategic M&A opportunities to take the business to the next level.
See page 20 for more detail Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19
