Board of Directors Alan Jackson aged 71 Mor Weizer aged 39 Ron Hoffman aged 38 Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Alan was appointed to the Board in 2006 Mor was appointed as Playtechs Chief Ron was appointed as Playtechs Chief onthe Companys flotation on the Alternative Executive Officer in May 2007.
Financial Officer on 1 January 2013, having Investment Market and became Chairman joined the Group in 2004.
Prior to being appointed CEO, Mor was the Career: Career: Chief Executive Officer of one of the Groups Ron is a qualified accountant and worked Alan has over 40 years experience in subsidiaries, Techplay Marketing Ltd. at Ernst & Young where he rose to the the leisure industry.
From 1973 to 1991, which required him to oversee the Groups position of Senior Manager.
Ron joined he occupied a number of positions at licensee relationship management, product Playtech shortly after its formation.
He spent Whitbread, both in the UK and internationally, management for new licensees and the eight years at Playtech as Vice President of principally as Managing Director of Beefeater Groups marketing activities.
Before joining Finance, managing the finance department, steakhouse and also the Whitbread Playtech, Mor worked for Oracle for over four including its listing on AIM in 2006, the restaurant division where he was responsible years, initially as a development consultant transition to the Main Market in 2012 and for the creation and development of the and then as a product manager, which supporting the growth of the business Beefeater, Travel Inn and TGI Friday brands involved creating sales and consulting through its operations, acquisitions, financial and was responsible for Whitbreads channels on behalf of Oracle Israel and planning and reporting.
Oracle Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Skills, competences and experience: In 1991, he founded Inn Business Group Earlier in his career, he worked in a variety of Ron brings over 10 years experience plc, which was acquired by Punch Taverns roles, including as an auditor and financial and expertise in relation to the online plc in 1999.
He has been Chairman of consultant for  gambling industry.
He is responsible for The Restaurant Group plc since 2001. and a system analyst for Tadiran Electronic the finance, tax, treasury and accounting He stepped down from his role as Deputy Systems Limited, an Israeli company that teams at Playtech and provides strategic Chairman and Senior Non-executive Director designs electronic warfare systems.
and operational financial experience at Redrow plc in September 2014.
Skills, competences and experience: to the Group including in relation to Skills, competences and experience: Mor is a qualified accountant and brings investment arrangements.
Having held several Board positions in both considerable international sales and Board Committees: an executive and non-executive capacity in management experience in a hi-tech Ron sits on the Management Committee a variety of listed companies in the UK, he environment and extensive knowledge of the and attends meetings of the Audit brings substantial experience of working in online gambling industry.
Until June 2013 he Committee and the Risk & Compliance public and private companies, along with was a Non-executive Director of Sportech Committees at the invitation of the Chairs strategic and leadership experience.
PLC as the Companys representative, ofthose Committees.
and resigned when Playtech disposed of Board Committees: its shareholding.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of the Board Committees: Remuneration, Audit and Risk & He chairs the Management Committee Compliance Committees.
and attends the Remuneration, Risk & Compliance and Nominations Committees at the invitation of the Chairs ofthose Committees.
32 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance v38.
indd 32 16 04 2015 11:32 Hilary Stewart-Jones aged 53 Andrew Thomas aged 72 Non-executive Deputy Chairman Senior Non-executive Director Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Hilary was appointed to the Board in Andrew was appointed to the Board in October 2013 and became Deputy June 2012, shortly before the Companys Chairman in December 2014. admission to the Main Market.
Career: Career: Hilary is a qualified solicitor, and worked Andrew has enjoyed a career as an in-house at Ladbrokes plc becoming head accountant and businessman, much of of the in-house gambling legal team before which has been within the leisure industry.
joining the law firm Berwin Leighton Paisner Andrew is currently Chairman of Randalls LLP as a Partner in 2000.
She joined DLA Limited, a family-owned pub company in Piper UK LLP as a Partner in 2011 but Jersey, where he lives.
Andrew previously stepped down from that role in May 2014 served as Chairman of The Greenalls Group and has since held a consultancy position plc and as a Non-executive Director of a with the firm.
Hilary is recognised as a number of private and public companies.
leading international expert in gambling law He is the founding partner of the Cheshireand has over 20 years experience advising based accounting firm, Moors Andrew companies on gambling-related issues.
Andrew is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Skills, competences and experience: in England & Wales and a member of the Hilary brings considerable expertise in Institute of Taxation.
the regulation of online gambling around the world, having advised many leading Skills, competences and experience: companies in the sector, as well as in legal Andrew combines many years detailed matters generally.
She enjoys an excellent experience of advising on taxation relationship with many of the key industry matters, with financial expertise both as a regulators and is a regular speaker on Chartered Accountant and sitting as a Nongambling law and regulation.
executive Director of a number of publicly listed companies.
Board Committees: Hilary is Chair of the Remuneration Board Committees: Committee and of the Risk & Compliance Andrew chairs the Audit Committee, which Committee and sits on the Audit Committee oversees the work of the internal auditors and Nominations Committee.
and sits on the Remuneration, Nomination and Risk & Compliance Committees.
He is also the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 Governance v38.
