Trends Mobile Convergence of online and land-based The number of mobile devices in use grows every day, and A significant industry trend is the growing convergence of increasing numbers of players are choosing mobile sports land-based and online market segments.
This is principally betting and gaming for the convenience it brings.
as a result of many new entrants in regulated online markets being existing land-based gaming, betting and lottery Playtech launched its mobile sport offering in 2012, and it operators, who already have a substantial local presence, rapidly grew to become market leader in the UK, Europe well-recognised brands, and existing player databases and andmany other markets.
are familiar with the local regulatory environment.
Also in 2012, Playtech launched the Mobile Hub, a Historically separate in their philosophy and systems, there customisable open framework designed to integrate content has been a fundamental shift in both segments towards and provide players with a seamless user experience on common techniques for player attraction and retention, such mobile devices.
Players get access to the operators full as VIP levels and loyalty schemes.
Operators are becoming offering on their smartphones or tablets through a branded more aware of the importance of player retention and of and unified interface.
It can also be managed via a centralised incentivising the player on an individual basis regardless of management system.
The retention of players and the ability to crossWith over 350 mobile developers, Playtech is at the sell them on to other products provides an opportunity for forefront of mobile development.
In 2014, only 11% of operators, but also presents substantial technical challenges revenue was generated by mobile, presenting a major future for them.
Playtech has focused much of its recent development It is forecast that mobile interactive gambling will grow at efforts on ensuring that it is able to deliver functionality, player 38.7% in 2015, with four-year CAGR forecast to be 24.7%.
management and content across the full range of distribution channels, and to capitalise on this trend of convergence.
It has proactively developed the most sophisticated of server-based gaming systems: unique capabilities in TV and broadcast: and cutting-edge mobile and online products.
All managed by a single operator platform with a single player wallet across all formats.
The gaming industry is undergoing fundamental and structural change and Playtech is determined to remain a market leader in providing technology and services to the broadest range of participants with a focus on regulated business.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09
