Directors Report The Directors are pleased to present to shareholders their Directors and Directors indemnity report and the audited financial statements for the year ended The Directors of the Company who held office during the 31 December 2014.
2014 year and to date are: The Directors Report should be read in conjunction with the Appointed Resigned other sections of this Annual Report: the Strategic Report, Alan Jackson 28.03.2006 Corporate Responsibility Report and the Remuneration Mor Weizer 02.05.2007 Report, all of which are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
Andrew Thomas 19.06 2012 Ron Hoffman 31.12.2012 The following also form part of this report: Hilary Stewart-Jones 09.10.2013 the reports on corporate governance set out on pages 32to 66: All the Directors stand for re-election as Directors at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
information relating to financial instruments, as provided inthe Notes to the financial statements: and Save as set out in Note 26 to the financial statements, no Director had a material interest in any significant contract, related party transactions as set out in the Notes to the other than a service contract or contract for services, with financial statements.
the Company or any of its operating companies at any time during the year.
Annual Report and Accounts As at the date of this report, an indemnity is in place under The Directors are aware of the responsibilities in respect which the Company has agreed to indemnify Alan Jackson of the Annual Report.
The Directors consider that the who held office during the year ended 31 December 2014, Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and to the extent permitted by law and by the Companys understandable and provides the information necessary articles of association, in respect of all liabilities incurred in for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, connection with the performance of his duties as a Director business model and strategy.
The Statement of Directors of the Company or its subsidiaries.
A copy of the indemnity Responsibilities appears on pages 65 and 66. is available for review at the Companys registered office.
The Company also purchased, and maintained throughout 2014, Directors and Officers Liability in respect of itself and Principal activities and business review its Directors.
The Groups principal activities are the development and licensing of software and the provision of ancillary services for the online and land-based gambling industries.
Playtech plc Corporate governance statement is a public listed company, with a premium listing on the Main The Disclosure and Transparency Rules require certain Market of the London Stock Exchange.
It is incorporated and information to be included in a corporate governance domiciled in the Isle of Man.
statement in the Directors report.
Information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate governance statement can be The information that fulfils the requirement for a management found in the Governance Report on pages 32 to 66 and is report as required by Rule 4.1.
5 of the Disclosure and incorporated into this report by reference.
Transparency Rules applicable to the Group can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 31, which also includes an analysis, the development, performance and position of the Groups business.
A statement of the key risks and uncertainties facing the business of the Group at the end of the year is found on pages 25 to 27 of this Annual Report and details of the policies and the use of financial instruments is set out in Note 2 to the financial statements.
Details of all important post-balance sheet events affecting the Group are set out in Note 29 to the financial statements.
60 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance v38.
indd 60 16 04 2015 11:32 Disclaimer Going concern, responsibilities and disclosure The purpose of these financial statements including this report is to provide information to the members of the The current activities of the Group and those factors likely to Company.
The financial statements have been prepared affect its future development, together with a description of for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, its financial position, are described in the Strategic Report.
The Company, its Directors and Principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group, and the employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume steps taken to mitigate these risks are described on pages responsibility to any other person to whom this document 25 to 27.
Critical accounting estimates affecting the carrying is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such values of assets and liabilities of the Group are discussed in responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
Note 3 to the financial statements.
The financial statements contain certain forward-looking After making appropriate enquiries and having regard to statements with respect to the operations, performance the Groups cash balances and normal business planning and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these and control procedures, the Directors have a reasonable statements involve uncertainty since future events and expectation that the Company and the Group has adequate circumstances can cause results and developments to resources to continue in operational existence for the differ materially from those anticipated.
In making this assessment, the Directors statements reflect knowledge and information available at considered the going concern status for a period in excess the date of preparation of these financial statements and the of 12 months from the date of signing this report.
For this Company undertakes no obligation to update these forwardreason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern looking statements.
Nothing in this document should be basis in preparing the accounts.
Significant shareholdings Results and dividend As of 31 January 2015 the Company had been advised of The results of the Group for the year ended 31 December the following significant shareholders each holding more 2014 are set out on pages 73 to 109.
On 26 February 2015, than 3% of the Companys issued share capital, based on the Board recommended the payment of a final dividend for 293,492,617 Ordinary Shares in issue: the year ended 31 December 2014 of 17.5 cents per share No.
of Ordinary which will be paid to shareholders on the register as at 8 May Shareholder % Shares 2015.
The payment of the final dividend requires shareholder Brickington Trading Limited 33.6 98,645,782 approval which will be sought at the Companys annual Standard Life Investments 3.9 11,422,906 general meeting to be held at the Sefton Hotel, Douglas, Isle Greenlight Capital 3.8 11,029,476 of Man on 20 May 2015.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 5 June 2015 and together with the interim dividend Legal and General of 8.9 cents per share paid on 27 October 2014 makes a Investment Mgt 3.3 9,722,373 total dividend expressed in euros of 26.4 cents per share Newton Investment Mgt 3.0 8,844,083 for the year.
The persons set out in the table above have notified Shareholders who wish to receive their final dividend in the Company pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure and sterling rather than euros will be required to return currency Transparency Rules of their interests in the Ordinary Share election forms to the Companys registrars by 15 May 2015. capital of the Company.
Currency election forms are contained with the notice of annual general meeting that accompanies the Annual Report The Company has not been notified of any changes to the and further copies available from the Companys website above shareholders between 31 January 2015 and the date www.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 Governance v38.
indd 61 16 04 2015 11:32 Directors Report continued Transfer Capital structure Subject to the articles of association, any member may As at 31 December 2014 and 31 January 2015, the transfer all or any of his or her certificated shares by an Company had 293,492,617 issued shares of no par value.
instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form The Company has one class of Ordinary Share and each which the Board may approve.
The Board may, in its absolute share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the discretion, decline to register any instrument of transfer of a Company and to participate in any dividends declared in certificated share which is not a fully paid share or on which accordance with the articles of association.
No person has the Company has a lien.
The Board may also decline to any special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument The authorities under the Companys articles of association of transfer is: i delivered for registration to the registered granted at the last annual general meeting for the Directors agent, or at such other place as the Board may decide, for to issue new shares for cash and purchase its own shares registration: and ii accompanied by the certificate for the remain valid until the forthcoming annual general meeting shares to be transferred except in the case of a transfer when it is intended that a resolution will be put forward to where a certificate has not been required to be issued by shareholders to renew the authority for the Company to issue the certificate for the shares to which it relates and or such shares for cash and purchase its own shares.
The Company other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to prove did not acquire any of its own shares during the year.
the title of the transferor and the due execution by him of the However, Roxwell Investments Limited a wholly owned transferor, if the transfer is executed by some other person on subsidiary of the Company in its capacity as the initial trustee his behalf, the authority of that person to do so, provided that of the Playtech Employee Benefit Trust acquired 5,517,241 where any such shares are admitted to AIM, the Official List Ordinary Shares on 5 March 2014. maintained by the UK Listing Authority or another recognised investment exchange.
Articles of association Amendment of the Companys articles of association The Companys articles of association do not contain any Any amendments to the Companys articles of association specific restrictions on the size of a shareholders holding.
may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
Voting rights Subject to any special rights or restrictions as to voting Appointment and removal of Directors attached to any shares by or in accordance with the articles Unless and until otherwise determined by the Company by of association, on a show of hands every member who is ordinary resolution, the number of Directors other than any present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one alternate Directors shall not be less than two and there shall vote and on a poll every member who is present in person or be no maximum number of Directors.
by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
Powers of Directors Subject to the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act Restrictions on voting 2006, the memorandum and articles of association of the No member shall, unless the Board otherwise determines, Company and to any directions given by special resolution, be entitled to vote at a general meeting or at any separate the business of the Company shall be managed by the meeting of the holders of any class of shares, either in person Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him or to exercise any right as a member unless all calls or other sums presently payable by him in respect of that share have been paid to the Company.
In addition, any member who having been served with a notice by the Company requiring such member to disclose to the Board in writing within such reasonable period as may be specified in such notice, details of any past or present beneficial interest of any third party in the shares or any other interest of any kind whatsoever which a third party may have in the shares and the identity of the third party having or having had any such interest, fails to do so may be disenfranchised by service of a notice by the Board.
62 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance v38.
indd 62 16 04 2015 11:32 Appointment of Directors Related party transactions Subject to the articles of association, the Company may by Details of all related party transactions are set out in Note 26 ordinary resolution appoint a person who is willing to act to to the financial statements.
Internal controls are in place to be a Director, either to fill a vacancy, or as an addition to the ensure that any related party transactions involving Directors existing Board, and may also determine the rotation in which or their connected persons are carried out on an arms length any Directors are to retire.
Without prejudice to the power basis and are disclosed in the financial statements.
of the Company to appoint any person to be a Director pursuant to the articles of association, the Board shall have Political and charitable donations power at any time to appoint any person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group made the existing Board, but the total number of Directors shall charitable donations of 203,288, primarily to charities that not exceed any maximum number fixed in accordance with fund research into and treatment of problem gambling but the articles of association.
Any Director so appointed shall also to a variety of charities operating in countries in which the hold office only until the next annual general meeting of the Companys subsidiaries are based.
Company following such appointment and shall then be The Group made no political donations during this period eligible for re-election but shall not be taken into account 2013: nil.
in determining the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
Sustainability and employees Retirement of Directors Information with respect to the Groups impact on the At each annual general meeting one-third of the Directors environment and other matters concerning sustainability can excluding any Director who has been appointed by the be found on pages 28 to 31.
Applications for employment Board since the previous annual general meeting or, if their by disabled persons are always fully and fairly considered, number is not an integral multiple of three, the number bearing in mind the aptitude and ability of the applicant nearest to one-third but not exceeding one-third shall retire concerned.
The Group places considerable value on the from office but so that if there are fewer than three Directors involvement of its employees and has continued to keep who are subject to retirement by rotation under this Article them informed of matters affecting them as employees and one shall retire.
on the performance of the Group and has run information days for employees in different locations across the Group Removal of Directors during the year.
Some employees are stakeholders in the The Company may by ordinary resolution passed at a Company through participation in share option plans.
meeting called for such purpose or by written resolution Information provided by the Company pursuant to the consented to by members holding at least 75% of the voting Disclosure and Transparency Rules is publicly available via the rights in relation thereto, remove any Director before the regulatory information services and the Companys website, expiration of his period of office notwithstanding anything www.
in the articles of association or in any agreement between the Company and such Director and, without prejudice to any claim for damages which he may have for breach of Branches any contract of service between him and the Company, The Companys subsidiaries Playtech Retail Limited and PT may subject to the articles by ordinary resolution, appoint Turnkey Services Limited have established branch offices in another person who is willing to act as a Director in his place.
A Director may also be removed from office by the service on him of a notice to that effect signed by all the other Directors.
Regulatory disclosures The information in the following tables is provided in Significant agreements compliance with the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and There are no agreements or arrangements to which the Transparency Rules DTRs.
Company is a party that are affected by a change in control of the Company following a takeover bid, and which are The DTRs also require certain information to be included in considered individually significant in terms of their impact on a corporate governance statement in the Directors Report.
the business of the Group as a whole.
Information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate governance statement can be found in the Governance The rules of certain of the Companys incentive plans Report on pages 34 to 42 and is incorporated into this include provisions which apply in the event of a takeover Directors Report by reference.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 Governance v38.
indd 63 16 04 2015 11:32 Directors Report continued Disclosure table pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4C Listing Rule Information included Disclosure 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group None 9.8.
4 4 Long-term incentive scheme only involving a Director None 9.8.
4 5 Directors waivers of emoluments None 9.8.
4 6 Directors waiver of future emoluments None 9.8.
4 7 Non pro-rata allotments for cash None 9.8.
4 8 Non pro-rata allotments for cash by major subsidiaries None 9.8.
4 9 Listed company is a subsidiary of another Not applicable 9.8.
4 10 Contracts of significance involving a Director None 9.8.
4 11 Contracts of significance involving a controlling Note 26 to of the financial statements sets out details shareholder of transactions with the controlling shareholder as a related party 9.8.
4 12 Waivers of future dividends None 9.8.
4 14 Agreement with a controlling shareholder See disclosure against LR 9.8.
4 11 Additional information provided pursuant to LR9.8.
6 Listing Rule Information included Disclosure 9.8.
6 1 Interests of Directors and their connected persons in See page 58 the shares of the Company at the year end and not more than one month prior to the date of the notice of AGM 9.8.
6 2 Interests in Playtech shares disclosed under DTR5 at See page 61 the year end and at not more than one month prior to the date of the notice of AGM 9.8.
6 3 The going concern statement See page 61 9.8.
6 4 a Amount of the authority to purchase own shares 29,349,261 Ordinary Shares which authority will available at the year end expire at the AGM and not be renewed 9.8.
6 4 b Off market purchases of own shares during the year None 9.8.
6 4 c Off market purchases of own shares after the yearNone end 9.8.
6 4 d Non pro-rata sales of treasury shares during the year None 9.8.
6 5 Compliance with the main principles of the UK See the statement on page 35 Corporate Governance Code 9.8.
6 6 Details of non-compliance with the UK Corporate See the statement on page 35 Governance Code 9.8.
6 7 Re Directors proposed for re-election: the unexpired Detail of the Executive Directors service contracts are term of their service contract and a statement about given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages Directors without a service contract 50 and 51 The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors serve under letters of appointment described on page 51 64 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance v38.
indd 64 16 04 2015 11:32 Additional information under Rule 4.1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR Requirement How fulfilled 4.1.
3 Publication of Annual Financial Report within This document is dated 26 February 2015 being a date fourmonths of the end of the financial year less than four months after the year end 4.1.
5 Content of Annual Financial Report The audited financial statements are set out on page 67 to page 109 The information that fulfils the requirement for a management report can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 31 The Statement of Directors Responsibilities can be found on pages 65 and 66 4.1.
5 Audited financial statements The audited financial statements set out on page 67 to page 109 comprise consolidated accounts prepared in accordance with IFRS and the accounts oftheCompany 4.1.
6 Auditing of financial statements The financial statements have been audited by BDOLLP 4.1.
9 Content of management report The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 31, includes an analysis, using financial key performance indicators, of the development, performance and position of the Companys business, a review of the Companys business and on pages 25 to 27 a description of the principal risk and uncertainties 4.1.
11 1 Important events since the year end See Note 29 to the audited financial statements on page108 4.1.
11 2 Future development The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 31, gives an indication of the likely future development of the Company 4.1.
11 3 Research & development The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 31, gives an indication of ongoing research and development activities 4.1.
11 4 Purchase of own shares See disclosure pursuant to LR9.8.
11 5 Branch offices See the statement on page 63 4.1.
11 6 Use of financial instruments See note 2 to the audited financial statements on pages78 to 84 4.1.
12 & 13 Responsibility statement See the statement of the Directors on page 65below andpage 66. flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of Statement of Directors Responsibilities transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with The Directors have elected to prepare the Annual Report and the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, the financial statements for the Company and the Group in income and expenses set out in the International Accounting accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually The Directors are responsible under applicable law and all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved regulation for keeping proper accounting records which by compliance with all applicable International Financial disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Reporting Standards.
A fair presentation also requires the position of the Group, for safeguarding the assets and for Directors to: taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of select suitable accounting policies and then apply fraud and other irregularities.
them consistently: International Accounting Standard 1 revised requires that present information, including accounting policies, in a financial statements present fairly for each financial year the manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Groups financial position, financial performance and cash understandable information: Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 Governance v38.
indd 65 16 04 2015 11:32 Directors Report continued make judgements and accounting estimates that are Annual general meeting reasonable and prudent: The annual general meeting in 2014 was held in May in state whether they have been prepared in accordance with Douglas, Isle of Man.
With the exception of Hilary StewartIFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any Jones, who was representing the Company at an industry material departures disclosed and explained in the financial conference, all Directors were present and made themselves available to answer questions from shareholders.
The annual statements: and general meeting provides an opportunity for the Directors to provide additional disclosures when compliance with the communicate personally performance and future strategy specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to non-institutional shareholders and for those shareholders to understand the impact of particular transactions, other to meet with and question the Board.
All Directors plan to events and conditions on the entitys financial position and be present at the 2015 annual general meeting.
of proxy votes are read out, made available for review at The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate the meeting, recorded in the minutes of the meeting and accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the communicated to the market and via the Group website.
Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy The annual general meeting for 2015 will be held at at any time the financial position of the Group and enable the Sefton Hotel, Douglas, Isle of Man, IM1 2RW on them to ensure that the financial statements comply with Wednesday20 May 2015 at 10.00 am.
The notice convening Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for the annual general meeting for this year, and an explanation safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking of the items of non-routine business are set out in the circular reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud that accompanies the Annual Report.
In addition, the Directors at the date of this report consider Auditors that the financial statements taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information So far as each Director is aware, at the date of the approval necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups of the financial statements there is no relevant audit performance, business model and strategy.
information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any Website publication information needed by the Groups auditors for the purposes Financial statements are published on the Companys of their audit and to establish that the auditors are aware of website.
The maintenance and integrity of the Companys that information.
website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors A resolution to reappoint BDO LLP as the Companys responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the auditors will be submitted to the shareholders at this financial statements contained therein.
Approved by the Board and signed on behalf of the Board Directors responsibilities pursuant to DTR4 Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed within the Governance section on pages 32 and 33 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Ron Hoffman the Group financial statements, which have been prepared Chief Financial Officer in accordance with International Financial Reporting 26 February 2015 Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and The Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the financial position of the Group and the Company, together with a description or the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
66 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance v38.
