About us Playtech is technology driven... Playtech offers the only true end-to-end, omni-channel gambling software solution whereby players can access all products, in all formats, on all platforms, across all channels, integrating retail, web and mobile channels for the first time in the industry.
Such players are proven to spend over twotimes more than other online players.
02 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Playtechs global team of developers are rapidly able to identify and adapt our software and content to any device including new technology driven... and emerging wearable technology such as the new range of smart watches that we have enabled to include our mobile sports betting product.
Playtech offers unique, cutting-edge, datadriven technology to take gambling to the next level Playtech is a highly innovative supplier and has developed next generation Business Intelligence Technology BIT for its forward-thinking licensees.
Harnessing the power of data, Playtechs highly sophisticated BIT package allows operators to immediately differentiate and optimise their offerings, personalise the user experience and significantly boost their acquisition and retention rates and overall revenues all via automated processes in real-time.
Number of customers signed up to Coral Connect in 2014 160,000 Players are overtwice asvaluable andcheaper torecruit.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 03 About us continued Playtech is diversified... Playtech has the most comprehensive product suite in the market offered through all distribution channels to its more than 120 licensees, including many of the worlds most successful blue-chip online operators.
Expanding our global footprint Playtech supports its licensees and is able to expand as they diversify their businesses geographically, for example supporting Ladbrokes as it moved to Spain, Belgium and Denmark.
As markets regulate, there are further opportunities for Playtech to sign up local operators as they seek to move their businesses online, as it did with Holland Casino in 2014.
Increasing licensee product penetration Playtech does not supply all of its licensees with every product vertical.
There are substantial opportunities therefore to increase the number of products each licensee takes.
Progress was made during the year, for example launching Live casino offerings for Skybet and RAY.
04 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Revenue by geography Europe Asia Rest of World 57% 35% 8% Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 05 About us continued Playtech is growing...
The global online gambling market is estimated to have grown at a compound 8.6% per year over the past five years.
Over that same timeframe, Playtechs revenues have increased at a compound annual growth rate of 31.8%.
06 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Increasing our share of the market During 2014, Playtech achieved organic revenue growth of 20% plus afurther 4% derived from acquisitions.
Playtechs growth is achieved through the provision of an expanding portfolio of marketleading software and innovative new technology that continue to drive its licensees operations.
This is bolstered by the ability to sign up additional new licensees and to cross-sell existing licensees with additional product or tosupport them in new markets.
Revenue growth rate between Uniquely Playtech can offer as a 20092014 turnkey solution or as part of a structured agreement or joint venture, value-creating services including 31.8% five-year CAGR affiliate management, media buying, CRM, VIP management and other operational services, all designed to leverage the market-leading tools delivered by Playtechs IMS platform.
Playtech also has an outstanding acquisition track record, investing in new technology, exciting content, and new products.
Companies have mostly been acquired on an earn-out basis, enabling Playtech to leverage its existing business and licensee base to create strong synergies.
Playtech is focused on making further, similar bolt-on acquisitions.
Given the Groups ability to generate cash and strength of its balance sheet following the sale of its stake in William Hill Online, and convertible bond issue, the Board is seeking strategic M&A opportunities totake the business to the next level.
Revenue derived from Playtechs mobile channel increased 64% in 2014, yet it remains immature with significant opportunity for future growth.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07
