Competitive landscape The single most realistic alternative to outsourcing to Barriers to entry Playtech is for operators to utilise their own proprietary Scale platform together with proprietary and third party software, The faster growth and increased scale of Playtech has which while currently accounting for around 30% of the total enabled the development of a superior platform, more online gambling market, Playtech management believe is an relevant software and more products than other suppliers increasingly unsustainable model.
providing defensive moats around the business.
New B2B Playtech enjoys significant scale advantages by being able operators or licensees are not able to undertake significant to leverage operating and development costs of more than product development as they lack economies of scale.
120 licensees, including the top 10 European and UK online This is even more apparent in new channels coming to gambling operators.
The Companys strategy is to offer all market such as mobile, or new products such as virtual product verticals via all distribution channels on an integrated racing.
Games such as bingo or poker rely on liquidity to platform that offers a single wallet and sign-on.
Playtech is satisfy player demand.
Networked casino games can also also the only supplier that can offer sophisticated marketing provide significant jackpot opportunities.
and operational services to drive player acquisition and Technology retention via a modular range of flexible approaches from a full turnkey solution to equity joint ventures or structured The Playtech operating system is agnostic, allowing upgrades agreements.
This enables operators to offer their players a and new features to be rolled out to every operator from a true omni-channel approach across land-based digital mobile single platform allowing all operators the benefit of a more channels, providing the ultimate player experience.
Playtechs R&D costs vary from year to year, but are typically around 17% of overall software There are only a limited number of other B2B software revenue.
This development cost is shared across the licensee suppliers that offer a platform solution.
These include base, and the revenue share model offered by Playtech is Microgaming, GameAccount and Gtech G2, none of which cost effective when compared to self-development, and have the breadth or depth of Playtechs offering.
allows licensees to remain at the cutting edge of the market.
Most B2B software suppliers offer content across a limited Operators also benefit from product development through number of product verticals, including Openbet, Net two-way feedback with Playtech.
Entertainment, Blueprint Gaming, NextGen Gaming, Konami, Experience Ainsworth and Evolution Gaming.
As Playtechs scale has increased over the 15 years since Recognising that the majority of Playtechs licensees have its incorporation, its knowledge, expertise and offering in all migrated to Playtech from another supplier, Playtech enables markets have enabled operators to grow their businesses third parties to supply game content through its GTS and and to diversify into new markets more quickly.
VF open platforms, thus allowing operators to continue to offer their most popular games and derive the benefits of Liquidity Playtechs IMS platform.
Playtech offers greater liquidity in the bingo and poker markets, and can provide high progressive jackpots for casino players.
Consolidation Other barriers to entry are Playtechs expertise in the For a number of years there has been consolidation services environment marketing, hosting and affiliates and amongst suppliers as older technology is bought up and increasingly longer-term supply contracts and established companies merge for strategic or tactical reasons.
unprecedented levels of corporate activity including the purchase of the Rational Group by Amaya, GTech acquiring IGT, Scientific Games acquiring Bally Technologies.
In 2014 Playtech acquired Unilogic, Psiclone and the Aristocrat Lottery business.
Management isconsidering further corporate activity.
08 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
