Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices Sustainability Our sustainability focus areas Focused on building Maintaining positive Improving our health and Attracting and retaining Further developing our working relationships safety system through more more high-quality people and certified environmental with local government, sophisticated visualisation, improving the quality and management system and a sustainable future NGOs and communities by risk management systems terms of their employment.
embedding the system enhancing our partnership and more rigorous into production operations.
agreements and increasing monitoring within the Enhancing the rigour the effectiveness of Company and with our and transparency of our Cost and energy our investments.
Stakeholder engagement and material issues Each of our subsidiary companies has its own environmental Our approach Our core objective is to In our approach to sustainability, we want to address the issues team.
These teams contribute to the running and monitoring 2014 represents a milestone on our sustainability journey.
create sustainable returns for that matter most to our business and to our stakeholders.
To of the EMS and provide quarterly performance reports to This year, we are adopting the most recent version of the this end, we follow the principles of materiality and stakeholder the Group.
Meanwhile our in-house engineering operation, shareholders while fulfilling our Global Reporting Initiative GRI sustainability reporting inclusiveness that are set out within the GRI G4 prioritisation Polymetal Engineering, employs more than 100 specialists guidelines.
Within this G4 framework, the main focus is corporate responsibilities to guidelines.
We carry out regular stakeholder mapping exercises to ensure that up-to-date practices and modern technologies materiality in other words, those issues that matter most to determine the various stakeholder groups on which Polymetal are used in the design and construction of mines and society and the environment.
to our business and our stakeholders.
Compliance with G4 has the biggest impact.
Once identified, we then engage with processing facilities.
does not become mandatory until the end of 2015, so we are these stakeholders and collate all ensuing dialogue: this enables making this transition ahead of schedule.
This is a sign of our us to understand the issues most material to each group, and to Across the Group, we incorporate regular auditing and monitoring In this way, we balance our commitment to continuous improvement and best practice, incorporate their opinions and priorities into our decision making activities into the environmental management system.
We also and demonstrates our willingness to engage with clear and business interests with the and policy development.
comply with the requirements of relevant Russian and Kazakh accountable reporting practices.
In support of this, in 2015, legislation and ISO 14001.
External audits are regularly interests of our people, suppliers, we have recruited a Chief Sustainability Officer, whose role Through our stakeholder engagement and materiality mapping undertaken by state supervisory authorities such as the Russian will involve co-ordinating our diverse sustainability initiatives investors, local communities activities, we have identified our core sustainability focus areas Federal Service for Supervision of Natural Resource Usage, while and activities.
audits conducted by service providers such as Bureau Veritas and other stakeholders.
And help us to improve our internal environmental management and Polymetals overall approach to sustainability is guided it is this balance which ensures See our materiality matrix in the Sustainability Report 2013 2014 performance.
During the reporting period, we received no by the UN Global Compact, to which the Company has been for more information.
significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance the long-term success and a signatory since 2009.
Our strategy is designed to meet the with environmental laws and regulations.
requirements of this voluntary international standard and ensure sustainability of our operations.
Sustainability risk management compliance with its ten principles in the areas of human rights, Our approach to sustainability is also underpinned by rigorous Environmental compliance labour, environment and anti-corruption.
We are also an active risk management policies and procedures.
Informed by our We comply with stringent environmental impact assessment member of the UK Global Compact Network Russia.
interaction with stakeholders, we work to identify, manage and procedures which include public hearings and adequate mitigate the sustainability risks we face.
This process is overseen mechanisms to enable stakeholders to share their grievances.
The UN Global Compact and our corporate values by the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board, reflecting the Our ongoing stakeholder engagement activities also provide dialogue, compliance, ethical conduct, fairness, stewardship importance we place on sustainability within the Company.
forums for stakeholders to voice concerns.
In 2014, there were and effectiveness shape the focus of our more detailed no new major grievances filed about our environmental impacts.
sustainability policies and associated management systems.
Environmental performance These polices are defined at Group level and implemented All of our suppliers comply with applicable laws and regulations.
through our Head Office in St. Petersburg and subsidiary Polymetal, as a typical mining business, operates complex In our formal contractual agreements, we insist that our companies.
Through ongoing monitoring and auditing, processes on a large scale in remote locations.
These suppliers meet their compliance requirements.
we ensure that our performance is measured against processes produce a range of waste materials and use all relevant regulatory and internal requirements.
toxic substances, such as cyanide.
Like any other mining Investment in environmental protection company, we also produce significant quantities of emissions Our overall investment in environmental protection during the and carry out processes that can have potentially negative reporting period was US$13.5 million, a slight increase from environmental impacts.
Of this total 51% went into the protection of water resources, 32% into land reclamation, To control these impacts we have developed a robust and 17% into the reduction of atmospheric emissions.
environmental management system EMS that complies with increasingly sophisticated national and international However, investment in 2014 decreased to US$5 million in standards and regulations.
This system is overseen by comparison with US$7.1 million in 2013, partially due to the Sustainability Report 2013 14 dedicated environmental teams, and focuses on resource completion of construction and ramp-up of the environmental This section of our Annual Report presents an overview of Polymetals sustainability approach and and energy efficiency, pollution prevention, use of modern protection facilities at Polymetals new operations and partially performance in 2014.
We have also published a full Sustainability Report 2013 2014, which provides equipment and technologies, and employee engagement.
At the heart of the management system is our environmental The balance comprises quarterly payments we make to The scope of the Sustainability Report covers all of our wholly-owned operating mines and processing sites policy, which can be viewed at www.
governments in the regions we operate for the negative impact in Russia and Kazakhstan Dukat, Omolon, Amursk, Albazino, Mayskoye, Khakanja, Voro and Varvara, It emphasises the use of best practice, continuous improvement, on the environment caused by our business.
The amounts of our headquarters in St. Petersburg and our subsidiary companies.
We own and operate all of these entities risk reduction, compliance and management of specific and have direct control over their policies, procedures and performance.
these payments are governed by environmental law and are environmental issues.
It also focuses strongly on incident defined by specialised government agencies through the This report and copies of our previous reports are available on our website, along with regular updates about and emergency control, the use of environmentally friendly audits they conduct regularly at our operation sites.
our sustainability activities during the year: www.
40 Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc 41 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices Sustainability GHG emissions intensity CO eq, t 10 Kt of ore processed 2 Striving for greater efficiency 696 and minimising negative impact 675 642 2012 2013 2014 Performance Kyzyl environmental assessment Recycled materials During 2013 14, we made good progress in our environmental management programmes.
International environment and social consultants are Wherever possible we try to recycle the waste we produce.
undertaking a detailed review of the environmental and In 2014, this accounted for 20% of total waste produced.
The major projects carried out in this period included land rehabilitation, environmental monitoring, industrial waste recycling, social issues related to the Kyzyl gold project in northeastern the construction of waste storage areas, the repair and replacement of gas purification and exhaust systems, and the control Kazakhstan.
A formal ESIA report along with the project Cyanide and hazardous waste management of dust emissions.
feasibility study will be issued in Q4 2015 which will outline We pay particular attention to the way we monitor and manage priority action areas and benchmark the project and the cyanide, since it generates hazardous waste components during embedded environmental programme.
This will ensure that any the recovery of gold from the ore we process.
In 2014 we used Due to the remote locations of our operations, we rely heavily GHG emissions 675 642 environmental and social impacts are addressed in line with the 8,002 tonnes of cyanide, compared with 7,369 tonnes in 2013. on diesel fuel for power generation.
These diesel generators, plus CO equivalent 2 International Finance Corporation Performance Standards and the use of natural gas and coal for heating and fuel for vehicles, tonnes per 10 Kt World Bank Environmental Health and Safety Guidelines.
Our approach involves: account for the bulk of GHG emissions.
The significant drop of ore processed in emissions per unit for 2014 is evidence of our increasing identifying all associated hazards: Key environmental projects in 2014 carbon efficiency.
During 2014, we made good progress in our environmental strictly controlling all cyanide levels in our tailings: 2013 2014 management programmes.
monitoring air, soil, surface and ground waters: Stripping, mined waste storage, ore processing and energy use Total air emissions 7.5 The five main projects undertaken during the year: providing environmental monitoring results to public generate air emissions.
These emissions include non-organic dust, tonnes per 10 Kt 6.2 authorities: and the construction of advanced storm-water and waste-water carbon dioxide and nitrogen and sulphur oxides.
of ore mined purification units at Amursk, Birkachan and Mayskoye delivering environmental protection measures, including the was completed: design, construction and monitoring of tailings dams, and the monitoring of water sources and quality, riverbed changes mine site rehabilitation at Yurievskoye was completed: and associated drainage.
2013 2014 improvements were made in water treatment efficiency and reduction of water consumption at Voro: Additionally, when we use cyanide, we use 100% of the volumes Overburden and tailings are the primary waste materials arising Major waste 7.8 purchased to ensure there is no waste element.
Cyanide also we started waste oil combustion at Albazino, Mayskoye and the from our operational activities.
We operate against a set of components exists in our processes as a chemical compound found in gas, 5.8 Omolon hub in order to heat on-site buildings and spaces: and procedures that are designed to maximise volumes of recycled tonnes per tonne water and in solids, which we later purify.
materials and minimise our potential impacts on people and of ore mined we instigated tailing dump reconstruction with artificial damp the environment.
In line with our commitments in this area, we take a rigorous approach to the transportation of hazardous materials.
Waste management In 2013 and 2014, we did not transport, import or export 2013 2014 Across our operations we are committed to responsible waste any waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the management.
We operate systems and procedures that are Basel Convention 2, Annex I, II, III and VIII.
Across our operations we aim to reduce discharge intensity, Discharges to 5.3 designed to maximise the amounts we recycle and minimise improve the quality of water discharged, enhance the efficiency surface water 4.3 potential impacts on people and the environment.
Water of water use and increase recycling.
Any increases are due thousand cubic We withdraw significant volumes of water for use across our to growth of incoming waters in our open pits.
metres per 10 Kt We deal with the production and consumption wastes business.
All water is re-used, treated and discharged as of ore processed we generate by reutilising them in our own production effluent to surface water, or is treated and stored in tailings processes, outsourcing them to specialist companies, dams.
We capture all water consumption and discharge data 2013 2014 and disposing of them within our own waste facilities.
using water meters, flow meters and indirect measuring.
Polymetal's remote subsidiaries must generate their own sources Energy intensity 79.1 Overburden and tailings We have consent from local and state authorities to withdraw 76.5 of electricity and heat, which currently necessitates significant use gigajoule per 10 Kt The most significant waste streams linked to our operations water from a wide range of sources adjacent to our operating of diesel.
However, we are constantly reviewing costs, environmental of ore processed are overburden and tailings, which account for more than 99% sites.
Due to the wide geographical spread of our operations, impacts and alternatives, and the increase in 2014 is the result of the of total arisings by volume.
The former is material extracted to we are able to ensure that our usage does not place undue change from diesel to electricity-powered equipment.
uncover ore deposits: the latter a by-product of ore processing.
demands on any one water source, and always remains within In 2014, we produced a total of 68 million tonnes of overburden, acceptable withdrawal limits.
We also withdraw very little from and 11 million tonnes of tailings.
surface water bodies such as rivers or springs.
Indeed, around 2013 2014 90% of our water sources are underground, and our annual average volume of water withdrawn from surface bodies does Read more about our performance in each of these areas on the following pages.
Those surface sources we do use are located away from environmentally sensitive areas, or those areas where water sources are of high value to local communities and indigenous peoples.
42 Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc 43
