Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices Chairmans Q&A Bobby Godsell talks about Polymetals 58% Dividend payout ratio in 2014 performance, economic environment based on underlying net earnings and prospects In this tough context I am therefore I am delighted to be able delighted to report a robust set of results to report a very robust What were the key challenges for this company.
How do you ensure the What, in your view, makes Our ability to set of financial results for the Company in 2014?
effective operation of the Polymetal different from In 2014, Polymetal increased its gold deliver cash flow to Board and good governance?
2014 has been a tough year for mining equivalent GE production by 12% companies worldwide.
Slowing growth shareholders whilst to 1.4 million ounces, 10% above our Our Board combines effective Gold mining companies have in general in key developing economies, especially guidance.
Adjusted EBITDA grew by 15% representation of strategic investors with produced disappointing results for their maintaining production China, saw mineral prices decline.
In the meantime, the a strong and majority representation of owners in recent years.
Costs have risen two minerals that are key to value creation Company paid its shareholders significant growth is surely the fully independent non-executive Board faster than prices, and development in Polymetal, gold and silver, declined by dividends.
The companys dividend yield members.
Diverse, both in terms of projects have disappointed.
Companies best evidence that we 10% and 20% respectively.
Mining over the last 3 years has averaged 4%.
professional experience and nationality, have failed to grow either the value or companies battled to control costs, bring can give to the market the Board both aspires to and believes volume side of their wealth creation new projects in on time and on budget that it achieves global best practice in equation.
Regional conflicts and a and maintain, let alone grow production.
growing tide of resource nationalism All of this has depressed capital growth How did Polymetal achieve have dramatically heightened the risk as measured by share prices, and put This is an active Board with a total of character of many jurisdictions.
this, given such difficult pressure on dividends.
ten Board meetings during the year under circumstances?
Ten meetings of the three Board In this context, Polymetal has grown In addition to these general challenges, The Companys focus has continued to committees Audit and Risk, Remuneration production, controlled costs and been Polymetal has faced the investor be building high-grade assets, shaped and Nomination have also taken place.
able to pay dividends to its shareholders headwinds of the geopolitical tensions around hub-based processing facilities.
which totalled US$173 million for the year in both Ukraine and the European Union.
This has enabled us to better manage Besides its Terms of Reference and under review.
It has again demonstrated costs in this low and declining Corporate Governance Code defined its ability to create wealth for its owners price environment.
regular duties, the Board has been even in a depressed commodity cycle particularly focused on ensuring the and in tough geopolitical circumstances.
This has also helped us to grow Company anticipates and adjusts production combined with strong cash to market circumstances: responds generation.
The impact of declining gold appropriately to the geopolitical Most of our assets and silver prices has been more than challenges that have arisen in the areas What are the objectives and offset by currency devaluations in the two in which it operates: and continues to have delivered above challenges for Polymetal in the countries in which we operate, Russia offer its shareholders meaningful rewards.
the original plan for and Kazakhstan.
The Board visited the Kyzyl Project at Polymetal can neither determine the the year.
We have also been able this year to a relatively early stage of the transaction.
pricing of the metals it produces, nor acquire a major new source of future This project continues to be a focus of the geopolitical circumstances of the production in the Kyzyl gold project in Board oversight at every meeting.
jurisdictions in which it operates.
This has boosted our total Our challenge is however to produce reserves by 50% and added a single strong operational results, generate high-grade property with a life of 20 years strong cash flow and continue to pay to our asset base.
A particular focus in the coming year will be the development of a detailed plan for the development of the companys new long life asset in Kyzyl in Kazakhstan.
6 Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc 7
