Directors interests Information regarding the directors interests in ordinary shares of the Company is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 71.
No director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any Group company.
Other than service contracts, no director had a material interest in any contract to which any Group company was a party during the year.
There have been the following changes notified in the directors shareholdings between 26 January 2014 and 25 March 2014: A.
B. C. Short an increase in beneficial holding of 54 shares and a decrease in non-beneficial holding of 502 shares, R. A.
White an increase in beneficial holding of 53 shares, A. L. Memmott an increase in beneficial holding of 55 shares, J. D. Kemp an increase in beneficial holding of 55 shares and W. R. G. Barr an increase in beneficial holding of 54 shares.
Directors third party indemnity provisions As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force between the Company and each of its directors under which the Company has agreed to indemnify each director, to the extent permitted by law, in respect of certain liabilities incurred as a result of carrying out their role as a director of the Company.
The directors are also indemnified against the costs of defending any criminal or civil proceedings or any claim in relation to the Company or brought by a regulator as they are incurred provided that where the defence is unsuccessful the director must repay those defence costs to the Company.
The Companys total liability under each indemnity is limited to 5.0m for each event giving rise to a claim under that indemnity.
The indemnities are qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
In addition, the Company maintained a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year and has renewed that policy.
Research and development The Group undertakes research and development activities in order to develop its range of new and existing products.
Expenditure during the year on research and development amounted to 967,000 2013: 779,000.
Political donations and political expenditure No Group company made any political donations or incurred any political expenditure in the year 2013: nil.
Post balance sheet events Relevant post balance sheet events requiring disclosure are included in note 30 to the accounts.
Employee involvement The Group is committed to engaging employees at all levels regarding matters which affect them and the performance of the Group.
This is achieved in a number of ways, including the use of regular briefing procedures, which twice yearly include a report on trading results.
Quarterly communication and consultation meetings are held at which employee representatives views are taken into account when the Company is making decisions that are likely to affect employees interests.
In addition to this, the Groups intranet site provides up-to-date information regarding the Groups activities.
All qualifying employees are entitled to join the Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE and the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP.
Details of these share schemes are provided below.
AESOP The AESOP is HMRC approved and was re-approved by shareholders for a further period of 10 years at the 2012 AGM.
The executive directors participate in both sections of the scheme, which is open to all qualifying employees.
The partnership share element provides that for every three shares a participant purchases in the Company, up to a current maximum contribution of 125 per month, the Company will purchase one matching share.
The matching shares purchased are held in trust in the name of the individual.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35
