To do this, the building blocks are: Business Model XX Understanding real consumer needs and tastes such that we build brands and develop Our objective is innovations to satisfy them XX Focusing on our core brands to deliver long term XX Delivering excellence in execution XX Driving efficiency across the supply chain sustainable value XX Developing the team XX in all we do.
Building long lasting customer relationships XX We do the right thing XX Building brands that consumers love.
Focus on Excellence Efficiency core brands in execution across the supply chain We have developed a wide brand portfolio Turning plans into actions as efficiently To ensure we can compete in todays and believe in offering choice.
We have and effectively as possible is a key factor in marketplace we must strive for efficiency directed much of our efforts to focus on our success.
From factory operations to across our full supply chain.
We invest in our core brand offerings IRN-BRU, BARR, activity at the point of consumer purchase all areas of efficiency from the sourcing our exotic brands Rubicon and KA and we aim to excel in the execution of our of materials across the globe, the design our franchise partner brand Rockstar.
We have invested significantly in of our packaging materials through to our our customer facing teams to ensure our manufacturing and distribution facilities By focusing our efforts on these core brand led activity is activated in all channels across the U. K. brands, we have been able to speed up the creating interest, excitement and visibility development of this group of brands with in our brands and helping to leverage the improved sales execution, better supported consumer marketing campaigns which communication and improved innovation drive brand awareness.
We believe our core brands will drive our long term business growth.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strong business fundamentals Our business model allows us to focus on Our aim is to understand real consumer allow us to focus on growth creating and delivering value in all we do.
Our consumer base is Our business is financially well positioned By owning our brands, being asset backed, growing in number, location and diversity.
We operate within an expandable with multiple routes to market, and having We aim to build long term relationships consumption market with powerful brands, a strong execution culture, we seek to with all our consumers through our brands differentiated products and important outgrow the market as well as build our by appealing to both traditional and new positions within our core consumers business.
Consumer insight drives our tastes as well as by bringing exciting repertoires.
We believe people want choice and we aim to build brands and develop innovation which meets this need.
Envisaged, Long lasting Doing the enabled, customer right thing energised relationships Throughout our business we rely on Building long lasting relationships with Our Corporate Responsibility actions both individual and team performance: customers in all channels across all our key across the environment, people, our aim is to build competency, capability markets is central to building our business consumers and community are a big and leadership across the business.
Our aim is to understand part of our business.
We believe that pace of growth and change in our markets all our customers businesses and work how we act reflects who we are.
Our demands much of everyone and we will in collaboration with them to find winning aim is to ensure we always Do the continue to invest in developing all our consumer propositions but to do so in Right Thing across the business.
people as well as encouraging people a practical, fun and profitable way.
to successfully use their initiative.
We are providing support and guidance but also autonomy to individuals, teams and sites across the business to ensure they can Do the Right Thing every day.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 03
