Jonathan D. Kemp C. A. M. A. Hons B.
A. Hons Ronnie was formerly Chairman Roger is a member of the Board Alex is a member and former Jonathan has had a successful of Troy Income and Growth Trust of Management and Executive Chairman of the Scottish career in various commercial plc, Chief Executive of Bett Council and is a past President Finance Directors Group.
roles within Proctor and Gamble.
Brothers plc, joint managing of the British Soft Drinks Previous appointments include Term of Office director of Cala plc, director of Association BSDA.
Roger is Group Finance Director of Joined the Company Scottish Western Trust and also the BSDA representative William Grant & Sons Holdings in 2003 as Commercial Director.
senior consultant at PA with UNESDA, the European soft Ltd, Managing Director of William Management Consultants.
Grant & Sons Distillers Ltd, External Appointments Previously held numerous senior Management Consultant with None.
Term of Office positions in food group Rank Coopers & Lybrand and various Joined the Company in 2003 Hovis McDougall.
Scottish PLC management positions within Committee Membership as a Non-Executive Director.
Chief Executive of the year in Coca Cola Schweppes Health & Safety Committee.
External Appointments Term of Office Term of Office Chairman of Bowleven plc Joined the Company in 2002 as Joined the Company as and Director of Peatallan plc.
Appointed Finance Director in June 2008.
Committee Membership External Appointments Nomination Committee External Appointments Non-Executive Director of Chair, Remuneration None.
Committee Membership Committee Membership Treasury Committee.
Health & Safety Committee Chair, Treasury Committee.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5.
A. Hons Andrew joined the Company Robin is a past President of the Pam was formerly Group A Chartered Accountant, Martin Johns career was spent with following three years with British Soft Drinks Association.
Director of Strategy and is a former Chairman of the ICI, Unilever and Fosters Cooperative Wholesale Innovation at SABMiller plc, Scottish Finance Directors Brewing Group, Scottish & Term of Office Society.
SVP Global Personal Care at Group and a former Director of Newcastle PLC, and latterly as Joined the Company in 1960.
Coty Beauty Inc, and VP Troy Income & Growth Trust plc, President America for Heineken Term of Office Appointed Director in 1964 Skincare and Global Brand Trainline Holdings Limited, NV.
He held various positions in Joined the Companys Project and Chairman in 1978.
Director Dove at Unilever plc.
RoadKing Infrastructure HK marketing and sales before Engineering Team in June Retired as Chairman and Limited, Citybus HK Limited.
Appointed Supply Chain appointed Non-Executive Term of Office He is also a former Senior and development and then Director in 2008.
Joined the Company in 2013 Independent Non-Executive general management.
Director of Robert Walters plc External Appointments External Appointments Term of Office and was young Scottish Finance None.
External Appointments Joined the company in 2013 as Director of the year in 2004.
Committee Membership Committee Membership of Premier Foods plc.
Term of Office Environmental Committee Audit Committee, External Appointments Joined the Company in 2010 Chair, Health & Safety Nomination Committee, Committee Membership Non-Executive Director of as a Non-Executive Director.
Audit Committee, Stocks Spirits Group PLC, Nomination Committee, External Appointments Deputy Chairman of CCU SA Remuneration Committee.
CEO of Stagecoach Group plc, Chile and Non-Executive Co-Chairman of Virgin Rail Director of North American Group Holdings Limited and Breweries Inc. Chairman of Rail Delivery Committee Membership Group Limited.
Audit Committee, Committee Membership Nomination Committee, Audit Committee Chair, Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee, Chair.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33
