Energy Use and Carbon Emissions In 2013, this increased by 5.3% to 1.51 litres the spirit of the codes of practice set out The new energy monitoring systems per litre of product with the introduction of a by the Advertising Standards Authority installed in 2013 at our Strathmore and new site at Milton Keynes.
We expect to in the Broadcast Committee of Advertising Tredegar sites meant that site teams were improve during 2014 as additional water Practice code for broadcast advertising able to realise environmental benefits from conservation initiatives are implemented and the Committee of Advertising Practice improved energy behaviours.
We have across all sites and as the commissioning code for non-broadcast advertising.
also further upgraded the existing system phase at Milton Keynes is completed.
are confident of meeting our 2020 target.
Part of that commitment includes making sure that we do not specifically target young Our logistics sites have reduced energy Materials Use, Recycling and Disposal children through our marketing programmes, usage by 9.6% in 2013 compared with Our work in reducing the quantity of including the school environment.
2012 through a combination of efforts packaging we use has continued through including installation of energy efficiency 2013 with a number of reductions achieved We also aim to provide consumers lighting in warehouses and replacement across our portfolio in the areas of preform with full knowledge of our products and boilers at our facilities.
weights, shrink film gauge and corrugate its packaging to enable them to make usage.
In total, these projects will remove in informed choices on what they are Total CO e emissions from our facilities excess of 35 tonnes of materials from our buying and consuming.
2 increased 4.8% on 2012, due mainly to the supply chain in the next 12 months.
commissioning of the new facility at Milton For our products, we are committed to Keynes.
For the same reason, efficiency Tredegar, Cumbernauld and Forfar all the U. K. Governments Responsibility Deal decreased 1.65% to 29.33kg per tonne of achieved zero waste to landfill, through a on Front of Pack Labelling F7 a, where product produced.
With the Milton Keynes combination of improved product handling we will adopt and implement the U. K. facility now past its commissioning phase and better waste segregation on site.
Governments 2013 recommended Front we are confident that we will beat our 2014 Residual waste from these sites which is of Pack Nutrition Labelling Scheme.
target of 29.71kg per tonne of product.
unable to be recycled is either used as fuel and incinerated or dealt with by a certified The pledge seeks to increase the A. G. BARR p. l. c. Green House Gas third party waste manager.
We anticipate provision of voluntary front of pack Emissions in tonnes CO e Milton Keynes achieving zero waste to labelling as recommended by all four 2 landfill status during 2014.
The scheme 2013 2014 will be implemented across all of our Scope 1 5,552 5,432 Transport and Logistics brand ranges by the end of 2014.
We delivered 23.21 cases per litre of fuel Scope 2 10,576 11,096 across the business in 2013.
This is an Consistent front of pack labelling across Intensity Ratio 38.55 38.16 improvement on the 2012 figure at 23.00 food and drink helps consumers become cases per litre of fuel.
In addition to the familiar with its format and use it to balance Intensity ratio is kg of CO e per 1000 litres of product completion of our driver training, we have their diet and control their energy intake.
continued to improve route planning to reduce unnecessary miles driven, and have In packaging, we also include full information We have reported on all of the emission continued our sales vehicle replacement on the recyclability of packaging materials sources required under the Companies programme, replacing a total of 17 vehicles and advice on how to recycle.
Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors 15% of fleet across 2013 these figures do Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources not include transportation undertaken by We are also a funding partner of Every Can fall within our consolidated financial third party hauliers on our behalf.
Counts together with Zero Waste Scotland statements.
We do not have responsibility and Alupro the Aluminium Packaging for any emission sources that are Consumers Recycling Organisation.
not included in our consolidated As a business we provide a wide range financial statements.
of soft drinks for our diverse consumer Every Can Counts ECC is an on the go base to enjoy and aim to develop and recycling scheme for drinks cans which The methodology we have used is the market our portfolio in a responsible aims to raise awareness of the benefits of U. K. Governments Environmental Reporting manner.
recycling, promote behaviour change, create Guidance June 2013 and emissions awareness of the value of cans and provide factors from the 2012 Guidelines to We offer soft drinks which satisfy the a method to collect and recycle them.
ECC Defra DECCs GHG Conversion diverse variety of consumers and our is also helping to drive up recycling rates Factors for Company Reporting.
product range covers regular and low no within the workplace and help businesses sugar carbonates, low sugar energy drinks, comply with the new Waste Scotland Water Consumption and Disposal regular and low calorie still fruit drinks, low Regulations introduced in January 2014 Management of water as a resource is a key calorie squash, plain and flavoured water in which require all businesses to separate activity of our site teams.
We are a signatory addition to pure fruit juice.
paper and card, plastic, metal and glass to the Federation House Commitment, for recycling.
which is an initiative across the food and Responsible Marketing drink sector to reduce water use, excluding We exercise the greatest care to market To find out more about Every Can Counts in water in products, by 20% by 2020.
We and advertise our products responsibly.
Scotland please visit the schemes dedicated calculate this as a ratio of total water used We fully comply with both the letter and website www.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 Corporate Responsibility Continued Health and Reducing Sugar vendor selection, and ongoing supplier In late 2012 we signed up to the U. K. management for all incoming raw materials Governments Public Health Responsibility and packaging.
Deal Calorie Reduction Pledge, in which we committed to reduce the average calorific The process of supplier approval involves content per 100ml of our portfolio of drinks assessment of a range of risk indicators, by 5 per cent by 2016 2011 as our base including geographical, financial, qualitative, year, achieved through a combination of: environmental and ethical factors.
Growing sales of our low calorie, mid The continuous process of material risk calorie, water and fruit juice products assessment involves detailed upstream as a proportion of our total sales by supply chain mapping, focused upon the investing in the sales and marketing identification of key risk factors within each Strathmore Twist of these products.
We now offer sugar free Strathmore Twist.
Focusing NPD effort on low and mid calorie products.
We also require all our suppliers to guarantee Reducing calorie content of our existing that our raw materials are GM free.
drinks range where it is possible to do so.
Community Engagement By the end of 2013 we had achieved 3% A. G. BARR is very much about working with of that 5% target, through sugar reductions the local community and our employees across the Barr flavours range and take part in many initiatives throughout the increasing sales of low and mid sugar year to help local groups and charities.
level products such as Strathmore Water, Rubicon Light, Barr Bubblegum and We work very closely with a variety of Simply Squash.
charities, both at a local level through the A. G. BARR Site Community Fund through to We also launched Rockstar Zero as a sugar national charities such as the Princes Trust free energy drink and nationally launched and the British Asian Trust.
We aim to make Strathmore Twist, a sugar free flavoured our engagement activities relevant both to water range in 1.5 litre PET featuring four our people and our consumers and at a still flavours and four sparkling flavours.
variety of scales that reflect business-wide interests down to those of individual As part of our Glasgow 2014 sponsorship employees.
we began our on pack campaign on Strathmore Water, inspiring and encouraging The A. G. BARR Site Community Fund consumers to get up and be active with provides support for charities and our Do More campaign.
community organisations near our 12 U. K. sites.
It gives employees the opportunity Product Quality to provide support in kind and in time Our consumers trust us to provide drinks for causes that are important to them made to the highest standards of ingredients as individuals.
We are certified to the ISO9001 quality standard as well as to Glasgow Hospice is one such charity to Grade A status against the British Retail benefit.
We provide their shop and cafe with Consortiums Global Food Standard, free products which the hospice can then sell version 6. on to visitors, with proceeds going towards the valuable work they do for terminally ill Within procurement, significant focus is people.
We also support the hospice at placed upon risk management, in terms of various events across the country.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
