Chief Executives Operational Review Roger White our franchise energy brand Rockstar.
Our Across the last financial year we still drinks portfolio had a more subdued have continued to make excellent year, growing by 2.7% in overall value terms.
progress in both short term Within this performance, Rubicon stills grew financial performance and also the by 4.0% and the Strathmore water brand development of our longer term grew by over 9%, reflecting the delivery of a plans and actions to ensure the number of business development activities and the positive impact of the warm summer business is fit for the future.
KA stills declined by 3.8% following a very strong prior year Our revenue in the 12 months to 26 January growth.
Overall the KA brand was down 2014 grew by 6.9%, outpacing the wider 1% in the period.
soft drinks market, as measured by Nielsen, continuing A. G. BARRs track record Our Strategy of outperformance in this regard.
It is The objective of our strategy is to create particularly pleasing in this context that value for shareholders through: we grew our volume by 5.0%, which is more than double the market rate.
Core brands and markets: Brand portfolio: Pre tax profit, before exceptional items, Route to market: increased by 9.6% to 38.1m, with Partnerships: operating margins increasing by 0.4% Efficient operations: to 15.1%, reflecting the improvements in People development: and cost of goods, well controlled overheads Sustainability and responsibility.
and positive product sales mix.
The IRN-BRU new sponsorship improvement in our margins has not come at the expense of our continued Our focus on all of the above areas was the official soft drink of the SPFL investment in our brands, where tested across the 2013 14 financial year, IRN-BRU and the Scottish Professional marketing and promotional spend with the impact of the work load and Football League SPFL announced the has further increased year on year.
uncertainty created by the planned merger brand as the Official Soft Drink of the SPFL.
with Britvic plc and associated anti-trust The agreement between A. G. BARR and the Market Performance activity.
The strength of the performance SPFL means that IRN-BRUs long-standing The U. K. soft drinks market has performed ethic across the teams at A. G. BARR and association with the national game relatively strongly across 2013, with the the consistency of our strategy and will continue, having already enjoyed exceptionally hot weather in July and execution enabled us to weather this difficult six years as title sponsor of the Scottish generally warm summer more than making period and emerge stronger.
up for a cold, wet start to the year.
delivered considerable progress across all areas of our business over the last The total soft drinks market grew by 3.8% 12 months, all of which equip us to meet in value terms, with 1.9% of this growth our long term growth and value creation coming from volume.
marginally better than carbonates in value terms and were significantly ahead in Core Brands, Markets and Innovation volume terms, driven by the water sub Delivering growth despite numerous category which performed particularly well.
challenges, year in year out, has been the hallmark of our core brands performance A. G. BARRs overall performance was driven over many years and last year was no by excellent growth in carbonates, which different.
Our core Group brands, IRNgrew by 8.2% in overall value.
This was as a BRU, Rubicon and Barr, together with result of the consistent growth of our core franchise brand Rockstar, delivered carbonate brands IRN-BRU and Barr, with total revenue growth of 8%.
the addition of a strong performance from A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07 Chief Executives Operational Review Continued In geographical terms, our sales in Scotland promotional activity in the period.
All of this Exotics Rubicon and KA now account for 40% of our total revenue activity helped to underpin sales at a time Following several years of significant and continue to grow in line with the overall when competitor average pricing was driven growth, it has been a more modest year market, whilst our sales in England and down by aggressive promotional pricing.
for our exotics brands, Rubicon and KA.
Wales, which account for the balance Total Rubicon brand sales continued to of our domestic revenues grew at over 9% The IRN-BRU brand continued to benefit grow, with stills drinks growth of 4.0% and in the period, reflecting both the significant from significant advertising support across carbonates achieving marginal growth.
opportunities for growth and the successful all major media platforms and particularly The past 12 months has seen a period of execution of our strategy.
benefited from the well-executed BRUintense competitor activity, as a number SKIES summer promotion, which helped of competing carbonate brands launched IRN-BRU build on the positive impact of the warm exotic flavours in response to the success Total IRN-BRU invoiced sales grew by summer weather during which we gave of Rubicon.
We have weathered the storm 4.3%, as brand performance improved away thousands of pairs of free sunglasses.
well and have continued to increase our across the full year following a slow start, The opportunities to drive further brand brand development investment and Rubicon where aggressive competitor promotional growth, by building on a loyal base of is well positioned to regain its growth activity impacted our volume performance.
consumers in Scotland and geographical momentum in 2014.
We have completed a Overall sales growth of IRN-BRU in the expansion with an increasing awareness full artwork refresh, which will ensure the second half of the year was double that of and loyalty in the North of England, as well brand stands out more on shelf and we also the first half as we realigned our promotional as innovation, will remain our main focus.
aired national television advertising across pricing relative to our competitor set.
Our 2013, to help broaden awareness and growth last year once again highlights the IRN-BRU Sugar Free, in line with our credibility of the brand with a wider positive annual performance and significant strategy, will continue to be exploited as a audience.
We continue to believe that this potential in England and Wales which saw major growth opportunity across the U. K. strong combination of product quality, 7.5% growth in the period, driven by double and has received a further packaging and innovation and brand recognition will ensure digit growth in IRN-BRU Sugar Free.
branding refresh in recent months.
It is our that Rubicon continues its positive growth aim to grow our Sugar Free brands ahead of trajectory to drive our exotics portfolio.
Scotland, where we enjoy significant our total growth.
Following our successful consumer loyalty and brand presence, launch of Rubicon ice cream, we have fully In mainland Europe and Scandinavia, continued to successfully grow in line with developed a further ice cream treat under Rubicon is an untapped source of future the overall market.
The brand benefited from the IRN-BRU brand which was launched in potential.
Currently 5% of the Rubicon strong underlying brand equity and the February 2014.
We expect this product to brand sales come from these territories execution of a well-developed commercial add further brand value and deliver with growth last year of 6.5%.
plan, including further value added additional sales potential across 2014.
IRN-BRU Sugar Free, in line with our strategy, will continue to be exploited as a major growth opportunity across the U. K. A. G. BARR p. l. c. 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Do More with Strathmore Commonwealth packs launched Strathmore, the Official Water of this years Commonwealth Games, is launching a range of special packs to celebrate the brands association with Glasgow 2014.
IRN-BRU limited edition 330ml Commonwealth can IRN-BRU unveiled the first of three limited edition 330ml can designs to mark its sponsorship of the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games with the help of past Olympian and Commonwealth Games weightlifting medallist Peter Kirkbride from Kilmarnock.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09 Chief Executives Operational Review Continued KA Karnival Krush Barr Brand first ever TV campaign Limited edition product and special The Barr brand grew ahead of the soft promotional packs on KA, the soft drinks drinks category with sales having grown brand that provides a full-flavoured taste more than two and a half times since 2005. of the Caribbean, were launched during To further drive this success, a TV campaign the year.
was launched at the beginning of the year.
We continue to believe that developing our various route to market strategies and executing them with excellence is a core area of competence which presents exciting further potential for A. G. BARR.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
