Case Study: Education Partnerships We formalised a third Local Partnership Princes Trust Agreement with Our Ladys High School, Cumbernauld in December 2013.
As with our This year we ran a 12 week programme other two partnerships with Lenzie Academy with young people from the Princes and Westfield Primary School, we will ensure Trust to help build their confidence and that the programmes we deliver support give them experience of working in a the curriculum for excellence and remain business environment.
17 young people relevant in developing skills and knowledge worked at our Cumbernauld site, that the pupils can take on and use in later experiencing different elements of the life and employment.
business, including customer relations training and meeting our creative design These relationships are great opportunities Westfield Primary pupils enjoy a sensory agency to discuss a specific project idea.
for our own colleagues to add to their own The team presented their ideas to the lesson from beverage technologist, skills and experience, very often in softer agency and worked to develop a Christmas Emma Di Nardo.
areas such as presentation skills which Hamper campaign, where they sold eight they can use immediately in their own different types of hamper, from luxury work, as well as to help develop students.
Case Study: Scottish products through to hampers for your pet.
The hampers were filled largely Making food nutrition fun The Commission for Developing Scotlands through donations made to the Company.
Young Workforce has been tasked by The team then sold the hampers to A. G. Emma Di Nardo, one of our beverage the Scottish Government with making BARRs staff and made 3,500 which they technologists, delivered a sensory class recommendations to ensure Scotland were able to reinvest in the Princes Trust.
to primary 7 pupils at our partnership produces better qualified, work ready and school, Westfield Primary.
Forming motivated young people with skills relevant part of a science lesson, Emma gave to modern employment opportunities both This year we also supported over 30 a presentation that the pupils described as the employees and entrepreneurs of the organisations including Hamilton Thai as brilliant on different smells and tastes.
They have challenged business and Boxing Club, Willowbrook Hospice This was so successful that she has industry to become much more actively Prescott, The Royal Wolverhampton now delivered it to a number of other engaged in youth employment.
Hospitals NHS Trust Charity, C4WS schools and will be kept busy in 2014 Homeless Project Walthamstow, Watch with further presentations.
A. G. BARRs work around the Food and Us Grow Cumbernauld, St Lukes Drink Challenge has been held up by Hospice Harrow, Make A Difference the Commission as an example of best Milton Keynes, Willen Hospice Milton Going Forward in 2014 practice.
The challenge provides an insight Keynes, Bluebellwood Childrens Hospice 2013 has been a busy year for the business into the entrepreneurial skills required to Sheffield, Amys House Hospice, 4th as we continued to embrace the principles operate a successful business programme Darlaston Scout Group, Dunbar Colts of good corporate responsibility.
by encouraging young people to take Soccer School, Tredegar Orpheus Male responsibility and ownership of the challenge.
Voice Choir, Royal Mencap Homes Environmental and social responsibility Foundation, Motor Neurone Disease remains a major focus for the business, The Commissions interim report says that, Association, Thornham Cricket Club, with the safety and development of our The project demonstrates the innovative St Helens Autism Support, Derian House staff top of our agenda.
and creative manner in which the pupils have Childrens Hospice, Lippen Care Hospice developed a business plan that places Whitehills Hospital Forfar, Henshaws 2014 will see us build on many of the teamwork, decision making, assessing risk, Society for the Blind, Start Up Stirling achievements highlighted here, including literacy, numeracy, health and wellbeing, and Garrowhill School PTA.
striding forwards in our commitment to technologies and leadership at the very heart the Health Responsibility Deal Calorie of its objectives.
This successful business Reduction Pledge.
We will also continue project has enabled the pupils to develop our work with local communities and entrepreneurial skills in a relevant, charities, which is vitally important to challenging and enjoyable manner whilst our staff and to the legacy of A. G. BARR.
raising their aspirations in the wider context of skills for learning, life and work.
Andrew Memmott Supply Chain Director A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 IRN-BRU IRN-BRU continued to grow performance in Scotland was in line with the overall market and significant growth in England and Wales was driven by double digit growth in IRN-BRU Sugar Free.
We deliver what we say we are going to deliver.
Liam Owen, Direct to Store Delivery Team
