Directors Report Continued Greenhouse gas emissions Disclosures regarding greenhouse gas emissions required by The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 are included in the Corporate Responsibility Report forming part of the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 29.
This information is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
Financial risk management Information on the exposure of the Group to certain financial risks and on the Groups objectives and policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas is detailed in the financial risk management disclosure in note 24.
Contracts of significance There were no contracts of significance as defined by Listing Rule 9.8 in existence during the financial year.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 29.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial review on pages 15 to 17.
After making the appropriate enquiries, the directors have concluded that the Group will be able to meet its financial obligations and will continue to generate positive free cash flow for the foreseeable future and therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group overall have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditor So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor are unaware.
Each director has taken all steps that ought to be taken by a director to make themselves aware of and to establish that the auditor is aware of any relevant audit information.
Auditor The Audit Committee has responsibility delegated from the Board for making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and remuneration of the external auditor.
KPMG Audit plc has informed the Company that it has initiated a process to streamline its two registered audit firms KPMG Audit plc and KPMG LLP.
As such, KPMG Audit plc has notified the Company that it is not seeking re-appointment.
Consequently, the Audit Committee has recommended, and the Board has approved, the resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company and its subsidiaries, and to authorise the Audit Committee to fix their remuneration, which will be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
Annual general meeting The Companys AGM will be held at 9.30am on 27 May 2014 at the offices of KPMG, 191 West George Street, Glasgow, G2 2LJ.
The Notice of the AGM is set out on pages 132 to 134 of this report.
A description and explanation of the resolutions to be considered at the 2014 AGM is set out on pages 135 to 144 of this report.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
