The Notice of AGM gives full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the Articles, shareholders are entitled to a dividend where declared and paid out of profits available for such purposes.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, whereby certain directors and employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares and are prohibited from dealing during close periods.
At 26 January 2014 the Company had authority, pursuant to the shareholders resolution of 28 May 2013, to purchase up to 10% of its issued ordinary share capital.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
It is proposed that this authority be renewed at the 2014 AGM, as detailed in the Notice of AGM.
At 26 January 2014 Robert Barr Limited, as trustee of the General Employee Benefit Trust, the Savings Related Benefit Trust, the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust and the Long Service Award Trust the RBL Trustee, held 1.07% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for the benefit of the executive directors and employees of the Group.
As at 26 January 2014, Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the AESOP Trustee held 1.51% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for participants in the AESOP.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of the RBL Trustees holdings under the Savings Related Benefit Trust and the Long Service Award Trust.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of shares held by the AESOP Trustee and the RBL Trustee under the AESOP which have not been appropriated to participants.
The voting rights in relation to the RBL Trustees shareholdings are exercised by the RBL Trustee, who may vote or abstain from voting the shares as it sees fit in respect of shares which are unvested or have not been appropriated to employees.
Under the rules of the AESOP, eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the Company.
Details of the AESOP are set out above.
AESOP shares which have been appropriated to participants are held in trust for those participants by the AESOP Trustee.
Voting rights in respect of shares which have been appropriated to participants are exercised by the AESOP Trustee on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the AESOP Trustee, no vote is registered in respect of those shares.
In addition, the AESOP Trustee does not vote any unappropriated shares held under the AESOP as surplus assets.
The Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS was approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM.
To date, no options have been awarded under the ESOS.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Change of control As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, under certain conditions the notice period for the current executive directors may increase from one year to two years in the event of a takeover of or by the Company or a Company reconstruction.
All of the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control of the Company.
The Companys banking facilities may, at the discretion of the lender, be repayable upon a change of control.
Articles of association The Companys Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles at the 2014 AGM.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37
