We have continued to invest in capability, assets and technology to ensure that we can develop our supply capability.
Commonwealth Games Glasgow 2014 We are now only a few months away from the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games, to which A. G. BARR is both an official supporter and supplier.
Our portfolio of brands IRN-BRU, Strathmore, Barr and Rubicon will have a role to play for both spectators and athletes as the Games approach and also during the Games themselves.
We have committed significant Rockstar Xdurance resources to support the Games, not only Rockstars Xdurance variant is the U. K. s across the Games period but across the last fastest selling Big Can energy drink 12 months, and support will continue in the contributing to the brands growth of over run up to and during the Games.
will provide a great platform for sport, the city of Glasgow and also our brand activity across the key summer trading months of 2014.
Summary We are firmly at the start of a new phase in the development of A. G. BARR.
We have organic growth potential in our range of unique brands, driven by our geographical growth potential and consumer diversity, as well as an efficient scalable operating asset base, allied to a team across the business hungry for continued growth and success.
We will ensure that our rigorous management of cash and costs will continue to be at the heart of our strategy, along with our culture of delivering.
We plan to increase the internal pace of development and change in our business, as we deliver on the significant existing growth potential of the business and seek new routes to grow further shareholder value.
Rubicon unveiled a new colourful look for its stills and carbonates range in 2013.
The brand refresh formed part of a major investment in the brand which included national TV advertising, Roger A.
White Chief Executive sampling as well as extensive digital activity.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 We have delivered growth in revenue and profit underpinned by strong volume performance.
Alex Short, Finance Director A. G. BARR p. l. c. 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
