We have made excellent progress across our asset base in driving efficiency, building flexibility and improving customer service.
Barr Brands Strathmore that we are able to support these with The Barr range posted growth of 3.2% Strathmore, in tandem with the wider significantly improved customer service.
and further demonstrated its flexibility and market as a whole, enjoyed good growth It is our aim to deliver the best possible potential through innovation and distribution of 9.3%.
Within this, 7.3% has come from service and pricing to all of our customers growth.
Across the year the brand growth volume and encouragingly value was driven regardless of which route to market was impacted by actions taken to phase by incremental listings in the flavoured we employ.
out some flavours in advance of the water variant Strathmore Twist.
Strathmore planned merger with Britvic plc.
We have continues to enjoy a leading position within Partnerships now however successfully reversed these the on-trade and has a strong platform There have been significant changes in the actions and, in addition, introduced a to develop in 2014, specifically with our soft drinks landscape in the U. K. over the Bubblegum flavoured soft drink to the Commonwealth Games sponsorship last year.
Suntorys acquisition of Lucozade Barr portfolio.
Initially launched as a special activity.
and Ribena provides their business with pack, Bubblegum is now a new permanent a U. K. operating platform.
As a result, we range extension following its success Route to Market anticipate that our Orangina contract, which and feedback from our consumers.
We continue to believe that developing is due to expire at the end of 2014, will This, together with the development of our various route to market strategies and transfer into the new Suntory Lucozade an additional cola product Barr XTRA executing them with excellence is a core Ribena operation.
At this stage we have not Cola for 2014, leaves us confident area of competence which presents exciting completed the planning for the transfer of that Barr will regain its strong growth further potential for A. G. BARR.
As an the brand but we do not anticipate that this momentum.
example of the many actions we are taking will have any material impact on either our to improve our executional capability, we operational or financial performance going Rockstar initiated the centralisation of our in-house forward due to the relatively insignificant The Rockstar brand continued to go from telesales operation in the second half of scale of the brand, its revenues and gross strength to strength in 2013, supported by 2013.
This operation supports our impulse profit generation.
the development and subsequent launch customers and has historically been based of a number of new flavours and pack at six sites across the U. K. Following Rockstar, as previously highlighted, designs.
The energy market has slowed employee consultation, we have announced continues to perform strongly and is down significantly in overall terms from its that this important business process will approaching five times the size of Orangina growth high points, however Rockstar has be fully centralised by mid 2014, with new in revenue terms.
We have long term continued to appeal to increasing numbers premises and technology to support the contractual commitments in place with of consumers with growth of over 60%, as development of our important impulse Rockstar stretching through to 2024. distribution levels continue to build across business.
the U. K. This brand, like the category, Efficient Operations will continue to rely on innovation and Whilst controlling overhead costs closely, We have made excellent progress across excitement around the category to generate we have also substantially bolstered our our asset base in driving efficiency, building further growth but Rockstar is now an central commercial management teams flexibility and improving customer service.
important component of the A. G. BARR across our various channels over the last Our new site at Magna Park, Milton Keynes portfolio and consumer offering.
This will ensure that we have the is now fully operational, with the can line and most effective and efficient commercial associated processes fully commissioned.
programmes available to customers and A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11
