Directors Report Continued There are various rules as to the period of time that the shares must be held in trust but after five years the shares can be released tax free to the participant.
The free share element allows participants to receive shares to the value of a common percentage of their earnings, related to the performance of the Group.
The maximum value of the annual award is currently 3,000 and the shares awarded are held in trust for five years.
Under the terms of this scheme, the matching shares will be forfeited if the participant leaves the employment of the Company within three years of the award.
All partnership, matching and free shares must be removed from the trust if employment with the Company ceases.
SAYE The SAYE is HMRC approved and is available to all qualifying employees, including executive directors.
It is based on a five year savings contract which provides the participant with an option to purchase shares after five years at a discounted price fixed at the time the contract is taken out, or earlier as provided by the scheme rules.
No performance conditions require to be met by any participant in order to exercise their option under the SAYE.
Employment of disabled persons Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered bearing in mind the qualifications and abilities of the applicants concerned.
In the event of employees becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment will continue.
The Groups policy is that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons are, as far as possible, identical to those of other employees.
Substantial shareholdings As at 26 January 2014, the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests in the Companys ordinary share capital: Number of % of voting Type shares rights of holding Caledonia Investments plc 10,431,000 8.93 Indirect Direct and Standard Life Investments Limited 8,081,632 6.92 indirect Finsbury Growth & Income Trust plc 4,610,070 3.95 Direct This position remains the same as at 25 March 2014.
Relations with shareholders The Company has regular discussions with and briefings for analysts, investors and institutional shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director normally meet with major shareholders twice annually in order to develop an understanding of their views and brief the next Board meeting on their discussions.
All directors have the opportunity to attend these meetings.
At the AGM, all shareholders, including private investors, have an opportunity to participate in questions and answers with the Board on matters relating to the Companys operation and performance.
Share capital As at 26 January 2014 the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of ordinary shares of 4 1 6 pence each.
All of the Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the Articles.
Note 26 to the financial statements contains details of the ordinary share capital.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary A. G. BARR p. l. c. 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
