12 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Customer proposition Wherever they are in the world, no matter which industry or individual roles our customers occupy, they have a common objective.
They want to select the appropriate technical products: to do business easily: and to receive products in a way that makes their processes as efficient as possible.
Achieving this objective is at the heart of high service distribution and to do 3.
Being easy to do business with.
We have developed a so our proposition centres on meetingve critical customer requirements: differentiating multichannel sales and marketing model that allows customers to interact with us in the way they choose.
Access to a broad range of in stock products.
We stock looking to enhance and personalise our interaction with customers to 600,000 products from over 3,000 suppliers.
This already represents makedoing business with us even easier.
a world class linecard and we have invested in inventory to enhance this offering further this year.
Our product range includes the latest 4.
Customers often need to receive products quickly technologies, crucial for customers involved in new product development in order to maintain and repair products or to provide continuity in their and the broad range required by MRO engineers.
We ship 99.9% of orders same or next day from our regional warehouses, leveraging our global resources to provide 2.
This enables customers to make alocal service.
As environmental legislation becomes more far-reaching and complex, this information becomes ever more valuable 5.
Customers want a single distribution partner that can support them from research to production and then in the MRO to customers.
The technical capability provided by our design centres and support from our suppliers help keep that product data is comprehensive market.
By following the design and providing products and services at every step, we are becoming a single destination catering for all our and relevant.
Online channels, including the element14 community with itslegislation portal and 24 5 technical support, provide a unique source customers needs.
End-to-end customer proposition Design Prototype, test Maintenance, Repair Research & develop & produce and Operations Technical information and legislative Broad range of development kits, Wide range of electronic components MRO engineers requirements are expertise on the element14 development tools and design available in packaging that meets catered for through our broad community supports customers software available, including through differing customer needs in product range, including test and product selection.
measurement equipment, available We provide access to the latest Range includes development kits We also stock associated tools and for immediate shipment.
products from the leading designed by Embest and AVID equipment as well as a leading test Multichannel marketing capability semiconductor suppliers through our technologies, plus CadSoft Eagle and measurement product range.
allows us to interact with MRO multichannel marketing capability.
customers in their preferred way.
indd 12 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 13 Supplier proposition By meeting our customers needs for the latest technologies, we offer suppliers the opportunity to seed new products to an extensive, global customer Embest in Focus base across awide range of industry segments, In 2012, Premier Farnell acquired as well as providing an efficient channel for low Embest.
Based in China, Embest is an volume sales.
engineering design services business specialising in embedded technology.
Semiconductor supplier partners value Embests expertise as it designs and manufactures development kits and tools.
These products play an important role in seeding our partners latest technologies to market.
Over the past year, we focused on expanding Embests manufacturing and production capacity to meet demand.
Embest also benefited from its integration into the wider Premier Farnell Group through Our multichannel sales strategy, including the award-winning element14 the implementation of processes community, provides suppliers with a differentiating route to market and to ensure products meet our high access to unparalleled customer insights.
We are now following the design quality standards.
earlier than ever before by increasing our capability in the early stages ofthe design lifecycle and new product introduction.
com This unique approach is leading our suppliers to partner with us ever more closely.
They value our ability to launch new products to market, ensuring that their components are specified in the earliest phases of design and consequently will be required in large volumes when that design reaches production.
Design engineering expertise is highly attractive to our suppliers.
Embest Technology, our embedded design services subsidiary, has Partnering with ARM enhanced our new product introduction capability and allows us to partner with suppliers even more closely.
We are now able to work with them more Access to the software that powers closely as they develop and launch their latest innovations having signed the latest innovations in technology significant agreements with AMD, Cypress Semiconductor and Freescale.
isbecoming increasingly important Subject to the completion of the acquisition of the business and assets to our design engineering customers.
of AVID, we will further enhance our value add to key suppliers through Over the past two years we have been additional design expertise across technologies such as wireless, power building a partnership with ARM, one management and FPGA and in a broader range of market segments.
of the leaders in this space, using our Suppliers appreciate our increasing interaction with customers through the global reach to promote their software web.
They benefit from insightful data on emerging technologies, evolving to our customers worldwide.
customer trends and our innovative global eSupplier strategy, while our online capabilities also satisfy our engineering customers r es also satisfy our engineering customers requir equirement ement See more here: http: www.
com community groups arm 017159 PF AR13-14 2 Overview-Gov AW.
