24 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Key performance indicators Growth Active customer base: We measure the Groups performance and target 4% growth progress of our strategic plansagainst its Total % key performance indicators KPIs.
2011 12 2.70 2012 13 1.30 As a business whose end markets are 2013 14 0.30 Increasing the active customer base demonstrates the attractiveness of our impacted by the economic cycles, we customer proposition and indicates market share gains.
We continue to believe recognise that our performance in relation that growing our active customer base and the quality of the relationships with customers will enable the business to capitalise on the significant growth to these KPIs will uctuate in the short opportunities afforded by our markets.
Active customers are those who have transacted with us within the past six months excludes sales of Raspberry Pi term, particularly when taken in isolation.
2013 14 Performance: focus on leveraging our enhanced customer As we execute our strategy, we believe proposition that, over the course of an economic As we gain greater insight into customers behaviour, we continually assess the relevancy and appropriateness of our proposition in relation to each targeted cycle, we will deliver these KPIs and customer segment.
While we focused on leveraging our enhanced customer proposition by increasing the depth of relationship with our core targeted customers by doing so the Group will optimise in the second half, we also instigated actions to phase out non-profitable customers in segments not core to our strategic objectives.
As a consequence, our MDD itsnancial performance.
active customer base was broadly at year-on-year.
efficiency Sales via eCommerce channels: target 70% of MDD sales Total % 2011 12 55.0 2012 13 56.8 2013 14 55.1 eCommerce is a highly efficient route to market and enabler of further efficiencies in our business model.
We target 70% of sales in our MDD businesses through online channels.
2013 14 Performance: new web platform provides foundation foreCommerce growth This year, we decommissioned optical character recognition OCR technology for the fully automated processing of faxes because the cost of maintaining the OCR infrastructure no longer justifies its benets as this channel becomes less favoured by our customers.
Whereas this change resulted in a decline in eCommerce penetration to 55.1% of sales, it creates greater opportunity to benefit from further efficiencies from the business that we conduct through eCommerce channels in the future.
profitability Operating margin: target 1012% growth Total % 2011 12 11.0 2012 13 10.0 2013 14 9.6 Through the ongoing management of gross margin and costs, the Group targets an operating margin in the range of 10% to 12% in order to optimise profitability through the economic cycles.
2013 14 Performance: Group remains focused on optimising profitability Market conditions resulted in lower gross margin and, although this was offset through ongoing cost efficiencies, the business performed below our targeted level to deliver adjusted operating margin of 9.6%.
We anticipate operating margin will be maintained at a broadly similar level in the year ahead as we seek to optimise performance and make strategic investments.
indd 24 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 25 Sales per day growth: Emerging markets growth: target 6% growth target 10% growth Total % Total % 2011 12 2011 12 1.6 21.1 2012 13 2012 13 2.8 7.5 2013 14 2.6 2013 14 14.9 Over the economic cycles, we target accelerated sales growth through a We will continue to develop our business internationally, focusing on the fastest combination of structural growth in our targeted customer base, market share growing territories such as China, India and Eastern Europe.
growth and developing our business in emerging markets.
We measure sales 2013 14 Performance: China and India underpinned strong growth perday on a constant exchange rate basis.
In 2013 14, the Groups emerging markets business delivered growth of 14.9% 2013 14 Performance: return to sales per day growth year-on-year, ahead of our targeted level.
At the end of the year, sales to emerging Investments in our customer proposition helped sales per day return to growth markets accounted for 9.8% of our total MDD business.
Although economic conditions remain mixed, data from the Semiconductor Industry Association SIA and the manufacturing Purchasing Managers Indices PMI indicate improving conditions compared with the prior year.
Return on net operating assets: target 30% Total % 2011 12 37.1 2012 13 34.3 2013 14 32.3 The effective and efficient investment of our shareholders funds is a critical overall measure of the success of our strategy and we continue to target a return on net operating assets of greater than 30% for the Group.
2013 14 Performance: Group delivers RONA target In 2012 13 the Groups return on net operating assets was 32.3%.
This achieved our goal of 30% for the fourth consecutive year and is testament to the optimisation of our business across the economic cycle.
Cash ow Free cash ow to sales: target 6% free cash ow to sales Total % 2011 12 4.9 2012 13 6.1 2013 14 3.7 We remain committed to generating cash ow performance and target 6% free cash ow to sales over the cycle.
2013 14 Performance: investing in our proposition As expected following investments during the course of the first half to enhance our product range, full year free cash ow as a percentage of sales was below our targeted levels at 3.7%.
Our cash performance improved in the second half withfree cash ow to sales of 5.9%, in line with our through-the-cycle target.
indd 25 24 04 2014 16:01 26 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Principal risks, uncertainties andopportunities The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are summarised on the following page.
The disclosure of risks and uncertainties in the table opposite reects the approach of the Company to alsolook for the opportunities presented when addressing significant risks.
The principal risks are formally reviewed, twice per year by the Board.
Updates in terms of emerging risks or significant actions undertaken are addressed as and when required at Board meetings.
The principal risks are determined through an evaluation of likelihood of occurrence and potential impact, with a full review also undertaken by the Global Executive Team GET, comprising the CEO and his direct reports.
Management also review specic strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks in regular focused forums during the year, at GET meetings, quarterly business reviews with each of the businesses, major programmes and project reviews, and at other key Executive management meetings.
Further details on our risk management and internal control procedures are included on page 56.
indd 26 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 27 Risks and uncertainties Relative Mitigating actions Opportunities increase decrease compared to prior year Competitive pressures We continue to build our high service We continue to implement strategic initiatives increase proposition by adding new technologies to build customer loyalty and provide a and abroad range of products, working differentiated proposition for our customer closely with suppliers as we provide endbase.
Our proposition is increasingly to-end solutions throughout their product personalised to meet the needs of customers development process.
Fragmentation of the marketplace allows us opportunities to win business and create further barriers to entry from smallercompetitors.
Competitive advantage The Digital Advisory Board includes external Implementation of the global web platform in the web channel subject matter experts to provide advice and will enable the Group to enhance its online isnotmaintained guidance to the Board and eCommerce team.
proposition faster and more efficiently.
Recruitment, We actively measure the retention of talent We seek actively to engage employees development within our organisation which enables us to by focusing on training and development, or retention track trends and respond with the appropriate customer relationships, leadership, social of talented people and necessary actions.
Annual employee engagement surveys enable progress of our people actions to be monitored, areas of improvement identied andactions put in place.
Reward schemes are continuously evaluated to drive and reward performance and ensure retention of key talent.
Data and content quality A dedicated data function has been Continued investment in data and data inhibit effectiveness of our established to ensure compliance with internal management processes to provide our eCommerce strategy processes and external regulations.
customers with high quality product information and suppliers with rich insights A data strategy and governance framework intocustomer behaviour.
has been developed to support the information requirements of our strategic programmes.
insufficient progress with We have a fully integrated multichannel sales By enhancing and better targeting our improving performance and marketing plan aimed at addressing the offering, we can signicantly improve operating inNorth America needs of our customers, including a focus on performance in North America by taking specic segmentation by type of customers market share and attracting customers to our and vertical industries.
A new Business President has been appointed to lead the region and execute its strategy.
Failure to leverage Best practice and personnel leveraged We continue to invest and effect structural theinvestment made fromaround the Group to ensure delivery.
growth in our key Asia Pacic markets.
inAsiaPacic Investments in global inventory and our proposition will signicantly benefit our customers in Asia Pacic.
significant failure Business continuity plans are kept under We continually improve workows and or inefficiencies review for all our locations.
operational efficiencies and provide increased inour systems capacity and investment in capability.
Ongoing review of our IT infrastructure andinfrastructure andconduct regular testing of our systems.
Legal and regulatory risks We have exposure to a number of countries The increase in environmental legislation for electronics, such as the introduction of and their respective legal compliance requirements are addressed through a variety REACH, allows us to provide real value to our of controls.
customers through our legislative expertise.
Long term evolution of Software and services is increasingly part of our Environmental and technology trends are the electronic component offering to product development customers.
sources of electronics innovation which distribution model This increases the value that they extract from underpin sales to our product development our proposition while diversifying our business customers.
model away from pure distribution.
Through ongoing focus on reducing the The Group takes actions to reduce the impact environmental impact of doing business, of its business on the environment through weare introducing more efficient processes carbon emissions and by encouraging and can offer further complementary services recycling, especially of packaging.
Regional warehouse model reduces impact ofcarbon emissions compared to alternatives.
indd 27 24 04 2014 16:01 28 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Strategic focus 1 Customer focus Key investments Results Premier Farnells primary objective is to connect the right suppliers to the right Customer satisfaction Fostering a customer and and service metrics at customers, helping both achieve their supplier focused culture.
By increasing our understanding Agreement to acquire of customers differing requirements and Trusted, branded products business and assets tailoring our proposition accordingly, we are reecting increasingly of AVID, subject to stringent regulation in certain conditions, and making it easier for them to do business.
We already meet our customers core high service needs by offering a broad range 25.8m inventory Inventory turns increasing investment focused on and expected to turn in line of available products, delivered quickly improving linell and with Group.
through our logistics partners and providing enhancing product offering.
a wealth of information and resources to Embest and AVID enhanced Agreements with Cypress help inform product selection.
And now, offering at early stages of Semiconductor, AMD and by seeking to partner in the product product development.
development process earlier and more closely, we are enabling innovation more Continue to enhance 220,000 registered users the online experience, adding at a rate of 5,500 than ever before.
5,000 units legislative information, of content downloaded product data and per week.
Over 600,000 products from 3,000 suppliers 017159 PF AR13-14 2 Overview-Gov AW.
indd 28 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 29 Product availability Creating value as we support customers and manufacture the development kits which are product development processes critical to the successful product launch.
At the We pride ourselves on stocking a world-class same time, the element14 community can help linecard of over 600,000 products from 3,000 Our position in the electronics supply chain ensure its success by generating interest and suppliers as product availability for customers provides us with the opportunity to follow our engagement in the target design engineering is fundamental to high service distribution.
customers designs through to production and customer base.
The acquisition of the business Although their projects differ substantially, provide services and solutions throughout their and assets of AVID Technologies, Inc. currently customers value the breath of our offering product development processes.
By doing conditional, provides the next step as we build asthey typically want to make their purchase this we will enhance the value we create this design proposition by adding expertise in from a single source and need to receive their for customers and suppliers alike, from the analog, radio frequency and wireless induction order quickly.
Customers want both the latest launch of the latest semiconductor to the early technologies.
The combination of the element14 technologies but also access to tools and stages of production encompassing research, community, Embest and AVID positions us similar commodity products.
Our range of over development, design, prototyping and testing.
uniquely as a supplier partner at the earliest 50,000 own brand products offers customers As described below, we are now supporting stages of the design cycle.
exceptional quality in key commodity areas at customers at every stage in the product Once comfortable with the initial development competitive prices.
development process: work and choice of the core technology This year, we enhanced our product range component, the engineer will then design the through an incremental investment of 25.8 million New product introductions architecture of the electronic product using which saw us add more than 100,000 new Design engineering customers value the computer-aided design software.
CadSoft Eagle SKUs and increase inventory depth in certain greater technical capabilities that new products software provides customers with a printed key product areas.
Following thisinvestment, frequently offer and the reduced likelihood circuit board PCB design tool.
Since Premier linell reached record levels of 97%, enabling us ofnear-term future obsolescence.
Farnells acquisition of CadSoft in 2009, it has to satisfy customer demands while continuing achieved a CAGR of 38.7%.
Seeding products to the design engineering toachieve acceptable returns.
Since making our marketplace creates substantial value to investments we have seen the turns of the new Prototype.
suppliers as it provides the opportunity for inventory begin to improve towards the levels greater future volume growth should these After the design has been completed, the we expect.
conceptual drawings can become reality in a projects reach production.
Beyond simply providing a fast and effective conduit to this working prototype.
The basis for the product Fast delivery will be the PCB upon which components are market, our technical capability and multichannel sales and marketing resources in particular mounted to create the assembled prototype.
With ever increasing time pressure to deliver Premier Farnell offers PCB fabrication services the Community provide a compelling their projects, customers expect reliable delivery proposition to suppliers as they launch the through partners such as Eurocircuits and of products, often requiring next day delivery Screaming Circuits which can be delivered to the latest technologies.
In 2013 14 we worked with toachieve their business objectives.
supplier partners to launch 30 exclusive or firstcustomer in as little as two days, as well as the As we seek to optimise our inventory to achieve components and lab supplies that customers to-market products.
this requirement, we are continuously leveraging need to build their prototype.
our global resources and warehouse network.
The prototypes are then tested to ensure that 65% of our main MDD inventory offering is As engineers embark on a project, they usually the product is ready for the end consumer.
available to customers globally and through begin by researching online to identify the Premier Farnell offers a wide range of test and effective inventory management, our distribution technology needed to make it a success.
measurement equipment from leading suppliers centres are able to ship 99.9% of orders same They will be looking for datasheets, application such as Fluke and Tektronix.
notes and the software necessary for their projects.
The element14 community provides We continuously look to improve our fullment Low volume production engineers with a resource where they can join proposition.
By delivering to promise, we have After the project has been fully tested it will the conversation, consult industry experts on seen customer feedback and service metrics proceed into production.
At this stage the a range of topics and access content such rise to record highs this year.
purchasing decision will normally have moved as video and blogs as well as our design from the product development teams to buyers workspace which holds over 15 gigabytes and production runs are frequently completed Trusted information ofproduct information.
by contract equipment manufacturers CEMs.
For their projects to progress as planned, it The customer will then select his core We now cater for the requirements of CEM is critical that customers purchase products technology and move onto the development customers in the low volume production space that meet the technical specications in the stage.
At this point, the engineer often with packaging that better suits their needs, design brief.
Having the relevant technical purchases a development kit and tools which such as the stocking of full reels of components and legislative information is increasingly allow him to bring the idea to life.
This is done and supporting specic kitting needs.
valuable therefore, particularly as the regulatory by programming the kit using development tools When product volumes increase to a point environment develops.
and software, a critical in the product creation where the value we deliver through our high process and a ag to us that design activity is Premier Farnell has been a market leader in service offering is less relevant, we no longer taking place.
In 2013 14 we added 2,300 new providing information and support to customers.
continue to participate: volume manufacturers development kits and tools to our inventory and In addition to the technical product information tend to service that market instead.
achieved year-on-year sales growth of 40% in sheets available on the transactional websites these products.
We are now launching a new and 24 5 technical support, Premier Farnell has Maintain and repair development tool superstore, a destination an extensive social media presence and the MRO engineers place considerable value on where engineers can access kits and tools, leading online community, element14.
the core high service elements in our offering as including software, from a single source online.
they frequently need a small quantity of specic Embest strengthened our new product components quickly to maintain and repair introduction offering, allowing us to partner electronic products already in use.
The products even more closely with suppliers as they bring they require are highly complementary to those the latest technology to market.
As suppliers sought by our design engineering customers.
develop their new products, Embest can design 017159 PF AR13-14 2 Overview-Gov AW.
indd 29 24 04 2014 16:01 30 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Strategic focus 2 Multichannel sales and marketing Providing effective marketing and sales channels as we connect suppliers to 650 620 customers is fundamental to the value Contact centre staff Field salespeople thatour business creates.
For suppliers, we provide a powerful 24 5 250 combination of targeted marketing which Online tech support Technical engineers enables us to seed their latest products to our global customer base and an efficient distribution channel for low volume sales 3 1 ofexisting products.
Tier 1 regional element14 For customers, our approach helps contact centres community to simplify their purchasing decisions and processes by offering a seamless combination of eld sales, contact centre and leading-edge eCommerce channels.
Transactional websites 017159 PF AR13-14 2 Overview-Gov AW.
indd 30 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 31 Being multichannel sales allows us to optimise Engineers come together on the Community The Knode allows engineers to work, store key operational performance while supporting a to discuss topics ranging from Raspberry Pi information and provides them with access to broad range of customers.
Online channels projects to Power Management.
Our technical our range of design and development solutions eliminate inefficient manual practices, improve marketing teams and many of our supplier including software such as CadSoft EAGLE or the quality of our processes and allow our partners are also on hand to answer questions development kits designed and manufactured people to focus on activities where the human and provide advice.
touch adds value to our customers.
Activity levels on the Community have risen Over the past 12 months we have invested to The insights that we gain from our customers substantially over the prior year and it received enhance the user experience of the workspace are helping us to better meet their requirements.
over 21 million page views while attracting and to create a new development tool This year, we established a new shared services more than 5,500 new members every month.
superstore within the element14 community centre in India to help build our analytical Engineers accessed the Community from which we expect to launch in the coming expertise to allow us to interpret our data better around the world, downloading over 5,000 units financial year.
in order to enhance the customer experience.
of content a week as they conducted research for their projects.
This resulted in participation Putting multichannel into practice Our multichannel sales and marketing strategy levels increasing by 36.8% year-on-year.
is critical to our success.
As outlined on Customers often choose to interact with us page 27, we consider a principal risk for the The ever popular Ben Heck show, available on through multiple channels depending on what business to be the loss of our competitive the Community, YouTube and the Discovery they are looking to achieve.
In order to mitigate this risk, Channel, reached a new milestone with over large account might have a regular review with our multichannel sales and marketing strategy 10 million views since launch.
Video content a eld sales person, a dedicated contact person remains a considerable focus of our investment on the Community had over 283,000 views at a call centre providing ongoing support, for the future.
and an integrated eProcurement system for day-to-day orders across the engineering team.
element14 community continues to contribute New web platform This powerful combination of channels gives us to our commercial success with sales generated a competitive advantage over businesses with up over 50% compared to the prior year.
As an We have invested in upgrading the global web asingle channel relationship.
authority for new technology and engineering platform for our 48 transactional websites.
information, the Community hosted over 71 In 2013 14, we implemented this across More than 620 eld salespeople manage webinars.
These sessions covered a range North America, the region where we have the relationships with our larger customers and of topics and were often held in partnership greatest opportunity to increase the amount target accounts, providing a local touch point with key suppliers, including Freescale, of business conducted online.
The new web tomeet customers needs.
platform represents a step change in our online Our contact centres play a critical role in Suppliers and customers alike benefited proposition by providing the foundation for a optimising efficiency and customer service, fromthe33 RoadTests as new products better user experience, making it easier for providing support for electronics professionals werelaunched on the Community.
customers to transact with us online.
We have over 650 contact As the legislative environment evolves, the By moving to a single global platform, we will centre staff, predominantly based in tier one Community continues to act as a central hub benefit from increased efficiencies as we roll-out centres in each region in Cleveland for North to support our design engineer customers.
multi-regional marketing programmes faster America, Krakow, Poland for Europe and in Developments in RoHS legislation remained and reduce the burden on our back ofce IT Shanghai, Singapore and Sydney for Asia the main area where customers required teams as we implement future enhancements.
As well as providing a cost efficient information and guidance in 2013 14, as the In addition, our online customer proposition in structure, operating from central call centres reach of the regulations expands over the next emerging markets will be signicantly enhanced, enables us to develop best practice and core six years.
Askthe Expert received questions enabling further customisation of the front end of skills in our customer facing staff.
from mainland Europe, the US, China, India and our websites to each marketplace and ensuring eCommerce makes up the largest portion of New Zealand, while 14 comprehensive new that key requirements, such as local languages our business with 55.1% of MDD sales coming documents and guides and 40 focused articles or currency requirements, are met.
through online channels in 2013 14. helped provide the necessary direction on many Following an initial pilot in Canada, we areas of legislation.
By leading online innovation in our industry, we successfully completed the roll-out of the site are better connecting suppliers to customers, The Community also provided support to across the remainder of our North American enabling targeted information and marketing customers with regards to Conict Minerals territories at the end of the 2013 calendar year.
to be disseminated quickly to a relevant global legislation towards the end of 2013 as specic Customer reaction has been positive and sales customer base.
This is only achievable through legislation in Europe and the US will come into levels through our transactional sites were aweb offering like ours where commerce, force during 2014.
The Community witnessed largely unaffected.
a surge in customer requests, in particular for Over the coming year, the platform will be knowledge and information on Conict Minerals Customers who use our transactional websites rolled-out across Asia Pacic and Europe.
and the position taken by both Farnell element14 and eProcurement solutions often nd it an Following the completion of this significant and Newark element14 on this matter.
easier way to do business and the web also strategic project, we will be able to reallocate enables efficiencies in our own business resources and accelerate our online Online workspace for design engineers model.
As described in our KPIs on page 24, marketing initiatives.
we target 70% of our MDD sales to come via Supporting customers through their product eCommerce channels as part of our focus development journey is a central element of element14 community ondriving efficiency.
In 2010 11, we launched a first for In 2013 14 the element14 community extended our industry: a dedicated workspace for design Through continued focus on providing a the considerable progress made in the prior year.
solutions and tools, the Knode.
differentiating multichannel experience, Premier element14 has established itself as the leading Farnell will continue to connect suppliers with online community in our industry and a unique customers and act as a partner to both through resource for its 220,000 registered users.
indd 31 24 04 2014 16:01 32 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Strategic focus 3 International The megatrends identied on pages 8 and 9 point to a world of ever greater interconnectivity, where engineers across multiple countries combine in the design and production of new electronic products.
To adapt to the added complexity brought by a globalised supply chain, customers and suppliers increasingly call for a single global high service distribution partner.
Achieving 99.7% shipping accuracy 017159 PF AR13-14 2 Overview-Gov AW.
indd 32 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 33 Global presence: local touch In addition to an innovative web interface and Growing in Eastern Europe technical resources, our scale means that we Premier Farnell is a truly global business with Industrial businesses across Europe are relying can offer a broad range of products and services operations in 37 countries.
Nine distribution to an ever increasing extent on Eastern Europe from a global supplier base.
centres, located across the globe, provide as a manufacturing hub.
The first global, high over1.1 million square feet of warehouse space Furthermore, being a large organisation means service distributor to focus on this growth market and combine efficiently with our sales functions.
we are recognised by our customers as a in 2006, Premier Farnell has benefited from the From there, we ship over 30,000 packages per trusted source of branded products which is growth in electronics across a wide range of end day, working with logistics partners such as UPS increasingly important as regulation and quality customer segments, resulting in a three-year to achieve 99.7% shipping accuracy.
Our multichannel sales and marketing model, Our scale means that we offer a more efficient Last year, we increased our focus in the region incorporating our innovative eCommerce channel to emerging markets for our global by establishing a best-in-class contact centre in offering, enables us to reach customers electronic component manufacturer partners.
Krakow, Poland, to run our outbound telesales worldwide.
It allows us to tailor our offering to the They value our global reach and frequently and telemarketing activity across Europe in local marketplace whether thats through local provide us with preferential terms compared 22 languages, including Eastern European salespeople on the ground, our regional contact to the local players as well as access to their dialects.
We are beginning to see the benefit centres or the 48 transactional websites around latest products.
of this investment across Europe but especially the globe which cater for over 30 languages in Eastern Europe where sales rose 17.3% The requirement for a high service distribution from Chinese Mandarin to Finnish.
The centre combines partner to support engineers throughout the with eld sales, customer service support, Following the implementation of our new web product development process is not limited eCommerce and marketing activity, plus the platform in North America during 2013 14, we to the developed markets.
Engineers in the ability for customers to buy from us in local will soon upgrade the platform in Europe and emerging markets need the same range of currency to create the ideal platform to build Asia Pacic.
This will simplify tailoring of content services and solutions.
market share in the region.
and user experience to local markets and allow As we continue to enhance the value that we us to roll-out our web proposition faster to deliver by connecting suppliers to customers Developing our business in Asia Pacic targeted emerging markets in future.
throughout the product development As a high service distributor, our emphasis is Customers and suppliers across the globe process, Premier Farnell is well positioned to onmeeting customers requirements through can come together through the element14 continue to deliver accelerated growth in the our product portfolio and distribution capability community with users from different languages developing markets.
to make their work easier.
able to participate and collaborate using our integrated Google translation functionality.
benefiting from Indias development Today, we stock 100,000 products in the Over the last 12 months, the Community has Asia Pacic region, in particular in our regional Economists estimate that India will grow at received close to nine million visits from nearly headquarters in Singapore, which is supported morethan double the rate of the rest of the 200 different countries around the world.
by hubs in Sydney and Shanghai.
Over the world with the World Bank predicting GDP past year, we have continued to develop our growth of 7.1% by 2016 17 as global demand Opportunity in developing markets proposition in the region by adding 45,000 new recovers and domestic investment increases.
lines and customers in Asia also benefit from As the manufacturing becomes more global, Should this materialise, it is likely to support ourwider global product offering.
emerging economies such as Eastern Europe, accelerated growth in our end markets in China and India continue to play a greater the territory.
We continue to develop the attractiveness role in the electronics industry from design to of ourproposition and customer experience This year, Premier Farnell delivered sales production.
Since 2006 Premier Farnell has through our multichannel sales strategy, while perday growth in India of 20.3%.
The strong focused on increasing our footprint in these taking steps to improve our efficiency in the sales growth came despite relatively subdued markets, predominantly through organic growth region which will benefit customers through manufacturing conditions for much of the year, but supplemented by small strategic acquisitions increased reliability and quality.
In China, for as indicated by the regions manufacturing such as Hynetics in India in 2007 08, Microdis in example, we are upgrading our systems to bring PMI readings which contracted for three of Eastern Europe in 2008 09 and Embest in China this territory in line with our other businesses.
As our element14 brand name becomes Customers in India benefit from element14s In 2013 14, emerging markets sales per day synonymous with high service, we remain product offering in Asia Pacic and are grew 14.9%, above our 10% target, as detailed confident that our business remains ideally also able to access products from our in our KPIs on page 25, and contributed 9.8% positioned to leverage the extensive growth European warehouses.
opportunities in Asia Pacic and across the Although we service customers primarily through wider global electronics markets.
As one of just four global high service eld sales and our contact centres in India, with distributors, we believe that we can satisfy the support of our technical centre in Bangalore, customers requirements more fully than Google trends data confirms that element14 has the fragmented local competition, giving us led the high service distribution industry as the significant competitive advantage.
