60 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of the Company for the year ended 2 February 2014.
Strategic report and review of business performance Directors A detailed and fair review of the Groups business, its development, and The names and biographical details of the Directors who held ofce at the performance during and at the end of the financial year is set out in the date of this report appear on pages 46 and 47.
Strategic report on pages 1 to 45.
The principal risks and uncertainties the During the year there was one change to the membership of the Board, Group faces are outlined on pages 26 and 27, and information relating to when Peter Ventress was appointed as an additional Non-Executive diversity, human rights and environmental matters can be found on pages Director on 1 October 2013.
Disclosures on greenhouse gas emissions and methodologies for calculation are detailed in the Sustainability report on In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will page 39. retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company, Peter Ventress will offer himself for election, and all other Directors for re-election.
A formal evaluation of the performance of each Director and of the Board profit and dividends has been carried out and the performance of each of them continues to be The Groups total operating profit for the financial year was 91.5 million effective and to demonstrate commitment to his or her role.
There is more which included a charge of 3.9 million relating to restructuring costs, information on the evaluation and its outcome on pages 52 and 53. a 1.6 million net gain on US property disposal and a 0.8 million gain The Company provided indemnities to each of its Directors during on the re-measurement of contingent consideration.
Adjusting for these the year ending 2 February 2014 in accordance with the provisions of items, the Groups adjusted operating profit was 93.0 million.
In 2012 13 the Companys Articles of Association allowing the indemnification of the Groups operating profit was 89.3 million which included a charge of Directors out of the assets of the Company to the extent permitted by law.
13.9 million relating to restructuring costs, 0.4 million of acquisition costs These indemnities constitute qualifying indemnities for the purposes of the and a 8.5 million one-off pension gain following the Groups offer to buy Companies Act 2006 and remain in force at the date of approval of this out the pension rights of the deferred members of its US dened benefit report without any payment having been made under them.
Adjusting for these items, the Groups adjusted operating profit in 2012 13 was 95.1 million.
Additional information relating to Directors remuneration, service contracts and interests in the Companys shares is given in the Remuneration report The Groups profit attributable to owners of the parent for the financial year on pages 63 to 77.
The details of Directors interests in the Companys to 2 February 2014 was 51.4 million 2012 13: 48.6 million.
shares form part of this report.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 22.0 million, equivalent to 6.0 pence per ordinary share 2012 13: 22.0 million, equivalent to Share capital and control 6.0 pence per ordinary share be paid on 25 June 2014 to those shareholders on the register of members at the close of business Details of the Companys issued share capital are set out in notes 15 and on 30 May 2014.
19 to the consolidated financial statements, including any changes which have taken place during the year under review.
The Companys authorised An interim dividend of 16.1 million, equivalent to 4.4 pence per ordinary share capital comprises ordinary shares of five pence each in nominal value share, was paid on 24 October 2013, making a total for the year of and cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of 1 each in 38.1 million or 10.4 pence per ordinary share 2012 13: 38.1 million in nominal value.
As at 2 February 2014, the ordinary shares and preference total and 10.4 pence per ordinary share.
The Premier Farnell Executive shares represented 82.5% and 17.5% respectively of the Companys total Trust EBT or Trust holds ordinary shares in the Company acquired in the share capital.
market in order to meet obligations under the Companys Share Plans.
Throughout the year under review, a waiver by the Trustees of the Trusts The rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares and its preference right to receive dividends on ordinary shares held by it was in place.
shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, a copy of which can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
A summary of the rights attached to the preference shares appears in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.
with the exception of Peter who joined the Board after the evaluation had been completed.
indd 60 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 61 The Articles contain certain restrictions on the transfer of ordinary and Substantial shareholdings preference shares and on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, The table below shows the position at 2 February 2014 and any changes including where the Company has exercised its right to prohibit transfer up to and including 9 April 2014 where the Company had been notied, following the omission of their holder or any person interested in them to pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Rules, of the following notiable voting rights in its ordinary share capital: Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006.
Holders of preference shares are % holding as at % holding as at entitled to receive notice of, but not attend or vote at general meetings of Company 02 02 2014 09 04 2014 the Company other than in limited circumstances.
The preference shares Schroders plc 14.06% 13.71% are not equity for the purposes of financial reporting.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company in June 2014, the Company will Prudential Public Limited seek authority from its shareholders to purchase its ordinary and preference Company 7.51% 7.51% shares.
Authorities were previously granted at the Annual General Meeting UBS Global Asset in 2013 and expire at the close of the forthcoming meeting.
During the Management Below 3% 5.13% year ended 2 February 2014 the Company did not purchase, acquire or Baillie Gifford & Co dispose of any ordinary or preference shares.
The authorities sought will, Limited 5.12% 5.12% if granted, empower the Directors to exercise the authorities on behalf of Harris Associates Ltd 5.04% 5.04% the Company.
Newton Investment 4.97% 4.97% Rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out Fidelity International FIL 4.90% 4.90% in the Articles.
Changes to the Articles may only be made if approved by Artemis Investment 4.86% 4.86% special resolution of the shareholders.
The Directors powers are granted Old Mutual Global to them by UK legislation and by the Articles.
There are no agreements between any Group company and any of its employees or any Director of Investors UK Limited 4.60% 4.60% the Company that provide for compensation to be paid to the employee Standard Life or Director for termination of employment or for loss of ofce as a Investments Limited 4.43% 4.43% consequence of a takeover of the Company, other than provisions that Legal & General 4.03% 4.03% would apply on any termination of employment.
Norge Bank 3.92% 3.92% The Companys multicurrency bank facilities and its private note BlackRock Inc 3.69% 3.69% placements are subject to provisions allowing the lenders to terminate the facilities and demand repayment following a change of control.
Trading subsidiaries The trustees of the EBT may vote or abstain from voting shares held inthetrust in any way they see t. Details of the Groups principal trading subsidiaries can be found on page110 of the notes to the financial statements.
Financial instruments Independent auditors Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks in respect of Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as auditors and financial instruments is set out under the heading Treasury operations toauthorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed onpage 38 and in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Product research and development Disclosure of information to auditors The Groups product research and development activities are restricted Each of the Directors confirms that so far as he or she is aware, there is to the development of new or enhanced products for Akron Brass.
norelevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware Akron Brass is part of the Groups Industrial Products Division.
and that he or she has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken During the year the Industrial Products Division expensed 3.2 million as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit 2012 13: 3.0 million on product research and development.
information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
In addition, the Group is constantly striving to provide new or improved levels of customer service.
This is illustrated in the advances in our web offering: whether through our transactional sites or the further development Annual General Meeting of our element14 community, which offers a source of engineering The notice convening the Companys 2014 Annual General Meeting at knowledge and design solutions as well as access to colleagues, suppliers the ofces of Allen & Overy at One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD on and experts globally.
During the year the Group expensed 5.8 million 17 June 2014 at 10.30 am is set out in a separate document issued to 2012 13: 5.2 million in these areas.
The Directors report for the year ended 2 February 2014 comprises these pages 60 to 62 and the other sections and pages Employment oftheAnnual Report cross-referred to above, which sections and pages are incorporated by reference.
Information on the Groups policy in relation to employment, performance reviews, feedback, diversity, development and employee communications By order of the Board is set out on pages 43 to 45 of the Strategic report.
Steven Webb Company Secretary Premier Farnell plc Farnell House Forge Lane Leeds LS12 2NE 17 April 2014 017159 PF AR13-14 2 Overview-Gov AW.
indd 61 24 04 2014 16:01 62 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors responsibility statement pursuant to DTR 4 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Each of the Directors, as listed on pages 46 and 47 confirms that, to the Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance best of his or her knowledge: with applicable laws and regulations.
Under that law the Directors have a the consolidated financial statements in this report, which have been prepared the consolidated financial statements and Annual Report in prepared in accordance with, International Financial Reporting Standards accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the as adopted by the European Union and the parent company financial Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, and statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting the Company financial statements in this report which have been prepared Practice UK GAAP.
Under company law the Directors must not approve in accordance with UK GAAP give a true and fair view of the assets, the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group taken as a whole: and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group, and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
b the management report contained in this Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the In preparing these financial statements the Directors are required to: position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with t select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: adescription of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
t make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: t state that the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the parent company financial statements comply with UK GAAP: and t prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless itisinappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The 2013 14 financial statements will be published on the Companys website in addition to the paper version.
The Directors are responsible for maintenance and integrity of the electronic version of the financial statements to the same extent as for the paper version.
Legislation inthe United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The work carried out by the auditors does not include consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the website.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
