16 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Akron Brass Akron Brass is a global leader in the sale and manufacture of high performance re-ghting and emergency response equipment.
In recent years, Akron Brass has further diversied intothe Marine, Petrochemical, Mining, Utility, and Heavy Truck markets.
Since its inception in 1918, Akron Brass has been an Headquartered in Wooster, Ohio, in the United States, industry leader in uid dynamics including handheld Akron Brass has manufacturing facilities in Columbus, nozzles, monitors and valves.
The business continues to Ohioand Washington, Illinois and sales ofces in Beijing, add more products to its diverse portfolio making it easy China and Dubai, UAE.
With customers in over 100 forcustomers to source everything from one company.
countries and over 33% of 2013 14 sales coming from outside the United States, Akron Brass has developed The business has invested in new product developments intoa truly global organisation.
such as LED lighting products for global applications and application specic monitors and nozzles for customers See more here: http: www.
Innovating in India The Hindustan Petroleum Company Limited HPCL, a large Indian oil refinery, looked to Akron Brass to design a custom solution for their fire suppression needs.
Against an aggressive schedule, stainless steel monitor and controls were developed.
These incorporated innovative solutions in product design, test and certification, supply chain, production, delivery, distribution and support in order to meet the customers requirements.
This represents the largest single order manufactured from Wooster in the history of Akron Brass.
indd 16 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 17 How Akron Brass creates value: The business designs and develops products and systems, delivering value by manufacturing innovative and reliable, high performance solutions that improve the safety and efficiency ofourcustomers personnel and equipment.
Innovate Manufacture Sell Customer needs are at the centre of new product Akron seeks to deliver continuous improvement of Akron Brass sells through a global network of development at Akron Brass.
Through customer processes, capabilities, capacity, and quality through distributors and original equipment manufacturers insight and outcome-driven processes, Akron its advanced manufacturing facilities and use of lean OEMs.
Close collaboration and joint development strives to deliver innovative products and services.
production techniques and the latest technologies.
efforts from end-user to distributor to OEM ensure Revenue from newly released products exceeds Customers benefit from access to highly customised, tight control of the specication, delivery, installation 20%of total sales.
short lot parts with exceptional quality and short and servicing of its products.
Akron employs the lead times.
largest factory-direct sales team in the industry.
W Weldon, a division ofAkr ld di i i f Ak on Brass B Reach Engineering R h E Akrons Weldon Division is focused In October 2013, Akron completed the on OEM solutions in the speciality asset acquisition of Reach Engineering, vehicle market.
Weldons V-MUX LLC, a pioneering developer of system allows apparatus builders customised electronics solutions tointegrate body, chassis, powertrain, specifically addressing needs of the and vocational functions through a fire service.
A key element of the robust hardware platform, intuitive purchase was the emerging Link2 design software, and global product which provides a web-based, applications support.
V-MUX is the wireless software solution for accessing most specified control system in the fire critical truck operational, maintenance, apparatus market and advancements and performance data.
The product inV-MUX hardware are delivering allows customers to gain valuable similar adoptions in ambulance and insight to their fleet performance, bus.
Weldons engineered solutions reduces maintenance costs and, approach along with innovative design mostsignificantly, improves apparatus and use of leading technologies uptime.
Strategically, the Reach demonstrated significant value in the acquisition provides key technologies heavy-truck market as Weldon received and resources supporting Akrons larger standard LEDlighting contracts for a systems integration goals.
major US truck chassis manufacturer.
