46 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Board of Directors Committee Membership at March 2014 Val Gooding, CBE Aged 63 Laurence Bain, CA Aged 60 Audit Committee Role: appointed as Non-Executive Chairman Role: appointed as Chief Executive officer Dennis Millard Chairman on15 June 2011. on12 June 2012.
Laurence joined the Board Andrew Dougal asan Executive Director in his former role Paul Withers Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Peter Ventress ofChief Operating officer on 1 July 2003. of Vodafone Group Plc and TUI Travel plc.
Nominations Committee Trustee of Historic Royal Palaces and the English Skills and experience: Laurence is a chartered Val Gooding Chairman National Ballet.
accountant and spent ten years working in Andrew Dougal the profession in Scotland.
He has extensive Dennis Millard Skills and experience: Val has formerly held a Laurence Bain financial and operational management number of senior operational and strategic roles Paul Withers experience which he gained at the highest Thomas Reddin in businesses with a reputation for high levels of level, primarily in electronics manufacturing and customer service and brings a wealth of global Remuneration Committee distribution.
Before joining Premier Farnell in July Paul Withers Chairman business experience to the Board.
Val was CEO 2002 as Chief Operating officer, Laurence was Andrew Dougal of BUPA during a ten-year period of strong Dennis Millard Vice President and Director of Operations for growth and global expansion and was a senior Peter Ventress Motorola in Europe, Middle East and Africa.
manager at British Airways, serving latterly as Director for Asia Pacic.
Val has also served as a Non-Executive Director of J Sainsbury plc, Standard Chartered plc, the BBC and theHome Ofce.
Mark Whiteling, M. Comms Hons Aged 51 Role: appointed as Chief Financial officer on5 November 2012.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Future plc.
Skills and experience: Mark is a chartered accountant, with extensive financial and commercial experience in the global distribution and electronics industries.
Mark was Premier Farnells Chief Financial officer and a member of the Board from 2006 to 2011, rejoining the Company in November 2012 in an expanded role.
From August 2011 to November 2012 he was Chief Financial officer of Autobar Limited.
Before joining Premier Farnell in 2006 Mark was Group Finance Director of Communisis plc and, prior to that, of Tibbett & Britten plc.
indd 46 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 47 Dennis Millard, CA SA, MBA Aged 65 Andrew Dougal, B Acc, CA Aged 62 Paul Withers, MA Aged 57 Role: appointed as a Non-Executive Director Role: appointed as a Non-Executive Director Role: appointed as a Non-Executive inSeptember 2007 and as Senior Independent inSeptember 2006.
Paul chairs the Director in June 2008.
Dennis chairs the Remuneration Committee.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Audit Committee.
and Chair of the Audit Committee of Carillion Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Other appointments: Non-Executive Chairman plc, Senior Independent Director and Chair ofHyder Consulting plc and Devro plc, and of Halfords Group plc and of Connect Group plc of the Audit Committee of Creston Plc and Senior Independent Director of Keller Group plc.
formerly Smiths News Plc, Senior Independent Council Member of the Institute of Chartered Skills and experience: Paul has a background Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Accountants of Scotland ICAS.
in engineering and has considerable experience Committee of Debenhams plc, Deputy Chairman Skills and experience: Andrew is a chartered of business expansion and operations in of the Board and Chairman of the Remuneration accountant and has considerable leadership developing markets, particularly Asia.
Paul was Committee ofPets at Home Group plc and experience in finance, operational and strategic formerly Group Managing Director of BPB plc, Chairman of theBoard of Trustees of the Holy roles.
Formerly he served as Chief Executive where he led their Emerging Markets operations.
officer of Hanson plc, the international building Skills and experience: in addition to the materials company, following its demerger from extensive experience that Dennis brings Hanson plc, the Anglo American diversied ofnon-executive board leadership, Dennis industrial company where he had been Group isachartered accountant and was, for nine Finance Director.
Previously Andrew was a years until 2005, Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director of Taylor Wimpey plc, ofCookson Group plc.
Taylor Woodrow plc and BPB plc.
Thomas Reddin, BSc, MBA Aged 53 Peter Ventress, Aged 52 Steven Webb, Secretary Aged 51 Role: appointed as a Non-Executive Director Role: appointed as a Non-Executive Director LLB Solicitor inSeptember 2010. witheffect from 1 October 2013.
Role: appointed as Company Secretary and Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Other appointments: Chief Executive officer General Counsel in December 2000.
Deluxe Corporation and Tanger Factory Outlet ofBerendsen plc.
Other appointments: Member of the Board Centers Inc.
He is Managing Partner of Red Dog Skills and experience: Peter has broad ofGovernors of Leeds Metropolitan University.
Ventures, LLC, a venture capital and advisory international experience in the B2B environment.
rms in the digital arena, and also publisher Skills and experience: Steven is a qualied Prior to joining Berendsen in 2010, he was ofMortgageRates.
lawyer with a specialism in company law and International President of Staples Inc and also has served the boards in a number of regulated Skills and experience: Toms expertise ranges spent ten years in senior management positions and non-regulated business and consumer from marketing, branding and innovation to with Corporate Express N. V. becoming industries.
Before joining Premier Farnell, he was the web.
Tom was formerly Vice President Chief Executive in 2007.
During his roles at the Company Secretary and General Counsel of Consumer Marketing at Coca-Cola USA Corporate Express and Staples, Peter was also ofKelda Group plc formerly Yorkshire Water and President, COO, and ultimately CEO, a Non-Executive Director of Corporate Express and Company Secretary of Kalon Group plc.
ofLendingTree LLC, a market leader in webAustralia Ltd. based lending.
Denotes Non-Executive Director 017159 PF AR13-14 2 Overview-Gov AW.
