10 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 MDD business model Marketing and Distribution Division MDD businesses purchase electronic components and related products from leading suppliers around the world.
Customers usually buy relatively low quantities ofcomponents and other related products as well assoftware and services, attributing significant value to the high level of service and support we provide.
How we create value Stock Support Sell Ship How we create value: How we create value: How we create value: How we create value: We work with both suppliers and Both electronics and MRO customers Our multichannel sales and marketing Fast and reliable distribution of locally customers to identify and stock the require detailed information to ensure approach allows customers to interact stocked products is at the core of products and services our customers purchases meet their technical and purchase from us in the way our customer proposition.
Our nine require, benefiting from web analytics specications.
Premier Farnell has led distribution centres located around the and insights from the element14 community allows engineers to the industry through eCommerce, globe ship 30,000 packages each day.
In total, we stock over collaborate while our online workspace like the element14 community and With the support of our global logistics 600,000 products to help us meet provides technical information eProcurement tools such as iBuy.
partners, this allows us to achieve same customers need for access to and access to additional services These innovations, together with our or next day shipping for 99.9% of the abroadrange of technologies.
We further support telesales capability and 620 eld sales products we sell.
our customers by providing 24 5 resources, make it easy for customers How we will sustain and technical support.
How we will sustain and growthis value: growthis value: Product lifecycle management How we will sustain and How we will sustain and We maintain business continuity plans processes, including rigorous stocking growthis value: growthis value: which are kept under review for all our criteria, mitigates our inventory risk.
We continue to develop and enhance Digital Advisory Board provides locations and have ongoing reviews Where appropriate, we agree terms our web capabilities as part of our knowledge from external subject and testing of our IT infrastructure.
with suppliers that serve to manage multichannel sales strategy, such as matter experts as we seek to Investment in systems and focus the risk posed by new product through our new web platform and build and maintain our competitive on workow improvements, such introductions, including sale or return.
ongoing updates to the Community, advantage online.
as the roll-out of voice picking in We continue to invest in data in order to maintain our competitive Annual eSupplier conference provides European distribution centres, will resources and management to advantage through digital channels.
insights from key supplier partners on deliver operational efficiencies and enhance the insights we use in We are partnering increasingly closely the development of our eCommerce allow us to meet increased future stocking processes.
with key suppliers to provide the proposition and an opportunity to demand.
We remain focused on Increasing technology capability technical specications and legislative work more closely with suppliers reducing the environmental impact enhances our position in the information that customers need.
as we enhance our online channels ofdoing business.
supply chain at the early stages including the element14 community.
Our growing range of software ofproduct development.
Data and analytics allow us and solutions offsets the potential increasingly to tailor our marketing commoditisation of the value andoffer a differentiated proposition attributed to next day shipment tocustomers.
This approach enables overthe longer term.
us to increase customer loyalty and win new business.
Enabling new technology & supporting business continuity By connecting suppliers to customers around the world we play a role in enabling innovation in technologies and extending the life of existing products across a broad number of industry segments, from manufacturing to healthcare, renewable energy to marine technology.
Through our business model, we aim to connect customers and suppliers while creating value for other stakeholders, including employees and shareholders.
indd 10 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 11 Resources Our global infrastructure and resources enables Premier Farnell to serve the needs of customers globally.
From our innovative online resources to ourregional contact centres, back ofce systems andnetwork of distribution centres, Premier Farnell iswell placed to deliver high service and make it easierthan ever for customers to do business.
1 msq ft 48 1,270 warehouse space in our transactional websites customer facing nine distribution centres in 34 languages staff globally Leeds Lige South Carolina Shanghai Mexico Singapore Sydney Americas Europe Asia Pacic Newark element14, MCM Farnell element14, CPC element14 Operations in 4 countries Operations in 23 countries Operations in 9 countries 3 warehouses 3 warehouses 3 warehouses 260 sales staff 250 sales staff 110 sales staff 290 contact centre staff 250 contact centre staff 70 contact centre staff 017159 PF AR13-14 2 Overview-Gov AW.
