8 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Industry megatrends 1 Electronics distribution market Everywhere, electronics drives structural growth in design engineering The global electronics distribution market includes high service distributors which provide a wide range of products normally sold on demand inrelatively lowvolume, and high volume distributorswhich service the scheduled manufacturing As users demand greater functionality, improved aesthetics ofelectronic components.
and new electronics innovations, the electronics product lifecycle is getting shorter, driving market growth across Estimated to be worth in excess the industry.
of 20 billion, the high service Increased competition in the marketplace adds to the pressure on design engineers to reduce the time and distribution market is very fragmented.
costto market of their new products.
Approximately 20% of the total available New environmental legislation increases the need for market is served by Premier Farnells energy efficient products and presents innovators with mainMDD businesses and three other newopportunities to differentiate.
The remainder Every year, more than a million electronics engineers graduate to meet the worlds thirst for electronics.
of the market is served by small and But they are not the only new participants fuelling the medium-sized local competitors.
As design engineering becomes democratised, users of products and services play an increasing role in the next generation of products while themaker movement brings together experts, enthusiasts and hobbyists to develop and modify new applications.
With more minds at work, the pace of electronics innovation accelerates, ensuring that the proliferation of electronics everywhere continues.
Pervasion of Increased electronics is innovation driving innovation 6% long More engineers Increased term needed competitiveness growth Increasing Reduced number cost Time-toof graduates market New environmental legislation adds further pressure 017159 PF AR13-14 2 Overview-Gov AW.
indd 8 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 9 2 3 Design and production is increasingly Consolidation of the global supply chain will global, with emerging markets playing favour the larger, international high service agreater role distributors who can meet the full spectrum of customer and supplier demands By combining global reach with regional resources, Customers want Suppliers want PremierFarnell is well positioned to benefit from this trend.
Single source of products efficient channel to high t Enhanced product proposition and increased breadth and design solutions.
anddepth of global inventory availability Trusted, branded products Insights from the t Access to local markets through global multichannel reecting increasingly global marketplace.
sales and marketing resources, combined with stringent regulation in customer insight markets worldwide.
t Technically-minded customers everywhere attracted by innovative web capability, including the Support along every step A distribution partner from element14 community ofthe product development pre-launch to production, process including access which is able to get their t Eastern Europe reach enhanced by Krakow telesales tolatest technologies.
latest products into the andtelemarketing centre hands of the design t Asia Pacic infrastructure in place to support increasing engineering community customer demand quickly and efficiently.
t Suppliers looking to enter the emerging markets do so Ease of doing business Technical capability to more efficiently through global distributors and technical capability provide necessary support, that helps them make especially as they introduce appropriate product new products to market.
By meeting these needs through our customer-centric strategy, PremierFarnell is positioned to become a trusted source for engineering customers and a global partnerfor suppliers.
1m Every year more than a million electronics engineers graduate to meet the worlds thirst for electronics.
