14 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 CPC and MCM Our other distribution businesses, CPC and MCM, supply electrical and electronic ranges, such as audio visual and security products, to a broad range of customers in their home markets of the United Kingdom and the United States, respectively.
Complementing our core brands, CPC and MCMs typical customer works in an auxiliary role in the electronics industry, such as IT departments, or is a technically-minded consumer, such as an enthusiast or hobbyist, developing and modifying electronics inhis spare time.
CPC is a leading business-to-business and Based in the US, MCM Electronics is a distributor business-to-consumer distributor of electrical of electronic components, equipment and andrelated products based in the UK.
accessories for business-to-business and the consumer electronics industry.
CPC stocks over 90,000 products from more than 2,000 brands, adding in excess of 16,000 new lines in 2013 14.
MCM stocks over 33,000 products from more than 550 CPCs product range provides customers with a choice of suppliers including computer hardware and peripherals, the latest products at competitive prices.
Customers benefit security and surveillance, wire and cable, audio and video from multichannel sales and technical support leveraging equipment, tools and test equipment.
the Groups online capability, catalogues and contact centre MCMs proposition has benefited from increased resource.
In the year ahead, CPC will continue to broaden collaboration with CPC.
By drawing on the insights and its target customer base, releasing a new catalogue to experience of the CPC team, MCM has enhanced its core promote its enhanced product offering.
product range to be of greater relevancy to a broader target Customers choose CPC because of its broad product customer base.
range, exceptional value for money and reliable, friendly A focus on top quality customer service, including technical andefcient service.
support through a range of channels, helps make MCMs See more here: http: cpc.
com proposition a trusted source for customers across its homemarket.
indd 14 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 15 CPC & MCM Working together CPC and MCMs collaboration continues to leverage global efficiencies and sharing of best practice across key functions, including Product, Marketing and Warehouse Management.
Over the past 12 months, extensive work has been undertaken to accelerate the alignment of MCMs proposition with that of CPC, primarily driven by a robust strategy to increase the depth ofcore product ranges.
Maker market Raspberry Pi has provided a basis for the successful implementation of both direct and reseller strategies at CPC and MCM to realise significant sales opportunities within the maker market segment.
The maker movement is seeing enthusiasts of engineeringoriented pursuits such as electronics, robotics and 3-D printing come together to learn and apply practical skills that enable them to create unique technology applications.
CPC and MCM offer a range of products that are highly relevant to this customer base including 3-D printers.
