20 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements AS A FULL CYCLE EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION COMPANY, PREMIER IS OUR MARKETS INVARIABLY IMPACTED BY VOLATILITY IN THE OIL PRICE.
PREMIER LOOKS TO MANAGE THIS THROUGH A SUBSTANTIAL HEDGING PROGRAMME AND BY PLANNING ITS BUSINESS ON A CONSERVATIVE BASIS.
WHILST A STRONG FUNDING POSITION REMAINS A PRIORITY, ANY OPPORTUNITIES WHICH HAVE THE POTENTIAL TO INCREASE INVESTOR RETURNS ARE GIVEN CAREFUL CONSIDERATION.
EQUITY MARKETS 2014 was a mixed year for equity markets across both developed and emerging markets as investors grappled with strong US economic data offset by concerns over deflation in Europe and slower growth from China.
Geopolitics Russias intervention in Ukraine, military action against Islamic insurgents in Iraq and Syria and unrest in Gaza to name but a few also played a part in market volatility.
Against this backdrop, the FTSE 350 Oil & Gas Producer sector underperformed the wider markets, driven by falling commodity prices, to close the year down 10 per cent.
This masks a very mixed performance with the larger, integrated companies significantly outperforming the smaller exploration and production companies.
Premiers share price tracked commodity prices lower to close the year at 167 pence, reflecting both the groups leverage to commodity prices and the markets lack of appetite for mid-cap E&P investments.
COMMODITY PRICES Crude oil benchmarks Brent and West Texas Intermediate WTI peaked at US$112 bbl and US$105 bbl respectively in June 2014, before falling to close the year at US$62 bbl and US$59 bbl.
The downward trend continued into early 2015 with both Brent and WTI falling below US$50 bbl in January.
This sharp fall resulted from an over supplied market, driven primarily by the growth in unconventional output in North America, together with weakening industrial activity in emerging markets and a strong US dollar.
Energy Information Administration analysis states that supply exceeded consumption in each of the four quarters in 2014.
Consensus around the outlook for the oil price remains relatively bearish in the short-term, although the long-term view is more positive with the majority of the financial institutions researching the sector continuing to forecast a recovery to US$85 bbl or above.
The correlation between the price of Brent and the high sulphur fuel oil HSFO benchmark Sing180 which drives our Singapore gas pricing persisted in 2014, with Sing180 also peaking in June at US$634.1 per metric tonne mt before falling sharply in the second half of the year to close 2014 at US$301.11 mt.
5 year Brent oil price $ bbl 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Source: Bloomberg With a significant amount of the groups production either directly or indirectly linked to Brent, a fall in the commodity price affects Premiers revenues, cash flows and the value of its underlying assets.
To manage this and to protect our capital investment programme, Premier looks to sell forward up to 50 per cent of its entitlement production, on a rolling forward 12-18 months time frame.
1 Jan 2010 1 Jan 2011 1 Jan 2012 1 Jan 2013 1 Jan 2014 1 Dec 2014 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 21 INVESTMENT AND COSTS UK semi-submersible rig rates 6 month average US$000 day Global upstream capital investment in 2014 was broadly flat year-on-year.
Significantly increased capital spending by the 450 exploration and production companies was offset by lower 400 expenditure from the majors who placed a renewed focus on 350 capital discipline after a strong spending increase in 2013 saw 300 capital returns eroded.
250 The sharp fall in the oil price in the second half of the year 200 accelerated the cost reduction programmes already being 150 implemented across the sector, a trend that has continued into 2015: independent oil companies and national oil companies have already announced capex budget cuts of over 20 per cent for 2015.
Source: Industry data Significantly reduced capital expenditure by the upstream sector invariably impacts the service sector and the consequences of Although seismic vessel day rates have fallen, they have fared this are already being felt across the supply chain.
This is better due to some capacity reductions in 2014.
With new accentuated where, during recent periods of high oil prices, vessels expected onto the market in 2015 and uncertainties capacity has been expanded and is particularly true of the over some of the high profile bidding rounds, rates for the drilling rig market, where rig rates have already fallen seismic industry are also likely to come under pressure.
However, costs take longer to respond in certain segments of the supply chain, especially where there are only a Premier took advantage of the weakness in the seismic vessel small number of key players, such as the heavy lift vessel market.
market in 2014 to award multi-client seismic contracts over our three licences in Brazil at competitive rates.
Premier Premier has implemented measures generating 10 per cent remains committed to drilling the best quality prospects cost savings on its operating costs for 2015.
Further cost within its exploration portfolio.
The groups 2015 exploration reductions are targeted.
This has been achieved primarily by programme includes a four well campaign in the Falkland renegotiating rates with existing service providers, including Islands, which has the potential to transform the resource base in-house contractors.
On the yet unsanctioned projects, the market weakness has provided an opportunity to review cost estimates and to re-bid into a weak supply market.
Both the Sea Lion and Vette projects ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSAL ACTIVITY are likely to benefit from the weaker FPSO and drilling markets Despite significant volatility in the oil markets, 2014 was while a lack of backlog for construction yards beyond 2016 should another busy year for upstream acquisitions and divestments.
provide a competitive bidding landscape for these new projects.
Private Chinese financial and industrial conglomerates emerged as active buyers along with Chinese and Middle Eastern national oil companies.
Meanwhile integrated oil EXPLORATION companies continued to progress their disposal programmes 2014 was a poor year for exploration for the industry.
While and were once again the most active sellers in the market.
spending on conventional exploration and appraisal Buyers continued to favour North American shale plays over continued to rise, the global volume of barrels added from the more mature, high cost regions such as the UK North Sea.
new field discoveries was one of the lowest since the early However, Premier was successful in completing the sale 1990s.
As a result, 2014 discovery cost per barrel for the of the Scott area assets for a cash consideration of industry was estimated to be at a 10-year high of over US$130 million, the ninth largest UK North Sea deal in 2014.
Despite the poor industry record generally, 2014 was a successful year for Premiers exploration teams with two The number of corporate transactions in the sector discoveries and a finding cost of less than US$2 boe.
However, the commodity price volatility particular note was the 100 mmboe oil and liquids-rich gas that ensued in the second half of the year caused a shift in discovery at Kuda Singa Laut on the Tuna Block, one of only activity and, in November and December, deal flow in the 36 discoveries of more than 100 mmboe worldwide in 2014. sector fell to the lowest consecutive two month total since the recession in early 2009.
The result was a well-supplied The lack of exploration success in 2014 for the industry and market at year-end with a global pipeline of assets for sale an increased focus on capital preservation as a result of the of around US$300 billion.
recent sharp fall in the oil price have caused many upstream companies to cut their 2015 exploration budgets significantly.
In addition to the sale of the Scott area assets, Premier The knock-on effect has been weakness in the rig market, with announced the sale of two further non-core assets in 2014: both rig utilisation and day rates falling.
As drilling rates align Luno II, a discovery offshore Norway, and Block A Aceh, with the new low oil price environment, the number of a pre-development asset onshore Indonesia.
The combined exploration wells is expected to pick up with companies value of the three transactions was approximately looking to take advantage of substantially reduced costs.
