Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 13 PREMIER AIMS TO DELIVER INCREASING NET ASSET VALUE BY INVESTING IN AND EXECUTING THE DEVELOPMENT OF HIGH QUALITY OIL AND GAS PROJECTS.
Premier aims to increase net asset value per share by investing in and executing the development of high quality oil and gas projects.
Premier accesses the oil and gas reserves and resources to do this through successful exploration and by selectively acquiring assets.
Premier also actively manages its portfolio through disposals and, by planning its business on a conservative basis, looks to maintain significant liquidity throughout the cycle.
The cash flow generated from these activities continue to support investment in high quality projects, a high impact but capital disciplined exploration programme and, where appropriate, cash returns to shareholders.
Acquisitions Return to Development Production Cash Shareholders Exploration Disposal of non-core assets PREMIER SEEKS TO REPLENISH ITS RESERVE AND RESOURCE BASE THROUGH SUCCESSFUL EXPLORATION WITHIN A STRICT CAPITAL DISCIPLINED FRAMEWORK.
Premier targets near-field, value accretive opportunities which can be tied-in to our existing infrastructure as well as emergent plays which have the potential to transform the resource base of the company.
Premier also continually high-grades its exploration portfolio through divestment and relinquishment of licences that do not meet the groups internal metrics on a risk reward basis.
Premier is primarily a production and development company and, whilst these activities are the focus of capital investment, the group typically allocates up to one third of its cash flow to exploration.
100 mmboe oil and liquids-rich gas discovery made in Indonesia in 2014 2014 near-field exploration success in Pakistan More than 20 exploration licenses relinquished over the course of 2014 Four well high impact programme in North Falklands basin planned for 2015 EXPLORATION OUR BUSINESS MODEL 14 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements PREMIER LOOKS TO ADD HIGH QUALITY ASSETS TO ITS PORTFOLIO THROUGH SELECTIVE ACQUISITIONS WHERE ITS POSITION IS COMMERCIALLY ADVANTAGED.
This includes increasing its equity in assets in which Premier already has an interest and acquiring key assets which fit within Premiers core areas of expertise.
Premier also looks to leverage its operating capabilities and significant funding position to take advantage of opportunities arising as a result of oil price or capital market weakness.
Historically, such periods of weakness have been when Premier has been most active in the acquisition market.
Premier will continue to assess new opportunities in 2015, particularly those that arise as a result of current market dislocations: we will focus on areas where our position is commercially advantaged such as in the UK where we have circa US$2.7 billion of UK tax losses and allowances WHILE PREMIER IS A FULL CYCLE EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION COMPANY, WE HAVE AN ESTABLISHED AND SUCCESSFUL HISTORY OF ASSET DEVELOPMENT.
Premier focuses on projects where it can utilise its operating capabilities and, in particular, leverage the groups strong track record in developing medium-sized offshore oil fields utilising floating production systems.
Premier has been involved in a number of FPSO projects across the cycle from FEED and the contracting processes through construction and development to production.
Premier also aims to leverage its development capabilities to build on its dominant position in the Singaporean and Indonesian gas markets and to position itself to take advantage of future opportunities.
The Premier-operated Dua field in Vietnam was successfully brought on-stream in July 2014 The UK North Sea Kyle field was successfully reinstated in July 2014 First gas achieved from the Premier-operated Naga field in Indonesia in November 2014 Solan jacket and topsides successfully installed in September 2014 Government approval of the Catcher project in the Central North Sea received in June 2014 FEED work on the Vette project in Norway completed by year-end FPSO solution for the Sea Lion project in the Falkland Islands progressed DEVELOPMENT OUR BUSINESS MODEL continued ACQUISITIONS Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 15 PREMIER SEEKS TO MAXIMISE VALUE FROM ITS LOW COST, STABLE PRODUCTION BASE TO GENERATE LONG-TERM CASH FLOWS.
Premiers production base is focused around operated floating production systems, such as the Chim So field in Vietnam and the Balmoral area in the UK North Sea, and the groups dominant position in the South East Asia gas market.
Premiers portfolio mix is changing as the weighting of our production assets shifts from taxed gas production in Pakistan to untaxed UK oil production.
As a result, at flat oil prices, Premiers production base becomes increasingly cash flow generative.
Achieved record production of 63.6 kboepd in 2014, above upper end of market guidance Significantly improved operating efficiency of 84 per cent realised in 2014 2013: 75 per cent 2014 and forecast 2015 operating cost of less than US$20 boe PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT DISPOSALS OF NON-CORE ASSETS Premier actively manages its portfolio across the cycle to ensure the groups capital and people are focused on its highest return assets and where the company is best placed to add value.
Premier seeks to dispose of non-operated, non-core assets including mature producing assets where operating and future expected abandonment costs have been rising.
In addition, Premier looks to divest non-operated discoveries which have been slow to progress forward and therefore erode the return on capital.
In particular, this includes pre-development projects that do not meet our internal hurdle rates, fit our financial profile or sit within our core area of expertise.
Premier announced the sale of approximately US$190 million of non-core asset sales in 2014, including the sale of the high cost Scott area assets in the UK North Sea, the Luno II discovery offshore Norway and the pre-development Aceh gas project onshore Indonesia Premier also continued to high-grade its exploration portfolio during 2014, divesting or relinquishing more than 20 exploration licences across its portfolio RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS Premier aims to deliver consistent, measurable capital growth to shareholders by investing in high quality projects, while offering investors the potential for higher returns through our exploration activities.
However, the company recognises that its share price does not always reflect the value of the underlying assets of the business.
In these instances, and after balancing the capital needs of the business, Premier will look to return surplus cash flows to shareholders.
Dividend of 5 pence per share paid to shareholders in 2014 US$93 million share buyback programme undertaken in 2014 PRODUCTION
