16 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements PREMIERS ACTIVITIES IN VIETNAM DEMONSTRATE THE SUCCESS OF THE COMPANYS STRATEGY AND THE SIGNIFICANT VALUE IT CAN CREATE FOR ITS SHAREHOLDERS.
EXPLORATION In 2004, Premier undertook a regional geological evaluation that applied the knowledge from its activities in the West Natuna Sea in Indonesia to the Nam Con Son basin in Vietnam.
This work culminated in the acquisition of two blocks in the Nam Con Son basin: Block 07 03 where Premier made a small oil and gas discovery and subsequently sold its equity for US$45 million and Block 12.
Both were large, under-explored blocks in an area widely considered to be gas prone and with little oil potential.
Block 12 contained the dormant Dua discovery and some unsuccessful wells drilled by earlier operators, which had discovered non-commercial quantities of gas.
Premier, however, recognised the potential for oil and, in June 2006, Premier drilled its first operated well in Vietnam, appraising the Dua discovery in partnership with Santos.
This was followed by a step-out well that discovered a new oil accumulation, the southern extension to the Dua field.
By applying its regional technical knowledge, Premier has been able to target oil in new reservoirs.
Further, it also provided the impetus to drill the Chim So prospect, a tilted fault block, 21 kilometres south west of the Dua field.
Premier discovered the Chim So oil field in November 2006.
The discovery well was tested and immediately side-tracked to identify the oil water contact to provide robust reserves definition in the south of the field.
The discovery was subsequently appraised in 2008 to confirm the extent of the field to the north.
By late 2008 sufficient knowledge had been gained from the four well penetrations discovery, side-track, appraisal plus a nearby dry well drilled by a previous operator to enable Premier to proceed to a sanction decision.
While Premier was in a position to sanction the Chim So project in late 2008, the global financial crisis at that time resulted in a significant fall in the oil price and weakening of capital markets.
Premier selected to defer final approval for the development of the Chim So field for nine months in order to re-engage with the supply chain to negotiate improved terms, taking advantage of the more favourable conditions.
Premier also took the opportunity in the intervening period to re-engineer the basis of design for the field.
In particular, a second well head platform was removed in response to high steel prices and instead a plan was adopted to drill long reach wells from one well head platform, capitalising on low rig day rates at the time.
The combination of these activities meant gross savings of circa US$130 million were achieved when final approval for development of the Chim So field was given in November 2009.
VIETNAM BUSINESS MODEL FROM FIRST PRINCIPLES Chim So - Strategy in action Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 17 ACQUISITION In 2012, Premier sanctioned the Dua development, a three well subsea tie-back to Chim So.
In 2013, the In July 2009, Premier successfully acquired an subsea equipment was installed at Dua and tied-back additional 25 per cent interest in Block 12W from to the FPSO via flow lines and umbilicals.
Drilling of Delek Energy for US$72 million.
At the same time, the three Dua development wells commenced in PetroVietnam PVEP confirmed that it would February 2014 with first oil achieved from the field in exercise its back in right to acquire a 15 per cent July 2014.
The field, which is capable of producing interest in the Production Sharing Contract PSC.
8-10 kboepd gross, will extend plateau production The resultant interests in the PSC were: Premier from Block 12W.
53.125 per cent operator, Santos 31.875 per cent and PVEP 15 per cent.
PRODUCTION DEVELOPMENT When sanctioned it was anticipated that Chim So would reach plateau production rates of 25 kboepd.
The Chim So jacket and topsides were constructed However, field performance has exceeded expectations by PTSC M&C in Vietnam.
Weighing 4,000 tonnes and and Chim So has sustained production rates in 106.6 metres high, the jacket was the largest ever built excess of 35 kboepd gross.
During the first 18 months, in Vietnam.
Construction of the jacket and topsides production was constrained by unreliable power took 2.8 million man-hours and was completed on generation on the FPSO, preventing the Chim So time, on budget and with no lost time injuries, with the field from realising its full potential.
subsequently upgraded the FPSO to deliver reliable power generation which resulted in significantly The Chim So FPSO was constructed by Keppel in improved uptime from the Chim So facility and, in Singapore.
PVKEEZ, one of four shortlisted contractors late 2014, the field achieved record production rates in the design competition, was selected to provide the of around 40 kboepd gross.
PVKEEZ was selected based on a competitive day rate and their ability to tailor the conversion of the In January 2015 Block 12W surpassed the 30 million Lewek EMAS, a 30-year old oil tanker, to Chim Sos barrels mmbbls gross milestone and is currently requirements.
Despite the challenging project funding producing over 35 kboepd gross.
The field is environment, conversion commenced in September anticipated to come off plateau in 2015 although, to 2008 and was completed safely in June 2011 after date, there has been no evidence of decline in the 5.7 million man-hours.
The completed FPSO, which is Chim So wells.
Nonetheless, plans are already well 290 metres long, is capable of storing 680,000 barrels advanced to optimise production beyond the end of of oil, equivalent to around two days of Vietnams total the decade through a programme of infill drilling, well oil production.
workovers and effective contract management.
Premier brought on-stream safely the US$800 million Chim So development on schedule and to budget in October 2011, less than six years after the initial discovery.
