6 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Business Model We develop innovative leading brands in markets and geographies selected for growth potential.
Ourstrategic pillars are the key enablers to deliver thismodel.
Selected categories We operate in selected categories where our brands have a strategic advantage and which offer profitable growth opportunities.
We win through understanding local consumer needs, being first to market and being unconstrained by big company bureaucracy.
Continuous and faster innovation will ensure our brands occupy leading positions in these categories.
Progress and priorities We continue to renovate and innovate our brands and products across our portfolio to differentiate our offering in the competitive markets in which we operate.
Highlights include the UK relaunch of Imperial Leather across three new tiers see page 16, the Australian laundry brand Radiants new range of products see page 14 and several new Beauty division product launches see page 16.
During the year we have sold our Polish Home Care brands and the Polish business is now focussing on the Personal Care brands of Luksja, Original Source and Carex.
As stated in our previous report we are continuing to leverage our brands globally.
This year we have seen: Original Source successfully expand further in Australia, Poland and Indonesia: Cussons Babys continued growth in Nigeria and Carexs further development into Indonesia and Africa.
Our priorities for next year are to continue with our brand innovation and renovation strategy and to look forfurther opportunities within our selected categories.
Selected geographies We operate in specific geographies through our own infrastructure or in partnership.
In these geographies wewill tailor our channel approach for each category.
Progress and priorities A number of geographies we operate in have high growth potential.
During the year we have made significant investments in Nigeria through our joint ventures with Wilmar see page 13 and Haier see page 12.
In the Asia region we purchased Raffertys Garden, an Australian Food and Nutrition brand, and it is expected to be launched outside of Australia before the end of the 2014 calendar year.
In addition both the Asia and Africa regions have seen continued investment in both global, regional and local brands.
Our priorities for next year are to continue the investment in high-growth regions and to look for further international .
7 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Flexible supply chain We operate an ever evolving Supply Chain designed to service our categories.
We deliver innovative products from various sources to our customers quickly and efficiently.
Progress and priorities The initial phase of the supply chain optimisation project has been completed in the current year.
The project has both increased the flexibility and reduced the overhead footprint of our manufacturing facilities within our supply chain.
During this process additional supply chain opportunities were identified including: the optimisation of our route to market in key emerging markets and a new enhanced manufacturing facility for Electricals in Nigeria.
This second phase of supply chain optimisation will be fully completed in the year to 31 May 2015.
CAN DO people We work with people who share our unique CAN DO values.
Our Enhancing lives CAN DO culture is the unifying ofconsumers with quality, strength that binds together our value and innovation diverse businesses around the world.
We are responsible, demanding and have a sense offun!
Progress and priorities CAN DO continues to be at the heart of our business, demonstrated day in and day out through the passion and commitment of our employees.
Our Group structure and systems project is challenging our people across all our geographies to change the way we work to enable faster and more efficient decision making to deliver brands and products to market.
Continuous development of our people is a key factor in our growth.
This has been evidenced during the year through the development of a bespoke PZ Cussons commercial capability curriculum in addition to over 400 Nigerian managers attending soft skills and behaviour workshops.
We will continue to recruit the best CAN DO people and support them to achievement through living our values.
