35 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Board of Directors Directors Executive Directors Independent Non-executive Directors Alex Kanellis Richard Harvey Group Chief Executive Officer Mr Harvey was appointed a Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons Mr Kanellis has a PhD in mechanical engineering.
He joined Plc in January 2010 and took up the position of Chairman on PZCussons in 1993.
He was appointed Managing Director of the 1 July 2010.
A Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, Mr Harvey Groups business in Thailand in 1998 before becoming Managing became Group Chief Executive of Norwich Union plc in 1998 and Director of Indonesia in 2001.
He was appointed to the Board in subsequently Group Chief Executive of Aviva plc, initially branded 2003 as Regional Director of Asia before becoming Group Chief CGNU, after the merger of Norwich Union with CGU.
He has worked Executive in June 2006.
Mr Kanellis is a member of the Nomination, extensively overseas in both mature and emerging markets and Group Risk and CSRCommittees.
was Chair of the Association of British Insurers from 2003 to 2005.
Since retiring from Aviva plc in 2007, Mr Harvey has spent time in Chris Davis Africa supporting charitable initiatives and has also worked on other Chief Operating Officer projects to accelerate business development in Africa, including After working in senior sales & marketing roles for various consumer work for the Africa Progress Panel and the World Bank.
He is a Nongoods companies, Mr Davis joined PZ Cussons from the BTR Nylex executive Director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Plc.
Mr Harvey Group in 1993 and became Managing Director of the Groups is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the business in Australia in 2001.
He was appointed to the Board in CSR and Group Risk Committees.
2006 as Regional Director of Africa and became Group Commercial Director in 2008.
He was appointed Chief Operating Officer in 2013.
James Steel Mr Davis is a member of the Group Risk and CSR Committees.
Mr Steel has been a Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons Plc since October 2005 and was appointed Senior Independent Director Brandon Leigh in September 2012.
He works in the Cabinet Office Efficiency Chief Financial Officer & Reform Group and is a Trustee of Independent Age.
He was Mr Leigh qualified as a chartered accountant with Deloitte & previously a Managing Director of Investment Banking at Citigroup Touche in 1996.
He joined PZ Cussons in 1997 and was appointed and Arbuthnot Securities and started his career at Price Waterhouse to the Board in 2006.
Mr Leigh is a member of the Group Risk where he qualified as a chartered accountant.
Mr Steel is Chairman andCSRCommittees.
of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination, Audit, Group Risk and CSR Committees.
He will retire from the Board immediately after the Companys 2014 Annual General Meeting on 23September.
Professor John Arnold Mr Arnold is Emeritus Professor of Accounting and Financial Management at Manchester Business School and has been a Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons Plc since January 2007.
A chartered accountant, his previous experience includes spending 12 years as Director and Dean of Manchester Business School.
Professor Arnold is currently Chairman of the Co-operative Performance Committee of Co-operatives UK, a member of the Council of the Greater Manchester Chamber, Chairman of Feelgood Theatre Productions and an academic adviser to Ashridge and to IBS-ISCTE Business School in Lisbon.
Professor Arnold is Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Risk Committee and a member of the Nomination, Remuneration and CSR Committees.
He will succeed Mr Steel as Senior Independent Director later thisyear.
36 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Board of Directors continued Ngozi Edozien Caroline Silver Ms Edozien was appointed a Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons Mrs Silver was appointed a Non executive Director of PZ Cussons Plc in January 2012.
She is former Head Chief Executive Officer, Plc in April 2014.
She is Partner and Managing Director at Moelis & West Africa of the firm Actis LLP, a leading private equity investor Co, the global investment bank.
A chartered accountant, she has in emerging markets based in the UK, in which capacity she was worked within the investment banking sector for over 25 years responsible for all aspects of the Companys business in the region.
and has previously held a number of senior corporate finance and Prior to joining Actis, Ms Edozien was VP Strategic Planning and M&A positions at Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch.
She has a Business Development for Pfizer Inc based in New York.
She was wealth of international experience, including substantial exposure transferred to Nigeria in 2005 to run Pfizers businesses in East, to a number of African markets.
Mrs Silver is a member of the West and Central Africa, before being appointed in 2008 as Chief Nomination, Remuneration, Audit, Group Risk and CSRCommittees.
Executive of the Equity Vehicle for Health in Africa, an investment company focussed on investing in private healthcare businesses The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
She has a background in management consulting of the letter of engagement relating to each are set out under the and banking, having spent seven years with McKinsey & Co, working heading Terms and conditions for Non-Executive Directors within principally in the consumer products and healthcare sectors.
AUS the Report on Directors remuneration.
Nigerian citizen, she was educated in the United States at Harvard University and started her career in corporate finance at JP Morgan.
Under the Companys present Articles of Association, all Directors She is a Non-executive Director of Diamond Bank Plc, a company are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Each of the listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange and Vlisco Group, a company Directors will retire immediately prior to the 2014 Annual General based in the Netherlands and a leader in the textile and fashion Meeting and, with the exception of James Steel each, being eligible, industry in Africa.
MsEdozien is a member of the Nomination, will offer himself or herself for re-election or, in the case of Remuneration, Audit, GroupRisk and CSRCommittees.
MrsSilver, election at the meeting.
Helen Owers The evaluation of the Board, as reported within the Report on Mrs Owers was appointed a Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons Corporate Governance, concluded that each of the Directors Plc in January 2012.
Until recently she was Chief Development continues to demonstrate effectiveness and commitment to his Officer for Thomson Reuters Professional, with responsibility for or her particular role and the re-election of each is accordingly the companys expansion in rapidly developing economies.
played an important role in the development of the companys digital strategy and, as President of Global Businesses for Thomson Reuters Legal, she built new businesses in a number of emerging markets, balancing local consumer insights and needs with the globalisation of the business and key products.
Before joining Thomson Reuters, Mrs Owers worked as a consultant with Gemini Consulting, developing and implementing corporate and operational strategies for a number of consumer products clients.
She is a Non-Executive Director of Informa Plc, Wragge Lawrence and Graham & Co LLP and of the Eden Project.
Mrs Owers is a member of the Nomination, Audit, Group Risk, CSR and Remuneration Committees and will succeed Mr Steel as Chair of the latter following the Companys 2014 Annual GeneralMeeting.
