Strategic report: performance Directors report Financial statements Additional information GlobalProducts DRIVING A CHANGE IN FOCUS Market and operational review Key highlights  the drawdown of overseas US military forces that had Revenue  , .
 Reduction in US conflict-related New Proxy Board and Chairman  product sales and profits against appointed just after year end , strong prior year To reduce the volatility of its  Reduction partially offset by revenue profile over time, $28m.
the contribution from UK Global QinetiQ is seeking to increase its Revenuewas175.6m 2013:269.4m, underlining Products and TALON orders from portfolio of products and to find  Iraq and Pakistan new markets and applications .
Asanticipated, , including spares,  to27.0m Value pipeline 2013:60.2m,   Explore Test for value  Core onerouscontract.
Organic-Plus update TALON OptaSense Alarm  Q-Net Roboticappliquekits IntegratedWarrior  System LASTArmor Roboticcontrollers  .
Thedivision SWATS Space Products MEWS  Power Line Sensors development,  Linewatch , withpotentialfor E-X-Drive newrevenuestreams.
TheUnmanned 33 QinetiQ Group    Name: Tom Debraekeleer and Bart fide Wilde products,  Role: Small satellite assurance and safety , Virginiawithwhomit .
Understanding our business Survivability Unmanned Systems OptaSense Space Products Core Core Explore Explore What we do What we do What we do What we do  A world leading provider Abespokefibresensing Providessatellites, payload that protect people and assets ofmilitaryrobots.
34 QinetiQ Group  Strategic report: performance Directors report Financial statements Additional information  Name: Jeff Travis and Jim Godfrey  Role: Electrical engineers QinetiQsportfolio,  .
Thedevelopmentofthe   RIO, amarketleading , witha turnoverof$5min2013.
 agreements to supply its products and services to seven , solar .
 , ensurequalityof three-year product development contract that was serviceforcustomers, monitorassets, ,  , reduceoutages,  .
 $24mfortheyear , others and follows the decision to invest in the region two years .
  SpaceAgency ESA groundstationatRedu, Belgium non-defencemarkets,  and recently signed an agreement that ensured the  long-term development of this facility as a strategic , .
 American hydro-electric company to support its smart  meteringprogramme.
