Strategic report Directors report: remuneration Financial statements Additional information Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Policy is built on the following philosophy: Introduction remuneration packages are structured to support business This section of the Remuneration Report contains the general strategy and conform to current best practice: principles operated by the Group in respect of the Groups appropriate rewards are given for meeting specific target Directors Remuneration Policy which will underpin the Groups objectives set at the beginning of each year: future remuneration payments.
The Committee aims to maintain a Remuneration Policy, consistent with the Group business strategy congruence with pay and employment conditions elsewhere and objectives, which: in the Group: attracts, retains and motivates individuals of high calibre: incremental compensation is achieved for attaining stretch performance targets: is responsive to both Group and personal performance: and objectives are measured on metrics designed to be consistent is competitive within relevant employment markets.
with sustainable long-term business performance: This Remuneration Policy covers the three-year period commencing promotion of long-term alignment with shareholders through 1 April 2014.
The policy set out below complies with the Large and satisfaction of incentives in shares and required employee Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports shareholding: and Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
all decisions are made taking into account the diversity of our people.
The total remuneration levels of the Executive Directors are reviewed annually by the Committee, with due consideration for: composition of the reward package: performance of the Executive against specific targets set at the beginning of each year: competitive market practice and remuneration levels based on a consistent competitor group reviewed annually: and the general economic environment, particularly in the defence sector.
The Executive Directors remuneration package is made up of the following components: Performance Share Benefits and Remuneration Base salary Bonus Banking Plan Plan pensions package 73 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors Remuneration report continued These main elements of remuneration, how they are linked to, and support, the Group business strategy are summarised in the following policy table: Policy for Executive Directors Component Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measures Maximum payment and payment at threshold Base salary To attract and retain the talent needed to lead our business.
Reviewed annually, with any change effective from 1 September.
Aim to pay base salaries in line with the market median against defined comparator groups.
Reference is made to the market data provided by the advisors to the Committee which covers all aspects of reward.
Typically, the base salaries of Executive Directors in post at the start of the policy period and who remain Each year, the packages are benchmarked independently by our advisors, currently in the same role throughout the policy period will PwC, using two comparator groups: one group is based on company size, measured be increased by a similar percentage to the average by market capitalisation, and the second group is sector specific.
annual percentage increase in salaries of all other The first group is used as the primary reference with cross-checking against the employees in the Group.
The exceptions to this rule second group to capture any industry specific features: there are approximately may be where: 20 companies in each group.
The lower quartile, mid-market and upper quartile an individual is below market level and a decision reference points are captured and the packages of the CEO and CFO benchmarked is taken to increase base pay to reflect proven against these to ensure that they remain competitive at the mid-market level.
Other competence in role: or factors taken into account when considering whether or not to award a base salary increase include: there is a material increase in scope or responsibility to the Executive Directors role.
the business environment for the year ahead: the salary increase budget for all employees for the coming year: all other aspects of remuneration the reward mix : the critical nature of the appointment with respect to delivering business results: the performance of the Executive over the previous 12 months: the Executives position in terms of career development, potential and experience: and retention risk.
Bonus Banking Plan NEW Enabling the successful implementation of Group strategy through setting relevant targets to Annual performance conditions and targets are set at the beginning of the plan year.
Maximum 225% of salary measure Executive Director performance.
Aligns the interests of Executives with shareholders and As well as determining the performance conditions, targets and relative weighting, Target 90%135% of salary contributes to the retention of key individuals by ensuring that Executives take part of their annual the Committee will also determine, within the approved range, the level of target Threshold 0% of salary bonus in shares rather than cash.
bonus at the beginning of the plan year.
Upon assessment of performance by the Committee, a contribution will be made by the Company into the participants plan account and 50% of the cumulative balance will be paid in cash.
Any remaining balance will be converted into shares.
100% of the balance in year 4 will be paid in shares to the participant.
During the four-year plan period, 50% of the retained balance is at risk of forfeiture based on a minimum level of performance determined annually by the Committee.
Discretion by the Committee to adjust targets may be made in exceptional circumstances, for example: acquisitions and disposals: restructuring costs: business structure changes: restated corporate allocations: Board approved budget adjustments: final IAS 19 pensions finance cost.
However, where such targets are altered, the Committee will adjust the performance targets so that the revised target is not materially less challenging than the target as originally set.
74 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: remuneration Financial statements Additional information These main elements of remuneration, how they are linked to, and support, the Group business strategy are summarised in the following policy table: Policy for Executive Directors Component Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measures Maximum payment and payment at threshold Base salary To attract and retain the talent needed to lead our business.
75 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors Remuneration report continued Component Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measures Maximum payment and payment at threshold Performance Share Plan PSP To align Executive Directors reward with returns to shareholders by a focus on increasing Awards are earned based on an equal weighting of absolute underlying EPS growth Individual participants award levels are determined awards made from 31 March shareholder value over the medium to long term and ensuring long-term commitment and relative TSR performance.
The performance period runs for three years from by the Committee annually.
the start of the financial year in which the award is granted.
For the Executive Directors: The PSP focuses Executives on key measures which determine the sustainable performance The Committee has discretion to vary the weighting of performance metrics over Normal grant level 150% of salary of the Company and also ensures that the implementation of the Companys strategy is leading the life of this Remuneration Policy to ensure alignment with business strategy.
Maximum grant level 200% of salary to above market levels of return for investors.
If events occur which cause the Committee to consider that the performance targets The percentages of the award which vest at are no longer an appropriate measure of Group performance, the Committee may threshold performance are 25% for EPS growth alter the terms of performance targets as it considers appropriate, but so that the and 30% for relative TSR rising on a linear basis revised target is not materially less challenging than the target as originally set.
to 100% vesting at stretch performance.
To guard against misconduct, a claw back facility will apply under which part, or all, of the award can be recovered for the following reasons but not limited to these : a material misstatement of the Groups financial results has occurred: the Board has found that the participant has engaged in misconduct as determined by the Board in the period between the date of grant and vesting.
Pension To ensure that Executive Directors total remuneration remains attractive and competitive.
The Groups policy is to offer all UK employees membership in the QinetiQ Group Maximum pension contribution or salary Personal Pension GPP plan which is a defined contribution scheme.
Executives supplement 25% of base salary for CEO, whose benefits are likely to exceed the Lifetime Allowance may opt out of the GPP.
In such cases, or if the annual allowance would be exceeded, the individual will be paid an allowance in lieu of pension contributions.
This supplement will be a non-consolidated allowance and will not impact any incentive calculations.
Other benefits To ensure that Executive Directors total remuneration remains attractive and competitive.
Benefits include car allowance, health insurance, life assurance, income protection Benefit values vary year on year depending on and membership of the Groups employee Share Incentive Plan which is open to all premiums and the maximum potential value is the UK employees.
cost of the provision of these benefits.
Personal Shareholding Policy To align Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders through the build-up Executives have five years to accumulate the required shareholding.
The CEO and CFO are required to hold QinetiQ shares and retention of a personal holding in QinetiQ shares.
with a value equivalent to 100% of their base salary.
Deferred shares held as part of the DAB will count towards this total Other defined members of the senior leadership excluding unvested matching shares.
team are required to hold shares with a value Unvested awards do not count towards the required shareholding.
equivalent to 50% of base salary.
Once the required level of shareholding has been achieved to satisfy the policy, the Director Executive will be expected to maintain that level of shareholding irrespective of whether the share price increases or decreases.
Accordingly, they will be considered to have satisfied the test in future years even if the share price decreases.
Provisions of previous policy that will To align Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders.
No further awards are made The outstanding awards under the previous DAB and VSP will continue to form part DAB maximum 100% of deferred bonus.
continue to apply Deferred Annual under these plans.
of the Remuneration Policy until vesting.
Details on how these plans operate can be VSP pre-defined number of shares for each 1m Bonus matching DAB, Value Share found in the Directors Remuneration Report for the year of grant.
of additional shareholder value created based Plan VSP These plans vest on terms set out in the plan rules which have previously been on PBT and TSR.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will disclose achievements under these plans in the year performance is completed.
76 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: remuneration Financial statements Additional information Component Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measures Maximum payment and payment at threshold Performance Share Plan PSP To align Executive Directors reward with returns to shareholders by a focus on increasing Awards are earned based on an equal weighting of absolute underlying EPS growth Individual participants award levels are determined awards made from 31 March shareholder value over the medium to long term and ensuring long-term commitment and relative TSR performance.
77 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors Remuneration report continued Notes to the policy tables Illustrations of application of Remuneration Policy Performance measures and targets in 2015 The tables below are for illustrative purposes and represent the minimum, target and maximum remuneration opportunity for both The performance targets are determined annually.
The Committee selected the performance conditions, as detailed on page 95, for the the CEO and CFO based on the following assumptions: Bonus Banking Plan because these are central to the Groups overall Fixed Pay: Estimated base salary for the year ending 31 March 2015 strategy and are the key metrics used by the Executive Directors to plus car allowance plus pension contribution.
oversee the operation of the business.
Further details are included Remuneration linked to annual performance: 40% of maximum in the Notice of AGM.
opportunity will pay out at target performance and 100% at The Committee is of the opinion that the specific performance stretch performance.
targets for the Bonus Banking Plan are commercially sensitive in Remuneration linked to long-term performance: 27.5% of maximum respect of the Company and that it would be detrimental to the opportunity will pay out at target performance and 100% at interests of the Company to disclose them.
The targets will be stretch performance.
disclosed after the end of the relevant financial year in that years Remuneration Report.
The table below sets out the potential remuneration for the CEO at minimum, target and stretch performance levels: The Performance Share Plan performance conditions, as defined on page 95, complement the performance conditions described in the Bonus Banking Plan, supporting sustainable performance.
25% 45% 30% Stretch 3,159,119 Changes to remuneration policy from that operating in 2014 The Committee conducted an extensive review of the Remuneration Target 49% 35% 16% 1,625,519 Policy taking into account the following factors: the current suitability of the incentive arrangements for the Group: the change in strategy for the business and the requirement 100% Minimum 493,247 to be aligned to the revised strategy: the new BIS Regulations which require the Company to seek 0 20 40 60 80 100 shareholder approval of the Remuneration Policy through Fixed Linked to annual performance Linked to perfomance over a binding vote at the 2014 AGM: more than 1 year the increasing strength of shareholder views against the operation The table below sets out the potential remuneration for the CFO of a leveraged matching share plan and PSP, both of which at minimum, target and stretch performance levels: measured performance against underlying EPS.
This has resulted in the Committee proposing to introduce the 25% 45% 30% Stretch 2,005,030 Bonus Banking Plan which if approved by shareholders will replace the Companys current Annual Bonus plan, DAB Plan and matching share arrangements.
48% 36% 16% Target 1,022,371 Remuneration Policy for all employees All employees of QinetiQ are entitled to base salary, benefits and pension.
UK and Australia based employees are entitled to 100% participate in the QinetiQ Share Incentive Plan.
The maximum Minimum 493,247 opportunity available is based on the seniority and responsibility of the role.
Participation in the PSP is available to Executive Directors: 0 20 40 60 80 100 senior managers and selected employees throughout the Fixed Linked to annual performance Linked to perfomance over organisation are also invited to participate.
more than 1 year 78 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Scenarios Scenarios Strategic report Directors report: remuneration Financial statements Additional information Approach to recruitment remuneration When recruiting Executive Directors, the Committee applies the following recruitment philosophy: Components Policy General The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay competitively to attract the appropriate high calibre candidate to the role.
We expect that the pay of any new recruit would be assessed following the same principles as for the Executive Directors.
Base salary and The base salary will be set taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and the salaries paid to similar benefits roles in comparable companies as per our base salary policy.
The Executive Director will be eligible to receive benefits in line with QinetiQs benefits policy as set out in the policy table.
Pension The Executive Director will be eligible to receive pension benefits in line with QinetiQs Pension Policy as set out in the policy table.
Bonus Banking Plan The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the Bonus Banking Plan to the declared maximum potential as set out in the policy table.
Long Term Incentives The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the LTIPs to the declared maximum potential as set out in the policy table.
Share buy-outs Awards may be granted to replace those forfeited by the Executive Director on taking up the appointment where replacement awards considered by the Committee to be appropriate.
The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards such that overall they are no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited.
In determining quantum and structure of these commitments, the Committee will seek to replicate the fair value and, as far as practicable, the timing and performance requirements of remuneration foregone.
Sign-on payments The Committees policy is not to provide sign-on compensation.
However, in exceptional circumstances where the recruitment awards Committee decides to provide this type of compensation it will endeavour to provide the compensation in equity, subject to a holding period during which cessation of employment will generally result in forfeiture and subject to the satisfaction of performance targets.
In addition, where practical the Committee will endeavour to consult with its key shareholders prior to entering into any commitment.
The maximum value of this one-off compensation will be proportionate to the overall remuneration offered by the Company and in all circumstances is limited to 150% of salary which will only be provided in exceptional circumstances.
Relocation policies In instances where the new Executive Director is required to relocate or spend significant time away from their normal residence, the Company may provide one-off compensation to reflect the cost of relocation for the Executive Director.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case by case basis but will take into consideration any cost of living differences housing allowance and schooling.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion but there would be no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the person concerned.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the Annual Remuneration Report for the relevant financial year.
Service contracts Copies of Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office, and available at the AGM.
Executive Directors service agreements are of indefinite duration, terminable at any time by either party giving 12 month prior notice.
It is the Companys policy not to provide notice periods greater than 12 months.
Under each of the Executive Directors service agreements, QinetiQ has the right to make a payment in lieu of notice of termination, the amount of that payment being base salary and benefits that would have accrued to the Executive Director during the contractual notice period.
In addition, the Committee reserves the right to allow continued participation in the annual bonus during the notice period provided that the individual is being required to work their notice period.
It should be noted that the Company expects Executive Directors to mitigate.
Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are renewed on a rolling 12-month basis subject to reappointment at the AGM.
There are no provisions for compensation on early termination.
79 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors Remuneration report continued Policy on payment for loss of office When considering compensation for loss of office, the Committee will always seek to minimise the cost to the Company whilst applying the following philosophy: Components Policy General The Committee will honour Executive Directors contractual entitlements.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
There is no agreement between the Company and its Directors or employees, providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
Base salary In the event of termination instigated by either the Company or Executive Director, the Executive Director may be and benefits entitled to receive compensation equivalent to salary and benefits they would have received if still in employment for their 12-month notice period.
Pension In the event of termination instigated by either the Company or Executive Director, the Executive Director may be entitled to receive compensation equivalent to their Company pension contributions, or cash allowance, they would have received if still in employment for their 12-month notice period.
Bonus Banking In the event of termination instigated by either the Company or Executive Director, the Executive Director may be considered a good leaver and accrue service under the Bonus Banking Plan until the date they cease to hold employment if their reason for ceasing to hold employment is for the following reasons: death: injury, ill-health or disability: redundancy: retirement with the Boards agreement: the employing Company ceasing to be a member of the Group: the business or part of the business to which the Participants employment relates is transferred to a person who is not a member of the Group: or any other reason other than for dishonesty, fraud, misconduct, or any other circumstances justifying summary dismissal as the Committee in its absolute discretion so permits in any particular case.
The Committee will only use its general discretion to determine that an Executive Director is a good leaver in exceptional circumstances and will provide a full explanation to shareholders, if possible in advance, of the basis for its determination.
In addition, all balances in the participants plan account will be paid.
In normal good leaver circumstances, the bonus will be based on the normal performance period and paid on the normal payment date.
However, the Board has discretion to accelerate the payment of bonus to an earlier date, subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions at that time.
In the event that an Executive director is not a good leaver they will have no entitlement to a payment under the plan for the year of their cessation of employment and all balances in their plans will be forfeited.
80 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: remuneration Financial statements Additional information Components Policy Long Term Incentives An award which has not vested will lapse on the date the participant ceases to hold employment unless the reason including matching for ceasing to hold employment is for one of the following reasons: awards under death: the DAB injury, ill-health or disability: redundancy: retirement with the agreement of the employing Company: It is the Committees Policy time: the employing Company ceasing to be a member of the Group: the business or part of the business to which the Participants employment relates is transferred to a person who is not a member of the Group: or any other reason other than for dishonesty, fraud, misconduct, or any other circumstances justifying summary dismissal as the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion so permits in any particular case.
The Committee will only use its general discretion to determine that an Executive Director is a good leaver in exceptional circumstances and provide a full explanation to shareholders, if possible in advance, of the basis for determination.
Awards vest on the normal vesting date, subject to the performance conditions being satisfied.
However, the Committee has discretion to accelerate the vesting of awards to an earlier date, subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions at that time.
In either case, unless the Committee decides otherwise, awards are pro-rated to reflect the period in which the participant was not employed during the performance period.
The Committee reserves the right to pay cash in lieu of shares if deemed appropriate.
81 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors Remuneration report continued Policy for Non-executive Directors The Remuneration Policy for Non-executive Directors is summarised in the table below: Component Purpose & link to strategy Operation Maximum Fees To attract and retain Non-executive Directors of the calibre required to assist the The Group Chairman reviews annually the fees of the Non-executive Directors, Non-executive Director fee policy aims to pay at Company in setting and delivering its strategy.
other than the Group Chairmans, and makes recommendations to the Board.
median level, when considering the same comparator group used for Executive Directors, and increases will The Senior Independent Non-executive Director reviews the Group Chairmans generally be in line with that of employees.
fees and makes recommendations to the Board.
Non-executive Directors are paid a basic fee plus additional fees for chairing committees to take account of the additional responsibilities of the role.
Fees are neither performance-related nor pensionable.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in bonus, profit sharing or employee share schemes.
Excluding the Group Chairman, an additional fee is payable to those Non-executive Directors attending meetings outside of their country of residence.
All Non-executive Directors are reimbursed for any travel and other business expenses incurred.
An annual accommodation allowance may be payable to the Group Chairman and as deemed appropriate for individuals who are not UK resident.
Alternatively in the event of a change of control of the Company any Other Remuneration Committee discretions outstanding allocations shall, with the Remuneration Committees Under the various reward plans, the Committee may apply its consent, continue to subsist, but subject to such adjustments to the discretion in the event of the following: performance target as the Remuneration Committee shall determine.
variation of the share capital of the Company: The Committee may make adjustments to awards as it may demerger or disposal of a substantial part of the Groups business: determine to be appropriate under the DAB plan, Bonus Banking Plan significant acquisition or disposal: and PSP, in accordance with the plan rules.
change of control of the Company.
The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and Bonus Banking Plan administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by The Participant will receive an award in cash immediately prior to shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the date of the change of control and conditional on the change of the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative control actually occurring based on the level of satisfaction of the matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, performance conditions at this date pro-rated to the amount of disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
It is the the Plan Year completed on the change of control subject to the Committees intention that commitments made in line with its Committees discretion to waive or partially waive pro-rating.
policies prior to the date of the 2014 AGM will be honoured, even It is the Committees policy in normal circumstances to pro-rate if satisfaction of such commitments is made post the AGM and to time: however, in exceptional circumstances where the nature may be inconsistent with the remuneration policies.
of the transaction produces exceptional value for shareholders and provided the performance targets are met, the Committee will Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere consider whether pro-rating is equitable.
All balances in Participants in the Group Plan Accounts will vest in full on a change of control.
The Committee gains an overview of the reward and retention of the whole employee population annually when the Human Resources Performance Share Plan Director is invited to present on the proposals for salary increase In the event of a change of control of the Company it is the Committees for the employee population generally, and on any other changes normal expectation that any outstanding awards will vest subject to the to Remuneration Policy within the Group.
The information presented satisfaction of the Performance Targets and pro-rated to time.
However, is taken into consideration when setting the pay levels in exceptional circumstances, the Committee will consider whether of the Executive population.
pro-rating is equitable particularly where the nature of the transaction produces exceptional value for shareholders and, provided the The Committee also oversees arrangements for share-based reward Performance Targets are met, may waive some or the entire in respect of managers and the wider workforce.
82 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: remuneration Financial statements Additional information Policy for Non-executive Directors The Remuneration Policy for Non-executive Directors is summarised in the table below: Component Purpose & link to strategy Operation Maximum Fees To attract and retain Non-executive Directors of the calibre required to assist the The Group Chairman reviews annually the fees of the Non-executive Directors, Non-executive Director fee policy aims to pay at Company in setting and delivering its strategy.
Remuneration of employees in QinetiQ North America QNA is Consideration of shareholder views governed, according to the Proxy agreement, by their Compensation The Chair of the Committee and the Chair of the Company consult Committee.
The chairs of the QNA Compensation and QinetiQ Group with key shareholders on remuneration matters from time to time, plc Remuneration Committee meet on a regular basis to exchange and particularly where changes to share arrangements are under information.
In addition the Remuneration Committee receive consideration.
The Chair reports any concerns expressed by quarterly reporting on the QNA senior leaders remuneration shareholders to the Committee and these are taken into account as and any material changes.
the Committee develops and implements its policy.
Any comments received from shareholders outside these consultation exercises are Employee plans also reported to the Committee, and the Committee takes account The Share Incentive Plan is operated in the UK and Australia in the of general views on remuneration expressed by shareholders or form of a share purchase award with a matching Company contribution representative bodies such as the ABI.
to encourage employee ownership and engagement in the business.
The Committee consulted with its principal shareholders in relation Executive plans to the proposal to introduce the 2014 Bonus Banking Plan and took In addition to the VSP and PSP, the Group operates the following into account views expressed during the consultation when agreeing executive share plans: the final design.
The Remuneration Committee is grateful for QinetiQ Share Option Scheme QSOS This plan expired in 2013 shareholders comments and engagement during the consultation process.
At the end of this process, the Remuneration Committee Stock Award Plan Restricted Stock Units RSU RSU awards are was pleased that the majority of the shareholders consulted allocated in QNA to retain and motivate senior managers.
The RSU expressed support for the Bonus Banking Plan.
awards vest in four equal tranches over a four-year period.
Grants are subject to a vesting schedule which is 50% time-based and 50% based on the achievement of profit growth targets.
Awards are granted based on business performance, balanced with the need to attract, retain and motivate high calibre employees.
Executive Directors do not participate in the two plans above.
The Company does not invite employees to comment on the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Company does not use remuneration comparison measurements.
83 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors Remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction The following section of this report details how the Remuneration Policies have been implemented for the year ended 31 March 2014 and provides an overview on planned policy implementation for the year ending 31 March 2015.
Executive Director single figure remuneration The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
Executive Director remuneration is shown as a single figure to provide an annual comparison between the actual remuneration for the performance year ended 31 March 2014 and the preceding year.
For further details see Additional supporting information below.
2 Taxable benefits comprise of car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance and income protection.
3 Annual Bonus figure comprises of the value of both cash and shares excluding DAB matching awarded under the DAB plan.
Performance measures are Group Underlying Operating Profit, Group Underlying Cash Flow and Underlying EPS for both performance years.
For the performance year ended 31 March 2014 all measures exceeded target performance resulting in a payout of 76.97% of maximum bonus opportunity.
Additional supporting information below provides a detailed breakdown of calculations.
For the performance year ended 31 March 2013 all performance measures exceeded the stretch performance thresholds and the scheme therefore paid out at maximum.
4 Long Term Incentive figures for FY14 comprise of the 2011 VSP and the 2011 DAB matching plan.
For the 2011 VSP only TSR exceeded target performance resulting in an overall payout equivalent to 13.80% of maximum.
The EPS performance measure in the 2011 DAB matching plan exceeded threshold resulting in a payout equivalent to 26.47% of maximum.
Additional supporting information below provides a breakdown of calculations.
Long Term Incentive figures for 2013 comprise of the performance for the 2010 VSP for both the CEO and the CFO.
In addition the 2013 Long Term Incentive Plan figure for the CEO also comprises of the performance of the 2009 Mirror PSP and 2009 Matching PSP.
Long Term Incentive figures include dividend payments for both 2014 and 2013.
5 CEO pension figure represents cash in lieu of pension equating to 25% of base salary for both performance years.
CFO pension figure represents 38,344 into GPP and 39,366 cash in lieu of pension equating to 20% of base salary for year ended 31 March 2014 and 38,675 into GPP and 36,825 cash in lieu of pension equating to 20% of base salary for year ended 31 March 2013.
Additional supporting information for each Executive Director To support the single figure, this section documents each element of remuneration and how the figure was calculated for performance year ended 31 March 2014.
Base salary Executive From 1 July From 1 July Prorated Director 2013 a 2012 single figure CEO 615,325 597,400 610,844 CFO 391,400 380,000 388,550 a Following market review, the CEOs and CFOs salaries increased by 3% 17,925 per annum and 11,400 per annum respectively effective from 1 July 2013, based on performance and their compensation levels.
Annual Bonus Both the CEO and CFO were measured against Group targets The Annual Bonus potential for both CEO and CFO remained as shown below: unchanged from year ending 31 March 2013 with achievement of 1 on-target performance providing a payment equal to 75% of base 3 salary, rising on a linear scale to 150% of base salary for achievement 3 1.
Group underlying operating profit 60% of stretch performance.
The scheme begins to pay out once 2.
Group underlying operating threshold performance measures have been achieved.
Underlying EPS 20% 12 84 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: remuneration Financial statements Additional information Achievements against these Annual Bonus metrics and the amounts payable are as follows: % of maximum Performance Threshold 0% Target 50% Stretch 100% performance measure payable payable payable Actual achieved CEO payment CFO payment 1 Underlying 120m 125m 145m 132.7m 69.25% 383,501 243,940 operating profit Underlying 111m 116m 135m 144.9m 100.00% 184,598 117,420 operating 1,2 cash flow 1 Underlying EPS 14.1p 14.7p 17.1p 16.0p 77.08% 142,294 90,511 Overall results 76.97% 710,393 451,871 50% paid in cash 38.48% 355,196 225,935 50% paid in shares 38.49% 355,197 225,936 1 Definition of underlying measurements of performance can be found in the glossary on page 150.
2 Adjusted to exclude LTPA capital expenditure.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, no discretion was applied to the calculated results: therefore, 710,393 and 451,871 have been reported in the single figure calculation.
For the year ended 31 March 2013, stretch financial targets were exceeded providing a payment of 150% of base salary for both the CEO and CFO as detailed in the single figure table 50% of which was deferred into shares which will vest in June 2016.
No discretion was applied to these payments.
Long Term Incentive summary The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
The following table collates all Long Term Incentives 2011 VSP and 2011 DAB matching plan results for the performance period ended 31 March 2014.
Plan details are provided in the paragraphs immediately following this table.
TSR performance is based on a QinetiQ result of 84.5% compared with the comparator group TSR of 56.9%.
PBT is based on a QinetiQ result of 119.4m at the end of the performance period compared to 105.5m at the beginning of the performance period.
Detailed calculations can be found on pages 86 and 87. c Cash equivalent dividends are earned during the performance period and any period when shares are held in trust.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, no discretion was applied to the calculated results: therefore, 644,270 and 295,282 have been reported in the single figure calculation.
85 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors Remuneration report continued Deferred Annual Bonus matching In 2011, the CEO deferred 50% 290,000 and the CFO deferred 30% 90,000 of their annual cash bonus into the DAB Plan, allocating them 226,777 and 70,379 shares respectively.
These shares were subject to a three-year vesting period vesting due 1 July 2014 and were matched up to 100% based on EPS performance detailed below: Underlying EPS Compound annual growth rate CAGR over three years Percentage of shares vesting 7% 0% 7% 25% Between 7% and 15% Between 25% and 100% linear 15% 100% Actual performance and vesting levels are presented below: Actual EPS EPS at start of performance EPS at threshold EPS at maximum at end of performance period Vesting period 1 April 2011 p performance level p performance level p 31 March 2014 p level % of maximum 13.0 15.9 19.8 16.0 26.47 The resulting outcomes for the performance year ended 31 March 2014 are CEO: 141,588: and CFO: 43,941.
These values are used for single figure reporting.
Deferred shares have been transferred to the CEO and CFO.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, no discretion was applied to the calculated results.
Value Sharing Plan On 26 May 2011, the CEO, CFO and a small number of senior executives were awarded shares under the VSP based on a defined number of shares for every 1m of value created using PBT and TSR, over and above three-year performance hurdles ending 31 March 2014.
Both performance measures were equally weighted with the CEO awarded 1,800 shares per 1m of calculated Additional Shareholder Value ASV and the CFO was awarded 900 shares per 1m of ASV.
2011 VSP performance has been assessed as follows: 2011 VSP TSR 50% of the shares were awarded for a TSR measure of growth in market capitalisation plus net equity cash flows to shareholders over and above the equivalent return from investing in the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts.
The CEO was awarded 900 shares per 1m TSR ASV.
The CFO was awarded 450 shares per 1m TSR ASV.
QinetiQs TSR over the period was 84.5% and the TSR for the FTSE 250 Index was 56.9%, therefore QinetiQ outperformed the market by 27.6%.
The additional shareholder value was 234.9m being 27.6% of 851m the average market capitalisation over the three months to 31 March 2011.
Consequently the CEO was eligible for 211,388 900 234.9 shares.
The CFO was eligible for 105,694 450 234.9 shares.
50% of the awarded shares vested in May 2014 and the remaining 50% will vest in May 2015 provided the Executive Director remains in service.
86 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: remuneration Financial statements Additional information 2011 VSP PBT 50% of the shares were awarded for growth in value based on PBT times a fixed multiple, plus net equity cash flows to shareholders over and above a hurdle return rate of 8.5% per annum.
The fixed multiple was calculated from the average market cap in the PBT measure of growth in market capitalisation plus net equity cash flows to shareholders over and above the equivalent return from investing in the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts.
The CEO was awarded 900 shares per 1m PBT ASV.
The CFO was awarded 450 shares per 1m PBT ASV.
QinetiQs average market cap over the three months to 31 March 2011 was 851m.
Group adjusted PBT for the financial year ended 31 March 2011 was 105.5m.
Market cap as a fixed multiple of PBT for 2011 VSP awards is therefore 8.07 851 105.5m, Group adjusted PBT for the financial year ending 31 March 2014 is 119.4m, and dividends to shareholders over the three-year period amount to 63.1m.
Additional shareholder value is 977.8m being: 914.7m PBT in FY 2014 of 119.4m multiplied by the fixed multiple of 8.07 plus 63.1m paid dividends.
3 which is less than hurdle rate of 1,087m 851m x 1 8.5%.
Consequently the CEO and CFO were both eligible for 0 shares.
For the year ending 31 March 2014, no discretion was applied to the calculated results.
The resulting outcomes for the performance year ended 31 March 2014 are: Performance measure Grant date Vested shares Value for single figure reporting a Profit Before Tax PBT 26 May 11 CEO: 0 CEO: 0 CFO: 0 CFO: 0 Total Shareholder Return TSR 26 May 11 CEO: 211,388 CEO: 502,682 CFO: 105,694 CFO: 251,341 a Figures exclude dividend payments and are calculated using share price of 2.262 three month average from 1 January 2014 31 March 2014.
Total pension entitlements No Directors participate in the QinetiQ Pension Scheme.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year ended 31 March 2014 The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
The following awards were made to Executive Directors.
Award as Performance Percentage of Performance percentage of Face value of Share price at No.
Between date of sign-off and grant date the share price decreased resulting in a revised face value equivalent to 142.4% of salary 71.2% for each performance measure.
b Figure represents award following deduction of stamp duty payable on the deferred shares equivalent to 0.4% of award.
c DAB match 2013 is 50% of bonus earned in respect of year ended 31 March 2013.
87 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors Remuneration report continued Payments to past Directors The auditors are required to report on this information.
No payments were made to past directors.
Payments for loss of office The auditors are required to report on this information.
No payments were made for loss of office.
Single figure remuneration for each Non-executive Director The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
Non-executive Director remuneration is shown as a single figure to provide an annual comparison between the actual remuneration awarded during the performance year ended 31 March 2014 and the preceding year.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
Below sets out the Directors shareholdings as at 31 March 2014.
As detailed on page 77, the Company requires Executive Directors to hold shares equivalent to 100% of base salary.
The CEO has a current holding equivalent to 611% of base salary using a share price of 2.262 three month average to 31 March 2014.
The CFO has a current holding equivalent to 217% of base salary using a share price of 2.262 three month average to 31 March 2014.
Both Executive Directors have therefore met the minimum shareholding requirement.
Shares subject to Shares not subject to Total shares held Shares beneficially owned a performance conditions performance conditions at 22 May 2014 Leo Quinn 958,403 3,576,099 703,502 5,238,004 David Mellors 31,268 1,921,449 344,748 2,297,465 Mark Elliott 125,000 125,000 Noreen Doyle 24,662 24,662 Admiral Sir James 11,419 11,419 Burnell-Nugent Paul Murray 56,077 56,077 Michael Harper 20,000 20,000 Susan Searle 5,000 5,000 a Shares beneficially owned comprise of awards exercised under the VSP 2010 and PSP 2009, Shares held under the Share Incentive Plan Including matched shares and shares owned by the Executive Director and any connected persons.
b Shares subject to performance conditions comprise of awards made under the DAB matching for 2013, 2012 and 2011, PSP for 2013 and 2012, VSP for 2011 and 2010. c Shares not subject to performance conditions comprise of deferred shares under the DAB plan for 2013, 2012 and 2011.
88 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: remuneration Financial statements Additional information Total scheme interests summary The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
Total scheme interests, including those awarded during the financial year ending 31 March 2014, are as follows.
b O n appointment the CEO was granted a mirror PSP award, subject to the same EPS and TSR performance conditions as above.
In addition, the CEO invested c 1m in QinetiQ shares, for which he received an additional matching PSP award, subject to the same EPS and TSR performance conditions.
The awards in the table above are subject to the performance conditions described on pages 76-77.
The price of a QinetiQ share at 31 March 2014 was 225.9p.
The highest and lowest prices of a QinetiQ share during the year ended 31 March 2014 were 236.7p and 179.5p.
There have been no changes to the interests shown above between 31 March 2014 and 22 May 2014.
The exercise price for the VSP 2010 award was 186.15p.
89 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors Remuneration report continued Performance review The graph shows the Companys TSR over the period from 31 March 2009 to 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2011 to 31 March 2014 compared with the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts over the same period based on spot values.
The Committee has chosen to demonstrate the Companys performance against this index as it is an appropriate sector comparison within the index in which the Company is listed.
This comparator group is also used to measure TSR performance in the PSP.
He was awarded 600,000 in lieu of compensation for monies earned from a third party.
b Graham Love left the Company on 30 November 2009.
His single figure comprises of earnings up to and including his leaving date and incorporates compensation for loss of office and accelerated share vests.
Percentage change in CEO remuneration The following table compares change in CEO remuneration with an employee comparator group averaged per capita : Comparison group a 2013 2014 % change 2013 2014 % change Base salary 593,050 610,844 3.0% 34,906 36,434 4.4% Taxable benefits 52,106 59,524 14.2% 707 1,031 45.8% Annual Bonus 896,100 710,393 -20.7% 921 721 -21.7% a The comparison group 4,000 employees represents the UK principal businesses in service between 1 April 2012 and 31 March 2014.
90 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: remuneration Financial statements Additional information Relative importance of spend on pay Salary Fees The graph below shows actual spend on all employee remuneration, effective as at 1 April 2014 shareholder dividends and buybacks and any other significant use Chief Executive Officer 615,325 of profit and cash within the previous two financial years: Chief Financial Officer 391,400 581.3 600 Non-executive Chairman 236,250 533.4 Accommodation allowance for 75,000 500 Group Chairman 400 Basic fee for UK Non-executive Director 43,000 Additional fee for chairing a Committee 9,000 300 Additional fee to Deputy Chairman Senior 10,000 200 Independent Non-executive Director Additional fee for attendance at Board meeting 2,500 100 29.9 held in US by UK resident Non-executive Director 24.7 0 Total employee Share-based profit Other significant profit Incentives for Executives 1 remuneration distribution distribution Below shows the measures and relative weighting for the 2015 Bonus m m m Banking Plan: 2014 2013 Performance Relative weighting 1 Includes final 2014 dividend due to be paid September 2014. measure % Implementation of Policy for the year ending 31 March 2015 Bonus Banking Plan Group underlying 30 target performance operating profit Salary Fees Executive Director salaries and Non-executive Director fees were 90% base salary, stretch Group underlying 30 performance 225% of last reviewed on 1 July 2013.
The Chairmans fees were increased operating 1 in December 2013.
Salaries and fees will be reviewed in line with base salary cash flow policy with the exception of the Chairman where no review is Group underlying 20 planned.
In March 2014, the Committee changed the Executive profit after tax Directors salary review date to 1 September in line with the Qualitative 20 rest of the employee population.
measures based Executive Directors are permitted to accept one external Nonon Company KPIs executive Director position with the Boards approval.
Any fees 1 Adjusted to exclude LTPA and MSCA capital expenditure.
received in respect of these appointments may be retained by the Executive Director.
The CEO was appointed a Non-executive Director Details of specific performance targets for the Bonus Banking Plan for Betfair Group plc on 5 March 2014 and subsequently appointed have not been provided as they are deemed commercially sensitive.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 31 March 2014.
They will be disclosed retrospectively in next years Annual Report Non-executive Director fees, as reported in the Betfair Group plc on Remuneration.
Annual Report dated 30 April 2013, were 50,000 per annum plus 10,000 per annum for chairing a committee.
91 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors Remuneration report continued In 2015 PSP awards to Executive Directors are equal to 150% of The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the base salary.
The graph below shows the targets against which the QinetiQ website www.
performance will be measured and the vesting mechanics: Up to and including 30 September 2013 the Committee received advice from Towers Watson, an independent firm of remuneration TSR performance vs FTSE 250 excl.
investment trusts consultants, appointed by the Committee after consultation with the 50% of award Board.
Towers Watson also provided market data and advised on the Award vesting comparator groups TSR so that the Committee could determine 100% whether share plan performance targets had been met.
Total fees paid during this period were 26,232.
On 1 October 2013, following a tender exercise and consultation with 30% the Board, the Committee appointed PwC, an independent firm of remuneration consultants, to provide advice on market practice, corporate governance and institutional stakeholder views.
Total fees paid during the period were 143,000 which included advice relating to the Bonus Banking Plan and advice relating to the new legislation Median Upper quartile on Directors remuneration.
Percentile performance PwC provided the following additional services during the year: EPS performance 50% of award consultancy and advice to Group Tax, including tax support for the % award vesting strategic review of the US Services division: and 100% consultancy and advice to Group Reward for the review of global mobility services and advice in relation to Group pensions.
The Committee is satisfied the scale and nature of this work does not 25% impact on the objectivity and independence of the advice it receives from PwC.
The Group Chief Executive, Group HR Director and Group Reward Director also provided information and advice to the Committee.
3% 10% CAGR EPS% Statement of voting Date of Consideration by the Directors of matters relating vote For % Against % Abstained to Directors remuneration Remuneration 25 July 451,287,128 89.78 51,390,043 10.22 7,421,072 Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board.
The Report for 2013 Committee comprises at least three members not counting the previous Group Chairman of the Board, all of whom are independent financial year Non-executive Directors.
The Group Chairman of the Board also Remuneration serves on the Committee as an additional member if he or she Policy for year Not voted on in 2013 was considered independent on appointment as Chairman.
ahead a Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee a To be voted for first time at 2014 AGM.
However, other individuals such as the Chief Executive, the The Remuneration Report detailed on pages 69 to 93 was approved Group Human Resources Director and external advisors are invited by the Board on 22 May 2014 and signed on its behalf by: to attend for all or part of any meeting, as and when appropriate.
The Board appoints the Committee Chairman who is an independent, Noreen Doyle Non-executive Director.
In the absence of the Committee Chairman Chair of the Remuneration Committee and or an appointed deputy, the remaining members present shall May 2014 elect one of themselves to chair the meeting who would qualify under these terms of reference to be appointed to that position by the Board.
The Chairman of the Board is not permitted to be Chairman of the Committee.
92 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
