Chief Executives strategic review continued HOW WE CREATE VALUE What dashboard do you use to run the Group?
Q Strategic driver 1 Customers 2 People 3 Innovation 4 Productivity One of the fundamental principles about the way A QinetiQ is run is that we have a portfolio which combines both mature and growth businesses: but Deliver outstanding Ensure relationships which build mutual Develop and empower highly skilled Grow using the deep domain knowledge Maintain our focus on high performance and we have the same dashboard with a single central value for all stakeholders trust and deliver unique benefits employees wholly committed to customer developed in our core to drive a continuous self-help to ensure that we always provide database generating all financial data.
So it is a through the expertise of service excellence pipeline of new opportunities, complemented more from less Customers around the world rely on the little like driving a car.
You get in the car and you our people in chosen by alliances and partnerships ideas, innovations and drive of our people QinetiQ employs highly qualified and The Group has addressed its immediate financial know where to find the speedo, oil gauge and technology-based sectors to help them meet their goals often in experienced engineers, scientists and QinetiQ continues to reshape the Group, situation, restoring the balance sheet to strength petrol gauge and you know you can trust the environments where their mission has no technicians who are dedicated to making actively managing the portfolio to optimise and providing the capacity for carefully targeted readings.
The importance of the dashboard second chance for success.
is that, just as when you give someone the keys So in QinetiQ listening to the customer is Through their knowledge, insight, integrity and This includes positioning the portfolio around We continue the robust financial disciplines to the car, after a period of time they begin to the starting point for everyone working commitment, our teams work in partnership growth in the core to deliver repeatable earnings, established during the prior self-help phase, to understand the measurements that drive success.
together to ensure that our know-how helps with our customers to help them meet both in traditional markets and new geographies.
maintain and grow margins and ensure strong The other thing that is really important to us is our customers meet their challenges today their challenges.
In our strategy of turning technologies into that we have a regular drum beat in the Group and in the future.
Our people are our principal source of commercial businesses, we rigorously evaluate The long-term cultural transformation of the and that really creates a dialogue around the We aim to help customers do more with less, competitive advantage, directly impacting investment opportunities to prioritise resources, Group continues, building QinetiQ into a more business strategy, but not necessarily just enabling them to build something once and our ability to win and retain business.
As such, with the primary objective of identifying those competitive and commercial company which around the business numbers.
derive the benefits many times.
QinetiQs future success lies in its ability to capable of break-out success.
embraces new values and operating principles.
Why is The 5% Club so important to you?
recruit, retain and develop our employees.
Q Our objective is to be a partner of choice We also engage selectively in partnerships, We are building competitiveness across the Since satisfied employees deliver satisfied for the long term, because having satisfied alliances and acquisitions to accelerate compelling Group, fide-layering the organisation to make As a business we are faced with the issue of customers, our goal is to make QinetiQ customers underpins market share growth.
business development strategies and sustainable us more agile, more accountable and more A ensuring that we have the best technical and a great place to work.
We know that a customer who extols our earnings growth.
engineering competency available, to serve our virtues quickly becomes our best source of The new leaders running our businesses are In addition we look to exploit our knowledge and As a business that prides itself on innovation, customers in the future.
It is quite clear that in future business.
building an open, empowered culture and IP via increased use of licensing approaches.
QinetiQ provides a fertile foundation for new order to do that, it is not enough to rely on the are committed to investing in our people We consistently strive to serve our ideas to flourish.
My Contribution is the channel education system: people do need practical particularly to develop commercial, customer customers better, asking them about our through which employees insights are captured on-the-job training.
We actually have to invest engagement, and people leadership and performance, so we can learn from what to propose improved ways of working, ways ourselves and The 5% Club was a way of development skills.
we do well and what we could improve.
to drive out unnecessary cost and to deliver galvanising not only what we, QinetiQ, do, but We are increasing our own intake of graduates continuous productivity improvements for what industry does in order to ensure that there and apprentices and, in recognition of the the benefit of the Group and our customers.
is a pipeline of skills and talented people available business and social imperative of inspiring to the UK in the future.
And at the same time, a new generation of engineers and scientists, whereas that is a business imperative, it actually have also launched The 5% Club, a campaign solves what is probably the biggest social problem calling on industry to adopt a new 5% target for graduates, apprentices and sponsored of our time in this country: youth unemployment, students in their organisations.
The 5% Club is about making a public declaration and Related KPIs Customer satisfaction Health and safety Orders My Contribution commitment that 5% of our employees will be Profit after tax Employee engagement Backlog Operating profit margin made up of apprentices or graduates on a formal Apprentices and graduates Organic revenue growth Cash conversion Underlying EPS training scheme.
We look to achieve that by 2015.
Voluntary employee turnover Net cash Total Shareholder Return That measurement element is key I believe what gets measured gets done.
Nothing is Related risks Defence market Recruitment and retention Defence market Contract profile Contract profile Working in a global marketplace Risks relating to financial management more important than the sustainability of US foreign ownership regulations the enterprise and this should always be Breaches of security and IT systems a Board level responsibility.
Emerging and reputational risk Significant breach of relevant laws and regulations Foundation: Brand, reputation and integrity Corporate governance read more on page 48.
Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Review read more on page 36.
8 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: strategy Directors report Financial statements Additional information Strategic driver 1 Customers 2 People 3 Innovation 4 Productivity Deliver outstanding Ensure relationships which build mutual Develop and empower highly skilled Grow using the deep domain knowledge Maintain our focus on high performance and value for all stakeholders trust and deliver unique benefits employees wholly committed to customer developed in our core to drive a continuous self-help to ensure that we always provide through the expertise of service excellence pipeline of new opportunities, complemented more from less Customers around the world rely on the our people in chosen by alliances and partnerships ideas, innovations and drive of our people QinetiQ employs highly qualified and The Group has addressed its immediate financial technology-based sectors to help them meet their goals often in experienced engineers, scientists and QinetiQ continues to reshape the Group, situation, restoring the balance sheet to strength environments where their mission has no technicians who are dedicated to making actively managing the portfolio to optimise and providing the capacity for carefully targeted second chance for success.
So in QinetiQ listening to the customer is Through their knowledge, insight, integrity and This includes positioning the portfolio around We continue the robust financial disciplines the starting point for everyone working commitment, our teams work in partnership growth in the core to deliver repeatable earnings, established during the prior self-help phase, to together to ensure that our know-how helps with our customers to help them meet both in traditional markets and new geographies.
maintain and grow margins and ensure strong our customers meet their challenges today their challenges.
In our strategy of turning technologies into and in the future.
Our people are our principal source of commercial businesses, we rigorously evaluate The long-term cultural transformation of the We aim to help customers do more with less, competitive advantage, directly impacting investment opportunities to prioritise resources, Group continues, building QinetiQ into a more enabling them to build something once and our ability to win and retain business.
As such, with the primary objective of identifying those competitive and commercial company which derive the benefits many times.
Our objective is to be a partner of choice We also engage selectively in partnerships, We are building competitiveness across the Since satisfied employees deliver satisfied for the long term, because having satisfied alliances and acquisitions to accelerate compelling Group, fide-layering the organisation to make customers, our goal is to make QinetiQ customers underpins market share growth.
business development strategies and sustainable us more agile, more accountable and more a great place to work.
virtues quickly becomes our best source of The new leaders running our businesses are In addition we look to exploit our knowledge and As a business that prides itself on innovation, future business.
QinetiQ provides a fertile foundation for new are committed to investing in our people We consistently strive to serve our ideas to flourish.
My Contribution is the channel particularly to develop commercial, customer customers better, asking them about our through which employees insights are captured engagement, and people leadership and performance, so we can learn from what to propose improved ways of working, ways development skills.
to drive out unnecessary cost and to deliver We are increasing our own intake of graduates continuous productivity improvements for and apprentices and, in recognition of the the benefit of the Group and our customers.
business and social imperative of inspiring a new generation of engineers and scientists, have also launched The 5% Club, a campaign calling on industry to adopt a new 5% target for graduates, apprentices and sponsored students in their organisations.
Related KPIs Customer satisfaction Health and safety Orders My Contribution Profit after tax Employee engagement Backlog Operating profit margin Apprentices and graduates Organic revenue growth Cash conversion Underlying EPS Voluntary employee turnover Net cash Total Shareholder Return Related risks Defence market Recruitment and retention Defence market Contract profile Contract profile Working in a global marketplace Risks relating to financial management US foreign ownership regulations Breaches of security and IT systems Emerging and reputational risk Significant breach of relevant laws and regulations Foundation: Brand, reputation and integrity Corporate governance read more on page 48.
9 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
