Board of Directors THE RIGHT MIX OF SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Board statistics Committee membership Board experience Audit Nominations Remuneration Risk & CSR Security 100% Finance 2 female, 6 male Name Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 87.5% Operational 2 female, 5 male 1.
Mark Elliott 87.5% International 2 female, 5 male 2.
Leo Quinn 87.5% Other plc 2 female, 5 male 3.
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 75% Non-executive 2 female, 4 male 7.
Jon Messent Board tenure Chairman Member 12.5% 02 years 1 female 25% 24 years 2 male 50% 46 years 4 male 12.5% 69 years 1 female 54 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: Governance Financial statements Additional information 1 Mark Elliott 4 Michael Harper 7 Paul Murray Non-executive Chairman Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-executive Director Appointment to the Board Non-executive Director Appointment to the Board Appointed Non-executive Chairman Appointed Non-executive Director Appointment to the Board in March 2010: Non-executive Director Appointed Non-executive Director in in October 2010. between June 2009 and February 2010.
Appointed Deputy Chairman Skills and experience and Senior Independent Non-executive Skills and experience Paul is currently a Non-executive Director Director in February 2012.
Mark is a Non-executive Director of G4S plc and Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee at and Chairman of Kodak Alaris Holdings Limited.
Skills and experience Royal Mail Group plc.
He is also a Director He was a Non-executive Director of Reed of Independent Oil and Gas plc, Ventive Michael is Chairman of Ricardo plc and has Elsevier Group plc and also Chairman of its announced his intention to retire from that limited and Naked Energy Ltd and a Trustee Remuneration Committee and Reed Elsevier of Pilotlight.
He was previously a Director companys Board with effect from the end NV from April 2003 until April 2013. of the AGM in November 2014.
He was Chairman of Knowledge Peers plc, Senior Independent Director of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, a of BBA Aviation plc from June 2007 until May He was previously General Manager of 2014, having joined the Board in 2005, and also Non-executive Director of Thomson SA IBM Europe, Middle East and Africa and and Tangent Communications plc, and Chairman of Vitec Group plc from 2004 to 2012. was a member of IBMs Worldwide He was previously a Director of Williams plc has also been Group Finance Director Management Council.
of Carlton Communications plc and LASMO plc.
where, at the time of the demerger in 2000, The Board considers that Marks extensive he became CEO of Kidde plc.
The Board considers that Paul brings a broad experience in the technology services sector, in range of experience in finance and corporate The Board considers that Michaels wealth the US and Europe, together with his exposure of operational and corporate experience governance from a cross-section of industries, to a variety of industry sectors on the boards of all of which leverage technology.
enables him to make a significant contribution FTSE listed companies, is a valuable asset to the to the Board.
Group in terms of leadership and of addressing 8 Susan Searle the strategic issues that affect the Group.
5 Noreen Doyle Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointment 2 Leo Quinn Appointed Non-executive Director in March 2014.
Appointment to the Board Chief Executive Officer Appointed Non-executive Director Appointment to the Board Skills and experience in October 2005.
Appointed Chief Executive Officer in Susan is a Non-executive Director November 2009. and Chair of the Remuneration Committee Skills and experience Noreen is a member of the Board of Credit of Benchmark Holdings plc.
She is also Skills and experience a member of the international advisory board Suisse Group Zurich and Chair of its UK Leo was Chief Executive Officer of fide La Rue plc regulated subsidiaries.
She is a Non-executive of PTT, an advisor to the Technology Strategy between 2005 and 2009.
He was previously Chief Board and a Trustee of Fight for Sight.
Director of Newmont Mining Corporation Operating Officer of Invensys plcs Production Denver, where she is Chair of the Audit Management Division and before that spent 16 Susan was a founder of Imperial Innovations Committee.
From 2005 through 2012 she years with Honeywell Inc. in a variety of senior Group, leading it as CEO from 2002 to July 2013, served on the Board of Rexam plc, where she management roles in the US, Europe, the and has served on a variety of private company was Chair of the Finance Committee.
She was Middle East and Africa.
He is a Non-executive boards in engineering, healthcare and materials.
First Vice President of the European Bank for Director of Betfair Group plc and was formerly The Board considers Susans strong experience Reconstruction and Development EBRD.
a Non-executive Director of Tomkins plc.
of commercialising new technologies and Before EBRD, she worked in corporate finance intellectual property of particular relevance to 3 David Mellors and leveraged financing at Bankers Trust QinetiQ as it pursues its Organic-Plus strategy.
Chief Financial Officer Appointment to the Board The Board considers that Noreens extensive 9 Jon Messent Appointed Chief Financial Officer in August 2008. international business experience, particularly Company Secretary and Group in corporate finance, risk management and General Counsel Skills and experience banking, is of significant benefit to the Board.
David was previously deputy Chief Financial Appointment Officer of Logica plc.
He was also Chief Financial Appointed as Company Secretary and Group 6 Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent Officer of Logicas international division, General Counsel in January 2011.
Non-executive Director covering operations in North America, Australia, Skills and experience Appointment to the Board the Middle East and Asia and, before that, was Appointed Non-executive Director in April 2010.
Jon joined QinetiQ from Chloride Group plc the Group Financial Controller.
His earlier where he held a similar role.
He has a experience includes various roles with CMG plc, Skills and experience background in legal private practice as well Rio Tinto plc and Price Waterhouse.
He is a Sir James commanded the aircraft carrier HMS as general counsel and company secretarial member of the Institute of Chartered Invincible and three other ships and submarines experience in other FTSE250 companies.
Accountants in England and Wales.
during a 37-year career in the Royal Navy that culminated in his appointment as Commanderin-Chief Fleet.
Between operational duties he held several positions at the MOD and gained cross-Whitehall experience while on secondment to HM Treasury.
The Board considers that Sir James expertise in the government contracting domain, particularly with the UK MOD and HM Treasury, is highly beneficial in the context of QinetiQs government-sourced operations.
55 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Statement continued Effectiveness The board and its committees Composition of the Board The Board currently has eight members: the Non-executive should have the appropriate Chairman: five other Non-executive Directors: and two Executive balance of skills, experience, Directors the CEO and the CFO.
During the year, Colin Balmer resigned as a Non-executive Director, having served on the Board independence and knowledge of for more than ten years, and Susan Searle was appointed.
the company to enable them to A 1 discharge their respective duties C 3 A. Non-executive Chairman 1 and responsibilities effectively.
B. Non-executive Directors 5 UK Corporate Governance Code C. Executive Directors 2 12 B Board meetings and attendance The Board has regular scheduled meetings.
Seven scheduled Board meetings and one further Board meeting in respect of the strategic The Board considers its overall size and composition to be review of the US Services division were held in the last financial year.
appropriate, having regard in particular to the independence of Members of the Board were also invited to attend a dinner on the character and integrity of all the Directors and the experience and occasion of each scheduled Board meeting, to assist with the process skills that they bring to their duties, which prevents any individual of relationship building and to ensure that key strategic initiatives or small group from dominating its decision making.
The Board has were discussed thoroughly.
due regard to the benefits of diversity including gender diversity when considering its composition.
It considers that the skills and During the year, the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors experience of its individual members, particularly in the areas of met without Executive Directors present after each Board meeting.
UK US defence and security, the commercialisation of innovative The table below details the number of meetings of the Board and technologies, corporate finance, mergers and acquisitions, and risk its principal Committees held during the last financial year and management, have been fundamental in the pursuit of QinetiQs attendance by the Directors.
strategic initiatives as described in the CEOs strategic review on pages 4 to 13 of this report in the past year.
In addition, the quoted company experience of members of the Board in a variety of industry sectors and international markets has also been invaluable to the Group as it seeks to consolidate its position in its core markets and geographic territories.
Board and Committee meeting attendance Committee Members Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Risk & CSR Mark Elliott 8 8 2 2 6 6 4 4 # Colin Balmer 7 7 4 4 2 2 5 5 4 4 Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 8 8 5 5 2 2 6 6 4 4 Noreen Doyle 7 8 4 5 2 2 5 6 4 4 Michael Harper 8 8 5 5 2 2 5 6 4 4 David Mellors 8 8 4 4 Paul Murray 8 8 5 5 2 2 6 6 4 4 Leo Quinn 8 8 2 2 4 4 Susan Searle 1 1 1 1 1 1 # Colin Balmer retired at the end of January 2014 and therefore had left the Board prior to the meetings in March 2014.
Noreen Doyle and Michael Harper were each unable to attend a meeting due to long-standing prior commitments.
Susan Searle joined the Board in March 2014 and therefore was only able to attend the March Board and Committee meetings.
56 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: Governance Financial statements Additional information Independence of Non-executive Directors In the year under review, a process similar to that followed in 2013 was followed, which included individual performance evaluations Of the current Directors of the Company, the Board considers all the Non-executive Directors to be independent of QinetiQs executive assessed by the Chairman, coupled with a Board effectiveness questionnaire which was circulated to the members of the Board management and free from any business or other relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent for completion and the results evaluated by the Chairman.
The questionnaire covered the following areas: judgment.
Prior to his departure, and notwithstanding that Colin Balmer had served on the Board for more than ten years, the Board the role of the Board and its skills mix: considered that he had remained independent in character and clarity of decision-making processes and of information provided judgment and the Board found no information or circumstances to the Board: to lead it to conclude otherwise.
The Board considers that more than half its members were independent Non-executive Directors risk appetite and the overview of Group risks: and throughout the last financial year.
engagement with management and other stakeholders.
The principal actions agreed in respect of the outcome of the review included the following: The board should undertake further improvement in the quality of supporting documentation a formal and rigorous annual presented to the Board: provision of more opportunities for engagement with evaluation of its own performance management: and and that of its committees and more reporting from management in respect of key outcomes and targets that flow directly from the Group strategy.
The overall conclusion of the review was that the Board continues UK Corporate Governance Code to be effective in its fulfilment of its governance responsibilities.
Re-election of Directors Performance of the Board Rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors QinetiQ continues each year to evaluate the performance of the of the Company are contained in the Articles of Association.
Changes to the Articles must be submitted to shareholders for approval.
According to the Articles of Association, all Directors are The most recent external evaluation of the Boards effectiveness subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM following their was carried out by Independent Audit Limited in 2012 and reported appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more in that years Annual Report and Accounts.
In 2013, the Boards than three years.
In line with best practice reflected in the UK Code, effectiveness was assessed internally by way of a questionnaire however, the Company requires each serving member of the Board completed by Board members and individual performance reviews to be put forward for election or re-election on an annual basis at carried out by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
The actions arising from those reviews have largely been completed and resulted in the following: the setting up of the Risk & CSR Committee to provide greater oversight of non-financial risk management and risk strategy: improvements in the way that information was provided to members of the Board: the provision of a schedule of training and development options for Non-executive Directors: and the facilitation of site visits and access to senior management by way of the provision of a schedule of QinetiQ sites from which Non-executive Directors are able to select site visits which are then arranged by the Company Secretariat.
57 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Statement continued Main responsibilities Report of the Nominations Committee The role of the Committee is to ensure that the composition of the Board and Committees has the optimum balance of skills, knowledge and experience, and to oversee succession planning for the Board and senior management.
It considers diversity, including skills mix, international industry experience and gender, when seeking to appoint a new Director to the Board.
The Committee meets as necessary and when called by its Chair.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2014, the Committee met on two occasions.
Overview Key areas of focus during the year were: the review of the size and composition of the Board and its Committees: Diversity remained a key theme in the work of the review and preparation of a memorandum setting out the role and capabilities required to refresh the Board membership: and the Nominations Committee during the year under the review of succession planning processes at Executive Director, review and was a key element in both the search Non-executive Director and senior management levels.
for candidates to refresh the Non-executive element Succession planning of the Board and the progression of the objectives The Committee continued with the succession planning process which under the Board Diversity Policy which was adopted had begun in 2013 and was detailed in the report of the Committee in 2013.
Good progress has been made, culminating contained in the 2013 Annual Report.
Pending the outcome of the US Services division strategic review, it was agreed to focus on the search in the appointment of an additional Non-executive in the UK for potential Non-executive Director candidates, which was Director in 2014. being undertaken by the Zygos Partnership.
The firm is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, which requires them to ensure that at least 30% of the candidates are Mark Elliott women, and it has no other connections with the Company.
We are Chair delighted with the appointment of Susan Searle to the Board in March and look forward to her contribution to the work of the Board and Membership and attendance during the year its Committees.
Member Attendance Board Diversity Policy Mark Elliott Committee Chair 2 2 During 2013 the Nominations Committee recommended, and the Colin Balmer 2 2 Board approved, a Board Diversity Policy.
The key statement and Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 2 2 objectives of that policy the full text of which is available on the Noreen Doyle 2 2 Groups website are as follows: Michael Harper 2 2 Statement: Paul Murray 2 2 The QinetiQ Board recognises the benefits of diversity.
Diversity Leo Quinn 2 2 of skills, background, knowledge, international and industry experience, and gender, amongst many other factors, will be taken Susan Searle N A into consideration when seeking to appoint a new Director to the Susan Searle became a member of the Committee in March 2014 and will attend Board.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all Board appointments will future meetings.
58 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: Governance Financial statements Additional information Objectives: The board should present a The Board should ensure an appropriate mix of skills and experience to ensure an optimum Board and efficient stewardship.
fair, balanced and understandable The Board should ensure that it comprises Directors who assessment of the companys are sufficiently experienced and independent in character and judgment.
position and prospects The board The Board aims to increase the proportion of women on the is responsible for determining the Board to 25% by 2015.
Thereafter, the Board aims to maintain a minimum Board composition of 25% women, such percentage nature and extent of the significant to be reviewed annually.
risks it is willing to take in achieving Progress against the policy: QinetiQ continues to make progress against this policy.
wide diversity policy has been issued and details can be found in the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Review on pages 36 to UK Corporate Governance Code 41.
In terms of Board diversity, the appointment of Susan Searle brings the current proportion of women on the Board to 25%, which Risk management and internal control is in line with our objective.
Any future appointments will always be The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal made on merit and will continue to take into account diversity, not control and for reviewing its effectiveness in safeguarding shareholders only in terms of gender, but also in terms of the appropriate mix of interests and the Companys assets.
The system is designed to manage skills and experience.
and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not Accountability absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Directors responsibilities Statements explaining the Directors responsibilities for preparing Identification and review of risks the Groups Annual Report and financial statements and the auditors QinetiQ managers are responsible for the identification and responsibilities for reporting on those statements are on page 96. evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of business, together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls Going concern to ensure effective mitigation.
These risks, which are related to the The Groups activities, combined with the factors that are likely to achievement of business objectives, are assessed on a continual basis affect its future development and performance, are set out in the and may be associated with a variety of internal and external events, CEOs strategic review on pages 4 to 13.
The CFOs review on pages including control breakdowns, competition, disruption, regulatory 42 to 47 sets out details of the financial position of the Group, the requirements, and natural and other catastrophes.
The Board, the cash flows, committed borrowing facilities, liquidity, and the Groups Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee regularly review policies and processes for managing its capital and financial risks.
significant risks to the business.
Note 24 to the financial statements also provides details of the Groups hedging activities, financial instruments, and its exposure to liquidity and credit risk.
The market conditions in which the Group operates have been, and are expected to continue to be, challenging as spending from the Groups key customers in its primary markets in the UK and the US remains under pressure.
Despite these challenges, the Directors believe that the Group is well positioned to manage its overall business risks successfully.
After making the appropriate enquiries, including a review of the latest two-year budget, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Consequently, the Annual Report and Accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
59 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Statement continued QinetiQs risk management processes are defined in the Groups Self-certification process Operating Framework and mirror the Institute of Risk Managements An annual process of hierarchical self-certification, which provides guidance as detailed in the figure below.
a documented and auditable trail of accountability for the operation of the system of internal control, has been established.
This self-certification process is informed by a rigorous and structured self-assessment that addresses compliance with Group policy.
Establishing the context It provides for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
Risk assessment Internal control Our businesses are responsible for ensuring that a robust risk Risk identification and control environment is in place as part of their day-to-day operations.
Business assurance managers oversee this process and a clear set of delegated authorities is in place, covering financial and Risk analysis non-financial activities, and is consistent with effective operational control and risk management.
The business is guided by two key Risk evaluation documents which are managed by our Safety, Assurance and Sustainability team: The Way We Work is applicable to all staff and covers three key Risk treatment pillars of the way we operate: Organisation, Risk Management and Assurance, and Key Business Processes.
It is underpinned by key business policies, the Operating Framework referred to below Risk reporting is embedded in the management of the business and our culture, values and brand: and through the Operating Committee and Quarterly Business Reviews The Operating Framework Business Management System, which and feeds into Group strategy at the executive and Board level.
contains the policies, procedures and codes of practice which are Risk assurance activity conforms to the three lines of defence model expected to be complied with across the business.
detailed below and is performed by the businesses, oversight functions The internal audit function, which is independent of the business and Internal Audit, reporting to the Governance Committee and the and has a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee, provides Boards Risk & CSR Committee.
assurance to the Board and its Committees over the effectiveness Details of key risks can be found in the risks and uncertainties section of the internal control environment.
The programme of work of this Annual Report on page 22 to 27. undertaken by Internal Audit is approved in advance by the Audit Committee and is prioritised according to risks identified by the Risk assurance activity during 2014 has covered the following areas: Group through its risk management processes.
Agreement, and continued implementation of, the Group A similar process is undertaken within the Groups QinetiQ North Risk Appetite.
America business, thereby providing assurance on the adequacy and Creation of the Governance Committee as the executive review efficacy of internal controls in this business.
The risk management body for risk governance.
process and the system of internal control necessary to manage risks Quarterly updates in respect of the divisional risk register and are managed by the Audit Committee financial risks and the Risk & moderation to form the Group Risk Register, such that the Group CSR Committee non-financial risks and each Committee presents Risk Register now lives as a dynamic document with regular risk its findings to the Board.
The internal audit function independently ratings changes, additions and retirement of risks.
reviews the risk identification and control processes implemented by management and reports to the respective Committee.
Challenge to risk identification by business divisions and functions.
The Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee also review the Embedding use of the Operating Framework and Business assurance process, ensuring that an appropriate mix of techniques is Assurance Tool to ensure effective internal control against used to obtain the level of assurance required by the Board.
Each regulatory and operational risks.
Committee presents its findings to the Board on a regular basis.
The Regularly requiring risk owners to report their activity to the Board reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control Risk & CSR Committee see page 66. that was in operation during the financial year ended 31 March 2014.
The Board also routinely challenges management to ensure that the 60 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Communication and consultation Monitor and review Strategic report Directors report: Governance Financial statements Additional information systems of internal control are constantly improving to maintain Whistleblowing their effectiveness.
The internal control and risk management The Company has in place a whistleblowing process which is detailed systems described above, as well as finance policy and codes of on the Companys intranet.
If an individual does not feel that they practice, apply to the Companys process of financial reporting and can resolve any concerns with the Company directly, either through the preparation of consolidated accounts.
A structured approach discussions with their line manager, or with the Company Secretary to the review and challenge of financial information is also an or Group Internal Audit Manager, they can use the whistleblowing essential element of the process.
hotline an externally provided confidential internet and telephone reporting system.
All concerns are passed by the external third party Anti-bribery and the prevention of corruption to the Group Internal Audit Manager who will ensure that they are QinetiQ has internal procedures in place that are designed to ensure held in strict confidence and are properly investigated.
compliance with the UK Bribery Act 2010, and other international regulations and best practice relating to the prevention of Ethics corruption, which are applicable to its business.
The Company provides employees with guidance to assist them in making informed ethical decisions on a day-to-day basis, including International Business Risk Assessment the Companys Code of Conduct, annual ethics training for all The International Business Risk Assessment Procedure and the employees and links to the country risk table and Red Review Commercial Intermediaries Procedure both contain comprehensive Panel processes detailed above.
processes to support the Groups commercial and legal objectives when undertaking business in overseas jurisdictions.
Further details regarding activity in respect of corporate responsibility, including in respect of business ethics and anti-bribery Compliance is managed through a risk-based approach.
As part risk management, can be found in the Corporate Responsibility and of this process, a country risk table has been developed which Sustainability Review on pages 36 to 41. segregates countries using a traffic-light code: Management and control of US subsidiaries Green for countries with whom we are willing to trade subject QinetiQs principal US subsidiaries are required by the US National always to trade control and security clearances: Industrial Security Program to maintain facility security clearances Amber for countries with some risk, and which require careful and to be insulated from foreign ownership, control or influence.
consideration: and This is achieved by way of proxy arrangement, as detailed below.
Red for countries with high risks which require independent Following the announcement of the sale of the US Services division, review by the Red Review Panel a group of experts who assist the main operating companies within the retained US business have with the assessment of the risk of activities associated with been placed under a new proxy arrangement, and a new Proxy Board red countries.
comprising US individuals has been appointed to manage that business.
The Board will review the robustness of the new governance The risk table is compiled on the basis of information received in arrangements once the current restructuring has been completed.
respect of specified areas such as security advice, trade controls, insurance and measures in respect of bribery and corruption, using Pending completion of the sale of the US Services division, to comply a combination of internal expertise and external, internationally with the proxy requirements, QNA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of recognised organisations, such as TRACE, international law firms and QinetiQ in the US and the holding company for the substantive part other expert service providers, who also conduct anti-corruption due of QinetiQs US operations until completion of the US Services diligence reviews of all third-party commercial intermediaries used disposal, and the US Department of Defense DoD are parties to by QinetiQs divisions.
a proxy agreement that regulates the management and operation of these companies.
Pursuant to this Proxy agreement, QinetiQ During the year, a process of quarterly reporting to the Board was appointed four US citizens who hold the requisite US security instigated in respect of payments to agents, and signed overseas clearances Peter Marino, Riley Mixson, John Currier and Vince Vitto contracts, in excess of 10m, in a standard form report.
In addition, as proxy holders to exercise the voting rights in QNA.
The proxy the Boards approval is required for certain types of contract holders are also Directors of the relevant US subsidiaries and, in proposals in amber and red jurisdictions.
addition to their powers as Directors, have power under the proxy arrangements to exercise all prerogatives of share ownership of QNA.
The proxy holders have a fiduciary duty, and agree, to perform their role in the best interests of shareholders including the legitimate economic interest, and in a manner consistent with the national security interests of the US.
QinetiQ Group plc does not have any representation on the Boards of the subsidiaries covered by the Proxy agreement.
QinetiQ Group plc may not remove the proxy holders other than for acts of gross negligence or wilful misconduct or for breach of the proxy agreement with the consent of the US Defense Security Service.
61 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Statement continued In terms of the power to govern, the Proxy agreement vests certain Report of the Audit Committee powers solely with the proxy holders and certain powers solely with QinetiQ.
For example, the proxy holders cannot carry out any of the below without QinetiQs express approval: sell or dispose of, in any manner, capital assets or the business of QNA: pledge, mortgage or encumber assets of QNA for purposes other than obtaining working capital or funds for capital improvements: merge, consolidate, reorganise or dissolve QNA: and file or make any petition under the federal bankruptcy laws or similar law or statute of any state or any foreign country.
Unlike minority interest holders with protective veto rights, QinetiQ can unilaterally require the above to be carried out and these are, The principal responsibility of the Committee remains therefore, considered to be significant participative features.
the review of controls around the preparation of In addition, QinetiQ can require the payment of dividends, and the the full and half-year financial statements including pay-down of parent company loans, from QNA.
significant judgments taken in their preparation In the interests of transparency and good governance, during the year and reporting.
the Company sought to maintain its involvement in QNAs activities through the conduct of business meetings and communications at the 2014 is the first full year in which the Committee has CEO, CFO, HR and Legal levels.
QNA senior management presented on key commercial and governance activities in respect of the US business operated separately from the Risk & CSR Committee to the Companys Board and its Committees twice during the year, and therefore been able to focus specifically on the at six-monthly intervals, and QNA activities were reported on during effectiveness of the management of financial risks.
the intervening meetings by way of executive reports and updates via teleconference.
In both of these areas, I aim to encourage an open This activity is subject always to the confines of the proxy regime but challenging dialogue between the Committee, to ensure that it meets the requirement that QNA must conduct management, and internal and external auditors.
its business affairs without external control or influence, and the requirements necessary to protect the US national security interest.
In addition, the Committee has worked with US The challenges that this creates for the Board are dealt with in the colleagues to achieve, where possible, consistency Audit Committee report on page 63. between the US and the UK in respect of the assessment and reporting of internal controls, risks and governance arrangements generally.
This activity is challenging, remains ongoing and, with the adjustment of the US Group following the outcome of the US Services strategic review, further work will be undertaken by the Committee to improve the consistency of approach across the re-shaped Group.
Paul Murray Chair 62 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: Governance Financial statements Additional information Membership and attendance during the year f the review of the fair, balanced and understandable requirement in respect of future Annual Reports.
Member Attendance Paul Murray Committee Chair 5 5 Further details are set out below.
# Colin Balmer 4 4 a QNA risks, issues and mitigating actions Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 5 5 As detailed on page 61 concerning Management and control of Noreen Doyle 4 5 US subsidiaries, during the year the Companys holding of its QNA assets was regulated by a Proxy agreement.
This arrangement, Michael Harper 5 5 whose purpose is to insulate QNA from foreign ownership control Susan Searle 1 1 or influence, directly impacts the way in which the Companys Board # Colin Balmer retired at the end of January 2014 and therefore had left the Board is able to gain comfort on the effectiveness of QNAs systems of prior to the Committees meeting in March 2014. internal control.
As a result, the Audit Committee places significant Noreen Doyle was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to a long-standing reliance on the effectiveness of the QNA Audit Committee and prior commitment.
independent assurance from QNAs external auditor.
Susan Searle joined the Board in March 2014 and therefore was only able to attend the March Committee meeting.
QNA is subject to external audit by the same auditor as for the The Audit Committee is chaired by Paul Murray.
The Board considers Company, KPMG.
The Company has the opportunity to meet with him to have recent and relevant financial experience, given his QNAs external auditor independently.
Further, the Company is able former roles as Group Finance Director of Carlton Communications to review in detail, with the Chair of the QNA Audit Committee and plc and LASMO plc, and through his current role as Audit & Risk the QNA Internal Audit Manager, the audit work within QNA, and to Committee Chairman at Royal Mail Group plc.
gain an understanding of the systems of internal control and their effectiveness.
Minutes of the QNA Audit Committee meetings were The Board considers the members of the Committee to be independent.
reviewed by the Committee, along with QNA Internal Audit reports.
They bring extensive experience of corporate management in senior executive positions to the Company.
Details of their background and During the year under review, the Committee held two of its meetings experience can be found on page 55. in the US jointly with the Risk & CSR Committee.
The meetings were attended by the QNA Internal Audit Manager, QNA proxy holders The CEO, CFO, Group Financial Controller, Group Internal Audit Manager and a QNA Director, thereby facilitating a more detailed review and representatives of the external auditor normally attend Audit of matters affecting QNA, covering areas such as the QNA internal Committee meetings.
control environment, its risk register and business risk appetite.
Main responsibilities b Review of internal controls The Audit Committee monitors the Groups integrity in financial The Audit Committee continually reviews the effectiveness of the reporting and reviews the effectiveness of the financial risk systems of internal control to gain assurance that an effective control management framework.
The Committee has an annual calendar of framework is maintained.
Reports on the effective operation of the activities, in addition to which it identifies particular areas of focus control framework are received from management and reviewed during the year.
The Audit Committee meets as necessary and at by the Committee along with key policies and processes, including least four times a year.
During the financial year ended 31 March whistleblowing arrangements.
Regular reports on the operation of 2014, the Committee met on five occasions.
The external auditor internal controls and risk management processes are also received has the right to request that a meeting of the Audit Committee be from the internal audit function.
Particular attention is given to convened.
During the past financial year, and in accordance with the timely and effective implementation of remedial actions, its terms of reference, the Committee met with QinetiQs external either identified by the business directly, or by Internal Audit.
The auditor on two separate occasions, without Executive Directors Committee also regularly reviews the effectiveness of the financial present, to discuss the audit process.
The Committee also met risk management framework, including reviewing key financial risks with the Group Internal Audit Manager on two separate occasions, and assessing the effectiveness of managements remedial without Executive Directors present.
Overview The process in respect of QNA is adjusted to take into account the Key areas of focus during the year were: proxy arrangements referred to in a above, and the Committee a QNA risks, issues and mitigating actions: meets regularly with the Chair of the QNA Audit Committee and the QNA Internal Audit Manager to gain assurance on the effectiveness b the effectiveness of internal controls: of the QNA internal control framework.
In addition, the Committee, c the effectiveness of governance arrangements: on behalf of the Board, undertakes an annual assessment of the d the effectiveness of external audit: control environment and the QNA Audit Committee reports to the Group Audit Committee regarding QNA controls effectiveness.
e the review of the audit process for the full-year and half-year results: and 63 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Committee confirms its view that it has received sufficient, The outcome of the review was considered at the March Committee reliable and timely information from management in the last meeting and the following were noted and reported to the Board: financial year to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
the external auditors independence and objectivity were strongly affirmed: c Governance reviews The Committees September meeting had considered the processes the external auditor was in a strong position to challenge to be followed for the various governance reviews.
management on its approach to key judgments: An external review of the effectiveness of the UK internal audit appropriate discussions were held with the Audit Committee function was undertaken during the second half of the year by the during the audit planning process: and Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors.
The results of the review within the business there is a general perception of high quality were reported to the March Audit Committee.
The independence execution and service.
and effectiveness of the function were noted as well as an updated continuous improvement programme incorporating the review e Financial statements findings.
This programme will be monitored at regular intervals The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have by the Audit Committee.
been adopted, whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgments, and also seeks support from the external auditors to In terms of the effectiveness of the Committee itself, an evaluation assess them.
The Committee reviewed the following main issues for was carried out by way of a questionnaire which was circulated the year ended 31 March 2014: to Committee members and key executives for completion.
The Committee Chairman had evaluated the results and reported on The basis of and key assumptions relating to managements them at the Committees May 2014 meeting.
assessment of the carrying value of the goodwill associated with the US Services and US Global Products divisions.
The role of the Committee, its skills mix and oversight of financial risk management, reporting and audit was considered to remain The basis for and judgments made by management in determining effective.
The following actions were noted: the liabilities recorded for litigation, potential claims and other disputes.
it was necessary to remain focused on the management of risk oversight by either the Audit or Risk & CSR Committees, to ensure The accounting for long-term contracts.
that all matters are covered: and The key assumptions and their sources used in accounting for the further progress would be necessary in respect of oversight of the Groups defined benefit retirement obligations.
US governance arrangements following completion of the US Provisions for ITAR compliance.
The provisions for Income tax and deferred tax.
d External audit effectiveness review The Committees September meeting had considered the approach The disclosures in the Preliminary Announcement and Annual for monitoring the effectiveness and independence of the external Report and Accounts, in particular those relating to risk, goodwill, audit process in the light of the requirements of the UK Code and specific overlying items and the operation of the proxy regime FRC guidance.
At this meeting, it was agreed that an effectiveness review would Based upon the business assurance process and discussions with management and the external auditors, the Committee was be undertaken by the internal audit function.
The views of the Audit Committee and key finance stakeholders were sought regarding the satisfied that the disclosures and assumptions were reasonable and appropriate for a business of the Groups size and complexity, that effectiveness of the external audit process using a questionnaire compiled using available best practice guidance.
the auditors had fulfilled their responsibilities in scrutinising the financial statements for any material misstatements and that the The review covered a range of topics, including: disclosures were satisfactory.
the audit partner and the audit team: f Review of the fair, balanced and understandable the audit approach planning and execution: requirement in respect of Annual Reports The Audit Committee considered during the year how to adapt, if the role of management: necessary, the Groups procedures to provide advice to the Board to communication with the Audit Committee: meet with the requirements of the UK Code on whether the Annual supporting the work of the Audit Committee: Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys financial position insights and adding value: and future prospects and provide all information necessary to a independence and objectivity: and shareholder to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
64 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: Governance Financial statements Additional information As part of the review process, the Committee took guidance from the It is the Companys current intention to align the process for putting external auditor and from the Group accounting and internal audit the external audit contract out to tender with the conclusion in 2017 functions.
The following were noted: of the five-year tenure of the audit partner.
The Committee will continue, however, with the annual review of the performance of The Group has a clear strategy, which is presented to the Board for the external auditor and act accordingly.
review each year by business leaders, with interim updates during the year.
The members of the Committee have declared themselves satisfied with the performance of KPMG as the Companys auditor in the last Quarterly business reviews are undertaken by senior management financial year and therefore the Committee has recommended to which include monitoring business progress against budget.
the Board that KPMG be reappointed for the financial year ending Business performance is monitored by the Board as detailed on 31 March 2015. page 51.
External auditor independence: non-audit services Key individuals from appropriate business divisions and functions The Company views it as essential that the external auditor is both contribute to, or are involved in the verification of, the content of independent of any conflict of interest and perceived to be so.
safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the Company has a Code of Practice within its Operating Framework which sets out the The Company has an Annual Report working group, comprising principles for regulating the award of non-audit work to the external individuals from the Finance, Investor Relations, Assurance, auditor.
The policy clearly articulates the non-audit services which HR, Group Strategy, Company Secretariat and Marketing are prohibited, the non-audit services which can be purchased and Communications functions, which adheres to a timetable of the key approval requirements for non-audit work.
actions for the production and review of the Annual Report.
Pursuant to the policy, the Committee ensures that any other The Annual Report working group was made aware of the fair, advisory and or consulting services provided by the external auditor balanced and understandable requirements early in the process do not conflict with its statutory audit responsibilities and are and tasked with ensuring that the Annual Report would take conducted through entirely separate working teams: such advisory account of those requirements.
and or consulting services generally only cover regulatory reporting, A checklist of considerations to ensure the requirements were tax, and mergers and acquisitions work.
The cost and nature of met was produced and completed by the working group in order non-audit work undertaken by the auditor is regularly reviewed by to provide assurance to the Committee and to the Board.
the Committee during the financial year and is included at regular More time was allocated to the Annual Report process to allow for intervals in its annual schedule as a standing item.
This process additional checks for consistency of reporting across the narrative enables the Committee to take corrective action if it believes that and financial sections in respect of the strategy and performance there is a risk of the auditors independence being undermined of the business as a whole.
through the award of such work.
Auditor reappointment It is also QinetiQs policy that no KPMG employee may be appointed KPMG has been the auditor of the QinetiQ Group since its formation to a senior position within the QinetiQ Group without the prior in 2001 as the result of a competitive tender, and the Companys approval of the CFO.
Any non-audit services conducted by the auditor since its incorporation in 2002.
During that time, there have auditor require the consent of the CFO or the Chairman of the Audit been periodic changes in audit partners in accordance with professional Committee before being initiated: any services exceeding 50,000 and regulatory standards to protect independence and objectivity.
in value require the consent of the Audit Committee as a whole.
A rotation of KPMGs lead audit partner was last undertaken during The Committee reviewed the Code of Practice relating to the 2012, at which time the second audit partner was appointed since principles for regulating the award of non-audit work to the external the Companys flotation in 2006. auditor during the year and considered that it remained appropriate.
Given the work undertaken during the year under review in respect In the last financial year, there have been non-audit services conducted of the US Services division, and the resulting ongoing changes within by KPMG that exceeded 50,000 in value.
The Committee concluded, the Group, the Committee considers that a continuity of approach prior to engaging KPMG for the provision of these services in with the external auditor is valuable and, having reviewed the relation to the strategic review of the US Services business, that effectiveness and the independence of the external auditor during there had not been any conflict of interest that might compromise the year, as detailed on page 64, the Committee does not consider the independence of KPMGs audit work.
it appropriate to conduct a tender process for the appointment of its auditor at the present time.
65 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Statement continued Membership and attendance during the year Report of the Risk & CSR Committee Member Attendance Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent Committee Chair 4 4 # Colin Balmer 4 4 Noreen Doyle 3 4 Mark Elliott 4 4 Michael Harper 4 4 David Mellors 4 4 Paul Murray 4 4 Leo Quinn 4 4 Susan Searle N A # Colin Balmer ceased to be Chairman of the Committee when he retired at the end of January 2014.
I am delighted to have been appointed Chair of the Noreen Doyle was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to a long-standing Risk & CSR Committee following the retirement of prior commitment.
Susan Searle became a member of the Committee in March 2014 and will attend Colin Balmer at the end of January and would like to future meetings.
thank Colin for his hard work and diligence during his Main responsibilities tenure as Chair of this Committee, including overseeing The Committee has three primary functions: its evolution from the Compliance Committee to its to oversee the sound operation of the Companys risk current status as the Risk & CSR Committee.
management systems: to monitor non-financial risk exposures, including security, trade During the year, the Committee continued to carry controls, ethics, corporate social responsibility and health, safety out its core functions and the development of the and environment: and executive Governance Committee will enhance the to monitor adherence to the generic compliance system.
process of risk management and oversight within the The Committee has an annual calendar of activities and meets as necessary, although normally not less than four times a year.
The annual calendar of activity, together with the financial year ended 31 March 2014, the Committee met on four the in-depth review of red risks and deep dives into occasions, excluding the two joint meetings held with the Audit key risk areas, has provided a firm basis on which the Committee in the US, as noted on page 63.
Committee is able to oversee the operation of the As detailed in the section on Executive Committees on page 53, during non-financial risk management processes within the year, a Governance Committee was established to monitor non-financial strategies and their implementation by the businesses.
The Governance Committee comprises senior executives and reports to the Risk & CSR Committee, with the Director of Safety, Assurance The work of the Committee continues to evolve, and Sustainability playing a pivotal role in this respect.
During the year, both in the light of the corporate restructuring of matters which have been dealt with by the Governance Committee the QinetiQ Group and also in respect of changes and reported to the Risk & CSR Committee have covered areas such as the inclusion or retirement of risks from the Risk Register which in governance regulation and guidance.
were then presented to the Committee and the Audit Committee.
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent Chair 66 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: Governance Financial statements Additional information Overview The processes with regard to the US will continue to evolve as a result of the disposal of the US Services division and consequent During the year, the Committee continued to carry out its core functions by way of regular reporting in accordance with its annual corporate restructuring.
The Committee continued to oversee health, safety and b Generic compliance system environment, trade controls, corporate responsibility, ethics and The Committee continues to monitor the generic compliance system, security through quarterly reports from the heads of those functions which is designed to give the MOD customer confidence that QinetiQ in the business.
A summary of the key focus and activities of the is able to provide impartial advice during any competitive evaluation health, safety and environment and ethics functions is set out in the of a procurement where the Group wishes to operate on both the corporate responsibility and sustainability review on pages 36 to 41. buy and the supply sides.
The aim is to achieve a balance between Key areas of focus during the year were: meeting the needs of the procurement customers in the MOD principally Defence Equipment & Support and the need to allow a risk management within the operation of the QNA proxy regime: QinetiQ the flexibility to exploit research into the supply chain and b the operation of the generic MOD compliance system: pursue its planned commercial activities, without compromising the defence or security interests of the UK.
Oversight of the operation of c a review of the Groups risk management processes: the system is provided by the Committee.
The Board nominates two d a review of the Group Risk Register in accordance with FRC senior executives to act as Compliance Implementation Director and recommendations: and Compliance Audit Director.
It receives a bi-annual report on the e a review of the Groups risk appetite and providing clarity to compliance areas that it monitors from the internal audit function.
The Committee addresses any issues that would arise if QinetiQ executive management on acceptable levels of risk.
were to fail to comply with the requirements of the generic Further details are set out below.
Details of the principal risks and compliance system.
uncertainties can be found in the risks and uncertainties section on No breaches were noted during the year.
The Group will continue pages 22 to 27 of the strategic report.
with rigorous management of potential conflicts of interest while Effectiveness review ensuring that proportionate governance is maintained by the Board.
The Committee evaluated the effectiveness of its performance c A review of the Groups risk management processes during the year under review by way of a questionnaire which had been circulated to Committee members and key executives.
The The Committee receives a report at each meeting from the Safety, Assurance and Sustainability Director with regard to key areas of Chairman had reviewed the responses.
It had been noted that there was a good level of satisfaction with the process of reviewing the risk management activity, such as health and safety, international trade controls and proxy regime compliance.
In addition, a series management of financial risks and non-financial risks through the Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee respectively.
A key of deep dives are scheduled for the course of the year, to facilitate an in-depth review and discussion of key risks.
The following are action arising from the review was to establish with the US Audit Committee an annual reporting timetable on items where reporting examples of deep dive reviews carried out during the year: up to Board level was necessary to gain a greater understanding of The review of ITAR-related risks, and the steps taken to deal non-financial risk management.
with them, the continued growth of awareness across the business and the tone from the top in respect of such risks.
Aspects of the a R isk management within the operation of the review included a presentation from the executive responsible QNA proxy regime for that function, a report by the internal audit function and As detailed on page 61 concerning Management and control of US subsequent updates on progress with actions taken to ensure subsidiaries, during the year the Companys holding of its QNA assets delivery of a sound system.
was regulated by a Proxy agreement.
In conjunction with the Board and the Audit Committee, the Committee has worked with senior The review of cyber risk and the Companys resilience to cyber executives from QNA to establish, where possible, a consistency of threats.
The review included a presentation from the executive approach with regard to areas such as risk appetite, the risk register responsible for that area of risk management.
It was noted that and internal control.
Work has taken place to produce an annual the Groups resilience to cyber threats was considered to be good, reporting timetable in respect of the US items where reporting is according to government agencies.
The presentation gave details necessary to gain a greater understanding of non-financial risk of actions which had been put in place for driving improvement management.
In terms of crisis management, a revised and more and it was agreed that a quarterly report on the mitigation of complete crisis response process and committee is being set up cyber risks would be presented at each Committee meeting.
67 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Statement continued d A review of the risk register in accordance with The Security Committee FRC recommendations The review of the Risk Register is a standing item on the Committees agenda, with amendments being made to reflect changes in the Groups business.
Further details can be found on in the understanding and managing our risks section pages 22 to 27 of the strategic report.
Red risks are made the subject of a report to the Committee or become the subject of a deep dive review as part of the Companys risk management processes.
As an example, the Engineering and Technical Director updated the Committee on the work being undertaken to improve the Companys exposure to engineering and technical risk, focusing on the key risks and how they were being mitigated.
The areas covered included technical assurance, facility safety assurance reviews, the QinetiQ Flying Organisation and the technical and engineering strategy.
Membership and attendance during the year Member Attendance e A r eview of the Groups risk appetite and providing clarity Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent Committee Chair N A to executive management on acceptable levels of risk # Colin Balmer N A During the year the Committee reviewed the amount of investment and control necessary to mitigate the level of risk that the Board Michael Harper N A was willing to seek or accept in the pursuit of its key strategic goals, David Mellors N A whilst also providing, by way of delegations, clear boundaries, Paul Murray N A operational flexibility and guidance for executive and business Leo Quinn N A leaders to safeguard the Groups fundamental principle of trust.
Susan Searle N A The review was carried out by way of the discussion of a presentation # Colin Balmer ceased to be Chairman of the Committee when he retired at the end by the Safety, Assurance and Sustainability Director, which subsequently of January 2014. led to the issuing of guidance to senior management.
Susan Searle became a member of the Committee in March 2014 and will attend future meetings.
Main responsibilities The Committee was established in June 2009 to enable UK nationals on the Board to consider matters of a UK national security dimension that have an impact on QinetiQs UK business.
There was no requirement for the Committee to meet during the year.
68 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
