EMEA Services RETURN TO ORGANIC GROWTH Market and operational review Key highlights EMEA Services formerly UK Services performed well throughout the year in an environment where the Revenue   .
, andthe division was renamed EMEA Services during the year to EMEA Services performed well Orders grew 11%, demonstrating .
throughout the year the unique strengths of the division  increasedto86.7m The C4ISR business performed 2013:84.8m  particularly strongly and the The division delivered organic  other core Air, Weapons and growth for the first time in ,  Maritime businesses all five years .
produced good results Organic-Plus update  , testand .
  Navy, ArmyandAir that Explore Test for value  Core capability,   Air Training International businesses.
 procurement advice its core strengths and intellectual property to pursue Weapons CyberSecurity Smart metering  Maritime Cyveillance assurance internationalmarkets.
C4ISR Procurement Advisory DirectedEnergy , Services Weapons Australia  Internationalranges Securednavigation  systems Galileo UAS Services equipment, .
Duringtheyearitwas  , andreneweda  28 QinetiQ Group  Strategic report: performance Directors report Financial statements Additional information .
 Name: Dr Jonathan Collier  Role: Research Delivery Lead, Weapons Science and Technology Centre  .
, planning, upgrades and enhancements for these strategically  importantfacilities.
principally through a four-year contract to manage the   scalability,  .
Inaddition, theMaritime   research, design, integration, testandevaluationto  ,  , and .
Aswellastest ,  andevaluation,   hydrodynamic development facility and designing .
Understanding our business Air Weapons Maritime Core Core Core What we do What we do What we do , design,  , integration,  ,   .
, andisnowfocusedon   engineers is in demand in the UK to provide advice on markets.
  internationalgrowth,  consultancybusiness, withinthedefence, maritimeand  railmarkets.
hascontinuedtogrow,  Cyveillance,   formerly managed and reported under the US Services  division,  .
Duringtheyear,  , QinetiQis , particularly nurturing certain products and services to determine , energyand theirabilitytoscale.
Cyveillanceis   Understanding our business Australia C4ISR Procurement Advisory Services Core Core Explore What we do What we do What we do  A leading supplier of research and  , adviceonsensors, communications , .
30 QinetiQ Group  Strategic report: performance Directors report Financial statements Additional information enterprises,  Name: Wendy Wates integrated support services that assist customers in Role: Managing Director, QinetiQ Commerce Decisions Limited .
Thebusiness, whichemploys , istargetingcomplex procurement programmes in the highly regulated government, transport, .
Thecompanysongoing CommerceDecisions, aQinetiQsubsidiary, andits :ordersandrevenue  increasedlastyear.
Italsowonthe   Dstl Understanding our business Training Cyber Security Cyveillance Explore Explore Explore What we do What we do What we do Uses technology to reduce the cost of  Provides open source threat intelligence training,  and high-value commercial enterprises  fromacrossQinetiQ.
, the world including many of the , secure Fortune500.
