Chief Executives strategic review continued UNDERSTANDING OUR MARKETS The UK Governments priorities for defence beyond Key highlights success in current operations are financial stability The Group accesses budgets for research, coupled with essential transformation.
The MOD has technical advice and test and evaluation in the UK made considerable progress in the last three years balancing its budget.
In addition, although the MOD did EMEA Services aligned with Front Line Commands not adopt a Government Owned Contractor Operated fide&S transformation is creating some uncertainty model for its procurement agency, fide&S, the agency in the UK defence market is for the first time operating at arms length from government with greater responsibility for managing its International order momentum leverages business, outputs and workforce.
This is creating some core strengths uncertainty in the UK defence market as fide&S shapes Sale of US Services removes exposure its policies and procedures.
A new set of regulations and to US federal services market pricing terms for single source contracts, known as the Global Products has a significant US footprint Yellow Book, is also progressing through Parliament which provides a route to the worlds largest as part of this transformation programme.
Because defence market QinetiQs combination of facilities and capabilities is unique in the UK, EMEA Services often contracts under UK single source rules so the Group is following closely the Service offerings to government customers account implementation of the new regime.
for the majority of UK sales, principally to the Ministry The EMEA Services division is well placed to capitalise of Defence MOD.
This position, providing client-side on opportunities created by the defence transformation support independent from the defence supply chain, programme having aligned its structure to the Front sets QinetiQ apart from the majority of the larger UK Line Commands Navy, Army, Air that have taken on defence suppliers with whom the Group often works responsibility for managing military capability and in partnership.
In addition, the creation of a Joint Forces This position in the supply chain also defines which Command provides a new channel into which the C4ISR elements of the MODs budget account for the majority and Cyber businesses can deliver their capabilities.
In general, QinetiQ is not impacted by the private sector leader in defence research, QinetiQs changes in single procurement projects and their EMEA Services division has also benefited from improved budgets.
Instead the Group accesses a broad range visibility of defence research spending, which has been of budgets for research, technical advice, and test and stabilised at around 400m per annum until 2015. evaluation across all military domains and the majority of equipment programmes.
Front Line Commands Navy Army Air Joint Forces Maritime Weapons Air C4ISR Cyber Security QinetiQ businesses 12 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: strategy Directors report Financial statements Additional information Certain Scandinavian countries Test and evaluation South Korea Weapons test and evaluation Canada Support to naval Procurement advice programmes Support to naval programmes Certain Middle Eastern countries Strategic and procurement advice Australia Opportunities post federal elections Support to naval programmes US International QinetiQs disposal of its US Services division removes QinetiQs traditional geographic markets are the the Groups exposure to the US federal services market.
UK and the US, but the Group is now pursuing a pipeline US Services was not delivering on its role in the portfolio of international opportunities to build on the order which was to grow profitably by building market share, momentum achieved in the 2014 financial year.
Many because it was too small to generate significant economies of these opportunities leverage the reputation of EMEA of scale, but too large to benefit from US Government Services for a unique range of capabilities and facilities.
QinetiQ, as a For example, as the Canadian and Australian Governments UK-listed company, also faced additional administrative pursue similar defence transformation programmes obligations and costs associated with US national to the UK, they value the independent advice, test security to which the purchaser, as a US company, and evaluation provided by QinetiQ to support better will not be subject.
Governments in Europe, the Middle East and Asia are also building their defence and security The Global Products division continues to have a capabilities, increasing the demand for such expertise significant US footprint which provides a route to the as offered by QinetiQ businesses such as C4ISR and worlds largest defence market.
While demand for Unmanned Systems, both of which increased their conflict-related products is being impacted by the international sales in the year.
drawdown of US military forces from Afghanistan, US military customers are currently assessing their post-war New market sectors requirements and formulating new programs of record.
Much of QinetiQs innovation arises from working closely To reduce the volatility of the divisions revenue over with defence customers to address their requirements, time, QinetiQ is seeking both to widen its products generating technology and expertise with potential to portfolio, and to find new sectors and applications be transferred into new sectors offering higher growth for existing technology offerings.
The Groups Organic-Plus strategy is designed to manage, test and triage these options appropriately to develop the portfolio beyond defence into commercial lines of revenue.
The Group then invests in and monitors the resulting businesses to develop significant sales and scale.
13 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
