Chief Executives strategic review continued OUR BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY In a nutshell what is the QinetiQ business model?
Our business model Q QinetiQ creates value by making the the Group, in line with the size of We attract and retain highly skilled, highly A expertise and know-how of its people investment.
A growth option knowledgeable engineers and scientists who, available to customers, both through with up to $100m sales potential may in partnership with our customers, develop IP contracts to provide services and be separated out as a new Explore unit and knowledge which underpins current and by the creation of IP.
The resulting in its own right, with support from the future revenue streams.
knowledge base, which has been built corporate team.
The units designated And what is the investment case?
up over decades, is continually updated as Test for Value are generally funded Q by innovations generated during the by customers as R&D programmes, with advisory, test and evaluation stages, subsequent decisions as to their future We have a strong core business, with high barriers A and research work undertaken by the in the Group made at the corporate level.
to entry and strong competitive advantage which Group in partnership with its customers.
The Group itself manages the QinetiQ generates good cash returns that underpin the All QinetiQs business operations are brand, defines the operating and progressive dividend.
The business conducts graded within a Value Pipeline.
Whether governance framework, provides about 100m of funded research each year, in well-established business models or new expertise in specific areas centrally partnership with both defence customers and capabilities with unclear commercial where this increases efficiency, and is industry.
That gives rise to a portfolio of IP which potential, each is managed and invested responsible for all decisions on any in QinetiQs case is quite unique because it is according to three criteria: additional investment into a business effectively a zero cost option.
In a drug company financial, technological or otherwise.
Maturity: how ready is our offering they pay for their drug pipeline.
In QinetiQ our and is there a ready market?
Investments are rigorously evaluated, customers commission our pipeline.
And from reviewed and approved or rejected in that we carefully select about a dozen areas that Possible size: can it one day earn line with defined processes and controls we look to exploit at any one time for break-out significant profits?
And therefore you have a core that Investment: how much will it cost This Value Pipeline approach gives provides strong cash, progressive returns and to become a success?
the Group full visibility of, and direction also the option on a portfolio of potential Each individual business is responsible over, its assets and capabilities, which growth businesses.
for its own research and development combine to set it apart from competitors Is the balance sheet strength still an important Q R&D, customer relations, sales and in helping to meet its customers part of the investment case?
delivery within the Groups obligatory biggest challenges.
Yes, the strong cash generative nature of the core processes and controls.
The business A business means as an investor you get a good units develop their own growth options, return through the dividend but then, through reported to and reviewed regularly by our capacity to self-fund prudent investments, you get additional optionality opportunities from our Explore portfolio.
Role of the Group Role of the business units As a management team what are your priorities Q Strategic direction and Business unit strategy for this business in 2015?
implementation Development of investment options Our priorities for 2015 are focused on building A Leadership and people development momentum in our Organic-Plus strategy that is, Customer engagement and sales to continue to build our market share in defence Portfolio management Safe and ethical delivery and to take further ground in the areas of our Budgeting and planning Explore portfolio, particularly in new sectors.
Human resource management Investment appraisal and review Whats the timescale on breakout growth?
Adherence to Group policy and Q Resource allocation and monitoring regulatory frameworks I have to say that the timing of the success of Process design and functional support A a business is always the biggest conundrum, Governance and risk management but the one thing I am more confident of is its not a question of if, its a question of when.
Brand stewardship 6 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: strategy Directors report Financial statements Additional information Our Organic-Plus Strategy Strategic drivers 1 2 3 4 Customers People Innovation Productivity Value Pipeline Core Explore Test for Value Maximise Scale Maintain the rigour c85% c10% c5% revenue revenue revenue QinetiQs core businesses are focused on QinetiQs Explore businesses are high potential, QinetiQs Test for Value offerings are early-stage relatively resilient sectors in which the deep emerging businesses, typically with a proven options that are typically based around innovative domain expertise of our people is used to provide competitive offering in a growth market.
They technology or know-how that have yet to trusted independent advice and solutions for represent the best opportunities for future growth, demonstrate commercial viability.
to at least $100 million of revenue per annum, from These technologies are often proven both the Groups services and products divisions.
These are the Groups sustainable and defensible under customer-funded programmes, so core capabilities, mostly comprising EMEA Services, These are established, commercially viable the portfolio can be likened to a drug pipeline and operating largely in the aerospace, defence and businesses that have proven technology and for a pharmaceutical company, except that security markets.
customers, but have yet to prove that they can development takes place in partnership with achieve significant scale.
a customer who provides the majority of Much of the revenue is derived from longer-term early-stage funding.
contracts, with known dates for renewal and The Group is nurturing a select number of these re-tender.
These contracts exhibit relatively low-risk opportunities to determine their ability to deliver The Group evaluates emerging technologies characteristics with low capital requirements and both UK and international growth.
to determine their potential for value.
Investment is required to achieve full The challenge they face is to demonstrate a commercialisation, so the IP is often licensed QinetiQs core businesses retain and win market compelling business model that is scalable to a out to reduce implementation and sales share by applying the technical expertise of their significant and sustainable size, in order to become risks, or taken to market with partners.
people, as well as their detailed understanding value-accretive core businesses which increase the of customer domains, to provide support for diversification of the Group.
Over the medium term, these early-stage customers ongoing and developing needs.
Core technologies are managed rigorously to The Group is selectively investing in these businesses receive investment on a sustainable basis resolution.
They can be moved to Explore businesses to create a broader base of significant as these opportunities emerge and where existing and receive investment, or divested, closed and, therefore, core businesses for the future.
expertise can be deployed in adjacent sectors and or traded through until project completion.
Priorities for 2015: geographic markets, from the proven platform of Priorities for 2015: EMEA Services or Global Products capability.
Invest in opportunities for growth Sustain the rigour in the evaluation of emerging This is the engine on which the Groups reputation Develop requisite business models offerings and customer relationships are built, the driver for Drive profitable growth Continue to assess viability of technology continual renewal of its expertise and technology, Partner appropriately and markets and the source of the majority of its profit and cash flow.
Develop partnerships to commercialise options These businesses generate cash that can be invested Monetise IP through licensing in the Group for future growth, and a strong portfolio of IP that is initially collected and categorised in Test Read more on page 18 about how we work in for Value and managed through a Value Pipeline partnership to develop IP and take technologies which includes a range of new capabilities at various to market.
Priorities for 2015: Invest in key capabilities Drive market share growth in existing markets Deploy capabilities into new sectors and or geographical territories Objective: An increase to sustainable earnings 7 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
