Strategic report Directors report: remuneration Financial statements Additional information Directors Remuneration report Dear shareholder Report from the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees report of the Directors Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2014 for which we will be seeking approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 22 July 2014.
I have set out in my statement the following information: The overall Remuneration Policy principles for the Company: The link between the Company strategy and the Company Remuneration Policy: The main decisions made by the Remuneration Committee the Committee during the year: Key activities of the Committee during the year: and A forward look at the main focus for the Committee in the upcoming year.
As required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, the rest of Remuneration Committees report of the Directors this Remuneration Report is divided into two parts: Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2014 The Directors Remuneration Policy sets out the Companys for which we will be seeking approval at the proposed policy on Director remuneration and the key factors that were taken into account in setting the policy.
We will be applying AGM on 22 July 2014. the revised policy from 1 April 2014 subject to an affirmative shareholder vote at this AGM and after that at least every Noreen Doyle third year.
Chair The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out payments and awards made to the Directors and details the link between Company performance and remuneration for the 2014 financial year.
The Annual Report on Remuneration is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM of the Company on 22 July 2014.
Remuneration Policy objectives The primary objectives of our Remuneration Policy are to: Remuneration Committee membership and attendance during Attract and retain top talent: year ended 31 March 2014 Incentivise key executives and managers: Member Attendance Ensure an approach which values the diversity of our workforce: Noreen Doyle Committee Chair 5 6 Mark Elliott Group Chairman 6 6 Drive superior performance in both the short and long term: and Colin Balmer resigned 31 January 2014 5 5 Align with the interests of shareholders.
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 6 6 The key purpose of the Committee is to ensure that the remuneration Michael Harper 5 6 structure supports the Company strategy and that we are able to Paul Murray 6 6 attract, retain and motivate high calibre executives by rewarding the creation of long-term sustainable value.
Susan Searle appointed 14 March 2014 1 1 69 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors Remuneration report continued 2014 Group strategy and KPIs Our strategy is to grow the business through the Organic-Plus programme.
Progress is measured through a range of financial and non-financial KPIs to monitor Group and divisional performance.
Financial measures such as order intake, organic sales growth, profitability and cash conversion track performance.
Measurements of health and safety, productivity, customer satisfaction and employee engagement contribute to sustainability.
The Groups strategy is underpinned by focusing on a number of KPIs.
These include a range of financial and non-financial indicators to monitor Group and divisional performance.
Link to Remuneration Strategy Annual Bonus Annual Bonus is determined by Group performance against targets for: Underlying operating profit: Underlying operating cash flow : and Underlying earnings per share EPS.
It is the Committees opinion that these three headline KPIs encompass the performance of the Group and therefore encourage the Executive Directors to focus on the effective delivery of the Groups strategy on an annual basis.
Deferral of bonus in shares DAB The deferral of bonus in shares has provided an ongoing exposure to the performance of the Group to ensure the annual performance delivered is viewed as sustainable by shareholders.
Performance Share Plan PSP PSP awards are contingent on meeting pre-determined performance criteria based on measures that are both absolute and compare us to our peers.
Awards are earned based on an equal weighting of absolute underlying EPS growth and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance against our peers.
It is the Committees view that long-term EPS growth is the key financial measure in evaluating the sustainable performance of the Group and, therefore, is a crucial measure to include in the long-term remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Committee views comparative TSR as an appropriate external measure of whether the implementation of the Groups strategy has led to above average levels of return for investors.
Relative TSR measures the success of management in delivering on Group KPIs consistently over the longer term.
The Committee may not directly include qualitative non-financial KPIs in the performance conditions for Annual Bonus or PSP awards.
However, the Committee views these KPIs as underlying and supporting the financial KPIs and may make compensation adjustments where the Committee believes that financial performance may have been delivered at the expense of meeting these non-financial KPIs.
Note: See definitions and more detail in the Strategy Report on pages 2-47.
Note: Definitions of underlying performance can be found in the glossary on page 150.
Adjusted to exclude LTPA capital expenditure.
The Committee is grateful for all the support it has received from investors and their representative bodies over the course of the year while consulting on the proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy.
The Notice of AGM sets out the details of the main change which is the proposed short-term incentive arrangement the QinetiQ Group plc 2014 Bonus Banking Plan which, if approved by shareholders, will replace the Groups current Annual Bonus Plan, Deferred Bonus Plan and matching share arrangements.
70 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: remuneration Financial statements Additional information Activities greater account to be taken of risk issues when considering the alignment of remuneration policies and practices with corporate The Committee meets as necessary, although normally at least four times a year.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2014, it met objectives and business strategy: and on six occasions.
the provision of greater development opportunities for Committee members to enable them to keep abreast of Month Main agenda Items changes in remuneration policy and practice.
May 2013 Annual Cash Bonus Plan results These areas for improvement are being addressed.
Revised PSP rules prior to shareholder approval Looking forward for 2015 July Share plan allocations and nominations The Committee conducted an extensive review during the year of the Directors Remuneration Policy, taking into account the Share plan performance and vesting following factors: October Executive Director recruitment policy the future suitability of the current incentive arrangements Executive Director payment for loss of office policy for the Company: Annual bonus and long-term incentive policy the revision of strategy for the business and the requirement for any incentive to be aligned to the new strategy: November Government reforms the new BIS Regulations which require the Company to seek Committee programme for the year shareholder approval of the Remuneration Policy through Review of Executive shareholding a binding vote at the 2014 AGM: and Reward and retention all employees the increasing strength of shareholder views against the operation January Executive pay trends of both a leveraged matching share plan and PSP, both of which measured performance against underlying EPS.
Executive incentive arrangements The key objectives of the new policy are: Changes to the Directors Remuneration Report simplicity: March Projected share plan vesting retention of Executives: Executive team salary review appropriate levels of fixed remuneration: Executive team Annual Bonus Plan design Share plan allocations an incentive programme which provides: assurance that earned incentives materially contribute to the The Committee sets remuneration and incentives for Executive build-up of long-term equity holdings by the Management Team: Directors and approves and monitors remuneration and incentives flexibility to allow the Committee to set relevant targets for senior executives of the Group.
No Executive Director or each year against a background of continual change and employee of QinetiQ is permitted to be present or participate transformation of the business and sector over the next period: in the Committees discussions about their own remuneration.
material value if the incentive is earned: and Effectiveness review an element of annual bonus deferred into shares.
The Committee evaluated the effectiveness of its performance during the year under review by way of a questionnaire which Conclusion had been circulated to Committee members and key executives.
We have provided an At a glance summary of 2014 remuneration There was a good level of satisfaction with the independence and immediately after this letter.
The Annual Report on Remuneration qualification of Committee members and of their willingness to provides further details and the Directors Remuneration Policy challenge processes and reports where appropriate.
It was noted sets out how we are building the strategy for the future.
that there was a formal and transparent procedure for developing I hope that we can rely on your vote in favour of the Annual Report policy on executive remuneration and for setting the remuneration on Remuneration and our Directors Remuneration Policy for packages of individual directors.
Principal areas where there was a good, but lower, level of satisfaction Noreen Doyle and therefore where improvement is possible, were noted as: Chair of the Remuneration Committee a requirement for greater oversight of the remuneration processes May 2014 for senior US Executives: a greater level of executive involvement in remuneration strategy: further continuous improvement in the provision of Committee materials: 71 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors Remuneration report continued At a glance In this section we highlight the performance and remuneration outcomes for year ended 31 March 2014.
More detail can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance against 2014 key incentive targets: % of maximum Bonus KPIs Target performance Stretch performance Actual performance reward achieved 1 Underlying operating profit 125.0m 145.0m 132.7m 69.25% Underlying operating 116.0m 135.0m 144.9m 100.00% 1,2 cash flow 1 Underlying EPS 14.7p 17.1p 16.0p 77.08% % of maximum LTIP vesting Threshold performance Stretch performance Actual performance reward achieved 2011 Value Sharing Plan 1,087m 1,938m 1,026.2m 0.00% VSP profit before tax PBT 2011 Value Sharing Plan 851m 1,702m 1,085.9m 27.60% VSP TSR 2011 Deferred Annual 15.9p 19.8p 16.0p 26.47% Bonus DAB EPS Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors for 2013 and 2014: 2014 2014 taxable 2014 Annual 2014 Long Term Salary Fee benefits Bonus Incentive 2014 pension 2014 total 2013 total CEO 610,844 59,524 710,393 644,270 152,711 2,177,742 3,992,001 CFO 388,550 23,188 451,871 295,282 77,710 1,236,601 1,643,687 Proposed changes to Remuneration Policy: Policy element Operation of element Maximum potential value Performance metrics used Base salary No change N A Benefits No change N A Annual Bonus Bonus Banking Plan replacing Details are contained in the Notice the Annual Bonus, Deferred of AGM maximum 225% of salary and Matching Share Plans Performance Share Plan PSP No change No change maximum 200% of salary Pension No change No change N A 1 Definition of underlying measures and performance can be found in the glossary on page 150.
2 Adjusted to exclude LTPA capital expenditure.
72 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
