Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Additional information Directors report Statutory information contained elsewhere Political contributions in the Annual Report QinetiQ does not make political donations to parties as that term would be commonly recognised.
The legal definition of that term is, Information required to be part of this Directors report can be found elsewhere in the Annual Report as indicated in the table below and is however, quite broad and may have the effect of covering a number of normal business activities that would not commonly be perceived incorporated into this report by reference: to be political donations, such as sponsorship of events.
Location in Information Annual Report These may include legitimate interactions in making MPs and others in the political world aware of key industry issues and matters that Greenhouse gas emissions Page 41 affect QinetiQ, and that make an important contribution to their Employees Page 37 understanding of QinetiQ, the markets in which it operates and Results and dividends Page 2 the work of their constituents.
Post balance sheet events Page 144 Share capital Likely future developments in the business of Pages 2 to 35 As at 31 March 2014, the Company had allotted and fully paid up the Company or its subsidiaries share capital of 660,476,373 ordinary shares of 1p each with an Financial instruments: Information on the Note 24 on aggregate nominal value of 6.6m including shares held by Groups financial risk management objectives page 126 employee share trusts and one Special Share with a nominal and policies, and its exposure to credit risk, value of 1. liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign Details of the shares in issue during the financial year are shown currency risk in note 26 on page 135.
Corporate Governance Statement Pages 48 to 68 The rights of ordinary shareholders are set out in the Articles of Directors details Pages 54 to 55 Association.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Reports and Accounts, to attend and speak at general Research and development meetings of the Company, to exercise voting rights in person or by One of the Groups principal business streams is the provision of appointing a proxy, and to receive a dividend where declared or paid funded research and development R&D for customers.
The Group out of profits available for that purpose.
also invests in the commercialisation of promising technologies across all areas of business.
The Special Share is held by HM Government through the Secretary of State for Defence and it confers certain rights under the Articles The majority of R&D-related expenditure is incurred on behalf of of Association which are detailed in note 26 on page 135. customers as part of specific funded research contracts.
R&D costs are included in the income statement and R&D income is reflected These include the right to require certain persons with a material within revenue.
In the financial year, the Group recorded 315.7m interest in QinetiQ to dispose of some or all of their ordinary shares 2013: 335.6m of total R&D-related expenditure, of which 288.9m on the grounds of national security or conflict of interest.
The Special 2013: 311.0m was customer-funded work and 26.8m 2013: Share may only be held by and transferred to HM Government.
Additionally, 2.1m 2013: 0.3m any time the Special Shareholder may require QinetiQ to redeem the of late-stage development costs was capitalised and 0.3m 2013: share at par and, if wound up, the Special Shareholder would be 0.9m of capitalised development costs was amortised in the year.
entitled to be repaid capital before other shareholders.
Any variation of the rights attaching to the Special Share requires the written approval of the MOD.
93 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors report continued Conflicts of interest The Company is party to a multi-currency revolving credit facility, with a US$250m tranche and a 118m tranche, provided by the The Company requires Directors to disclose proposed outside business interests before they are entered into.
This enables prior Groups six global relationship banks, that expires on 4 February 2016.
Under the terms of the facility, if there is a change of control assessment of any conflict, or potential conflict, of interest and any impact on time commitment.
An annual review of all external of the Company, any lender may request, by not less than 60 days notice to the Company, that its commitment be cancelled and all interests is carried out by the Board.
outstanding amounts be repaid to that lender at the expiry of such Directors interests in contracts notice period.
At the date of this report, there is no contract or arrangement with On 6 December 2006, QinetiQ US Holdings, Inc. formerly known the Company or any of its subsidiaries that is significant in relation as QinetiQ North America, Inc. as Borrower and the Company to the business of the Group as a whole in which a Director of the as Guarantor entered into a Note Purchase Agreement to issue Company is materially interested.
US$125m 5.50% Senior Notes due 6 December 2016.
$77m has been Indemnities repaid early and the remaining debt outstanding as at 31 March 2014 The Directors of QinetiQ Pension Scheme Trustee Limited, a Group was $48m.
Under the terms of the agreement, if either 1 the company and the Trustee of the QinetiQ Pension Scheme the MOD ceases to retain in its capacity as Special Shareholder its Special Scheme, benefit from an indemnity contained in the rules of the Shareholders Rights: or 2 there is a change of control of the Company, Scheme.
The indemnity would be provided out of the Scheme assets.
the Notes must be offered for prepayment by the Company within 21 days of the change of control.
The prepayment date would be no later Change of control significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling than 45 days after the offer of prepayment by the Company.
the counterparties to require prior approval, exercise termination, On 5 February 2009, QinetiQ US Holdings, Inc. as Borrower and the alteration or other similar rights in the event of a change of control Company as Guarantor entered into a Note Purchase Agreement to of the Company, or if the Company ceases to be a UK company: issue US$62m 7.13% Senior Notes due 5 February 2016 and US$238m The Combined Aerial Target Service contract is a 20-year contract 7.62% Senior Notes due 5 February 2019.
$100m has been repaid awarded to QinetiQ by the MOD on 14 December 2006.
The terms early and the remaining debt outstanding as at 31 March 2014 was of this contract require QinetiQ Limited to remain a UK company $43m of 7.13% Senior Notes and $157m of 7.62% Senior Notes.
which is incorporated under the laws of any part of the UK, or an Under the terms of the agreement, if either 1 the MOD ceases to overseas company registered in the UK, and that at least 50% of retain in its capacity as Special Shareholder its Special Shareholders the Board of Directors are UK nationals.
The terms also contain Rights: or 2 there is a change of control of the Company, the Notes change of control conditions and restricted share transfer must be offered for prepayment within 21 days of the change of conditions which require prior approval from HM Government control.
The prepayment date would be no later than 45 days after if there is a material change in the ownership of QinetiQ Limiteds the offer of prepayment by the Company.
share capital, unless the change relates to shares listed on a Branches regulated market material is defined as being 10% or more of The Company and its subsidiaries have established branches in a the share capital.
In addition, there are restrictions on transfers number of different countries in which they operate: their results of shares to persons from countries appearing on the restricted are, however, not material to the Groups financial results.
list as issued by HM Government: The Long-Term Partnering Agreement LTPA is a 25-year contract, which QinetiQ Limited signed on 28 February 2003, to provide test, evaluation and training services to the MOD.
This contract contains conditions under which the prior approval of HM Government is required if the contractor, QinetiQ Limited, ceases to be a subsidiary of the QinetiQ Group, except where such change in control is permitted under the Shareholders Agreement to which the MOD is a party.
94 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Additional information Major shareholders Restrictions on the transfer of shares At 31 March 2014, the Group had been notified of the following As outlined in note 26 on page 135, the Special Share confers certain shareholdings under Chapter 5 of the Disclosure Rules rights under the Companys Articles of Association to require certain and Transparency Rules: persons with an interest in QinetiQs shares that exceed certain prescribed thresholds to dispose of some or all of their ordinary Number of % of issued shares on the grounds of national security or conflict of interest.
Shareholder ordinary shares share capital Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb, Inc. 64,117,000 9.71 Articles of Association Save in respect of the rights attaching to the Special Share, the Company Artisan Partners 36,320,010 5.50 has not adopted any special rules relating to the appointment and Schroders 35,429,785 5.36 replacement of Directors or the amendment of the Companys Articles Investec 33,160,928 5.02 of Association, other than as provided under UK corporate law.
Norges Bank 26,310,597 3.98 Employee share scheme Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited acts as Trustee in respect of all At 20 May 2014, being the latest practable date prior to the issue of ordinary shares held by employees under the QinetiQ Group plc Share this report, the Company had recieved a notification from Artisan Incentive Plan the Plan.
Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited will Partners that their shareholding had fallen below 5% and that send a Form of Direction to all employees who hold shares under the therefore they ceased to have a notifiable interest in the Companys Plan, and will vote on all resolutions proposed at general meetings in shares.
The Company had received no other notification of any accordance with the instructions received.
In circumstances where further interests or of any changes in the interests detailed above.
ordinary shares are held by the corporate sponsored nominee service, Allotment purchase of own shares Equiniti Corporate Nominees Limited will send a Proxy Form to all At the Companys AGM held in July 2013, the shareholders passed shareholders using such corporate nominee service, and will vote on resolutions which authorised the Directors to allot relevant securities all resolutions proposed at general meetings in accordance with the up to an aggregate nominal value of 4,403,174 2,201,587 pursuant instructions received.
only to a rights issue, to disapply pre-emption rights up to 5% of Annual General Meeting the issued ordinary share capital and for the Company to purchase The Companys AGM will be held on Tuesday, 22 July 2014 at ordinary shares up to 10% of its ordinary share capital.
11.00am, at Pennyhill Park Hotel, London Road, Bagshot, Surrey, At the general meeting of the Company held on 13 May 2014, GU19 5EU.
Details of the business to be proposed and voted on shareholder approval was given for the Directors to purchase at the meeting are contained in the Notice of AGM, which is sent ordinary shares up to 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital.
to all shareholders and is also published on the Companys website, The Company intends to use this authority to effect a 150m return www.
com in the Investors section.
of capital to shareholders by way of an on-market share buyback, Auditor subject to prevailing equity market conditions.
KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Equivalent resolutions in respect of the allotment of relevant auditor and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed securities and the disapplication of pre-exemption rights will at the AGM.
During the year, the Company provided funding to the QinetiQ Group plc Employee Benefit Trust the Trust, which holds shares in connection with its employee share schemes, to make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares to cover future obligations under outstanding share option and other share-based awards.
Further details are disclosed in note 26 on page 135.
As at 31 March 2014, the Trust held 7,811,861 ordinary shares of 1p each the Trust Shares.
The Trustees of the Trust have agreed to waive their entitlement to dividends payable on the Trust Shares.
The Trust holds further ordinary shares in respect of deferred shares held on behalf of participants in the Companys Deferred Annual Bonus Plan.
Dividends received by the Trust in respect of the deferred shares are paid direct to the plan participants on receipt and are not retained in the Trust.
95 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
