A developing business 99 Foreward 100 Our host countries 101 2014 at a glance 102 External recognition for our sustainability work in 2014 102 2014 sustainability performance summary 104 Sustainability governance Management of sustainability Corporate governance Anti-corruption measures Stakeholder engagement Materiality assessment Scope and boundary of this report 108 Economic development Our policies and performance Economic value statement Revving up local economic engines Knowledge transfer Closing mines, opening the future 134 Managing health risks 115 Prepared for crises: Managing the Ebola risk Access to healthcare 116 Community development Net benefits in our fight against malaria Our policy and performance Helping prevent and live with HIV AIDS Community development activity in 2014 Occupational health Providing alternative livelihoods for artisanal 138 Environmental management miners Our policies and performances Hearing and resolving grievances Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions Peaceful and progressive resettlements Water management Respecting human rights Water monitoring Finance for development Waste and cyanide management Meeting the development challenge Protecting biodiversity together 128 Protecting and empowering our Dust management workforce 146 Looking ahead: Our materiality Our workforce assessment in 2014 Our process Safety as a top concern Our emerging findings Training Priority issues Industrial relations Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 98 When an issue needs resolving we seek to ask why and how, rather than simply saying yes or no.
In 1995 we set out to build an African gold mining Cte dIvoire, improving pass rates in schools around company, run by Africans, focused on African assets and our Mali mines or building one of Africas largest gold mines in the north eastern DRC.
which delivered value to all stakeholders.
Two decades on, we can reflect with some pride on a company which The final pillar of our approach to produced over a million ounces of gold last year, has sustainability is to define it in its outperformed the industry benchmark over the short and Leaving a most literal sense: as the ability to long term and which has contributed more than $2 billion legacy continue.
We know that our mines in taxes, royalties and dividends to its host governments.
have a limited lifespan but we want to ensure that the In the process, Randgold has created over 20 000 jobs benefits of mining this national resource are felt by our for citizens of those nations and now boasts a workforce of which over 90% were host country nationals in 2014. host communities for generations to come.
Thats why our projects are not just homes for mining but also for fish farms, mango plantations and other agribusiness Our commitment to sustainability has been central to enterprises that will create a legacy of economic this success: but what does sustainability mean?
At opportunity for future generations.
Randgold our definition has three pillars: shared benefits, dialogue and durability.
This sustainability report aims to explain in more detail how these sustainability policies and commitments have been put into practice throughout 2014.
The first pillar of our sustainability Delivering genuine The journey hasnt ended.
A colleague from another mindset is our shared value mining company once asked whether we planned commitment to to reduce our level of investment in these areas and I creating benefits for all stakeholders.
We form genuine, said, Ive bad news for you.
We really do believe in it.
robust partnerships with our countries of operation that Sustainability is part of our mindset.
It has helped shape since 1995 have evolved through coups dtat, wars and every decision Randgold has made in the last 20 years, 2014s outbreak of Ebola which we discuss in this report.
and will continue to do so in the decades to come.
Delivering value to all also means managing a safe and rewarding workplace for our employees and improving the quality of life for the local communities that host us.
We aim for our gold mines to have a catalytic effect on the development of the local communities around our mines fast-tracking improvements in areas such as economic development, local healthcare and education.
Mark Bristow Chief executive Delivering value for all would not be possible without careful stewardship of the environment and, over the last two decades, we have shown that it is in our core commercial interests to constantly improve energy efficiency, water recycling rates and to protect biodiversity.
That is why some of our key achievements of 2014 have included the creation of a new hydropower plant in the Democratic Republic of Congo DRC and the achievement of a 19% improvement in our energy efficiency across the group.
The second pillar of Open and robust sustainability for Randgold is our partnerships commitment to open and transparent discussion with our stakeholders whether they are traditional chiefs, fund managers, trade unions or government ministries.
As explained in the stakeholder engagement section of this report, we engage regularly with all parties, and when an issue needs resolving we seek to ask why and how, rather than saying yes or no.
That leads to a genuine partnership, whether the matter under discussion is creating a microfinance facility in Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 99
