In line with the audit committees policy during engaging third parties, entering into partnerships and joint the year no non-audit services were provided by BDO.
ventures and updating that due diligence periodically during the relationship.
On 4 February 2015, the audit committee reafrmed the groups non-audit services policy.
As in previous years, the group continued with its whistleblowing programme at all its operations and sites.
Internal audit independently reviews the This programme allows all staff and contractors to raise risks and control processes operated Internal any concerns about the groups business practices, by management.
It carries out audit condentially.
The programme is monitored by the independent audits in accordance with audit committee and ensures that the groups general an internal audit plan which is reviewed and agreed with counsels contact details are widely distributed among its the audit committee at the beginning of each financial operations and sites, and highlighted periodically to staff year.
The internal audit plan agenda is driven by the and contractors, to allow any person who has information groups assessment of its principal risks and uncertainties, regarding unethical practice within the group to contact which are contained on pages 163 to 165 of this annual the groups general counsel.
All reports received by the report.
The head of internal audit has responsibility to the general counsel are treated in confidence and are either audit committee and has direct access to members of the investigated by the general counsel or referred to an audit committee, the chairman of the audit committee appropriate line manager or the internal audit function and the chairman of the board.
The head of internal audit for investigation and resolution, depending on the attended four audit committee meetings during the year.
seriousness of the information received by the general At these meetings, the audit committee considered and counsel.
discussed various committee reports, internal audit plans, SOX and internal audit reports and internal audit findings.
The audit committee considers the whistleblowing procedures in place to be appropriate for the group.
During the year, the audit committee held discussions However, these procedures are periodically reviewed by with the head of internal audit without the presence of the audit committee to ensure that appropriate safeguards management as well as outside of the formal committee to protect whistleblowers are in place and maintained.
The head of internal audit works across Suspected fraudulent incidences which are identied the group with responsibility for reviewing, evaluating, under this programme are investigated by internal audit developing and providing assurance on the adequacy and reported on directly to the audit committee.
of the internal control environment, operating efficiency and risk identication and management across all of The audit committee reviews the outcomes of such the groups operations while reporting back to the audit investigations and has done so in the past year in line committee on findings.
The audit committee is also with its responsibilities, in order to assure itself that such responsible for the oversight of the groups compliance instances are appropriately addressed and controls in activities in relation to Section 404 of SOX, under which place are effective.
internal audit report to the committee on each quarter.
The company has adopted policies pursuant to the United The audit committee assessed the effectiveness of the States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, United groups internal audit function during the year, nding that States Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer sufficient work had been undertaken providing effective Protection Act of 2010 Dodd Frank Act, the United assurance around financial processes and controls in Kingdoms Bribery Act 2010 and Corruption Jersey relation to the SOX work performed in the year and that Law 2006.
All the groups operations and sites, key the internal audit function has had full access to all areas employees, customers, major suppliers, managers and of the group.
The board notes that no cost effective other key stakeholders have been briefed, through written system can preclude all errors and irregularities and notification and where possible through workshops with therefore the groups system of internal controls provides management, concerning the implication of the policies reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material and the companys obligations under that legislation.
company continues to work with its external legal counsel regarding the effects of the Dodd Frank Act and any The group prohibits applicable regulations which have been published.
bribery and Anticorruption and corruption in all The audit committee has business integrity forms throughout its assessed the groups Control business and those of its contractors and suppliers.
The control environment environment groups code of conduct and its general conditions of including controls around contract assist its business and employees in countering fraud prevention and detection such as whistleblowing bribery, corruption and unethical behaviour.
This assessment, which included assessment considers and addresses bribery and corruption risks as of reports by the internal and external auditors, enabled the part of its ongoing risk management process, which committee to be satisfied that risks of management override includes performing appropriate due diligence when of controls or material fraud were suitably mitigated.
