RANDGOLDS COUNTRY RANKING OF AFRICA Tunisia Morocco Algeria Libya Egypt Western Sahara Mauritania Mali Niger Sudan Eritrea Senegal Chad Burkino Faso Guinea Bissau Guinea Benin Nigeria Togo South Ethiopia Cte Sierra Leone Ghana Central Sudan d'Ivoire African Republic Liberia Cameroon Somalia Eq.
Guinea Uganda Kenya Congo Gabon Democratic Rwanda Republic of Burundi Congo Tanzania A Angola Malawi Zambia B C Zimbabwe Mozambique Madagascar D Namibia Botswana Swaziland Lesotho South Africa Cash management is a key In 2014, the focus of the treasury committee was to focus for the group.
The role manage counterparty risk with banks and other financial Treasury of group treasury is to institutions where the group places cash deposits, management manage and monitor the as well as ensuring the groups cash resources were groups external and internal funding requirements as well appropriately managed to meet the substantial capital as financial risks to support the groups strategic expenditure requirements, given the lower average objectives.
Treasury activities are governed by policies received gold price.
and procedures approved by the audit committee and where necessary by the board.
The treasury policy was In December 2014, the company renegotiated its last approved in January 2015 by the board with no $200 million unsecured revolving credit facility with a amendments necessary.
syndicate of banks led by HSBC replacing it with a four year facility of $400 million which matures in December The company has put in place a treasury committee, 2018 and at present is undrawn.
The treasury committee chaired by the companys CFO, which meets on a monthly oversees the compliance of the terms of this facility.
basis to review the groups treasury activities.
Its members receive management information relating to the groups Unless specific dispensation is obtained from the audit treasury activities.
The committee recommends group committee, the group treasury policy ensures surplus policy, relating to all aspects of funding, management of cash is placed with institutions with credit ratings of: interest rate and foreign exchange exposures, hedging and other financial risk management, to the audit A and higher, on strict terms concerning placement committee at least every six months for approval.
It also duration maximum three months with no more coordinates relationships with banks, rating agencies and than 5% or $12.5 million whichever is the higher other financial institutions.
The committee monitors all being placed with any one institution noting that no significant treasury activities undertaken by the group investment can exceed $25 million: or companies and ensures compliance with the groups AAand higher, on strict terms concerning treasury policy.
placement duration maximum three months with no more than 20% or $50 million whichever is the The overall objective of the treasury committee is to higher being placed with any one institution noting effectively manage credit risk, financial risk, liquidity risk, that no investment can exceed $100 million.
foreign currency risks and other market risks in accordance with the groups strategy.
Other responsibilities of the Credit ratings and market information are continually treasury committee include safeguarding and managing reviewed by the treasurer to ensure the treasury the groups cash resources and funding programmes, committee is kept aware of all necessary information approval of counterparties and relevant transaction limits, pertinent to ensuring effective management of the groups ensuring the most competitive return on surplus cash cash resources.
The group also uses a Fiduciary Deposit resources, and the monitoring of all significant treasury Service provided by Rothschild Bank International to activities undertaken by the group.
The group uses conventional financial instruments to manage these risks.
assist with the flow and quality of market information.
