Looking ahead by updating our materiality assessment in 2014 Throughout November and December 2014 Randgold The Randgold team will work to address these gaps in 2015 and ensure that the issues of importance to each group are undertook an exercise to update and build on its materiality adequately attended to.
assessment, and so understand which sustainability issues might need to be prioritised in 2015.
This exercise will be In order to draw a threshold for our reported in full in next years sustainability report but we wanted reporting, we set boundaries to identify to include a snapshot of it here.
Priority high and medium impact issues.
We define issues high impact issues as those that appear in To carry out the update to our materiality both internal and external stakeholders top 10 most important assessment we presented both internal Our issues, while medium impact issues are defined as those and external stakeholders with a long list rd process appearing in the top 3 13 of either internal or external of over 40 potential sustainability topics stakeholder lists.
and asked them to score the potential impact on Randgolds business of each of these issues.
As listed below, the 2014 assessment showed four high priority issues and 16 medium-impact issues.
This compares to five For internal stakeholders, we asked heads of key departments high impact issues in 2013 local and national employment and the executive management team to update their being the issue that slips back.
assessment of the priority issues for the business, discounting last years results.
For external stakeholders, we combined The results also introduced four new issues within the medium survey responses from 2013 with an additional set of external impact category, these are: air pollution, artisanal mining, stakeholders that were approached for the first time this year.
community grievance mechanism and corporate governance.
The complete group of over 100 external stakeholders included local and regional authorities, local businesses, external There are also three issues that dropped below this mediumcontractors, staff, workers unions and police.
impact line in 2014 they were: resettlement, energy use & efficiency, and local procurement & partner development.
The results were reviewed and agreed internally by Randgold management to ensure they provided balanced coverage of High impact issues the companys most material issues wherever they occur in the Safety value chain.
Cyanide management The results of the update to our Community engagement materiality assessment Our emerging showed that 80% of our Water pollution findings highest-impact issues remained in this top category, but there were also some notable Medium impact issues movement around which issues both internal and external stakeholders placed in their top third of priorities.
Air pollution Artisanal mining Among internal stakeholders, the top two issues of safety and cyanide management remained the same as in 2013 but the Bribery and corruption issues of water pollution, corporate governance and community Community development and investment grievance resolution all rose considerably up the internal priority Community grievance mechanism list to complete the top five in 2014.
Corporate governance Among external stakeholders, the top three issues safety, Environmental incidents community engagement and community investment all HIV AIDS remained the same.
Below that there were eleven issues that moved between five and ten places in the priority list.
The Legal compliance fastest rising issue among external stakeholders in 2014 was Local economic development artisanal mining, which rose eleven places and entered the top third of priorities for external stakeholders.
Local and national employment Malaria One of the most useful outcomes of the materiality assessment Revenue transparency exercise is that it helps the Randgold team to identify where gaps in perception exist between internal and external Staff training and skills transfer stakeholders.
The 2014 results showed nine issues where Waste management comparative rankings showed a difference of 15 places or more.
These included issues such as HIV AIDS, corporate governance and bribery and corruption where a gap of over The relative importance of all issues considered according to 20 places existed between the internal and external rankings.
this analysis is illustrated on the scattergraph alongside.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 146 RESULTS OF 2014 UPDATE TO THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 5 5 4 4 Safety 3 Community engagement Community development and investment Local and national employment Cyanide management Local economic development 3 Waste Staff training and Indigenous populations Water pollution management skills transfer HIV AIDS Malaria 2 Artisanal mining Occupational health Security forces Community grievance resolution Air pollution Local procurement Revenue transparency Water Legal compliance Closure planning use Human Fair wages Environmental incidents rights Gender equality Energy use and efficiency R & C Freedom of Corporate governance association 1 Land disturbance Bribery and corruption 2 Ecology Product responsibility Climate change and adaptation Supplier human rights Strike action and Financial assistance Supplier labour practices Material use efficiency Very minor Minor Moderate Severe Very severe 0 Current potential impact on the business 1 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 147 Importance to stakeholders Medium High Critical
