The width of anomalism varies identified in the southern part of the belt which features between 65m and 120m with saprolite values reaching wide sequences of thrusted BIFS in a regional scale, open 2.77g t. The anomalous corridor coincides with the fold.
topographic ridge and structural readings have produced an interpretation of a parallel antiform-synform pair with Follow up mapping and sampling over the targets has not returned any significant results this year and our work hinges plunging gently to the ESE.
indicates that parts of the belt are of a relatively high, low to mid amphibolite metamorphic grade.
Further work is Trench YBTR001 excavated within the anomalous planned over the targets, as well as a review of the more corridor intercepted 11.30m at 1.02g t from 28m linear western extension of the belt.
including 4m at1.30g t and 4m at 1.50g t within a 76.1m wide anomalous zone.
ISIRO BELT Further pitting and trenching are planned to confirm the fold model and the continuity of the anomalous zone N Preliminary target areas while also extending its strike.
The team is working on the identification of controls on the higher grades within the anomalous corridor to identify targets for follow up work in 2015.
Isiro belt A regional soil sampling and mapping programme has been completed over the southern part of the Isiro belt.
The soil results generally reported a low background 10km value over the permit with only five 70ppb anomalies The ongoing turmoil in the gold CONGO CRATON Generative mining industry continues to Adumbi N Mara generate potential opportunities 1.67Moz 4.97Moz work NGAYU BELT and the generative team is Kibali Geita continuously reviewing these projects.
N 22.4Moz 10.67Moz Randgolds focus remains on the identification of new world class gold districts within Africa, specifically around the West African and Congo Tanzanian Cratons with the potential to meet our investment criteria of a 20% return at a $1 000 oz gold price with a minimum deposit size of 3Moz.
Our four principal target areas are the Mako Belt in eastern Senegal, the SMSZ in western Mali, Cte dIvoire Mongbwalu and NE DRC, with further research being conducted 2.93Moz across Cameroon, South Sudan and Tanzania.
Zani Kodo 2.97Moz As can be seen from this section of the report, Randgold continues to maintain its focus on organic growth through the discovery and development of world-class Buzwagi 3.43Moz orebodies, and has a pipeline of high quality projects and exploration targets.
Notwithstanding this core strategy, Makapela given the increased balance sheet stress across the 1.16Moz Golden Pride industry and our view that the industry needs to reinvent 1.36Moz itself, the companys routine review of corporate and 100km Twangiza Bulyanhulu asset acquisition and merger opportunities is receiving 6.3Moz 15.63Moz additional attention.
