Executives Tahirou Ballo Chiaka Berthe Sebastiaan Bock Luiz Correia Gounkoto mine manager GM Loulo-Gounkoto mine Group corporate finance GM Tongon mine A mining economist engineer complex manager Luiz is a metallurgist with with 20 years experience, With a Masters degree in Sebastiaan is responsible 29 years experience in the mainly in Mali.
Tahirou started geological engineering from for the management of gold mining industry, and his career as a short planner the Malian National School of the groups operations has a BSc Eng as well as a with BHP Billiton at the Syama Engineering, Chiaka has more financial functions and the BCom degree.
He joined mine and served as mining than 18 years experience in groups corporate finance Randgold in 2005 and in 2006 superintendent from 1999 the industry.
Hes a was appointed operations for Randgold at Syama.
In of the Australian Institute of chartered accountant with manager at the Loulo mine.
2010, he was promoted Mine and Metallurgy and the 14 years experience and has He was appointed general to operations manager for Geostatistical Association, been with the group for six manager at the Tongon mine Randgold at the Loulo mine and was appointed to his years.
during its construction phase and then was appointed current position as general in 2010. as the general manager at manager of the LouloGounkoto in 2011.
Joel Holliday Willem Jacobs Adama Kone Mahamadou Sam Group exploration GM operations Central and GM Morila mine Samak manager East Africa Adama joined Randgold in Group regional manager Joel is a geologist with With a BPL Hons and 1996, responsible for grade West Africa 18 years experience on DCom, he has served as a control at the Syama mine.
In Sam was a professor of exploration projects in Europe, director of listed and private 2000, he joined the mineral company law at the University South America and across companies in the areas of resources department at of Mali, and was instrumental Africa.
He joined Randgold mining, engineering and the Morila mine, becoming in writing the Malian mining in 2004 and until recently, manufacturing in Southern, manager of the department legislation.
He is the resident worked as exploration Central and Eastern Africa for in 2006.
With a geological executive manager in Mali and manager for West Africa the past 19 years.
He joined degree from the Malian is responsible for government following several years as Randgold in 2010.
National School of Engineering, liaison in West Africa and is exploration manager for the he gained early experience as the groups West African legal Loulo district in Mali, during a field geologist for BHP Billiton counsel.
which time the Gounkoto Minerals Exploration.
Adama and Loulo 3 deposits were has been the general manager discovered.
Joel has a BSc of the Morila mine since 2011.
Ngolo Sanogo John Steele Samba Toure Ted fide Villiers GM operations West Africa Group GM mining GM Mali Technical and capital Ngolo has a Masters projects executive Joined the Morila mine A mining engineer, Ted has in 2000 and held various extensive experience in degree in economics from John was responsible for responsibilities, culminating mining operations, mining the National School of the successful construction Administration of Bamako, and commissioning of in his appointment in 2007 contracting and consulting.
as the mine chief executive.
He joined Randgold in 2010, Mali, as well as several Randgolds Morila, Loulo, Graduated from Moscow Oil with executive responsibility business qualifications.
He Tongon and Gounkoto mines joined BHP Billiton Mali in and led the development and Gas Institute IM Gubkin for the groups rapidly with a Masters degree in expanding mining operations, 1995 and was appointed the and commissioning of the Chemical Engineering in 1979, tasked with ensuring a management accountant at Kibali mine in the DRC.
He he has also completed various consistent production stream.
In also continues to provide 2004 he joined Randgold as operational and engineering managerial and financial training Ted has an HNDP Mining courses.
In 2010 he was Metalliferous and a Mali financial controller and oversight to the group.
John promoted to group operations Mine Managers Certificate of was appointed Mali general has a BSc Hons in Chemical manager in 2009.
general manager for West Africa.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 22 Victor Matfield Paul Gillot Tania fide Welzim Riaan Grobler Group metallurgist, deputy Group GM corporate Group financial manager Group GM commercial and GM capital projects finance supply chain Having served as group Paul has 25 years operational A chartered accountant, Riaan holds an Honours financial controller, Tania Victor was appointed and management experience was appointed to her current degree in finance and has in the mining industry and corporate finance manager in 16 years experience in the position in 2009.
A Chartered moved into the projects 2001.
Prior to that he served gold mining industry.
He was Accountant with 16 years as financial manager of both arena for the group with the financial experience, 14 of initially appointed financial commissioning of the Tongon the Syama and Morila mines.
projects manager East Africa these in the mining industry, mine.
He obtained his NHD in in early 2012 and was involved she is responsible for Extractive Metallurgy from the in the financial management technical financial reporting University of Johannesburg.
and procedures for the group.
side of the construction of He is responsible for the the Kibali mine before his groups metallurgical promotion in January 2014 activities.
to group general manager commercial and supply chain.
Philip Pretorius Rod Quick Charles Wells Lois Wark Group human resources Group GM evaluation Group GM corporate GM Kibali mine executive A geologist with an MSc communications Charles has an MSc in Philip joined Randgold in Geology and 21 years Lois has been with Randgold environmental biotechnology experience in the gold mining since its inception and 2008.
Has 25 years human and 17 years experience in resources experience, the last industry.
Rod joined Randgold assumed management of environmental management.
19 spent dealing exclusively in 1996, and has been involved the cartography department He joined Randgold in March with the gold mining industry in the exploration, evaluation in 1995.
She is responsible 2012 with responsibility for in Sub-Saharan Africa.
He and production phases for the coordination of the the groups sustainability has a postgraduate diploma of all Randgolds projects groups communications and programme before being in management practice and since Morila.
He became investor relations programmes appointed the general responsible for all project and holds a diploma in land is responsible for the groups manager of the Kibali mine human resources and human development and evaluation surveying: cadastral and in 2014. capital department.
for the group since 2009. topographical.
Martin Welsh General counsel and secretary Martin joined Randgold in 2011 and in 2012 was appointed the groups company secretary and general counsel.
He qualified as a solicitor in 1998 and previously worked in London with Dickson Minto WS and Linklaters, where he represented numerous international corporate and financial institutions, and in Jersey where he acted for Randgold while in private practise.
