The committee assisted the board in carrying out its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting requirements, risk management and the assessment of internal Main activities controls.
During the year, it also reviewed the effectiveness of the groups internal audit during the year function and managed the groups relationship with the external auditor.
During the six meetings in the year, the committee focused on and considered the following main activities as detailed in the table below: Meeting date Main activities 30 January 2014 Reviewed the groups fourth quarter preliminary announcement, draft report and accounts for 2013 and the groups assessment of going concern.
Considered a dividend in light of the financial results for 2013 and subsequently proposed the declaration of a final dividend.
Reviewed accounting policies and recent accounting pronouncements.
Reviewed key accounting estimates and judgements for the 2013 financial statements.
Considered reports from the external auditor on its audit and its review of the 2013 accounts including accounting policies and areas of judgement, and its comments on control matters, significant risks and corporate governance matters.
Assessed the independence of the external auditor for 2013.
Met with the external auditor without management being present.
Reviewed and approved the groups non-audit services policy.
Approved the audit committees terms of reference.
Considered reports from management relating to tax, TVA, risk factors, litigation and treasury.
Reviewed reports from internal audit on the effectiveness of internal controls and SarbanesOxley Act 2002 SOX compliance.
Reviewed the performance of internal audit and approved the internal audit strategy and plan for 2014.
Reviewed the groups insurance update.
12 March 2014 Reviewed and approved the annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013, including discussion with the external auditors and detailed evaluation of that report.
27 March 2014 Reviewed and approved the annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2013, including discussion with the external auditors and detailed evaluation of that report.
3 May 2014 Reviewed the groups interim management statement for the first quarter 2014.
Reviewed reports from internal audit on the effectiveness of internal controls and SOX compliance.
Considered a report on cyber security from internal audit and IT.
3 August 2014 Reviewed the groups interim management statement for the second quarter 2014.
Considered the risk management update and risk review for the year, including considerations on risks facing the business.
Met with internal audit without management being present.
Reviewed the companys revolving credit facility.
2 November 2014 Reviewed the groups interim management statement for the third quarter of 2014.
Considered and approved the group annual insurance renewal.
Approved the proposed external audit scope and fees for 2014.
Reviewed a report from internal audit regarding the transition to the updated Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO framework 2013 framework for internal control.
Considered the performance of the external auditor, assessed its independence, qualification, expertise and resources, the effectiveness of the audit process and partner rotation: considered the appointment of BDO LLP for 2014 and recommended its appointment to the board.
Received an update from the external auditor on accounting, reporting and governance developments.
