Economic development $985 million total economic value distributed in 2014, up 8% $212 million revenue created for host states $288 million spent on host country suppliers 809 local companies supported through procurement practices, microfinance or community business mentoring We help to turn remote corners of some of the worlds poorest countries into robust economic dynamos.
Local economic development Local and national employment Staff training and skills development Local procurement and partner development Legal compliance Revenue transparency Current potential impact on the business Our materiality assessment highlighted several economic development issues to be managed including the need to create jobs and value in our host countries, to source products and services from local suppliers, to improve skills and to be transparent about revenue flows.
We see all these issues as not only important risks to be managed but also a crucial pillar of our business strategy.
We make large contributions to host government revenues through TOTAL TAXES AND DIVIDENDS TO HOST COUNTRIES Cte dlvoire Democratic Republic of Congo Mali $ million $ million $ million 300 25 80 70 250 20 60 200 50 15 150 40 10 30 100 20 50 5 10 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 108 Importance to stakeholders taxes, royalties and dividends: and we create gold mines Infrastructure is widely lacking across much of subthat act as a commercial engine to power local economic Saharan Africa, where we operate, and is estimated to growth.
Our strategy is that this combination helps to turn limit the continents GDP growth by two percentage remote corners of some of the worlds poorest countries points each year.
For this reason, the creation of roads, into robust economic dynamos, in turn helping us form the power stations and telecommunication networks plays an strong relationships that enable our business to succeed.
important role in our contribution to national economic development.
In this section we report on our approach not just to the economic development priorities highlighted in the Our infrastructure projects are by nature mutually materiality assessment but also to important areas such beneficial: they both enable the construction and efficient as mine closure planning.
operation of our mines and also ensure the ongoing ability of the local community to thrive and prosper.
Examples Randgold has a set of of this in recent years are the creation of the Doko-Aru policies that aims to road in the DRC, a journey which used to take several Our policies and ensure that our mine days and now takes around four hours, and in 2014 the performance projects are genuine bringing online of the new 20MW Nzoro II hydropower partnerships with our host countries.
These include joint plant near Kibali, DRC which will be given to the local ownership structures for all our respective mines the community after the mine has closed see Giving a dam states of Mali, Cte dIvoire and the DRC all have stakes in the environmental management chapter.
of at least 10% in our respective mines, investments in major infrastructure, a commitment to transparency and In all cases, we aim not to assume the role of government long term agreements within our mining code obligations.
but to act as a partner to local authorities and a catalyst for ECONOMIC VALUE STATEMENT ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED OR TO BE for the year ended 31 Dec $000 2014 2013 DISTRIBUTED Economic value generated $ million 3 Gold sales 1 434 872 1 266 712 1 000 3 Finance income 2 769 10 452 Sundry income net 9 760 4 394 1 Government portion of Morila - 4 500 800 Total economic value generated 1 447 401 1 286 058 Economic value distributed or to be distributed 4 Operating costs 592 956 459 137 600 3 Finance costs 7 848 11 885 Employee salaries, wages and other benefits before taxes 75 772 74 100 Dividend payments to providers of capital 46 274 46 137 400 Payments to governments including corporate taxes, custom duties, dividends, etc 214 966 243 321 200 3 Exploration and corporate expenditure 40 869 51 858 2 Community investment 6 742 23 590 Total economic value distributed or to be distributed 985 427 910 028 0 Economic value retained and re-invested 461 974 376 030 2011 2012 2013 2014 The information in this economic value statement is extracted from the financial statements, underlying accounting records and other financial data.
This non-GAAP information is, however, intended to summarise the overall contribution of the group to its stakeholders and is not intended to replace or provide an alternative to the audited IFRS financial statements.
1 This amount represents 50% of the dividends paid to the State of Mali, and is also included in Payments to governments.
The State of Malis attributable portion of the Morila operation is not included in the Randgold financial statements.
2 Total spend on community development, including advantageous infrastructure development and philanthropy.
3 Refer to page 233 note 16 of the financial statements for further information on this figure.
4 Total cash costs excluding royalties, salaries, employment taxes and custom duties.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 109 For example, at Loulo, at least 80% of all the food on the mine now comes from local farmers who work in a cooperative, while much of the meat eaten at Kibali is provided by a local abattoir service see case study.
We actively encourage wider economic activity and wealth creation that is not directly linked to the mine.
For example, the town of Durba, DRC has been transformed, since the arrival of Kibali, from a very rural district with hardly any facilities to a location with four banks, a Vodacom Mobile Telecommunication shop, petrol stations and a motorcycle dealership.
Local villagers jokingly call it the CBD, after the Central Business District in Johannesburg.
The sphere of economic opportunity can also be much wider than expected.
For example, in the DRC, the success and stability of Kibali has encouraged the Garamba National Park located approximately 200km from the mine to The new Doko-Aru road, which Randgold built, has reduced invest in consultants that will seek to boost tourism to the travel time for the route from several days to just a few hours.
When local suppliers do not development helping to give previously remote areas have the right level of quality or Knowledge the connectivity and facilities that they need to grow.
expertise to meet our transfer procurement requirements, we An important part of try to facilitate skill training or mentoring support from our contribution to Revving up local leading international companies in order to build local national economic economic engines capacity.
We believe this is an important contribution to development is our national economic development as it helps world-class preferential procurement policy which commits us to buying products and services from local companies whenever possible.
This helps foster a thriving local ATMs, banks and other facilities all now appear for the first time in the town of Durba near Kibali.
economy around each of our mines.
With thousands of people coming and going through the gates of our gold mines every day, the mines become an economic hub that we want local companies to use to spark sustained regional economic growth.
The four case studies from the DRC on pages 112 and 113 give a good example of this.
This year we spent $288 million on host country suppliers.
Our procurement includes a wide range of goods and services from Congolese bottled water supplier OKapi to Malian caterers Food and Events Africa FEA and Ivorian fuel suppliers Klenzi.
To support local small and medium sized enterprises SMEs, we also provided business mentoring and training to a set of community companies in 2014 including those working in areas such as borehole management, gardening, jam making and waste management.
In Cte dIvoire, we hosted an entrepreneur day in 2014 to encourage national companies to invest in the area around Tongon and we have worked hard in 2014 to connect our procurement contracts with our efforts in local community development.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 110 skills to enter and stay in the local workforce.
For example, in the DRC we encouraged experts from South Africa to train local brick makers to use hydroform machines in place of traditional techniques.
This has made brickmaking enormously more efficient,  and more cost effective.
Our policy of requiring all suppliers to respect our sustainability and human rights policies also helps improve the quality and standards of local businesses and builds their capacity to access opportunities with other multinational companies in the future.
With over 90% of our workforce comprised of nationals, we are helping to improve skills and knowledge levels for each host countrys mining sector.
We also support excellent science students across West Africa and in 2014 Randgold awarded three scholarships to two promising masters students at the University of Kinshasa, DRC, and one from the University of Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso.
More details of skills transfer through our employee In DRC we introduced modern construction techniques which training programmes can be found in the protecting and made brickmaking enormously more efficient, environmentally empowering our workforce section of this report.
Case study: FUELLING HIGHER QUALITY STANDARDS AT KLENZI Gold mining is an energy intensive business and we tend to need large amounts of fuel delivered to the often remote areas where our mines and projects are based.
Where possible we try to use local suppliers for this job.
Klenzi is a specialist petroleum distribution company in Cte dIvoire, which has supplied our Tongon mine with fuel since 2010.
We initially found that their distribution trucks did not meet our standards, often sporting damaged tyres, leaking fuel and being mechanically unreliable.
Given the volatile nature of petroleum, this caused real safety concerns, particularly given the poor roads in sub-Saharan Africa.
Our approach, in line with a policy of mentoring and supporting local companies to reach world-class standards, has been to work with Klenzi to improve all the sub-standard aspects of their business.
In particular, we have worked with Klenzi to improve the quality of their trucks and to improve driver protocols.
Every truck is now subject to daily mechanical inspection to ensure safety and reliability and they are inspected for cleanliness prior to loading.
Trucks that were found to be in very poor condition have been replaced with new ones.
We have also provided training to Klenzi, and sought to cultivate a safety culture in the company, with their drivers now attending our safety induction training.
The Klenzi site manager provides drivers with daily refreshers on mine safety rules as well as risk assessments for routes.
The roads are also inspected on a weekly basis and drivers informed of any new hazards.
This has created a win:win situation, where we avoid the costs and sourcing issues associated with hiring an alternative fuel supplier and Klenzi now boast international standards that will give them the foundation to expand their business.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 111 Case study: STIMULATING ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IN THE DRC Kibali is Randgolds newest mine and one of its major impacts has been to turn a neglected area of one of the worlds poorest countries into a thriving local economy.
Although the mine only poured its first gold in 2013, it has already supported the growth of hundreds of local companies.
Examples of four of these are detailed here.
Down a slope from the main road With around 5 000 workers through Durba, local entrepreneurs on site, spread across a Cooking up a Bricks and sprawling exclusion zone, not have grabbed the opportunity to healthy profit slaughter all workers can easily get to create a slaughterhouse service the mines canteen for lunch.
To help meet this challenge, that now generates a regular income for community Kibali has encouraged the development of Mama Malewa members.
a collective of around 50 women all mothers from the local Durba area, who run small mobile kitchens that feed over The service is a crucial intermediary that enables local 2 000 workers daily.
livestock farmers to bring their animals to be slaughtered and cut.
This means the meat can then be sold to caterer Collectively, the ladies generate approximately $60 000 per ATS, who supplies food to the Kibali mine as well.
Local month, and buy all their products locally, making an even farmers bring a range of livestock including cows, pigs, bigger social impact.
For many of the ladies, theirs is the only income for their family.
By giving workers access to healthy, home cooked local food To help get the business off the ground, Randgold helped such as beans, beef and cassava leaves, we also believe establish the electricity supply and loaned capital to buy there is a boost to health and productivity for our workforce.
equipment such as an industrial freezer unit and meat Mama Malewa which in the local Lingala language is hooks.
They also encouraged ATS to provide equipment slang for any provider of food is an idea that was born and training in quality, hygiene and animal welfare during DRCs long civil war when local mothers provided standards to the slaughterhouse workers.
food for refugees who concentrated in a single area.
One member of the team explained: The ATS training was Since its formation in May 2011, the Mama Malewa collective a big eye-opener and really improved the way we transport has moved from an ad-hoc payment system to a more stable booking system that means lunch payments come straight and cut the meat, how long we keep the meat and our from a workers payroll.
Nadine who sits on the cooperatives main committee The service already employs 23 people and has ambitious commented: We are very happy that Kibali has encouraged plans to grow.
us to create the Mama Malewa system.
We dont want to be housecleaners, wed like more economic opportunities Profits from the service are currently being reinvested into for women here.
the business and they hope to grow to around 80 people and supply all the meat for the Kibali mine in the coming For example, why do we get all the soft drinks from abroad, years.
we can make them here and create more jobs.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 112 Case study: STIMULATING ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IN THE DRC When I returned to the region I Inter Oriental Builders IOB is a Congolese business that has used knew that it would be a big A vehicle Building the opportunities provided by Kibali challenge, but I have a vision to for growth the future see this area grow and grow, long to expand massively.
after the mine has closed.
IOB provide a wide range of related services including This is mechanic Jean Bakomito, who after years of construction, supply of building material and road repair.
working in places such as Belgium, Tunisia and South Africa met with Randgold in Johannesburg and decided to return They recently set up an office in the nearby town of Durba to his native Durba to start Uele Motors, a growing garage and have worked with Kibali on a number of major projects including construction of houses and schools, supplying on the banks of the Kibali River.
concrete for the mines construction and the building of the The garage opened in May 2013 and has already grown from new Roman Catholic Church in Kokiza.
four to 40 people practically all of whom are from the local area.
We estimate that Randgold has spent around $20 million on services from the company.
It repairs up to 200 vehicles a month, including all of Randgolds light vehicles and generates a turnover of around Guy Aime Bompengo, a local IOB representative explains: Kibali helped increase our construction business $80 000 month.
by around 60% but we also know that they might disappear The garage has a policy to provide training for as many as one day and we have built many other customers too.
This includes building houses in Kisangani, work with the 18 local youngsters each year and works with local schools to recruit several apprentices teaching them slowly but Central Bank in Kinshasa and providing building supplies steadily to do a complete engine overhaul.
Jean explains that the garage hopes to treble its capacity in IOB currently has a permanent workforce of around 300 the next two years.
people and also employs up to 1 000 casual workers.
Many of the staff are local residents that IOB have trained He also wants to diversify the business into property themselves.
He hopes it is part of the wider As part of our partnership approach, Randgold has growth of the area.
Its in our business interests to see the area prosper.
provided IOB with full safety training, and this has helped them improve safety standards to recognised best practice standards and to then win work with other mining At the moment, for example, we have to buy parts from abroad which is expensive.
But as more people have cars companies in Lubumbashi in southern DRC.
in the area we can start to buy reconditioned parts and drive down costs, says Jean.
IOB has big ambitions for the company and its country.
He adds: Because we work for Randgold we have to comply Mr Bompengo explains, This part of the DRC is in very with a lot of their environmental policies.
For example, we are bad shape with roads, houses and offices all run down.
building an oil separator to ensure there is no oil discharge We want to be part of regenerating and transforming this into the river.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 113 From the moment our mines prepare to Closing mines, pour first gold, we opening the future ensure we have in place a detailed plan for their closure.
It is a work stream that we call the future because we know that the successful closure of a mine is just as important to our host countries as its successful operation.
which includes the government of Mali and the local We ensure that post-mining land use is established communities.
By 2017, we expect to have set the path for a vibrant sustainable agrivillage after the mine closes.
and clearly defined to the satisfaction of the community and government, that future health and safety are not In 2014, Morila also welcomed a delegation from Tongon compromised and that environmental resources such as water are not subject to physical and chemical deterioration.
community representatives to help share best practice and The framework of our policies is set by the requirements of ideas for agribusiness projects in Cte dIvoire.
the relevant country legislation, Equator Principles and the Closure planning is underway at all other mines too, although IFC.
we expect them to have many years of production ahead.
Within this framework, we also engage in detailed business At Kibali, a community cooperative called the Federation planning to try and think about how the mines infrastructure Agricole fide Kibali has been formed to implement an agribusiness strategy and it has already reported $25 000 can best be converted into viable economic activity that will revenue from farming projects in 2014.
Plans for a potential sustain the communities long after the mine has closed.
palm oil production facility in an already deforested area of Given the rural African context of most of our mines this tends to be based on large scale agribusiness.
the province are also under discussion.
At Tongon, Loulo and Gounkoto we have begun to introduce agribusinesses within the main site and continue to support market gardens In 2014, there has continued to be a major focus on the within the community, training and capacity building in agribusiness programmes at Morila, which is our mine agriculture activities and technical support for the use of closest to the end of its life.
Active businesses being fostered tractors.
at Morila all owned by a community-based cooperative include fish farms, hens, honey and mango production, and In total, Randgold has provisions of over $91 million as part the results this year have been favourable.
For example, of its closure planning including the attributable share of its the hen business is now producing an average of 6 000 joint venture partners.
Most effort at Morila last year was focused on finding local entrepreneurs to participate in the Morila agribusiness initiatives.
Over 10 proposals were presented ABOVE AND BELOW: A vibrant agrivillage is being established at during the 19th meeting of the Morila closure committee Morila for when the mine closes.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 114 Prepared for crises: Managing the Ebola risk The outbreak of the Ebola virus in West Africa in 2014 was one of the most widely reported stories of the year.
Randgold is no stranger to crises having managed our gold mines at times of civil wars and coups dtat, and this has been a situation that we continue to manage with high levels of alertness, preparedness and in partnership with relevant local authorities in each country of operation.
The Ebola virus is a serious It is a great advantage that most of Randgolds medical infectious disease that can Preparedness officers are West African and consequently very familiar be easily transmitted with local practices and tropical diseases.
In addition, the and prevention through contact with body groups chief medical officer, Dr Haladou Manirou, has fluids, traditional burial services or as a result of handling become the only West African on the Ebola Private Sector bushmeat.
At the time of writing, all our host countries have Mobilisation Group EPSMG one of the main international been declared Ebola free, but we continue to apply the bodies leading the medical response to the virus.
As it medical protocols for the identification, treatment and did to resume the regions failing tropical disease control containment of the virus that we established in 2014. programme a few years ago, Randgold mobilised industry support through EPSMG for the Malian health authorities These include a prevention programme that means all in their effort to contain the spread of the virus after it was mine personnel are screened for fever with contactless first reported.
EPSMG meets weekly to share information temperature monitors outside the mine entrance, and has on best practice in dealing with the disease.
Due to the seen all mines equipped with Ebola personal protective equipment PPE, disinfection kits and mobile isolation units.
additional medical expertise, capacity and funding the Should any cases of the virus be detected, we have worked private sector provided, Mali was officially declared Ebolawith international medical experts to establish a strict free at the beginning of 2015 by the United Nations Mission protocol for tracing and disposing of infected or potentially for Ebola Emergency Response.
Working with local NGOs has been crucial to our partnership In 2014, we also formed a crisis team that included all our approach.
In 2014, our health teams have worked with local senior medical officers who met weekly, and continue Malian NGO SOMAPIT to help train community healthcare to do so, and who remain in constant contact with host workers on Ebola management and have worked with governments, the World Health Organisation and other the National Programme of Hygiene at Borders to raise NGOs to ensure that we are fully up to speed with the state awareness and screening levels at Doko airport in the DRC.
of the epidemic and the measures being taken to contain it.
It was also notable that in October 2014 when the first The key to Randgolds crisis reported Ebola case occurred in Mali, Randgold continued management approach is to Partnerships integrate our responses with with it operational companies board meetings in Mali while in health those of our host countries.
In some international mining companies were drawing up plans the case of the Ebola outbreak, this included working with to evacuate their senior teams.
Production at Randgolds the Malian authorities in October 2014 to act swiftly to identify West African mines has not been effected by the Ebola crisis.
and contain the countrys first confirmed case of Ebola.
At times like these, we believe that the value we place on Randgold provided medical supplies to the hospital where the employing and upskilling local managers helps set us apart.
young victim was taken and was in close contact with the regional health director and national director of health.
We have Continued alertness and also been working closely with the Ivorian minister of health and awareness is the key to Alertness and the wider mining industry to coordinate our efforts against the continuing our successful disease throughout the year.
awareness response to the virus so far, and ensuring it does not spread to currently uninfected areas.
Randgolds own medical staff as well as the personnel from Randgold is continuing an intensive drive to raise awareness the local health centres are fully trained in the identification and among our employees and local communities about the treatment of suspected Ebola cases.
manifestation and treatment of Ebola symptoms.
In 2015, this will include face-to-face updates, radio broadcasts and 24-hour hotlines.
We have also organised and funded the production of a public information film, which was premiered in January 2015 to encourage people to take all measures necessary to avoid contracting the Ebola virus.
The film has been distributed across Mali, Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone.
We believe that heightened awareness should ensure that any suspected cases can be handled quickly and effectively.
We are also involved in the production of a similar public information Ebola awareness film for Cte dIvoire.
We are confident that with continued support for local education and skills, alongside international efforts to develop inoculations and medical treatment, the world can eradicate Ebola.
