2 Mr J Kasum was appointed to the board with effect from 31 January 2014.
3 Mrs S Ba-NDaw was appointed to the board with effect from 1 March 2015.
2 Mr P Litard retired from the board with effect from 6 May 2014.
3 Mr J Kassum was appointed to the board with effect from 31 January 2014.
4 Mrs S Ba-NDaw was appointed to the board with effect from 1 March 2015.
The figures contained CEO and less than 32% for the CFO of the total Non-executive in the table above remuneration package based on target performance.
reflect the fees actually directors paid during the period Base salary remuneration The CEOs and CFOs base salaries are determined and the value of share single figure by the remuneration committee, taking into account awards that vested the performance of the individual.
The company also under the Restricted Share Scheme and other shares benchmarks each element of its remuneration and the issued and allotted to the non-executive directors during total remuneration package in comparison to FTSE 100, the period with such value determined by reference to FTSE mining and comparable international gold mining the market price of the vested award shares on the companies.
However, in order to be broadly consistent with the approach taken in respect of executive When setting base salaries, the remuneration committee directors single figure remuneration in accordance with also takes into consideration the requirement for extensive the UK Regulations, where a share award or part of an travel and time spent at the companys operations award has vested on 1 January 2014, it has been included in Africa.
This is considered critical to the effective in the 2013 figure and where a share award has vested on management of the companys business.
1 January 2015, it has been included in 2014.
At 31 December 2014, the annual base salaries of the Additional details executive directors were as follows: Fixed CEO: Dr DM Bristow $1 575 000 on elements of remuneration CFO: Mr GP Shuttleworth 495 600 pay in single gure tables Following a review of all aspects of the remuneration packages of the executive directors, it has been Fixed remuneration comprises only base salary.
No decided that the CEOs base salary be increased from pension contributions are funded by the company.
In 2015, fixed remuneration represents less than 21% for the $1 575 000 to $1 638 000 and the CFOs base salary be Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 180 increased from 495 600 to 525 336 with effect from and may make adjustments to the criteria used for 1 January 2015, which represent increases of 4% and measuring performance, taking into account the strategic 6% of base salary respectively.
The CEOs and CFOs objectives of the company for the year, before the metrics base salary increases are in line with wider increases and targets are agreed for the annual remuneration cycle.
In addition, the CFO has continued his strong performance and the base salary award reflects CEO this contribution in the context of Randgolds general pay The annual bonus payable to the CEO for achieving increases and the CFOs market positioning.
target performance in 2014 was 150% of base salary.
The maximum bonus payable to the CEO for achieving As is the remuneration committees usual practice, it outperformance in 2014 was 300% of base salary.
The sought the views of our larger institutional shareholders annual bonus for the CEO for 2014 was based on the and voting guidance services before deciding on these achievement of the following performance metrics: increases.
CEO The base salary increases for the CEO and CFO also took Proportion Performance criteria Measurement account of the increases within the broader Randgold employee population.
These increases took effect in Financial performance EPS growth 15% October 2014 and ranged from 0% to 8 %.
The average Part A increase in employee salaries was approximately 4.2%.
Financial performance Total cash cost 15% Part B per ounce of gold Retirement benefits Operational Part C Growth in 15% Executive directors can elect to sacrifice up to 20% of absolute reserves their base salary to contribute to a defined contribution Operational Part D Production of gold 15% provident fund.
The provident fund is offered to all senior ounces management within the company.
The company does Strategic outputs Individual 30% not make any contribution to the provident fund.
Part E strategic outputs as agreed with Other benefits the remuneration Executive directors can elect to receive other benefits, committee including medical aid, funded out of their base salary.
Safety Part F 10% LTIFR Where appropriate, executive directors may be provided with benefits while travelling for work and the cost of CFO membership of professional associations.
Life assurance The annual bonus payable to the CFO for achieving cover is provided to the executive directors by the target performance in 2014 was 100% of base salary.
company through the group life assurance scheme The maximum bonus payable to the CFO for achieving which is also made available to the companys senior outperformance in 2014 was 200% of base salary.
annual bonus for the CFO for 2014 was based on the achievement of the following performance metrics: Variable remuneration Variable remuneration represents the major proportion of CFO each executive directors remuneration package.
Performance criteria Measurement Proportion In 2014, variable remuneration of the executive directors Financial performance EPS growth 15% comprised: Part A An annual bonus opportunity, coupled with the Financial performance Total cash cost 15% requirement to defer a third of annual bonus earned Part B per ounce of gold into the Co-Investment Plan.
Operational Part C Capital expenditure 15% Participation in a Co-Investment Plan rewarding control performance over three years.
Operational Part D Inventory control 15% Performance shares awarded under the Restricted Strategic outputs Individual 30% Share Scheme, rewarding performance over four Part E strategic outputs years, with a further one year post-vesting retention as agreed with requirement of the vested award.
the remuneration committee In 2015, to further support long term sustainability an additional one year post-vesting retention requirement has Safety Part F LTIFR 10% been introduced into the Co-Investment Plan, to increase No bonus was payable to executive directors in respect the total restricted period from three to four years.
of individual strategic outputs for a level of achievement below 70%.
2014 annual bonus The annual bonus encourages and rewards superior 2014 annual bonus outcomes performance on an annual basis.
Executive directors Based on performance achieved against targets during are eligible to receive an annual bonus, subject to the 2014 financial year, the remuneration committee the achievement of stretching performance criteria.
determined, based on the performance metrics, that The performance metrics are intended to reward the Dr DM Bristow and Mr GP Shuttleworth receive bonus achievement of challenging strategic and financial targets payments of $2 866 579 and $1 150 008 respectively, that contribute to the creation of sustainable shareholder which amount to 37% and 48% of total accounting charge value.
Each year, the remuneration committee reviews remuneration respectively.
