6km 3.1oz KIBALI KZ STRUCTURE HOST TO 20MOZ OF RESOURCES N Kalimva-Ikamva KZ structure anomalism The feature runs from Kalimva in the north, through Mengu Hill, Pakaka, KCD, Kibali S, Aindi Watsa and onto 50m depth gaps Zambula in the south.
Currently, all of the resources and in drilling reserves at Kibali are located along or near to the feature.
Analysis of the historical work along the structure shows over half the strike to be untested below 50m.
Mofu Ongoing analysis of the structure has confirmed it to be a complex, multiply reactivated zone of folding and faulting with at least three preto syn-mineralisation phases of folding and faulting and at least three post mineralisation deformation events.
The lack of continuity of stratigraphic Megi units along the KZ structure, at least as planar features parallel with the foliation measurements, reinforces the S2 observation that tight localised folding is a key part of the structure KZ structure beyond the immediate vicinity of KCD pit.
KCD Exploration at Kibali is concentrated along this structure.
In the KCD area a gradient array surface IP survey over Gorumbwa the Agbarabo, Rhino, Kombokolo to Kanga Sud target areas highlighted features in both the chargeability and resistivity data which are interpreted as being ironstone units and carbonaceous shales respectively.
Surface work to test these anomalies is ongoing and has returned weak coarser grained conglomeratic units, and cut by bedding results, such as 4m at 0.68g t from trench KKTR0002 sub-parallel dolerite dykes.
Drilling of 69 diamond holes at Rhino SE and 10m at 1.4g t in trench KKTR0001 at 15 012m, 47 RC holes 4 467m and sonar surveys Kombokolo SW in weakly, silica-altered sediments.
of underground and historic open pit workings were completed as part of a feasibility study during the year.
Aindi Watsa The results contributed to the development of revised At Aindi Watsa, located approximately 6km SSW of geological and mineralisation models and an indicated KCD, mapping, lithosampling, pitting and trenching resource of 2.2Mt at 2.81g t for 202koz in a $1 000 oz activities defined low order gold mineralisation trending pit.
This pit also contains a further 0.45Mt at 2.44g t for ENE associated with a ridge of hemetitic chert-BIF unit 34koz of inferred resource which is the current focus of that dips moderately to the north.
Sixteen trenches further conversion work.
The Gorumbwa open pit will excavated over 850m of strike length returned an average require the relocation of 650 households and carries an intersection of 7.9m at 1.51g t with mineralisation open to appreciable capital cost.
The team is also reviewing the the west and down plunge.
Lineations and small scale Megi opportunity which currently hosts 4.8Mt at 1.8g t for fold hinges plunge to the NE, and host high grades of up 283koz of inferred resources within a $1 500 oz open pit to 14.1g t. This target has now been reprioritised within and which is 6.5km from the plant.
Further work will be the KZ structure portfolio.
conducted to increase our knowledge of this opportunity and complete a full trade-off between the profitability of Ikamva-Kalimva Gorumbwa and Megi.
During the last quarter of the year, work resumed at the Ikamva-Kalimva target which is considered to be one of KZ Structure the more prospective parts of the KZ structure, in a folded The Kibali project is located on a major transcrustal area with strcutural similarities to the KCD area.
structure or set of structures, which is strongly anomalous compared to anything else on the project and is our The target features a number of old Belgian workings priority target for greenfields exploration.
within an area where NE striking structures disrupt the NW-SE striking ironstone units.
Mineralisation is hosted The KZ structure is an anomalous trend, which extends in plunging folds close to the ironstone contact and in over 35km and may represent a deep mantle tapping close proximity to the NE structures.
Historical drilling at structure, in many ways comparable to the SMSZ in Kalimva-Ikamva has returned a number of intersections Western Mali.
These features are known to propagate from these shoots of mineralisation including: KVDD0001 through the crust and often mark major breaks in the sub 73.65m at 3.41g t from 20.4m: KVDD0002 26.03m continental lithospheric mantle where giant orebodies are at 2.57g t from 50m: and IVDD0006 31.4m at 2.65g t more likely to form.
Recent work has focused on an area of Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 89 7.5km 18.2Moz 6km
