AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The audit committee is regularly updated on proposed and after the completion of the audit by reviewing the quality new legislation and best practice in which the committee and scope of the audit planning and its reaction to changes has an interest.
To assist management in providing the in our business and environment: and by considering the auditors methodology: sector experience: their ability to information to allow the audit committee to discharge challenge management on significant areas of judgement: its responsibilities, the groups CFO, other executive and their demonstration of such robust challenge around management, external auditors and the head of internal key areas.
audit, regularly attend audit committee meetings.
The audit committee and the board derive considerable value from BDO rotates the audit engagement partner every five engagement with the operational management teams and years: the current audit partner has acted as the BDO discussing first hand with management the core control, audit engagement partner to the group for three years.
risk identification and risk mitigation processes in place at the operations.
In January 2014, the board visited the Loulo The audit committee makes recommendations to the gold mine in Mali, the Kibali gold mine in the DRC in May board in relation to the appointment, reappointment 2014 and the Tongon gold mine in Cte dIvoire in February and any changes to the external auditors.
BDO were 2015, during which time they inspected the operations and appointed in 2007 following a formal review and tendering engaged with the on-site group management extensively.
In 2011, the board established a formal policy relating to the periodic review of the external auditors, The committee considers which stipulates that the external audit shall be put out the going concern basis of Going concern to formal tender every five years with the next planned preparation for the financial assessment tender following the 2016 financial year.
During the tender statements to be responsibilities process, the audit committee will review the credentials appropriate having of other providers of external audit services as well reviewed cash flow forecasts prepared by management as the incumbent auditors, along with other pertinent and challenged the assumptions used in such forecasts.
information, and conclude on their capability to conduct Refer to page 205 of this annual report for further details.
the audit while delivering a high quality and cost effective audit service.
The audit committee conducts a formal Audit committee Taking into account the output of the audit committees review of its review of the groups external auditors independence evaluation effectiveness on an and objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process, annual basis and concluded that its performance during together with other relevant review processes conducted 2014 was effective in accordance with the guidance in the throughout the year, the audit committee is satisfied to Code.
Details of the board and committee evaluation recommend that the board proposes to shareholders process may be found on page 153 of this annual report.
that BDO be reappointed as external auditors to the group.
Their reappointment will be recommended to shareholders at the companys AGM in May 2015.
There The groups external auditors are BDO are no contractual restrictions on the boards ability to LLP BDO.
The external auditors from External appoint alternative external auditors.
BDO undertake their audits at all the audit groups significant operations including The external auditors are regularly invited to attend and any joint venture operations as well as at the corporate participate in audit committee meetings to report on their offices.
The audit committee monitors the external activities.
The audit committee met with the external auditors independence and objectivity taking into account auditor, without the executive directors or management relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
Such meetings took place in January the board and the external auditor have safeguards in place 2014, November 2014 and January 2015.
Details of the to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and fees paid to the external auditors are shown below.
The independence could be compromised.
The external audit committee approved the auditors fees for 2015 auditors independence is reviewed on at least an annual after reviewing the audit plan, level and nature of work basis.
to be performed as detailed in the audit scope and after being satisfied that the fees were appropriate for the work The audit committee is committed to maintaining the highest required.
The audit committee monitors the external auditors performance and the effectiveness of Auditors fees 2014 2013 the audit process.
This is undertaken within the framework of the detailed audit committees terms of engagement Audit services 718 500 720 000 and agreed audit scope and approach.
Management Non-audit services n a n a receives regular feedback from the business on the audit process and the audit committee uses this feedback, The audit committee is responsible along with other formal and informal processes, to assess for monitoring and reviewing the Non-audit the effectiveness of the external audit process, including objectivity and independence of services seeking feedback from BDO on any external quality review the external audit which is of the BDO audit.
The audit committee also considers supported by a policy which stipulates that the external audit quality during the planning stages, execution and auditor is prohibited from providing non-audit services to Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 160
