Board of directors Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 14 The Randgold board of directors photographed at the Tongon mine.
Left to right: Andrew Quinn, Jamil Kassum, Jeanine Mabunda Lioko, Karl Voltaire, Graham Shuttleworth, Kadri Dagdelen, Christopher Coleman, Safiatou Ba-NDaw, Mark Bristow and Norborne Cole.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 15 Christopher is head of banking and a director of NM Rothschild & Christopher L Coleman 46 Sons Limited.
He is also chairman of Rothschild Bank International Non-executive chairman in the Channel Islands and serves on a number of other boards Nationality and committees of the Rothschild Group, which he joined in 1989.
British A BSc Econ graduate from the London School of Economics, Appointment date he was a non-executive director of the Merchant Bank of Central 3 November 2008 Africa from 2001 to 2008.
He is a non-executive director of Papa Johns International Inc. Board committees Chairman of the governance & nomination committee and member of the remuneration committee Mark has been the chief executive since the incorporation of Dr Mark Bristow 56 Randgold, which was founded on his pioneering exploration work Chief executive in West Africa.
He has subsequently led the companys growth Nationality through the discovery and development of world class assets into South African a major international gold mining business.
Mark has also played a Appointment date significant part in promoting the emergence of a sustainable mining 11 August 1995 industry in Africa.
A geologist with a PhD from Natal University, South Africa, he has held board positions at a number of global mining companies and is currently the non-executive chairman of Rockwell Diamonds Inc. Graham joined Randgold as chief financial officer and finance Graham Shuttleworth 46 director in July 2007 but has been associated with the company Finance director and chief since its inception, initially as part of its management team involved financial officer in listing the company on the London Stock Exchange in 1997, and Nationality subsequently as an advisor.
A chartered accountant, Graham was South African a managing director and the New York based head of metals and Appointment date mining for the Americas in the global investment banking division of 3 July 2007 HSBC before taking up his current position at Randgold.
Graham is a graduate of the University of Cape Town with a bachelor of commerce degree and an honours degree from the University of South Africa.
Norb started working for the Coca-Cola Company as field Norborne P Cole Jr 73 representative in the USA in 1966 and advanced steadily through Senior independent non-executive the organisation becoming chief executive of Coca-Cola Amatil director in Australia in 1994, a position he held until 1998.
Under his Nationality leadership, Coca-Cola Amatil grew into the second largest CocaAmerican Cola bottler in the world.
Now based in San Antonio, Texas, he Appointment date serves on the boards of a number of US companies including Papa 3 May 2006 Johns International Inc. Board committees 1 Chairman of the remuneration committee and member of the governance & nomination committee Jamil is a former World Bank vice president for the East Asia Jemal-Ud-din Kassum and Pacific region.
Before that, he had a 25 year career with the International Finance Corporation.
He sits on the board of PT Jamil Kassum 66 Indonesia Infrastructure Finance, Thien Minh Group and Khan Bank.
Independent non-executive A Tanzanian national based in the USA, he now provides strategic director advice to international financial institutions and governments.
He Nationality was educated at Oxford University and holds an MBA from Harvard Tanzanian University.
Appointment date 31 January 2014 Board committees 2 Member of the audit committee and of the governance & nomination committee 1 Mr NP Cole Jr is to retire as chairman of the remuneration committee with effect from 4 May 2015.
2 Mr J Kassum is to be appointed chairman of the audit committee with effect from 4 May 2015.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 16 A professor and previously the head of the department of mining Kadri Dagdelen 60 engineering at the Colorado School of Mines, USA, Kadri began Independent non-executive his professional career as a mining engineer at Homestake Mining director Co now Barrick Gold Corporation and was the technical services Nationality manager when he left for academia in 1992.
With a PhD in mining Turkish engineering and a ME in geostatistics, Kadri has been involved Appointment date in numerous research and consulting projects worldwide.
He 29 January 2010 also served on the board of directors of the Society of Mining, Exploration and Metallurgy in the USA for six years and has chaired Board committee other professional societies that support the mining industry.
Member of the governance & nomination committee Andrew retired at the end of 2011 from his position as head of mining Andrew J Quinn 61 investment banking for Europe and Africa at CIBC after 15 years in Independent non-executive the role and more than 35 years experience of the mining industry.
director With a BSc Hons in mineral exploitation mining engineering from Nationality Cardiff University, Andrew began his career in Anglo Americans British gold division in 1975, holding various management and technical Appointment date positions in South Africa, and worked briefly for Greenbushes Tin 1 November 2011 in Australia before joining The Mining Journal in 1982 as editor of its gold publications.
In 1984 he entered the financial services Board committees industry joining James Capel later HSBC Investment Banking and Member of the audit committee and of the 3 remuneration committee then joining CIBC in 1996.
Jeanine has spent a number of years working in the Democratic Jeanine Mabunda Lioko 50 Republic of Congos finance industry including with Citi Group and Independent non-executive as an advisor to the Governor of Banque Centrale du Congo.
A director former Minister of Portfolio of the DRC, a position which she held Nationality for over five years, she is now a serving member of the National Congolese Assembly of the Democratic Republic of Congo, representing Appointment date the Equateur Province.
Jeanine is also a special advisor to the 28 January 2013 DRC government to prevent violence against women and the recruitment of children for war.
She was educated in Brussels, Board committee Belgium, and holds a law degree from the Catholic University of Member of the audit committee Louvain and a postgraduate degree in commercial science from the ICHEC Brussels Management School.
A graduate in mineral resources engineering from the Ecole des Karl Voltaire 64 Mines in Paris, Karl holds an MBA and PhD in economics and Independent non-executive finance from the University of Chicago.
He started his career as a director mining engineer in Haiti and subsequently spent 23 years with the Nationality World Bank Group in Washington DC, including the International French Finance Corporation where his last position was that of director of Appointment date global financial markets.
Thereafter Karl was appointed a director 3 May 2006 of the Office of President at the African Development Bank.
He was CEO of the Nelson Mandela Institution from 2005 to 2009, Board committees 4 and is currently a member of the Board of Trustees of the African Chairman of the audit committee and member of the remuneration committee University of Science and Technology.
A Harvard University MBA graduate, Safiatou spent 12 years with Safiatou F Ba-NDaw 62 the World Bank as a senior financial specialist for the South Asia Independent non-executive region, following which she was appointed Cte dIvoires Minister of director Energy, a position she held until 2000.
Safiatou was subsequently Nationality appointed a director of the United Nations Development Ivorian Programme for South-South Cooperation formerly the Special Appointment date Unit: Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries until 1 March 2015 2004 when she was appointed Deputy Chief of Staff to the Prime Minister of Cte dIvoire.
She is a managing partner of Alizes Consultants, an international consulting services firm, and deputy chairperson of Niger Omega, a Nigerian and London based oil and gas services company.
3 Mr AJ Quinn is to be appointed chairman of the remuneration committee with effect from 4 May 2015.
4 Dr K Voltaire is to retire as chairman of the audit committee with effect from 4 May 2015.
