policy for executive directors is the most appropriate use Where unforeseen or of resources, although executive directors pay is carefully e x ce p t i o n al Payments considered in the context of pay and conditions across circumstances arise, already agreed the company as a whole.
after consultation with major shareholders, the remuneration committee may make payments the structure of which might not otherwise The remuneration committee has oversight of be set out in the remuneration policy.
However, the value remuneration policies for senior management below the of any such element would be limited to the usual financial board, and applies the principles of transparency, clarity limit for the element of remuneration to which the and alignment of reward with performance.
Any such event and resultant payments will be announced on a timely basis to To support the alignment of interests with those of shareholders in the usual way via the stock exchange shareholders, the company in 2009 extended a form information service and on the companys website.
The of the Restricted Share Scheme to senior management remuneration committee will continue to honour all below the board.
Awards under the Restricted Share existing arrangements under existing contracts and any Scheme are not made annually, but on an ad hoc basis payments already agreed with shareholders.
as and when key events warrant it or when new senior managers are recruited.
Vesting of restricted share awards for senior managers is conditional on satisfactory Executive Annual individual performance.
directors report on remuneration Further, the board extended the Co-Investment Plan to remuneration single figure senior management below the board, in line with the The figures contained in the table below reflect the base existing rules of the plan, with effect from 1 January 2013. salary and annual bonuses actually paid during the period This will further enhance the link between pay and long and the value of awards that vested under the Restricted term value creation and recognises the significant value the senior management team as a whole has created over Share Scheme, CEO performance shares and the Cothe years.
Investment Plan where the performance period ended in the year under review with such value determined by reference to the market price of the vested award shares Consideration of shareholder on the relevant vesting date, in accordance with the United Kingdoms Large and Medium-Sized Companies views in developing policy and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment The remuneration committee, following the practice of Regulations 2013 the UK Regulations which, being previous years, has engaged extensively during the year a Jersey incorporated company, the company is not with its larger institutional shareholders and the voting required to follow but does so in the interest of disclosure guidance services on pay, and has made certain changes to its shareholders.
to reflect the views expressed.
The remuneration committee acknowledges and listens to the views of the Where a share award or part of a share award has vested companys shareholders and has taken account of their on 1 January 2014, it has been included in the 2013 figure opinions in formulating the remuneration principles, the and where a share award has vested on 1 January 2015, remuneration policy and this remuneration report.
2 Mr GP Shuttleworths salary was paid in pounds but converted to dollars at the average rate for the year of 1:$1.65.
3 Mr GP Shuttleworths bonus will be paid in pounds in March 2015 but has been converted to dollars at the rate of 1:$1.52.
4 Other payments include expenses for restricted share awards performance share awards and Co-Investment Plan awards which are costed in accordance with IFRS 2, based on the valuation at the date of grant rather than the value of the awards that vested in the year.
Vesting is subject to a number of vesting conditions which may or may not be achieved.
