Field mapping showed that the pervasive NNE trending resources to mineable reserves in order to support a lineaments highlighted by the geophysics represent faults, 10 year mine plan.
Drilling also targeted areas within the shears and intrusives rather than bedding, and also that indicated category to increase the confidence level and to the spatial distribution of sinistral verging Gara style folds better delineate ore. are more widespread than previously recognised.
This has regional implications for locating blind fold related As the mining of high grade ounces continues from mineralisation or areas where high grades are developed underground at Loulo, it is critical that the exploration as fold trains intersecting major structural trends.
team continues to replace this depletion through the identification and conversion of new resources.
In addition Following the testing of the Waraba target, the exploration to the programmes noted above, exploration also tested team has now moved onto the Yalea North target area models projected out to 400m beyond the limits of the which features several targets which lie under transported existing block models at both deposits with encouraging material along strike to the north of the Yalea and P125 results.
Yalea Underground exploration At Yalea, 127 holes for 22 261m were drilled comprising A total of 282 DDH for 50 325m was drilled into the 113 holes 14 749m for grade control infill drilling and Gara and Yalea deposits during the year with various 12 holes 7 512m for resource drilling.
Firstly, the establishment of advanced grade four targeted the potential for resource conversion and control coverage 12 months ahead of the rolling mine eight were resource infill holes.
The infill drilling generally plan with infill grade control coverage six months ahead reported higher grades and widths than the 2013 model of the plan.
Secondly, to convert areas of the inferred and allowed the weathering surfaces to be updated.
LOULO AND GOUNKOTO PERMITS LOCATION OF DEPOSITS ON GEOCHEMISTRY Waraba N Baboto S Falm River PQ10 Loulo 2 Gara Loulo P129 Loulo 3 permit P125 Yalea Bambadji Senegal permit Mali Gounkoto Toronto P64 permit Gounkoto Faraba 2km Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 68 The four conversion holes were drilled to test the geological Our geological understanding of the Yalea orebody has advanced significantly this year with the definition of potential of the Yalea inferred zone.
Results confirmed the three styles of mineralisation which overprint one another modelled grade but a 10% decrease in widths is thought throughout the orebody and explain the sharp contacts to to be due to the steepening of the Yalea Shear Zone where the mineralised domains without any significant structural it passes into a different host lithology, the argillaceous control to their boundaries.
Substantial thickness variations quartzite, at depth.
Hole YADH16 returned 7.00m at have been observed within the Purple Patch at Yalea as 5.22g t from 657m including 2m at 16.75g t, beyond the the mineralising system moves from the rheologically limits of the current block model and indicates that the contrasting greywacke argilaceous quartzite contact which system is open with scope for further high grade.
The style permits the development of a strong shear, into the finer of mineralisation at this depth is very different to the rest grained argilaceous quartzite unit where shearing is less of the deposit with virtually no sulphides seen in the main focused and more diffuse over a larger rock volume.
This altered zone but with fine particles of visible gold occurring results in a larger package of sub-economic mineralisation in very thin chloritic shears.
Other results from the inferred and a thinner zone of economic grade.
central area include: YaDH11 6.30m at 1.99g t: and YaDH13 41m at 3.59g t. Resources in the Yalea Central inferred zone increased by 1.24Mt at 5.12g t for 204 000oz with extensions to the model at depth and highlighted the potential to deliver a In Yalea South, there are narrow, very high grade zones conversion of 700koz at 4g t from inferred to indicated where the shear is seen to anastomose around resistant with further drilling.
The high grade material, which looks similar to the Purple Patch material with strong sulphides Exploration continues to focus on a number of targets around and chlorite overprinting strongly albitised breccias may the Yalea deposit based on the plunging intersections of have the potential to be mined selectively underground.
structures believed to control the high grade within the Additionally, the infill drilling in the south of the deposit deposit.
Hole YDH270 was drilled to test the plunging has shown the depth of weathering to be deeper than intersection of two ore controlling structures and returned previously modelled.
This 29.49m at 8.71g t. The immediate hanging wall in this area result points to considerable untested potential around the is consistently a limestone unit which is believed to have deposit with several areas highlighted for further testing in acted as a seal to the mineralising fluids.
YALEA UNDERGROUND Intersection Yalea structure N Dip change Yalea Yalea shear South Purple Yalea Patch North YDH270 11.05m @ 2.02g t Gold g t 8g t Drilling 200m 48g t YDH269 Target: Purple Phase 1 34g t 10.72m @ 4.67g t Patch plunge YDH259 extension 6.95m @ 6.02g t 0.53g t Phase 2 0.5g t Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 69
