target corridor with results including: 14m at 2.47g t, Morila including 5m at 4.56g t: 17m at 1.55g t, including 1m at Exploration was halted at Morila some years ago 8.9g t: 31m at 1.01g t, including 7m at 2.37g t: and 9m after exhaustive work failed to locate any economic at 1.31g t, including 1m at 4.09g t. mineralisation outside the main deposit.
However, the team is having a last look as the mine prepares to close.
These define a system of sub-parallel N-S structures Pit mapping and a core review highlighted or reinforced with  alteration and strong some of the key features associated with mineralisation at sulphide mineralisation.
Morila, such as flat faulting, the presence of magnesium rich biotite associated with arsenopyrite and leucocratic A programme of trenching along these structures, to plagioclase veins around felsic intrusive bodies.
Two understand their geometry, controls and the extent of conceptual targets were generated and have been overlying transported material, is in progress but has reviewed with one of the targets hosting all the above been slow due to the layer of transported gravels at mentioned features.
Further work is now in progress to surface.
The structures have been exposed, however, map the distribution of these features around the deposit and results include: BKTR003 - 16.15m at 2.23g t from to further reinforce the observations and potentially 25.70m, including 3.47m at 1.53g t from 25.70m and generate a target which, due to the existing deep drilling 5.10m at 5.33g t from 33.5m: and BKTR002 - 10.40m over the area, would be significantly deeper than 500m.
at 2.41g t from 23.60m, including 3.35m at 5.92g t, from steeply west dipping shears.
The team will move The Massawa to infill trenching in the most prospective areas once deposit lies Massawa Senegal the Phase 1 trenching is complete and the results have within one of been fully analysed to generate follow up targets.
the largest continually mineralised systems in Africa, located on a major geological discontinuity, the Main Djelimangara project Legend Gold JV Transcurrent Zone MTZ, in Eastern Senegal.
The MTZ is As part of the strategy to consolidate the mineral rights a major terrain boundary structure which marks the portfolio around Randgolds key footprints in the West contact of the Mako Volcanic Belt and the Diale Dalema and Central African goldfields, a new JV agreement sedimentary basin to its east.
was signed with a subsidiary of Legend Gold who hold 2 the rights to six permits 363km which straddle the There are two main zones of mineralisation in the deposit, SMSZ directly south of the Sadiola gold mine.
They are part of the same NE to results, Randgold will fully fund exploration as far as trending mineralised structure, which extends over 8km completion of a prefeasibility study to acquire a 51% and has been offset by NS belt discordant structures.
Legend Gold has the option to The mineralised system occurs at a volcanic sedimentary cofund the feasibility study to retain 49% or dilute to 35% contact, where a prominent and continuous lapilli tuff unit with Randgold increasing its stake to 65%.
Both parties acts as a marker horizon.
The host sequences have been would fund development.
The ground has previously intruded by felsic dykes, gabbros and granitic bodies, been worked by Barrick Gold Corporation.
particularly in the Central Zone CZ and mineralisation is hosted in a variety of rocks including greywackes, A comprehensive dataset has been received from volcanoclastics and both mafic gabbros and felsic Legend over the portfolio of permits including: airborne intrusives.
The mineralised system features pyrite and electromagnetic and magnetic data, ground Mag and IP arsenopyrite sulphides within an alteration assemblage and resistivity, geology, regolith, soil geochemistry, drilling composed of sericite, silica and carbonate in a zone of auger, RAB, RC and diamond, pitting and trenching.
results highlight anomalism coincident with the SMSZ.
A large component of the northern portion of the Massawa Four targets were generated over a narrow band of ore is refractory, with microscopic gold locked in the limestones and greywackes to the east of the SMSZ and sulphide lattice of arsenopyrite.
Efficient extraction of this a programme of mapping pitting and trenching began in gold requires an oxidation processes such as pressure Q4 2014. oxidation POX or bio-oxidation Biox and the power costs associated with such metallurgical processes Initial results from the work have been encouraging, with impact negatively on the project returns.
Reserves at trench MAT001 returning 4.40m at 0.41g t from 24.20m of Massawa are currently 21Mt at 3.1g t for 2Moz.
altered medium grained sheared silicified greywacke and a main zone of 6.25m at 2.03g t from 38.10m, including Ongoing evaluation of the phases and controls of the 4.85m at 2.52g t. However, we have yet to see evidence mineralisation points to a set of narrow, high grade shears of a large system of alteration and work is continuing containing quartz stibnite veins and coarse gold that along the SMSZ which exists over 18km strike within the overprints an early disseminated arsenopyrite-gold phase permit area.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 78 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 79 Recent close spaced drilling as well as ongoing trenching MASSAWA DEPOSIT CENTRAL ZONE programmes have confirmed these vein filled structures are more continuous than previously interpreted.
This work highlighted a significant potential for gravity recoverable and free leaching gold within the Massawa CZ deposit.
Following the recognition of a significant coarse gold fraction in the CZ, the sample and assay methods employed at Massawa were reviewed.
This programme included the re-assaying of existing NQ drill core Trenches confirm structural interpretation and larger samples from grade control RC drilling by Leachwell and screen fire assay methods.
Additionally, six RC DDH twin pairs were drilled in the south of the CZ Oxide orientation to compare the assay results from RC and larger HQ core programme complete samples in fresh rock.
The results of this work indicate that sample size and the orebodys high variability are the keys to the accurate estimation of the Massawa orebody.
Sulphide RC drilling It also confirmed that RC drilling was a suitable method orientation programme in progress to collect a large sample from the deposit, thereby reducing the cost and time of additional drilling.
As the majority of the CZ is sampled by NQ core at a 50m x 50m spacing, further work is required to accurately estimate SENEGAL MAKO BELT EXPLORATION FOCUS ON MTZ AND SOPHIA SABODALA STRUCTURE N Bambaraya inferred resource 21 114oz @ 2.33 g t Tina inferred resource Delya 50 126oz @ 1.06 g t inferred resource 122 675oz @ 3.85g t Sofia Massawa inferred resource 3.36Moz @ 2.57g t 730 846oz @ 1.66g t Tombo geological potential 579 587oz @ 0.97g t Kawsara geological potential 1 413 374oz @ 0.65 g t Existing deposit New target 10km Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 80 Central Zone 885m the contained gold within the overprinting coarse-gold Corporation, our joint venture partner, for a further three event.
Our analysis, based on the close spaced drilling years.
completed in the oxides of the CZ, shows that a spacing of 15m x 10m is required to accurately estimate the grade A review incorporating all historical data was carried out of the mineralised lodes and the completion of a close during the wet season which identified twelve second spaced orientation programme in the fresh rock of the CZ and third order soil anomalies which have received limited is in progress before a decision is made on progressing to follow-up work.
They are located within favourable a phased infill drilling programme across the CZ.
However, the regolith is complex with transported cover being a significant Exploration factor over the eastern limits of the permit.
On the Kanoumba permit around Massawa, four satellite deposits Sofia, Bambara, Tina and Delya contain Randgold continues to believe that the Bambadji permit inferred resources of 16.5Mt at 1.74g t for 0.92Moz with is prospective and hosts the lithologies, alteration and two further satellite targets, Kawsara and Tombo, hosting structures required to generate world-class orebodies.
a combined geological potential of 1.9Moz at 0.7g t. However, after seven years of exploration without significant success, it represents too high a risk under our During the year, the team tested and rejected a number current agreements and we are therefore renegotiating of targets within the Mako belt where results from terms with both our JV partner and the Senegalese State.
lithosampling, pitting and trenching failed to identify the potential for a large hydrothermal system.
The West KA target, 20km to the south of Massawa, yielded some interesting results with values of up to 15.4g t returned from the sampling of a set of multiple shear zones in a corridor of approximately 200m width over a 2km strike.
However, the ongoing feasibility work at Massawa has been prioritised and exploration will resume pending the conclusion from a prospectivity study of the Mako belt.
Bambadji Work on the Bambadji permit was paused for a significant part of the year because the permit had expired.
It has now been renewed and granted to a subsidiary of Iamgold Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 81
