target corridor with results including: 14m at 2.47g t, Morila including 5m at 4.56g t: 17m at 1.55g t, including 1m at Exploration was halted at Morila some years ago 8.9g t: 31m at 1.01g t, including 7m at 2.37g t: and 9m after exhaustive work failed to locate any economic at 1.31g t, including 1m at 4.09g t. mineralisation outside the main deposit.
However, the team is having a last look as the mine prepares to close.
These define a system of sub-parallel N-S structures Pit mapping and a core review highlighted or reinforced with  alteration and strong some of the key features associated with mineralisation at sulphide mineralisation.
Morila, such as flat faulting, the presence of magnesium rich biotite associated with arsenopyrite and leucocratic A programme of trenching along these structures, to plagioclase veins around felsic intrusive bodies.
Two understand their geometry, controls and the extent of conceptual targets were generated and have been overlying transported material, is in progress but has reviewed with one of the targets hosting all the above been slow due to the layer of transported gravels at mentioned features.
Further work is now in progress to surface.
The structures have been exposed, however, map the distribution of these features around the deposit and results include: BKTR003 - 16.15m at 2.23g t from to further reinforce the observations and potentially 25.70m, including 3.47m at 1.53g t from 25.70m and generate a target which, due to the existing deep drilling 5.10m at 5.33g t from 33.5m: and BKTR002 - 10.40m over the area, would be significantly deeper than 500m.
at 2.41g t from 23.60m, including 3.35m at 5.92g t, from steeply west dipping shears.
The team will move The Massawa to infill trenching in the most prospective areas once deposit lies Massawa Senegal the Phase 1 trenching is complete and the results have within one of been fully analysed to generate follow up targets.
the largest continually mineralised systems in Africa, located on a major geological discontinuity, the Main Djelimangara project Legend Gold JV Transcurrent Zone MTZ, in Eastern Senegal.
The MTZ is As part of the strategy to consolidate the mineral rights a major terrain boundary structure which marks the portfolio around Randgolds key footprints in the West contact of the Mako Volcanic Belt and the Diale Dalema and Central African goldfields, a new JV agreement sedimentary basin to its east.
was signed with a subsidiary of Legend Gold who hold 2 the rights to six permits 363km which straddle the There are two main zones of mineralisation in the deposit, SMSZ directly south of the Sadiola gold mine.
They are part of the same NE to results, Randgold will fully fund exploration as far as trending mineralised structure, which extends over 8km completion of a prefeasibility study to acquire a 51% and has been offset by NS belt discordant structures.
Legend Gold has the option to The mineralised system occurs at a volcanic sedimentary cofund the feasibility study to retain 49% or dilute to 35% contact, where a prominent and continuous lapilli tuff unit with Randgold increasing its stake to 65%.
Both parties acts as a marker horizon.
The host sequences have been would fund development.
The ground has previously intruded by felsic dykes, gabbros and granitic bodies, been worked by Barrick Gold Corporation.
particularly in the Central Zone CZ and mineralisation is hosted in a variety of rocks including greywackes, A comprehensive dataset has been received from volcanoclastics and both mafic gabbros and felsic Legend over the portfolio of permits including: airborne intrusives.
The mineralised system features pyrite and electromagnetic and magnetic data, ground Mag and IP arsenopyrite sulphides within an alteration assemblage and resistivity, geology, regolith, soil geochemistry, drilling composed of sericite, silica and carbonate in a zone of auger, RAB, RC and diamond, pitting and trenching.
results highlight anomalism coincident with the SMSZ.
A large component of the northern portion of the Massawa Four targets were generated over a narrow band of ore is refractory, with microscopic gold locked in the limestones and greywackes to the east of the SMSZ and sulphide lattice of arsenopyrite.
Efficient extraction of this a programme of mapping pitting and trenching began in gold requires an oxidation processes such as pressure Q4 2014. oxidation POX or bio-oxidation Biox and the power costs associated with such metallurgical processes Initial results from the work have been encouraging, with impact negatively on the project returns.
Reserves at trench MAT001 returning 4.40m at 0.41g t from 24.20m of Massawa are currently 21Mt at 3.1g t for 2Moz.
altered medium grained sheared silicified greywacke and a main zone of 6.25m at 2.03g t from 38.10m, including Ongoing evaluation of the phases and controls of the 4.85m at 2.52g t. However, we have yet to see evidence mineralisation points to a set of narrow, high grade shears of a large system of alteration and work is continuing containing quartz stibnite veins and coarse gold that along the SMSZ which exists over 18km strike within the overprints an early disseminated arsenopyrite-gold phase permit area.
