P e r f or ma n c e Relative TSR TSR is measured over the three months Why performance measures are before the start and the three months before the end selected by the of any four year performance period and compared measures were r e m une r a t i on to the TSR, calculated in the same way, of a defined chosen and how committee on the comparator group of international listed gold mining targets are set basis of their companies.
Vesting is based on the relative TSR alignment to the remuneration principles and the companys outcome over the four year period.
Threshold vesting strategy, and to ensure the measures remain fundamental occurs at median and maximum at upper quartile.
to the operational management of the business.
Measures The defined comparator group for 2015 subject to the are reviewed annually by the remuneration committee remuneration committee discretion to add or amend taking into account business performance and priorities.
the group from time to time is: Agnico Eagle Mines Limited: AngloGold The performance metrics for the annual Ashanti Limited: Barrick Gold Corporation: bonus are set annually and are based on Eldorado Gold Corporation: B2 Gold Annual the business priorities.
The remuneration Corporation: Gold Fields Limited: Goldcorp bonus committee is of the view that the specific Incorporated: Kinross Gold Corporation: metrics for the annual bonus are commercially sensitive Newcrest Mining Limited: Newmont Mining and it would be detrimental to the company to disclose Corporation: Yamana Gold Incorporated: them in advance of or during the relevant performance Buenaventura Mining Company Incorporated: period.
The remuneration committee will, when they are no and New Gold Incorporated.
longer commercially sensitive, disclose those metrics at Reserve replacement ratio is calculated as a ratio of the the end of the relevant performance period in the cumulative four year reserves added compared with the appropriate years annual report.
cumulative four year reserves mined.
Threshold vesting will occur if this ratio is at least 75% with maximum The gold mining industry is vesting occurring if the ratio is 110%.
capital intensive, cyclical Co-Investment and long term.
Outstanding These measures provide an equal balance between asset Plan performance comes from sustainability, profitability and relative shareholder returns, finding and accessing high quality resources, successfully taking into account the current economic and gold price developing new projects, managing production costs, and volatility.
Awards vest on a straight-line sliding scale for maintaining efficient and safe operations.
performance between the minimum and maximum performance range for the relevant performance metric.
The remuneration committee believes that, in this context, success can best be measured by the companys The remuneration committee will review the performance total shareholder return TSR performance against the metrics of the Restricted Share Scheme in the event that Euromoney Global Gold Index.
The Euromoney Global the company issues a material number of shares.
Gold Index is a  index calculated in US dollars, representing more than 50 mining companies As a result of the companys from around 20 countries.
The companys performance remuneration policy, a Indicative total against its peers is set out in the graph on page 169 of this significant portion of the opportunity annual report.
rewards available to the levels for 2015 executive directors is The performance metrics dependent on the performance of the company.
The for the Restricted Share tables on the next page illustrate how the total pay Restricted Scheme have been opportunities for the CEO and the CFO vary under three Share Scheme selected on the basis that different performance scenarios: maximum, target and they are among the companys key performance indicators minimum.
These charts are indicative only as share price and drive shareholder value.
movements and dividend accrual have been excluded.
The tables are based on the following assumptions: The remuneration committee further believes that the Minimum consists of base salary.
performance necessary for awards to vest towards the Target consists of base salary and incentive awards at upper end of the performance ranges is stretching.
should not, therefore, be interpreted as providing guidance Maximum consists of base salary and incentive awards on the companys expected performance over the relevant at 100% of maximum.
The maximum value of the Co-Investment Plan award assumes a maximum investment from the respective For 2015 awards executive director.
The proposed equally weighted performance metrics are total cash cost per ounce, relative TSR and reserve The executive replacement.
These measures are calculated as follows: Service agreement directors service Total cash cost per ounce measured over four agreements are provisions relating consecutive one year periods, with vesting at the end available for to salary and of four years.
The overall vesting will be the average inspection at the benets annual outcome against market guidance weighted c o m p a n y s by annual production in ounces.
Threshold will equal registered office and at each annual general meeting of the the maximum cost per ounce each year and maximum company.
The information below provides a summary of vesting at the minimum cost per ounce as set by the the provisions in the executive directors service contracts board and communicated to the market in February that could give rise to a remuneration or loss of office each year.
