Strategic report Our strategy STRATEGIC UPDATE We have been reporting our performance against three critical areas for a number of years, demonstrating strong progress.
As a result of the review carried out by our new chief executive, we have rened this strategy into five new areas of focus.
These are introduced on page 18, and we will be reporting against them from next year.
This year, we have continued to report our progress against our long-standing focus areas, and that progress can be seen on this page and in our KPIs on pages 20 to 21.
Our three long-standing focus areas 2 3 1 Systematic use of Capital investment Multi-channel data and customer to extend the reach distribution of feedback to drive and broaden the our brands service and product appeal of the leisure improvements experience we deliver 16 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 For more information see pages: 20 Our key performance indicators 28 Operating review Systematic use of data and customer feedback to drive service and product improvements 1 During 2013 14 we carried out the following insight activities: As part of the integration of the acquired casinos we rolled out Empathica, which is our retail casino customer satisfaction Brand awareness and consideration studies survey tool.
Net promoter scoring NPS The following are key examples of where our insight programmes have driven key business decisions.
Insight Action Outcome Mecca retail: Paper playing customers Introduction of paper only sessions Increase in customer visits for paper disliked the disadvantage of playing amongst only sessions multi-ticket players on Mecca Max units Mecca retail: Against peer operators Mecca Introduction of a exible pricing structure, Increase in NPS scores since scored the lowest regarding value for money pay as you play introduction Grosvenor retail: Customer demand for Numerous actions taken including increased Positive impact on customer visits greater value for money promotions: higher return to slots players in the acquired casinos: introduction of higher free bets Grosvenor retail: New table games showcase 16 new games were selected for further Four new table games introduced into event feedback evaluation with our customers Grosvenor Casinos suite of table games Capital investment to extend the reach and broaden the appeal of the leisure experience we deliver 2 During 2013 14, Rank invested 39.4m in making improvements We invested a total of 4.0m in our Mecca venues.
This low level to its venues.
The majority of this was expended in Grosvenor of reinvestment reected uncertainty in trading during the first Casinos, with major refurbishments being carried out in our half of the year and disappointing returns on major venue Leicester and London St Giles casinos and the opening of our re-modelling projects in previous years.
However, the reduction new London Poker Room.
8.9m of new gaming product was in bingo duty from 30 June 2014 will result in increased capital invested to upgrade and replace poor performing product in the investment in future years.
The Group continued the roll-out of the Enracha brand across its Spanish venues, with the Don Pelayo and Continental venues converted in the year at a cost of 0.9m.
Multi-channel distribution of our brands 3 During 2013 14, we achieved 15% growth in revenue from Specic actions: venues and 2% growth from digital media desktop, tablet and Grosvenorcasinos.
com successfully launched its live casino mobile.
Mobile continues to be our fastest growing channel with product during Q2 2013 14.
To ensure the online live casino revenues up 43% to 18.9m in the period, with 53% of our digital experience mirrored that found in our venues all live casino customers in Great Britain playing with our brands on mobile dealers were trained by our experienced venue dealers: devices 2012 13: 30%.
Grosvenor Casinos rolled out a cross-channel loyalty scheme Multi-channel customers 000s % of total brand customers Play Points during the year, improving our casino Brand 2013 14 2012 13 2013 14 2012 13 customers cross-channel experience.
The acquired casinos Grosvenor are to be included in the scheme during 2014 15: and Casinos 26 17 1.5% 1.3% Successful marketing campaigns have led to a 46% increase Mecca 71 66 6.5% 5.8% in venue customers playing on grosvenorcasinos.
Both Mecca and Grosvenor Casinos successfully grew the number of customers experiencing their brands through both the digital channel and in venue.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 17 Strategic report Our strategy continued Our future priorities OUr aim is to be the uks leading multi-channel gaming operator.
In order to achieve this, we are focused on building brands with the ability to deliver them via the channels that they prefer whether venues, online or mobile.
Creating a Over the course of the year we will map compelling our existing KPIs to our new strategy, multi-channel Building Digital and will report against them in 2015. offer Capability For this year, we have continued to 2 1 report on our KPIs against our previous strategy.
These KPIs can be found on pages 20 to 21.
In the markets where we operate, Rank While Rank has built strong positions is one of the few gaming companies in venue-based gaming, we have not We will focus in particular on building in a position to offer customers a yet been able to replicate this across our engagement with customers across genuine multi-channel gaming offer.
digital channels online and mobile.
multiple channels, where research We have a number of key assets, In 2013 14, our digital operations tells us we are likely to generate including a portfolio of more than generated just 10% of Group revenue more durable and valuable 160 venues, our membership systems whereas digital channels now represent customer relationships.
and rewards programmes and the around 30% of Great Britains gambling We have identied five inter-related high levels of engagement that our market excluding National Lottery.
priorities essential to the team members enjoy with customers.
We recognise that we need to step up accomplishment of our aims.
our capability in this area if we are to Priority for 2014 15 meet the changing needs of our We will build on this position by customers and to capture a greater investing in a range of improvements share of the digital market.
designed to make it simpler, more convenient and more rewarding for Priority for 2014 15 customers to engage with us across This year, we will put in place a multiple channels.
These improvements number of building blocks to support include the development of a single this aim including the appointment of customer account, a single customer Colin Cole-Johnston as group director wallet and a single customer rewards of digital and cross-channel services.
These are large and complex programmes which will take time to deliver but which we believe will give Rank an important competitive advantage.
18 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 For more information see pages: 20 Our key performance indicators 28 Operating review Using technology to drive efficiency Investing in and improve developing our brands and customer our Venues marketing experience 4 3 5 1 At Rank, the customer is at the heart Our casinos and bingo venues remain The development of a family of of our focus on efficiency.
By speeding the bedrock of Ranks business, well-dened, relevant and resonant up processes we can remove customer providing entertainment for millions brands is critical for the success frustrations and by removing costs of customers each year and generating of our ambition.
At Rank, we enjoy we can offer better value.
Together, the majority of the Groups revenue ownership of a number of well-known these will create important competitive and profits.
By continuing to invest brands with strong levels of afnity advantages.
We have identied in our venues in terms of product, amongst certain customer segments, a number of opportunities to environment and service and by but in the past we have not invested harness technological developments creating new ones, we are constantly sufciently in either the development to offer our customers more engaging evolving and enhancing the of those brands or the marketing experiences and to achieve sustainable experiences that we offer to customers, support required to release growth in operating margins.
and in doing so growing our revenue.
Priority for 2014 15 Priority for 2014 15 Priority for 2014 15 This year we plan to invest 26.0m This year, we will seek to step up This year we will look to deploy of capital in maintaining and our brand marketing programme, more cashless payment methods in improving our venues, which includes providing appropriate support for our venues such as the extension 3.5m in completing a new casino our established brands and investing of ticket-in-ticket-out TiTO slot in Southend.
In order to maintain a in the development of new brands machines to our Mecca venues: and modern t-for-purpose estate, we may for the digital market.
to allow customers to use their own be required to close a limited number smartphones and tablets to play of venues but we will also seek to games in-venue.
The increasing use of develop new venue concepts as we digital technologies in our venues will move forward through innovation.
also support our ambition to provide customers with a seamless multichannel offer.
During 2013 14, the Group also commenced a project to outsource operational IT services to Tata Consultancy Services TCS.
The transition to TCS is expected to be completed by October 2014.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 19
