Strategic Report Business Model Gross margin Unique Net Fixed cost revenue culture Operating margin BEI Gross margin Net revenue Our ethos is that the virtuous earnings model starts at gross margin.
We focus on underpenetrated, nascent categories with long-term It is gross margin that creates room in the Income Statement to fund growth and superior margin potential.
We have identified 19 investment behind our brands, investment in people and capabilities, Powerbrands which receive additional BEI to help drive growth.
We have and operating profit.
We drive gross margin expansion through also identified 16 markets which have the highest potential for growth superior mix higher margin brands, pricing and cost optimisation these are our Powermarkets, and the majority of them are based in initiatives Project Fuel, by minimising costs within the supply chain emerging markets.
Our overall medium-term KPI is to outperform the and non-value-add product costs.
We achieved 100bps of gross margin markets and categories in which we operate by 200bps.
Fixed cost Operating margin We will always invest appropriately behind our people, capabilities and Our operating margin is already best in class at 24.7% of net revenue infrastructure.
However, we deliberately like to keep our organisation on an adjusted basis, having delivered 160bps of margin expansion lean and encourage our people to focus and prioritise.
But we believe our ability to further grow margins is far from seek to avoid duplication, inefficiency and waste, and have recently over.
Our virtuous earnings cycle, focuses on gross margin expansion, announced our new Supercharge project, which should deliver us investment behind the long-term strength of our brands and tight fixed 100m150m annual savings by 2017. cost containment helped by Project Supercharge, will enable us to deliver our medium-term KPI of moderate margin expansion.
BEI Unique culture There are many ways to invest behind your brands.
At RB we have a We know that having the right strategy is not enough.
Our strategy very clear intent: we focus our investment on consumer education and becomes real when it is executed with excellence, this is why our culture penetration-building activities, to build long-term equity behind our is central to our outperformance.
We live our values of Achievement, brands.
BEI includes a combination of TV and print media, digital and Ownership, Entrepreneurship and Partnership.
We encourage people social media investment and consumer and medical education.
BEI as to take ownership of their businesses and behave like Shareholders.
a percentage of total net revenue in 2014 was 12.9% or 1.1bn Our compensation approach and industry leading share ownership invested behind the long-term strength of our brands.
requirement encourages our people to think, behave and act as Shareholders and treat the Company as their own.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 07
