Strategic Report Project Supercharge Agile and efficient Activate Following this new organisational structure, we will have a business that Creating a simpler, can create better ideas and an organisation that can make these ideas more agile organisation bigger.
We also need an organisation that can activate these ideas faster.
Activate is something that we need to do in store and with excellence.
CONSUMER CUSTOMER We are also taking the important step of creating a global customer supply services organisation which will focus on optimising our physical CreATe SCAle ACTiVATe relationship with customers logistical arrangements, service levels, the nitty gritty of working with customers to service consumers better.
We are creating a simpler organisation, connected by a common purpose for delivering innovative solutions for healthier lives and happier homes, keeping the consumer and customer at the centre of everything we do.
Simpler, more agile organisation In a fast moving consumer goods FMCG industry, being fast matters.
The principle of our organisation under Project Supercharge is As global as However, over time organisations become bigger and can become more possible, as local as needed.
If this happens, decision making slows down and speed of execution slows down.
Reducing cost and The RB way is to take the issue head on and simplify the business.
driving efficiencies We do this by focusing on the two things that really matter: 1 The consumer: We keep the consumer at the centre of what we do.
COST CATEGORIES At RB, our mindset is one of market penetration: how do we bring RB 100m 150m RB new consumers to our category and to our brands?
tomorrow today 15 annualised savings 2 The customer: We then focus on the retail customer, because our strategy only becomes real in the store, physical or digital.
We focus our thinking from consumer to store, and also on working back from the store, and deciding what we should focus on from the retail customers perspective.
Costs and efficiencies In mid-2014 we intensified our work on our cost levels, when it became Create clear that the headwinds from slowing markets and adverse foreign We are an innovative company and every day across RB our people are exchange were impacting our earnings model.
As a result of this, we have a huge pipeline, with many people working on many different projects.
The challenge that The conventional wisdom is that RB is a lean company, and there are we are giving to the business under Project Supercharge is how we dedicate no material cost areas that can be reduced.
This is both true and false.
As even more time and resources on the blockbuster ideas that can create real part of Project Supercharge, we have undertaken a significant exercise to value for our consumers, and therefore for our Shareholders.
We are going identify areas of expenditure where we have the opportunity to improve to be even more disciplined in how many projects we work on, and cut out efficiency.
This exercise has confirmed that RB is efficient in a large number the waste in every step of the chain.
of areas staffing, direct product spend, capital spend which drives our high-in-class margins.
Scale How can we scale our innovations and make them bigger?
The answer is It has also identified a number of areas in indirect spend where we have by making them as global as possible.
By evolving our organisation to one substantial opportunities for improvement.
Further opportunities to keep that creates a global launch package that can be taken everywhere, we optimising our manufacturing network are also available.
minimise the need for reworking, and avoid inconsistency.
This means that innovation can be scaled faster.
As part of Project Supercharge, we aim to deliver annualised cost savings of 100m150m.
We expect to achieve the full annualised savings goal in To enable RB to scale its ideas, its initiatives, to avoid duplication, rework, 2017.
The costs of the Supercharge project are approximately 200m which and waste, we have identified an opportunity to evolve our organisational we expect to incur over the next three years.
In a similar way to the approach we took when we created ENA, to cover our developing markets, we are now creating a unified Developing By driving a simpler, more agile organisation and by supercharging Markets organisation, from our LAPAC and RUMEA regions.
In this process, our earnings model, we believe we can set RB up for growth and we will also re-align our consumer clusters and locate them where experience outperformance in the future.
has shown that they fit better.
ANZ, Russia CIS and Israel will be moved to align with other developed markets within ENA.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 17
