Strategic Report Strategic Risks Our framework for risk management The most senior managers of our business dedicate time each year The following table provides a summary in a facilitated discussion with the Group risk team to consider the review of the strategic risks and risk environment for their particular functional or geographic area of responsibility and how their emerging or known risks could impact on the uncertainties that could affect the Group, achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
Similar sessions are held with the Groups external advisors.
The key content from these sessions as identified by management.
RB operates is then synthesised into the Groups Top Ten risks, with each risk having a major risk assessment process to an Executive Committee EC owner, who is accountable for executing the current control strategy and for compiling and executing a plan of identify, assess, control, mitigate and mitigating actions to properly manage the Groups exposure to that risk.
review those risks it considers to be most Progress is reviewed periodically and the full output from the major risk assessment process is formally submitted annually by the EC to the Board significant to the successful execution of for its consideration and endorsement.
Through the course of each year, our strategy.
the EC and Board agendas address all of the top risks through specific deep dives to ensure proper focus and progress with mitigation.
The Groups activities also expose it to a number of other risks which, while also actively managed, may still adversely impact the business and its financials.
A more detailed consideration of the full range of risks faced by the Group appears on pages 126 to 132 of this report.
Black Swan Event exchange rate risk A description of the exchange rate risk to the Group, and the means used to mitigate that risk, appears on page 127 General Financial Risks of a Global Company and on pages 127 to 128 Currency Exchange.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 24 Strategic Report Major Risk Description Context Mitigation Risk that non-compliance Regulation is imposed in respect of, but not limited The Group has an ongoing Health Regulatory with regulations e. g. licences, to, ingredients, manufacturing standards, labour Regulatory Excellence Programme, Compliance manufacturing, products and laws standards, product safety and quality, marketing, which continues to make good results in significant financial losses packaging, labelling, storage, distribution, progress.
RB employs senior arising from regulator-enforced advertising, imports and exports, social and regulatory and legal specialists 01 factory closures, product recalls, environmental responsibility and health and safety.
at a Group, regional and local delayed launches, penalties, etc.
These regulations can change and may become level who are responsible for more stringent.
Additionally we are required to setting policies and ensuring that obtain, maintain and update licences for such all employees are aware of, and products.
If we are found to be non-compliant comply with, both Group policies with applicable laws and regulations, we could be and the laws and regulations subject to civil remedies such as fines, injunctions or relevant to their roles.
product recalls, and or criminal sanctions.
Risk that targets cannot be Failures or disruptions to our systems or the systems The Group is engaged in a rolling Technology delivered due to technology failure of third parties on whom we rely, due to any Enterprise Resource Planning Failure or a lack of growth-enabling number of causes, particularly if prolonged, or, if ERP update programme.
Disaster systems and infrastructure any failure or disruption were to impact our backup recovery plans are in place and capabilities, leading to business or disaster recovery plans, could result in a loss of are tested periodically.
key data and or affect our operations.
Sub-optimal invests in security measures and 02 implementations of new systems could occur.
Our anti-virus software to safeguard computer systems, software and networks may be against this threat.
Maintenance vulnerable to unauthorised access, computer viruses of current systems throughout the or other malicious code and other cyber threats that execution of the ERP programme could have a security impact.
All of these could be implementation is an ongoing costly to remedy and we may be subject to litigation.
Risk that our business continuity We may face risks to continuity of supply arising Suppliers of key raw and Business plans, including monosourcing from certain specialised suppliers, both of raw packaging materials, co-packers of materials and products materials and of third party manufactured items.
finished product and the Groups Interruption are inadequate and we face Significant disruptions to our own, or our suppliers manufacturing facilities and key interruptions of our supply chain operations, may affect our ability to source raw technologies are risk assessed for and disruptions in our production materials and negatively impact our costs.
Suppliers their potential impact on supply 03 facilities, which could materially may fail to fulfil their contractual obligations.
adversely affect our results of Replacing suppliers may require them to be qualified Business continuity plans are operations.
under industry, governmental or our own standards, in place throughout the Group which could require investment and may take time and major sites are routinely and to resolve.
independently assessed towards achievement of a highly protected site status.
Risk that we are not fully compliant Failure to comply with applicable anti-trust and The Group is proactive in Legal Non-Compliance with UK and local laws including competition laws, rules and regulations in any addressing legal risks and the UK Bribery Act, Competition jurisdiction may result in civil and or criminal legal responds to government laws and Data and Privacy proceedings.
We are subject to the UK Bribery authorities in a forthright and 04 Protection laws, resulting in Act 2010, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of co-operative manner.
A Group damage to RBs reputation and 1977, as amended, and similar laws worldwide.
compliance function was formally significant potential fines.
Given our extensive international operations, we established in 2013 and an are exposed to significant risks, particularly with expansion made to the mandatory respect to parties not subject to our control such as annual online training undertaken agents and joint venture partners, and also through by employees.
Any violation of applicable money laundering laws could also have a negative impact on us.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 25 Strategic Report Strategic Risks Major Risk Description Context Mitigation Risk of significant unprovisioned We are subject to tax laws and transfer pricing The Group takes appropriate care Tax cash outflows as a result of tax regulations in multiple jurisdictions, including those in establishing new tax positions Legislation authority challenge to filed tax relating to the flow of funds between RB and its in support of organisational positions in key territories.
Our effective tax rate in any given operating structures: we are financial year reflects a variety of factors that may proactive in responding to tax 05 not be present in succeeding financial years, and authorities.
The Board considers may be affected by changes in the tax laws of the that tax exposures are adequately jurisdictions in which we operate.
provided for, whilst recognising that an element of risk will always remain.
Risk that RB cannot implement its The market for talent is intensely competitive and The Group structures its reward Loss of Key strategies and meet objectives as a we could face challenges in sourcing qualified programme to attract and retain Management result of key management leaving personnel.
If we are unable to achieve our the best people.
The formal the business who cannot be readily performance targets, our senior management succession planning process replaced by equally experienced would not be entitled to their variable pay, which continues to evolve with plans qualified candidates.
may operate as a disincentive for them to continue being reviewed and updated 06 their employment with us.
regularly for key positions and individuals.
Risk of significant reputational Various factors may adversely impact our The Group has a comprehensive Brand impact as a result of systemic reputation, including product quality set of policies, processes and product quality issues resulting inconsistencies or contamination resulting in systems to drive compliance with Reputation in undermining of consumer product recalls.
Reputational risks may also arise good manufacturing practice confidence in our brands, from our third parties labour standards, health, and monitor quality assurance, particularly in the growing Health safety and environmental standards, raw material including an appropriately 07 Care portfolio.
We may also be resourced global quality audit the victim of product tampering or counterfeiting team.
Any litigation, disputes on tax matters and pay structures may subject us to negative attention in the press, which can damage reputation.
Risk of upscheduling of active We could be subject to regulatory investigations The Group monitors and works Actives ingredients in Health Care to or potential enforcement actions that target active with health authorities and trade Upscheduling behind the counter or Rx status.
ingredients, an industry, a set of business practices associations to properly influence or our specific operations.
An RB Governance and consumer groups may request or conduct Council was established during 08 reviews of the use of certain of our ingredients, 2014 to ensure we continue to or ingredient legislation may change.
These could manage Health Care product result in a need to change our formulations which lifecycles in accordance with our could be costly or may not be possible.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 26 Strategic Report Major Risk Description Context Mitigation Risk of material impact on Group A variety of factors may adversely affect our results The Group develops and Developing Markets growth and profit of consumerof operations and financial condition during periods implements locally robust risk Slow-down led slowdown in key developing of economic uncertainty or instability, social or mitigation programmes designed markets, exacerbated by increasing labour unrest or political upheaval in the markets to generate cost savings and currency volatility.
Such periods may also lead higher returns on investment.
to government actions, such as imposition of Both results and currency 09 martial law, trade restrictions, foreign ownership volatility are closely monitored.
restrictions, capital, price or currency controls, Partnerships are strengthened nationalisation or expropriation of property or with distributors to better manage other resources, or changes in legal and regulatory local risks.
An absolute worst case scenario Significant reputational impact as a result of a A strong governance framework Black Swan with sufficient potential impact major issue resulting in multiple fatalities, possibly and operating model are applied to risk the future of RB as a compounded by apparently negligent management to drive compliance, transparency Event strong and independent business behaviour: extreme adverse press coverage and and oversight.
Robust Group operating in its chosen markets.
viral social media linking the RB name to consumer policies are maintained and brands, leads to a catastrophic share price fall, very a programme of rolling 10 significant loss of consumer confidence and inability independent audits operated to to retain and recruit quality people.
Comprehensive crisis management training programme and support tools are in place and routinely updated.
We are subject to a range of In order to manage the more numerous and routine This consists of a full set Routine Risks compliance and routine risks as risks, the Group maintains a complete and robust of policies, processes and part of everyday business.
systems covering all aspects of compliance, with international and local laws as well as with the Groups stated minimum control standards.
Management provides primary assurance by driving risk compliance through their respective area, regional or functional responsibility.
This is done through regular and detailed business reviews.
Secondary assurance is provided independently through a combination of internal and external audit covering all aspects of the Groups operations.
By order of the Board WilliAm mordAn Company Secretary 19 March 2015 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 27 Our Our Our vision categories geographies A world where people are healthier and live better.
Our purpose HEALTH To make a difference by giving 16 people innovative solutions HYGIENE Powermarkets for healthier lives and happier homes.
HOME RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 28 Our business model A global force in health and hygiene Gross margin Unique Net Fixed cost revenue culture Operating margin BEI RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 29
