Strategic Report Strategy Our strategy for growth & outperformance Unique The four pillars of our strategy culture 19 16 Powerbrands Powermarkets Margins Organisation We have organised A substantial focus on A clear focus on our 16 We focus on higher 1 our business into two our 19 Powerbrands in Powermarkets where margin initiatives.
This geographical Areas the Health, Hygiene and we see exceptional funds investments in our ENA and DVM, centred Home categories.
potential for growth brands, capabilities, around a number of matched with an ability development and consumer clusters: Latin to win.
A significant moderate margin America, North Asia, number of these are in expansion.
South Asia, Russia and emerging markets.
CIS, Middle East, North Africa, Turkey and Sub-Saharan Africa and Europe, North America and ANZ.
Reorganisation of emerging 80% of Total NR from Refining of Powermarkets Strong adjusted operating markets to benefit from Powerbrands made in 2014 with one margin expansion in 2014 learnings within ENA Growth lead by consumer emerging market country of 160bps, driven by Supercharge programme health at 8% like-for-like added and one developed 100bps in gross margin initiated to drive a faster Health and Hygiene now market country removed Continued heavy organisation, more responsive 74% of Core NR Emerging markets areas now investment in BEI: to consumers and customers.
Continued focus and 42% of Core NR, impacted fixed cost containment, aided investment prioritised to by devaluation of certain by efficiency programmes Health and Hygiene.
emerging market currencies Virtuous earnings model Continued focus and firmly intact investment prioritised to Moderate operating margin Powermarkets.
expansion targeted in the medium term.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 08 Strategic Report Case study RB focuses on areas where we believe the long-term potential for growth is Innovation: Scholl the strongest and where our edge gives Velvet Smooth Express Pedi us the ability to outperform.
The Velvet Smooth Express Pedi has been a key contributor to Health growth across our Areas.
Driving consumer health and self-medication is one such area with attractive demographics such as an emerging middle class keen to manage their health The electronic hard skin remover delighted consumers by not only and an ageing population with greater needs.
At the same time, people want providing a more efficient process, but also by delivering a better to feel younger for longer, meaning health is increasingly becoming more of end result than traditional, manual methods.
a lifestyle issue and not just a medical concern.
Health brands have higher consumer trust and loyalty with superior gross margins.
Finally there is a After proving its potential in lead markets in 2013, for 2014 we fragmented marketplace dominated by traditional pharmaceutical companies scaled up rapidly and successfully launched into over 50 markets.
with less focus on consumer health.
It also provided the flagship product to enable Scholl Amope brand introductions across BRIC and US markets during the year.
RB has a vision of enabling people to lead healthier lives in happier homes.
We believe these are areas with the potential to deliver long-term growth with attractive margins, as an increasing number of consumers in Europe, North America and developing markets alike are prepared to pay for products with proven clinical benefits.
We have unique advantages to help us win where we focus.
Our heritage as an FMCG company means we know consumers and what they want.
Our ability to execute quickly through long-established routes to market gives us the ability to deliver the products people want, when they want them.
Growth drivers We are driven by innovation.
We start by knowing what people need and Markets successfully work on how to deliver it, taking the consumer as our starting point.
We dont innovate for the sake of it or just because we can, we only do it launched in 2014 when we know we can create something new that will meet a required need, or make an existing product more effective.
Going forward we set over ourselves the task of concentrating on fewer, bigger, better and more scalable innovations.
In this way we aim to increase our success rate of real blockbuster innovations versus many smaller incremental improvements.
Build brands with stronger equities 50 With every innovation, we invest heavily to maximise the chance of success, across all geographies and touch points with consumers, healthcare professionals and the trade.
Whether these are new products, or entirely new categories, we put our investment appropriately behind the brands and markets where we are focused.
We also identify opportunities to roll out successful brands into new territories.
Our strong balance sheet, supported by sector-leading cash conversion and disciplined capital allocation, provides the flexibility to pursue acquisitions where we believe they will add value and help us pursue our vision to become a leading global consumer health company.
Our record in buying and successfully integrating brands such as Durex, K-Y and MegaRed is testament to our ability to create value.
Aug 2014 Feb 2014 Q4 2014 April 2014 Sept 2014 Brazil Russia India China US This strategy has already seen us grow from number 20 in OTC to number six worldwide.
In this fragmented market, we believe there is scope for further consolidation.
Combined with market-leading brands in the hygiene and home categories, this strategy has helped us attain leading positions in some of the worlds most important markets.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 09
