Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Operating review continued the downturn came on-stream.
Operating margins increased to Investing for the Future Strategy in action Land acquisition, Ebbsfleet 15.9% which helped improve return on capital employed a key To further expand our presence in the south we opened a new measure for the Group, to 18%.
Operating expenses increased Southern Counties division based in Camberley at the start of in absolute terms reflecting ongoing investment in growing the the financial year.
We also opened a new West Country division business but reduced as a percentage of turnover to 5.8% operating from an office in Exeter in July 2014 to capitalise on the 2013: 6.7%.
exceptional growth we have achieved in the South West region.
London made its first significant contribution to Group turnover We opened 44 new outlets in the year and closed 33 increasing the and profits.
The division delivered 293 legal completions including number of active outlets to 103 at the financial year-end.
Increasing 70 social plots at One Commercial Street and accounted for outlets is fundamental to our future underlying growth strategy but 124m of Group turnover.
London and our divisions in the south planning delays continue to be an obstacle to bringing more outlets accounted for over 50% of Group revenues in 2014 reflecting the on-stream.
We therefore very much welcome the governments significant land investment we have made in this geographical area latest published technical consultation on planning that amongst in recent years.
other things seeks to reduce the number of planning conditions imposed and the time it takes to discharge them.
Harrow Estates made progress on a number of fronts during the year.
The option at Horsforth in Leeds was exercised and the site During the year we acquired 6,092 plots across 54 new sites.
transferred to the local Homes division.
Planning permissions were Of these, 2,139 on 18 sites were pulled-through from our Forward achieved at appeal on two sites in Hartford, Cheshire for a total Land bank.
These new sites will ensure we are able to continue to of 650 plots with development already underway on one, and the increase the number of outlets from which we operate to both grow final environmental clearances have been received at Hauxton, the business and compensate for an anticipated easing in the private Cambridge which clears the way for a start on site in 2015. sales rate per outlet.
Harrow also realised a land profit of 2.8m and acquired an interest After accounting for legal completions, re-plans and a land sale, in a site for 180 plots through its Joint Venture.
the current owned and contracted land bank increased by 2,562 plots to 16,724 plots, representing c. 4bn of future revenues.
A new site with the potential for 250 plots was also acquired during Redrow entered into a development agreement primary school, hotel and leisure activities, the year.
We also continued to invest in Forward Land and after transfers with National Grid in June 2013 in respect of a large community hall, local shops and pub and open to the current land bank and our normal strategic review, we substation site at Ebbsfleet.
The 38 hectares site is space was successfully obtained in March 2014 increased the number of plots allocated or with a realistic prospect of gaining planning to 28,245 2013: 26,024.
We anticipate our ideally located next to the Ebbsfleet International after extensive stakeholder consultation involving strong performance in pulling-through Forward Land will continue Station.
The site represents a key part of an the local community.
important strategic opportunity for growth due Currently our design team are working towards Geographically land investment remains weighted to the south to its location within the proposed Ebbsfleet finalising details for the development for final where, including London, the owned and contracted land bank Garden City which was recently announced by planning approval.
Work on site is expected to start stands at 8,967 plots representing over half the Groups holdings.
Additionally we exchanged contracts with MOPAC Mayors Office in summer 2015 with the land being acquired in for Policing and Crime to acquire the former Metropolitan Police Outline planning for a residential-led mixed use phases across the lifetime of the development.
Following detailed negotiations with scheme comprising up to 950 new homes and the London Borough of Barnet and the GLA and a series of public consultations, the site which extends to 50 acres is expected to gain Whilst the Heritage Collection will remain our dominant brand Putting the Customer First a mixed-use planning permission in 2015 for c. 2,600 new homes.
we expect to see it reduce as a proportion of our overall business Our customers are at the centre of our business through the In addition to our ten London division sites, we have increased our as we bring on-stream more bespoke developments and new brands communities we create, the homes we build and the service we presence in the outskirts of the Capital.
We now have five sites of product.
We recognise there is a place for alternative designs that provide: we are determined to give our customers the experience managed by our South East and Southern Counties divisions within either reach out to a wider customer base or respond to particular they expect from a renowned premium home builder.
the M25, including a joint venture in Croydon where we are currently site constraints and market demands.
Over the past year we have Our developments are designed to create great places to live that underway on the first phase of a large-scale regeneration project.
seen the number of bespoke apartments we build increase and we will stand the test of time.
Places in which people are proud to own have introduced and completed the first homes from two new We have also made good progress on the site for up to 950 homes a home, keen to protect the quality of the local environment and brands.
we have under contract in Ebbsfleet which will become part of feel encouraged to be part of the community.
the Governments flagship new Garden City.
Outline planning The Regent Collection has many of the characteristics of the The Heritage Collection has been critical to our success and the permission was granted by Dartford Borough Council earlier in the Heritage Collection: it has attractive traditional elevations turnaround we have delivered over the past five years.
We continue year and we anticipate making a start on site in 2015.
Similarly complemented with modern spacious interiors.
It appeals to a to develop and improve the range in response to our customers Harrow Estates is moving forward positively with Stockport Council market where there is demand for more densely plotted wellfeedback and to incorporate changing trends in lifestyle, technology Redrow London makes its first significant on the large site we own outright at Woodford Aerodrome south designed homes generally in urban locations.
On sites such as and interior design.
In 2014 the Heritage Collection accounted for contribution to Group results with completions of Manchester where we have a resolution to grant planning Wilton in Wiltshire, we are able to combine the Regent Collection 80% of private completions.
from its first major developments at One permission for c. 920 plots and again expect to be on site alongside the Heritage Collection to broaden our target markets.
Commercial Street and Kingston Riverside.
2014 2014 20 21 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Operating review continued Our developments continue to be more environmentally sustainable Strategy in action Abode Strategy in action e-learning and make wider contributions to local communities.
Last year 1,364 2013: 720 of our homes were built to Level 3 or above of the Code for Sustainable Homes.
We also installed renewable heat or electricity generation technologies into 23% 2013: 16% of our homes.
Our People As we grow we want our people to grow with us.
Our extensive training and development programmes allow our people to fulfil their career aspirations and it is gratifying to see so many of our existing staff stepping-up into more senior roles.
During the year our staff completed 2,952 days of training, an increase of 10% on the previous year.
We have introduced e-learning which allows our people to train online at their pace and at times to suit them.
During 2014 we have made a significant But the rapid growth of the business does mean that we need to investment in developing e-learning and are expand our workforce and last year we created over 230 directly rolling this out across the business.
This enables employed new jobs and many more in our supply chain.
It is all our employees to access engaging, interactive pleasing to report that many of these new positions were filled In January 2014 we opened the first showhome underfloor heating and wet rooms.
Exteriors present training direct to their PC, laptop or tablet.
with people that had previously worked for us.
for our new Abode Collection, featuring distinctly uncluttered and smart facades whilst the interiors The industry has a skills shortage.
For far too long we have failed to modern designs.
Abode appeals to people who have been meticulously planned to make the most and block suppliers gave us a degree of protection and we managed attract young people into our industry and tradesmen, technicians to avoid serious delays to our build programmes and were able to want contemporary clean lines and open plan living.
of the space and provide the functionality modern and managers are now in short supply.
Over recent years we have deliver a more even spread of completions throughout the year.
introduced recruitment and training programmes to address this: Abode homes feature highly specified, open plan Trades were also in short supply, particularly but not limited to 15% of our workforce are on structured training and development bricklayers where we have seen significant increases in rates.
living spaces and contemporary features such as programmes.
We have an annual intake of apprentices and now As more production capacity comes on-stream we expect to see employ 84 across the divisions with plans in place to increase this material shortages easing over the coming months, we do however Our brand new range Abode is conceptually different to the customers looking for a different style of living.
Our first Abode site further.
Once they have mastered their trade we are finding many anticipate trade shortages will continue until the industry is able to Heritage and Regent Collections.
Abode has contemporary is selling well and we expect to roll-out new sites in 2015. of our apprentices have an appetite to progress further and are address the underlying failure to attract more young people into the elevations and extensive open plan living space with high ceilings taking up Trainee Site Assistant positions.
We have now also We know our customers appreciate our award winning homes and industry to grow and replace the ageing workforce.
Material and and bedrooms with walk-in wet rooms.
Underfloor heating as launched a Commercial Apprenticeship scheme that allows young we are determined to also provide them with an award winning trade shortages have impacted costs from their benign base and standard on the ground floor gives more flexibility for furnishing and people seeking a career in quantity surveying to combine work with level of service.
Last year 93% of our customers when surveyed we have seen like-for-like build costs increase on average by around built-in storage cabinets and workstations help to make the best use academic study and we have plans to launch a similar scheme for independently said they would recommend us to a friend and for 5% over the past year.
A high quality kitchen area is at the centre of the open the fourth year running we were awarded a maximum five stars in plan design.
The branding and marketing of Abode is also very Our customers expect us to build their new home to a high the HBF Annual Customer Satisfaction Survey.
But we want and different.
Strong fresh colours accentuate the contemporary designs standard and our key external measure of quality is the number have targeted ourselves to do better.
and sales hubs make use of handheld technology: Abode appeals to of Reportable Items per NHBC inspection.
In 2014 the average Last year we announced the launch of My Redrow which allows our number of Reportable Items per inspection was 0.21 2013: 0.21 customers to manage their buying journey with us: from booking and remained below the industry average of 0.25. appointments with Sales Consultants to making choices and buying Fourteen of our site managers recently won NHBC Pride in the Job options online.
Last year more and more of our customers chose Awards, an increase of two on the previous year.
Two of our site to buy extras online and we continue to extend the list of options managers also won NHBC Health and Safety Awards.
Eventually My Redrow will become the personal one-stop facility for our customers giving them on-line access to manage and We are committed to ensuring our sites are a safe place to work.
monitor their buying and aftersales service.
As part of this process It is therefore with much regret and sadness that I have to report we have embarked upon a complete review of how we currently there was a fatal accident involving one of our subcontractors on communicate with our customers and expect to roll-out a friendlier, site last year.
We are fully co-operating with the investigation more responsive and engaging service in 2015. that is being undertaken by the Health and Safety Executive and our condolences and support have been offered to the Building Efficiently, Responsibly and Sustainably subcontractors family.
Responding to a stronger market has been challenging for us and the industry.
Last year excluding our London sites where we Last year we published our first major report on sustainability and outsource construction, we built 3,394 units of output, a 400 units set ourselves a number of targets to achieve by 2018.
Aspirations Redrows new contemporary brand, Abode, and 13% increase on the previous year.
Early in the financial year 2018 set targets across five key parts of our business: Design, is launched in 2014 with the first showhome trade and material shortages emerged.
Brick and block producers Customers, Community, People and Environment.
We have made opened in Buckley, Flintshire.
We expect to were overwhelmed with demand and unable to increase capacity good progress against many of these targets.
We managed to divert The new West Country division will make its first roll-out new sites in 2015. in the short term.
As a result lead-times became extended across a 94% of waste from landfill and virtually all of our timber was contribution to the Group results.
Our long-standing partnerships with our brick responsibly sourced.
We recently passed our first independent environmental audit and achieved level 2 of the British Standard 8555 Environmental Management System.
2015 2015 22 23 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014
