Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Governance report Governance report Audit Committee report continued Nomination Committee report Redrow has an in-house Health and Safety Department and places Head Office and within the Divisions and reports directly ensure that a formal structured and tailored induction great emphasis on the importance of health and safety and to the Group Finance Director.
programme is undertaken by any newly appointed member environment management.
The department works closely with of the Board.
Risk Management and Internal Audit the Divisions to ensure that training is provided to employees and The Committees Terms of Reference are published on the The Groups Risk Register defines controls as prevent or detect subcontractors.
Best practice is shared and appropriate actions Groups website www.
and identifies owners for each high level risk.
Feedback on the are taken to comply with health and safety best practice and risks and controls is actively encouraged and is facilitated by legislation throughout the organisation: Main activities during the year links on the Groups intranet to ensure the risks listed remain During the year ended 30 June 2014 the Committee undertook the Board requires each Director in its operating divisions relevant and accurate.
The Register itself is regularly maintained the following activities: to complete an annual statement on Corporate Governance and is reviewed by the Committee annually.
The statement is designed a review of the structure, size and composition of the Board The Internal Audit strategy is discussed with PwC and discussed to provide assurance that Group policies and procedures are and concluded the present Board balance and composition and agreed with the Committee.
Suggested control being implemented and complied with in all material respects: remains appropriate but would be kept under review: improvements and any control weaknesses identified are in addition, key functional Directors complete a Principal followed up as appropriate.
The cornerstone of the Internal Audit undertook the recruitment process for the appointment Controls Self-Assessment Questionnaire which is reviewed by work undertaken is the Business Process Reviews.
A risk-based of a new Non-Executive Director: the Board to assist in improvements in the control framework: programme was designed based on the Risk Register.
The nominated Karen Jones, the Group Human Resources Director, Business Process Review programme looks to provide assurance a weekly business report WBR comprising sales funnel to become a Member of the Sustainability Committee: to the Group, by testing internal controls and reviewing specific information, gross margins and order book is produced for risks, as well as seeking out best practice and sharing it across The Committee reviews the structure approved the request of the Group Finance Director to take the Group, each Division and each site and circulated across the Group and identifying business process improvements.
up a Non-Executive Directorship at Lonza Group Ltd: the Group: and composition of the Board and Committee Members receive an Executive Summary of each following the decision of Alan Jackson to retire from the Board a monthly reporting pack is circulated in advance and Business Process Review report.
identifies and nominates for approval the Committee nominated the appointment of Liz Peace as reviewed at each of the Main, Executive and Divisional Board Whistleblowing a Non-Executive Director: candidates to fill Board vacancies meetings.
Annual budgets are set, with actual performance The Group has a widely publicised Whistleblowing Policy which compared against the annual budget: recommended that the Directors stand for re-election Committee membership and meetings enables employees and other stakeholders to raise concerns in at the 2014 Annual General Meeting in accordance with All Members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive preparation and regular updates of Strategic Plans: confidence.
The Committee has arranged to receive reports UK Corporate Governance Code with the exception of Directors with Alan Jackson, Deputy Chairman and Senior on all occasions when such issues are raised under this policy.
a policy and procedures manual which covers all the Alan Jackson who had indicated his intention to the Board Independent Director being Chair of the Committee.
The other The Whistleblowing Policy is formally reviewed and approved significant aspects of the Groups operations and describes to retire from the Board: and Members of the Committee during the year ended 30 June 2014 each year by the Committee.
the systems and controls that are to be applied: and were Debbie Hewitt and Nick Hewson.
reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference.
Bribery Act daily statements of a reconciled cash position identifying Table of Attendance The Directors were not present and did not vote when their Following the introduction of the Bribery Act 2010 the Company Attendance at significant payments are prepared, rolling cash flow forecasts are Name Role Meetings individual proposals were discussed.
put in place a policy on bribery and corruption for all employees prepared and forecast banking covenant compliance is tested.
The Company Secretary ensures that the Alan Jackson Chairman 4 4 Performance evaluation Throughout the year, the Committee has carried out assessments policy is complied with, updates the policy, procedures and The Committee completed a performance evaluation during the of internal control by considering documentation from the company code of practice as and when required and provides Debbie Hewitt Member 4 4 Financial Year and a report was presented to the Committee and Executive Directors and the internal audit function as well as regular reports to the Committee.
The Bribery Act policy is discussed.
The Committee was found to be effective and it was Nick Hewson Member 4 4 undertaking a review of cyber security and taking into consideration formally reviewed and approved each year by the Committee.
concluded that the Committee had fulfilled its remit and had in events since the year end.
The internal controls extended to the The Committee met four times during the year ended 30 June Training is given to all staff to highlight the various forms of place appropriate Terms of Reference.
financial reporting process and the preparation of consolidated 2014.
For all meetings, papers were circulated sufficiently in bribery and all new staff attend an induction course at the accounts.
The basis for the preparation of consolidated accounts Following Alan Jacksons retirement from the Board, Debbie advance to allow proper consideration of all matters for commencement of their employment which includes a section has been undertaken in accordance with the Companys Hewitt will become Chair of the Committee.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary relating to bribery and the implication on individuals and the Accounting policies as set out on pages 90 to 93. to the Committee.
Company of an act of bribery either given or received.
Every Alan Jackson The Committee therefore confirms that it is satisfied that the year, through its new internal e-learning facility, each employee Chairman of the Nomination Committee Responsibilities and Terms of Reference system of internal controls has been in operation throughout will be required to complete a mandatory compliance test which 1 September 2014 The key responsibilities of the Committee are: the financial year and up to the date of this report.
reminds each employee of their obligations.
reviewing the structure size and composition of the Board Risk Register Performance evaluation including skills, knowledge and experience and making The Group formally reviews its prioritised Risk Register every The Committee completed a performance evaluation during the recommendations to the Board: year.
The updated and reviewed Risk Register is then discussed Financial Year and a report was presented to the Committee and and approved by the Committee.
In addition, the Executive discussed.
The Committee was found to be effective and it was monitoring the leadership needs of the Company: Board, through its regular meetings, reviews key areas of risk on concluded that the Committee had fulfilled its remit and had in leading the process for Board appointments ensuring they are an ongoing basis and considers whether the internal controls place appropriate Terms of Reference.
conducted on merit and against objective criteria: identified in relation to those risks remain appropriate.
Nick Hewson making recommendations to the Board, including on the Insurance Chairman of the Audit Committee re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors the re-election of The Board has appointed an experienced broker to advise on 1 September 2014 Directors at the Annual General Meeting and the membership and co-ordinate all insurance matters across the Group and of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Sustainability it liaises closely with appropriate Redrow personnel at Committees: and 56 57 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Governance report Governance report Sustainability Committee report Directors Remuneration report to review the Companys policies and reporting with regard to We will continue to keep our policies under review to ensure personnel recruitment, development and succession planning they remain appropriate in the face of evolving best practice, to ensure a sustainable and engaged workforce: and regulatory developments and market data.
have regard to the Companys developments in customer 2014 outcomes aligned to strong performance engagement and service to ensure its values are upheld.
As described in detail on pages 14 to 45 of this Annual Report and Accounts, 2014 was a strong year for Redrow, which saw: The Committee also reviews its Terms of Reference which were last reviewed in May 2014 and are published on the Groups Record profits of 132.6m before tax website www.
Legal completions increasing by 27% Main activities during the year Underlying EPS increasing to 28.6p During the year ended 30 June 2014 the principle activities of the Committee were as follows: ROCE increasing to 18.0% preparation of an Aspirations 2018 action plan following Closing private order book increasing to 482m publication of the Sustainability Report in October 2013: c. 6,100 plots added to the current land bank a review of the 5 pillars which form the basis of Aspirations The alignment between performance and reward which 2018 and include design, customers, community, people, underpins our executive remuneration framework is reflected environment and governance: Dear shareholder, The Committee assesses the impact in the outcomes for the annual bonus and LTIP: On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce our Directors a review of the likely changes to Part L 2013 of the Building of Company operations on the remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 2014.
Based on exceptional performance, with the targets for Regulations and the Standard Assessment Procedure 2012 in maximum payment exceeded for all four of the annual England and their impact: environment and Communities Our philosophy aligning reward with performance bonus measures PBT, ROCE, land bank, order book, the Our remuneration framework remains unchanged from previous an update on the continuing impact of the Flood and Water Committee determined that the annual bonus should pay affected by its activities years, continuing to be based on the following key principles: Management Act 2010: out at the maximum level: and Committee membership and meetings Simple and transparent: an update on the likely changes to Part L 2013 of the Building EPS of 28.6p and ROCE of 18.0% in 2014 were both The Members of the Committee comprise Alan Jackson, who is Regulations in Wales: significantly above the targets for maximum vesting of Market competitive to recruit and retain the highest calibre Chair of the Committee and an Independent Non-Executive 17.5p and 16%, respectively.
The Committee therefore of talent in a competitive sector: Director.
In addition, Nigel Smith, Group Research and a review of the Companys environmental management determined that the 2011 LTIP award should vest in full Sustainability Director, and Karen Jones, Group Human standards: A substantial portion of reward is aligned to Redrow in September 2014.
Resources Director are both Members of the Committee.
performance, measured using a balanced set of short a review of the Terms of Reference of the Committee: and and long term metrics: and Table of Attendance Attendance at commentary on the new sustainability consultations Name Role Meetings Encouraging long-term stewardship and alignment with undertaken throughout the Financial Year.
Alan Jackson Chairman 3 3 Performance evaluation Based on these principles, our remuneration framework includes Nigel Smith Member 3 3 The Committee completed a performance evaluation during the the following components: Financial Year and a report was presented to the Committee and Karen Jones Member 3 3 discussed.
The Committee was found to be effective and it was concluded that the Committee had fulfilled its remit and had in The Committee met three times during the year ended 30 June place appropriate Terms of Reference.
For all meetings, papers were circulated sufficiently in Fixed components Variable components advance to allow proper consideration of all matters for Following Alan Jacksons retirement from the Board Liz Peace will discussion.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary become Chair of the Committee.
Salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus LTIP to the Committee.
Alan Jackson Market competitive Maximum 100% of salary Maximum 100% of salary Responsibilities and Terms of Reference Chairman of the Sustainability Committee The key responsibilities of the Committee are: Reflect nature of role, and Balanced scorecard of key performance Based on stretching long-term EPS and 1 September 2014 skills and experience measures PBT, ROCE, land bank, ROCE targets to develop and monitor the Boards approach to sustainability order book and to review and approve the sustainability targets proposed Subject to clawback for five years by management: following vesting 50% deferred into shares over two years to assess the impact of the Company operations on the Cash and shares subject to clawback for environment and communities affected by its activities, five years following payment vesting including the consideration of policies to enhance the benefits of those activities and mitigate any negative impact of those activities: Shareholding guidelines have regard to environmental corporate social responsibility 100% of salary to be built up over five years from appointment and community issues, including environmental management systems, waste management systems, recycling and energy management: 58 59 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Governance report Directors Remuneration report continued Renewing the LTIP Management role changes and salary adjustments Structure of report shareholder resolutions The current Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP was approved by As described earlier in this Annual Report and Accounts, in This is our first report prepared under the new remuneration shareholders in 2004 and is due to expire this year.
The response to the increase in the scale and scope of our business, reporting regulations which came into effect last year.
Committee believes that the basic structure of the LTIP remains and as part of our succession planning, John Tutte was promoted The report is split into two parts in accordance with appropriate and aligned to the interests of shareholders and is to the role of Group Chief Executive at the start of the current these regulations: therefore seeking approval for a renewed LTIP at the 2014 AGM.
To reflect the change in role and specifically the The Remuneration Policy pages 62 to 68 sets out our policies The plan will essentially be a renewed version of the previous substantial increase in remit and responsibilities, the Committee on directors remuneration and will be submitted to a binding plan in terms of both structure and quantum, but will be updated determined that it would be appropriate to make a one-off shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM: and to reflect current law, regulation and best practice principles adjustment to base salary from 405,000 to 540,000 with for example, the introduction of clawback.
Further details of effect from 1 July 2014.
This has been fully benchmarked against The Annual Remuneration Report pages 68 to 75 provides the renewed LTIP are set out in the Remuneration Policy on market data for companies of a similar size and complexity, with details on the remuneration we paid in 2014, and how we pages 64 and 65 and in the Notice of AGM on pages 117 to 122. market data provided by our independent external advisers.
intend to operate our policies in 2015.
It will be submitted to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
The Committee is aware that some shareholders have indicated In addition, to reflect the growth of the business, performance a preference for vesting periods which are longer than three in role and in consideration of market positioning in a very As set out above, we are also seeking approval to renew the LTIP years.
The Committee considered this but concluded that in competitive sector, the Committee also decided to increase the on essentially the same terms as the previous plan, updated for the house-building sector, a performance period of three years base salary for Barbara Richmond from 272,000 to 305,000 current areas of best practice.
The plan is summarised in the remains appropriate and market competitive and that the with effect from 1 July 2014.
When Barbara was appointed, the Remuneration Policy with a fuller description of its terms set objective of longer term shareholder alignment is achieved Committee noted that her salary had been set to reflect the out in the Notice of AGM.
at Redrow via the substantial shareholdings of our executive scale of the Company at the time and that given her experience, 2014 was another good year of progress for Redrow and, in this directors, supported by our shareholding guidelines.
we would review its market competitiveness in line with the context, we look forward to receiving your support on our Companys growth.
This has been fully benchmarked against Clawback approach to remuneration at the AGM on 10 November 2014. market data for companies of a similar size and complexity, with Following a review of the operation of the clawback provisions market data provided by our independent external advisers.
Debbie Hewitt in the Companys incentive plans the Committee has decided to Chairman, Remuneration Committee The Committees underlying policy on salary increases is that enhance the provisions in line with best practice.
Therefore, as they will normally be in line with increases for employees within described in more detail in the Remuneration Policy on pages 64 the business.
This approach is captured in the Remuneration and 65, the Committee will have discretion to claw back bonus This report has been prepared in accordance with the UK Policy set out in this report and has been applied consistently cash and shares and 2014 LTIP awards for a period of five years Corporate Governance Code, the relevant provisions of the by the Committee for all executive directors in recent years following the payment of cash or the vesting of deferred bonus Listing Rules and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized the average increase over the last three years being 2.4%.
and LTIP shares in the event of material misstatement of audited Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment The decision to award the increases above was therefore not results or employee misconduct.
This will apply to all awards Regulations 2013. taken lightly by the Committee.
We believe the adjusted salaries granted under the new 2014 LTIP and to bonuses awarded in are appropriately market competitive, reflect the scope and respect of 2015 onwards.
responsibilities of the roles, as well as the skills, experience A culture of share ownership and performance of the individuals.
Redrow has a policy of embedding a culture of employee share In line with this policy, and reflecting the average salary increase ownership which extends from the executive directors across the business, the notional salary of Steve Morgan was throughout the business.
Recognising that long-term share increased by 3.6% to 462,000 with effect from 1 July 2014. ownership is a key issue for shareholders, the Committee has decided to further strengthen the existing share ownership Shareholder engagement guidelines of building a holding of 100% of salary by requiring We remain committed to an ongoing and transparent dialogue that the guideline for executive directors must be met within with our shareholders on the issue of executive remuneration.
During the year, I engaged with a number of our major shareholders to discuss the key issues referred to above, In addition to the substantial holding of the Chairman, the other including the salary increases, renewal of the LTIP and the executive directors have both met the guideline, creating a approach we have taken to our Remuneration Policy.
I would significant alignment between management and shareholders.
like to thank all of the shareholders consulted for their valuable feedback which was taken into account by the Committee in finalising the proposals in each area.
At the 2013 AGM, 98% of those shareholders who cast votes, voted in favour of the Directors remuneration report, including 95% of the free float, a result which we believe demonstrated the strong support we have for the framework and how we implemented it during the year.
60 61 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014
