BUSINESS REVIEW 14 SCIENTIFIC, TECHNICAL & MEDICAL scientific, Technical & Medical insurers, managed healthcare organisations, research-intensive In scientific, Technical & corporations, and governments.
All of these customers rely on Elsevier to provide high-quality content and critical information Medical markets, we provide for making scientific and medical decisions: toreview, publish, disseminate and preserve research findings: tocreate innovative information and tools to help tools to help focus research strategies, increase research effectiveness, improve medical outcomes, and enhance the customers improve scientific efficiency of healthcare and healthcare education.
In the primary research market during 2014, over 1.1m research papers were submitted to Elsevier.
Over 16,000 editors managed Elsevier is the worlds leading provider of scientific, technical & the peer review and selection of these papers, resulting in the medical information serving scientists, health professionals and publication of more than 360,000 articles in over 2,000 journals, students worldwide.
Its objective is to help its customers advance many of which are the foremost publications in their eld and a science and improve healthcare by providing world-class content primary point of reference for new research.
This content was and innovative information solutions that enable them to make accessed by around 12m people, with more than 750m full text critical decisions, enhance productivity, and improve outcomes.
Content is provided free or at very low cost in most of theworlds poorest countries.
Elseviers journals Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2014 were 2,048m.
are primarily published and delivered through the ScienceDirect Elsevier is a global business with principal operations in platform, theworlds largest database of scientific and medical Amsterdam, Beijing, Boston, Chennai, Delhi, London, Madrid, research, hosting over 12m pieces of content, and 30,000 e-books.
Munich, New York, Oxford, Paris, Philadelphia, Rio fide Janeiro, Flagship journals include Cell and The Lancet families oftitles.
St. Louis, San Diego, Singapore and Tokyo.
In 2014, Elsevier expanded the Lancet collection, adding new Approximately 37% of revenue by destination in 2014 was derived titles, such as The Lancet Psychiatry, The Lancet HIV and The from North America, 30% from Europe and the remaining 33% LancetHaematology.
from the rest of the world.
Elsevier is also a global leader in the scientific, technical & medical Elsevier serves the needs of the science, technology & medical reference market, providing authoritative and current professional markets by publishing primary research, reference and education reference content.
While reference has traditionally been provided content, as well as by providing a range of database and workow in print, Elsevier has been a leader in driving the shift from print to solutions.
Elseviers customers are scientists, academic electronic.
Flagship titles include works such as Grays Anatomy, institutions, educators, research leaders and administrators, Nelsons Pediatrics and Netters Atlas of Human Anatomy.
medical researchers, doctors, nurses, allied health professionals and students, as well as hospitals, research institutions, health Premier life sciences journal with the The leading suite of preparation, testing and highest impact factor in biochemistry remediation resources that generate actionable and molecular biology data to prepare nursing and health profession students for success in pursuing degrees, passing licensure exams and starting their careers One of the worlds leading medical journals An innovative research management and The worlds largest database of scientific since 1823 social collaboration platform and medical research articles Provides research performance Combines leading reference and R Re ea ad dy y- -t to o- -u us se e t to oo ol ls s t to o a an na al ly ys se e t th he e w wo or rl ld d o of f tools for academic institutions and evidence-based medical content into its research, and establish, execute and evaluate funding intelligence fully integrated clinical insight engine the best strategies for research organisations 94118 Reed AR p007-036.
indd 14 10 03 2015 07:05 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 15 Elseviers agship clinical reference platform, ClinicalKey, Market opportunities provides physicians with access to leading Elsevier and scientific, technical & medical information markets have good third-party reference and evidence-based medical content in a long-term growth characteristics.
The importance of research single, fully integrated site.
ClinicalKey is continuing to grow and development to economic performance and competitive strongly, and is currently accessed by over 2,000 institutions.
positioning is well understood by governments, academic institutions and corporations.
This is reected in the long-term In medical education, Elsevier serves students of medicine, nursing growth in research and development spend and in the number of and allied health professions through print and electronic books, as researchers worldwide.
Growth in health markets is driven by well as electronic solutions.
For example, HESI, an online testing ageing populations in developed markets, rising prosperity in and remediation solution designed to help students of nursing and developing markets and the increasing focus on improving allied health professions, conducted over 700,000 tests in2014.
Given that a significant Elseviers database and workow products provide a range of tools proportion of scientific research and healthcare is funded directly and solutions for professionals in the scientific, technical and or indirectly by governments, spending is influenced by medical elds.
Customers include academic and corporate governmental budgetary considerations.
The commitment to researchers, research administrators and healthcare professionals.
research and health provision does, however, remain high, even in more difficult budgetary environments.
For academic and corporate researchers, significant products include Scopus, Reaxys and Knovel.
Scopus is the largest abstract Strategic priorities and citation database of research literature in the world, with over Elseviers strategic goal is to lead the way in providing information 56m abstract and bibliographic information records from more solutions that advance science, technology and health.
To achieve than 21,000 peer-reviewed journals and 5,000 international this, Elsevier creates solutions that reect deep insight into the publishers.
Reaxys is a leading solution for synthetic chemists, way its users work and the outcomes they are seeking to achieve: integrating chemical reaction and compound data searching with strives for excellence in content, service and execution: constantly synthesis planning.
Knovel provides a range of web-based adapts and revitalises its products, business models and productivity tools for the engineering community, integrating technology: and leverages its institutional skills, assets and technical information with analytics and search to deliver trusted resources to promote innovation and efficiency.
Elseviers strategic priorities are to continue to increase content Elsevier serves academic and government research administrators volume and quality: to expand content coverage, building out through its Elsevier Research Intelligence suite of products.
integrated solutions combining Elsevier, third-party and customer Leveraging bibliometric data from Scopus and other data types, data: to increase content utility, using Smart Content to enable SciVal helps institutions to establish, execute and evaluate new e-solutions: to combine content with analytics and research strategies.
Pure is a comprehensive research information technology, focused on measurably improving productivity and management system which enables evidence-based research outcomes for customers: and to continue to drive operational management decisions, promotes collaboration, simplies efficiency and effectiveness.
Our Analytical Services team In the primary research market, Elsevier aims to grow volume provides accurate, unbiased analysis on research performance by through new journal launches, expansion of author-pays journals combining high-quality data sources with technical and research and growth from emerging markets: to enhance quality by metrics expertise.
SciVal Funding assists researchers and building on our premium brands: and to add value to core institutions in identifying grants that are most relevant in their platforms by implementing new capabilities such as advanced research areas.
recommendations on ScienceDirect and social collaboration For healthcare professionals, Elsevier develops products to through Mendeley.
deliver patient-specic solutions at the point of care to improve patient outcomes.
Its clinical solutions include ExitCare which In clinical reference markets, priorities are to expand content provides patient education and discharge information and coverage, including licensing high-quality third-party content for CPMResource Center, which provides a data-driven framework ClinicalKey, as well as ensuring consistent tagging to link content tosupport nurses in undertaking procedures.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET 2,048m 2,048m Print Rest of World 25% 33% North America Face-to-face 37% 1% Electronic 74% Europe 30% 94118 Reed AR p007-036.
indd 15 06 03 2015 08:49 BUSINESS REVIEW 16 SCIENTIFIC, TECHNICAL & MEDICAL Business model, distribution channels and competition Science and medical research is principally disseminated on a paid subscription basis to the research facilities of academic institutions, government and corporations, and, in the case of medical and healthcare journals, also to individual practitioners and medical society members.
For a number of journals, advertising and promotional income represents a small proportion of revenues predominantly from pharmaceutical companies in healthcare titles.
Over the past 15 years alternative payment models for the dissemination of research such as author-pays or authorsfunder-pays have emerged.
While it is expected that paid subscription will remain the primary distribution model, Elsevier has long invested in alternative business models to address the needs of customers and researchers.
Over 1,600 of Elseviers journals now offer the option of funding research publishing and distribution via a sponsored article fee.
In addition, Elsevier now publishes more than 100 open access journals.
Electronic products, such as ScienceDirect, Scopus and ClinicalKey, are generally sold direct to customers through a dedicated sales force that has ofces around the world.
Subscription agents facilitate the sales and administrative process for print journals.
Books are sold through traditional and online book stores, wholesalers and, particularly in medical and healthcare markets, directly to end users.
Competition within science and medical publishing is generally on a title-by-title and product-by-product basis.
Competing journals, books and databases are typically published by learned societies and other professional publishers.
Workow tools face similar competition, as well as from software companies and internal solutions developed by customers.
GROWTH IN FULL TEXT ARTICLE DOWNLOADS GROWTH IN SUBSCRIPTION JOURNAL ARTICLE SUBMISSIONS 10% 10% 2013 2014 2013 2014 94118 Reed AR p007-036.
indd 16 06 03 2015 08:49 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 17 2014 financial performance 2014 2013 Change at constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 2,048 2,126 4% 1% 2% Adjusted operating profit 762 787 3% 1% 3% Key business trends were positive for the year with underlying The volume of author-pays or authors-funder-pays articles research subscription revenue growth around half a percentage grew strongly from a small base.
We continued to launch new point ahead of the prior year.
Electronic revenues, which now journals, and now operate over 100 stand-alone author-pays open account for around 74% of the total, continued to see good access journals alongside our sponsored article option in over growth across segments.
Underlying revenue growth was 2% and underlying adjusted We saw continued good growth in databases and tools, as well as operating profit growth was 3%.
The difference between the in electronic reference and education.
reported and underlying growth rates primarily reects the Print book and pharma promotion revenues continued to decline, impact of exchange rate movements.
albeit at a slightly lower rate than in the prior year.
In primary research, article submissions to subscription journals 2015 outlook and usage continued to grow in double digits, and journal quality, Our customer environment remains largely unchanged, with last as measured by relative impact factor, was maintained.
Overall we expect another year Subscription revenue growth rates were around half a percentage of modest underlying revenue growth point higher than in the prior year, driven by increased volume and new sales.
indd 17 06 03 2015 08:49 BUSINESS REVIEW 18 SCIENTIFIC, TECHNICAL & MEDICAL CLINICAL SOLUTIONS: TRANSFORMING CLINICAL PRACTICE TO IMPROVE PATIENT CARE More than six years ago, The North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System NSLIJHS, one of the largest WE MADE IT CLEAR FROM THE health systems in the US, began a major strategic effort to implement an electronic health record across BEGINNING THAT OUR PRIMARY its multi-hospital enterprise.
NHLIJHS sought to FOCUS WAS ABOUT THE PATIENT advance clinical practice and use technology to AND ADVANCING PRACTICE.
PARTNERSHIP WITH ELSEVIER HAS BEEN CRITICAL TO INFORMING OUR NSLIJHS partnered with Elsevier to equip every care CARE MODEL AND CREATING AN provider with the clinical information and systems EVIDENCEBASED STANDARD ACROSS support needed to provide superior integrated, ALL CLINICAL SETTINGS SO THAT OUR interdisciplinary care.
With the help of Elseviers CPM CLINICIANS CAN IMPROVE OUTCOMES Transformation Services, NSLIJHS embedded CPMs FOR OUR PATIENTS.
patient-centred care planning and clinical documentation framework into its various electronic Maureen White health records across a majority of its 18 hospitals in RN, MBA, NEA-BC, FAAN the New York metro region.
Senior Vice President, CPM Transformation Services enabled NSLIJHS to Chief Nurse Executive create a high-quality, transparent, patient-centred care culture, which contributed to it receiving the 2010 National Quality Healthcare Award from the National Quality Forum and the 2013 Human Resource Management Impact Award from the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology and the Society for Human Resource Management.
NSLIJHS also utilises Elseviers ClinicalKey, ExitCare and Revenue Cycle eLearning all elements of Elseviers integrated suite of clinical information solutions.
Syosset Hospital Pain Management team with the prestigious Press Gainey award for customer service 94118 Reed AR p007-036.
indd 18 06 03 2015 08:49 RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 19 8595% AVERAGE PERCENTAGE THAT ELSEVIER CUSTOMERS WITH THE CPM FRAMEWORK OUTPERFORM US CARE MEASURES.
THIS INCLUDES SUCCESS IN TREATING CONDITIONS SUCH AS HEART FAILURE ANDPNEUMONIA.
