FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 166 REED ELSEVIER NV Report of the Board The Non-Executive and Executive Directors present their joint In addition to the reported gures, adjusted profit gures are report, together with the financial statements of the group and of presented as additional performance measures used by Reed Elsevier NV, for the year ended 31December 2014. management.
These exclude in relation to the results of joint ventures, Reed Elsevier NVs share of amortisation of acquired As a consequence of the merger of Reed Elsevier NVs businesses intangible assets, acquisition-related costs, disposal-related and withthose of Reed Elsevier PLC, and the Governing Agreement other non-operating items, the net pension nancing charge or regulating the relationship including board composition and credit, and movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities economic interests of the parties, the shareholders of Reed Elsevier not expected to crystallise in the near term and include the benefit NV and Reed Elsevier PLC can be regarded as having the interests of tax amortisation where available on acquired goodwill and of a single economic group.
The combined financial statements intangible assets.
represent the combined interests of both sets of shareholders and encompass the businesses of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Elsevier Consolidated income statement Reed Finance BV and their subsidiaries, associates and joint Reed Elsevier NVs shareholders 50% share of the adjusted profit ventures, together with the parent companies, Reed Elsevier NV before tax of the combined businesses was 987m 2013: 928m.
and Reed Elsevier PLC thecombined businesses.
Reported profit before tax, including the Reed Elsevier NV This report of the Board and the consolidated and parent company shareholders share of amortisation, acquisition-related costs and financial statements should be read in conjunction with the disposals and non-operating items, was 597m 2013: 659m.
The combined financial statements and other reports set out on pages decrease reects the non-recurring deferred tax credits in 2013.
2 to 145, which are incorporated by reference herein.
Summary Elsevier achieved good growth in primary research submissions combined financial information in euros is set out on pages 136 to and usage, and in databases and tools, across the scientific, 139.
The combined financial statements on pages 92 to 95 are to be technical and medical segments.
At Risk & Business Information: considered as part of the notes to the statutory financial all business segments achieved strong growth.
The Annual Report of Reed Elsevier NV within the positive underlying revenue growth despite subdued market meaning of article 2:391 of the Dutch Civil Code consists of pages conditions in the US and Europe.
Exhibitions achieved strong 165 to 169 and, incorporated by reference, pages 2 to 146.
The underlying growth and continued to actively pursue growth Corporate Governance Statement of Reed Elsevier NV dated 25 opportunities through new launches and small acquisitions.
February 2015 is published on the Reed Elsevier website Theoverall adjusted operating margin was 1.1 percentage points www.
com and is incorporated by reference herein higher despite investment in global technology platforms and new asper the Vaststellingsbesluit nadere voorschriften inhoud products and services, reecting a combination of process jaarverslag January 2010 article 2a under 1 sub b. innovation, portfolio development and currency effects.
Effective 25 February 2015, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Reed Elsevier NV s shareholders share of the adjusted profit PLC transferred their respective ownership interests in Elsevier attributable to the combined businesses was 752m 2013: Reed Finance BV to Reed Elsevier Group plc and named this newly 707m.
After deducting Reed Elsevier NVs share of the post-tax combined single group entity RELX Group plc, as part of a charge for amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisitionproposed modernisation of the corporate structure.
A full related costs, disposal-related and other non-operating items, description is set out on pages 66 and 67. the net nancing charge on dened benefit pension schemes and movements in deferred taxes related to acquired intangible assets Principal activities the reported net profit for the year was 592m 2013: 655m.
Reed Elsevier NV is a holding company and its principal investment isits direct 50% shareholding in RELX Group plc, Adjusted earnings per share increased 8% to 1.07 2013: 0.99. which isengaged in providing information solutions for At constant rates of exchange, the adjusted earnings per share professional customers across industries.
Including amortisation of acquired intangible shareholding in RELX Group plc is held byReed Elsevier PLC.
assets, acquisition-related costs, disposal-related and other non-operating items, the net nancing charge on dened benefit Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC have retained their pension schemes and tax adjustments, the basic earnings per separate legal identities and are publicly held companies.
Elsevier NVs securities are listed in Amsterdam and New York and Reed Elsevier PLCs securities are listed in London and Consolidated statement of financial position NewYork.
The consolidated statement of financial position of Reed Elsevier NV reects its 50% economic interest in the net assets of the Financial statement presentation combined businesses which as at 31 December 2014 was 1,359m The consolidated financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV include 2013: 1,434m.
The 75m decrease in net assets reects the 50% economic interest that its shareholders including Reed dividends paid and shares repurchased partially offset by Reed Elsevier PLC, which has an indirect 5.8% interest in Reed Elsevier Elsevier NVs share in the comprehensive income of the Group.
NV have under the equalisation arrangements in the combined businesses, accounted for on an equity basis.
Dividends paid to Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders are, other than in special circumstances, equalised at the gross level inclusive of the UK tax credit available to certain Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
indd 166 06 03 2015 13:19 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 167 Parent company financial statements FIL Limited In accordance with article 2:362 1 of the Dutch Civil Code, the The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation individual parent company financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier PLC presented on pages 179 to 181 are prepared under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
The profit attributable to Black Rock, Inc. the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV was 537m 2013: 199m UBS AG and net assets as at 31 December 2014, principally representing the Reed Elsevier NV investments in Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV under the historical cost method and loans to their subsidiaries, Authority to purchase shares were 4,441m 2013: 4,579 m. Free reserves as at 31 December At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, shareholders passed a 2014 were 4,192m 2013: 4,329m, comprising reserves and resolution delegating the authority to the Board to acquire shares paid-in surplus less shares held in treasury.
in Reed Elsevier NV for a period of 18 months from the date of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and therefore up to and Dividends including 22 October 2015, for the maximum amount of 10% of the The Board is recommending an equalised final dividend of 0.438 issued capital.
During the year, 20,403,351 ordinary shares and per ordinary share, up 17% compared with the prior year.
This additionally 107,901 R shares equivalent to 1,079,010 ordinary gives total ordinary dividends for the year of 0.589 2013: 0.506, shares, were purchased under this and the previous delegation of up 16% on 2013.
The final dividend will be paid on 22 May 2015. authority.
Asat 31 December 2014 there were 49,279,276 ordinary Dividend cover, based on adjusted earnings per share and the total shares held in treasury, representing 6.7% of the issued ordinary interim and proposed final dividends for the year, is 1.8 times.
Afurther 2,787,800 ordinary shares were purchased TheBoards of Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC have between 2January 2015 and the date of this report.
adopted dividend policies in recent years in respect of their A resolution to renew the delegation of the authority is to be put to equalised dividends that, subject to currency considerations, grow the 2015 Annual General Meeting, together with a proposal for dividends broadly in line with adjusted earnings per share whilst approval of the reduction of Reed Elsevier NVs capital by maintaining dividend cover being the number of times the annual cancellation of accumulated ordinary shares held in treasury.
dividend is covered by the adjusted earnings per share of at least two times over the longer term.
Corporate Governance The total dividend paid on the ordinary shares in the financial year Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC are subject to various was 349m 2013: 321m.
corporate governance principles and best practice codes, in particular the Dutch Corporate Governance Code issued in Share capital December 2008 the Dutch Code and the UK Corporate Governance During 2014, 3,003,289 ordinary shares in Reed Elsevier NV were Code issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC in issued as follows: September 2012 the UK Code.
The FRC published a revised UK Corporate Governance Code in September 2014 the 2014 Code under convertible debentures at prices between 14.58 which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October and20.00 2014.
Reed Elsevier NV may not apply fully the verbatim language under executive share option schemes at prices between of the UK Code, but does fully apply the principles and best 14.72 and 19.90 practice provisions of the Dutch Code, other than the following for Information regarding shares outstanding at 31 December 2014 is the reasons explained below: shown in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.
2.5: Executive directors are required At 31 December 2014 the total shares held in treasury were to build up a minimum shareholding and meeting the relevant 49,279,277.
Of these 5,337,782 ordinary shares were held by the shareholding requirement is both a condition of the vesting of Employee benefit Trust and 41,298,545 ordinary shares and awards as well as a pre-requisite to maintain eligibility to 264,295 R shares equivalent to 2,642,950 ordinary shares were receive future awards under the multi-year incentives.
The held by Reed Elsevier NV.
At an extraordinary general meeting of Group uses long term incentive arrangements in the form of shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV held in October 2014, the awards of shares which may vest after three years.
The intent shareholders approved the reduction of the capital of the Reed of this shareholding policy is to align the interests of senior Elsevier NV by the cancellation of up to 40million of its ordinary executives and shareholders.
This intent is in compliance with shares held in treasury.
Following the shareholders meeting, the the Dutch Code.
Shares received on joining the Group in Board led a declaration about cancellation of 40 million ordinary compensation for benefits forfeited under incentive schemes shares with the Trade Register at the Chamber of Commerce on from a previous employer are not to be considered as part of 22October 2014.
The 40 million ordinary shares in Reed Elsevier NV the minimum shareholding in this context.
were subsequently cancelled with effect from 24December 2014.
2.8: The Group has arrangements Substantial holdings that are commensurate with local and legal requirements to As at 25 February 2015, based on the public database of and on ensure a competitive employment offer to its Board Members.
notication received from the Netherlands Authority for the Executive directors have service contracts under English law Financial Markets, the company is aware of interests in the capital that provide for notice periods not exceeding one year.
There and voting rights of the issued share capital of the company of at are currently no executive directors with employment least 3% by the following persons or organisations: agreements under Dutch law.
In the event of dismissal, notice 94118 Reed AR p165-169.
indd 167 06 03 2015 13:19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 168 REED ELSEVIER NV is given in accordance with the agreed notice period.
The notice For further information on the application of the Dutch Code, period applicable to the service contracts of executive seethe Corporate Governance Statement of Reed Elsevier NV directors is 12 months.
The payment during the notice period published on the website, www.
may be mitigated if the director finds other employment within this period.
The application of this arrangement may fall within The Board the best practice provision that remuneration in the event of Since May 2013, Reed Elsevier NV has had aunitary board comprising both executive and non-executive directors.
dismissal may not exceed the fixed component of one years salary.
There are no other severance arrangements in place The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and RELX Group plc are also for the executive directors and none of the service contracts unitary boards.
It is established board practice at Reed Elsevier NV contain severance pay arrangements.
Although the principle that the executive and the non-executive directors meet together.
that severance pay should not exceed the fixed component of one years salary is supported, there may be exceptional significant agreements change of control circumstances where this maximum would be manifestly The Governing Agreement between Reed Elsevier NV and Reed unreasonable that could justify additional compensation on Elsevier PLC states that upon a change of control of Reed Elsevier termination for loss of variable remuneration components.
Full NV for these purposes, the acquisition by a third party of 50% or disclosure on remuneration in event of dismissal is provided in more of the issued share capital having voting rights, should there the Directors Remuneration Report.
not be a comparable offer from the offeror for Reed Elsevier PLC, Best practice provisions II.
2.14: In view of their Reed Elsevier PLC may serve notice upon Reed Elsevier NV detailed specificity and complexity and because of the varying certain provisions of the Governing Agreement, including confidential or potentially commercially sensitive nature of the the governance and the standstill provisions.
information concerned, individual performance targets and There are a number of borrowing agreements including credit achievements relevant for variable executive remuneration facilities that in the event of a change of control of both Reed will only be disclosed in general terms.
Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC and, in some cases, a Best practice provision II.
6.3: The disclosure of consequential credit rating downgrade to sub-investment grade transactions where directors have a conflict of interest, as may, at the option of the lenders, require repayment and or required by these provisions, shall be qualified to the extent cancellation as appropriate.
required under applicable rules and laws pertaining to the disclosure of price sensitive information, confidentiality and Directors justified aspects of competition.
The following individuals served as directors during the year: Principle III.
7: The remuneration of non-executive directors is Non-executive directors Executive directors determined by the Board in the context of the board A Habgood Chairman E Engstrom harmonisation with Reed Elsevier PLC and RELX Group plc, W Hauser Chief Executive officer having regard for the maximum per annum approved by the A Hennah D Palmer general meeting of shareholders.
L Hook Chief Financial officer, Senior Independent Director until1 September 2014, Best practice provision IV.
1.1: Appointments, suspensions M van Lier Lels resigned 24 September 2014 and removal procedures for executive directors are set out in R Polet N Luff the Reed Elsevier NV Corporate Governance Statement 2014.
L Sanford Chief Financial officer, In order to safeguard the agreed board harmonisation with B van der Veer appointed 1 September 2014 the Board of Reed Elsevier PLC, the articles of association of Reed Elsevier NV provide that a resolution of the General Duncan Palmer stepped down as Chief Financial officer on Shareholders Meeting to appoint an executive director 1September 2014 and left the Group on 24 September 2014. other than in accordance with the proposal of the Board shall Following the conclusion of the search process and on the require a majority of at least two thirds of the votes cast if less recommendation of the Nominations Committee, the Boards than one half of the companys issued capital is represented selected Nick Luff who joined the Group and was appointed as at the meeting.
Given the still generally low attendance rate Chief Financial officer on 1 September 2014. at shareholders meetings in the Netherlands, the Board All directors will stand for re-appointment at the Annual General believes that this qualified majority requirement is appropriate Meeting in April 2015. for this purpose.
With great sadness we have learnt of the sudden death of Best practice provision IV.
3.1: It is considered impractical Professor Dolf van den Brink in December 2014.
Mr Van den Brink andunnecessary to provide access for shareholders to all was Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Elsevier Reed Finance meetings with analysts and all presentations to investors in BV for a period of 8 years until July 2014.
Earlier in 2014 he had real time.
Price sensitive and other information relevant to decided to stand down as Chairman due to his busy work schedule.
shareholders is disclosed as required or as appropriate and Mr Van den Brink was very committed to the Group and his made available on the website.
Presentations made following expertise and good humour were much appreciated.
He was the announcement of the interim and full year results are greatly valued by everyone in the Group who knew and worked simultaneously webcast.
Investor seminars are also webcast.
indd 168 06 03 2015 13:19 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 169 Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are Going concern given on pages 62 and 63.
Details of the remuneration of the The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that Directors and their interests in the share capital of the company adequate resources exist for the combined businesses to continue in are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 75 operational existence for the foreseeable future and that, therefore, to88.
it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 2014 financial statements.
In reaching this conclusion, the Financial statements and accounting records Directors have had due regard to the combined businesses The financial statements provide a true and fair view of the state of financial position as at 31 December 2014, the strong free cash ow affairs of Reed Elsevier NV and the Group as of 31 December 2014 of the combined businesses, the Groups ability to access capital and of the profit or loss in 2014.
In preparing the financial markets and the principal risks facing the Group.
No material statements, the Board ensures that suitable accounting policies, uncertainties have been identied.
consistently applied and supported by reasonable judgements and A commentary on the combined businesses cash ows, financial estimates, have been used and applicable accounting standards position and liquidity for the year ended 31 December 2014 is set out have been followed.
The Board is responsible for keeping proper in the Chief Financial Ofcers Report on pages 50 to 57.
This shows accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at that, after taking account of available cash resources and any time the financial position of the company and enable them to committed bank facilities that back up short term borrowings, all ensure that the financial statements comply with the law.
The of the Groups borrowings that mature within the next two years can Board has general responsibility for taking reasonable steps to be covered.
The Groups policies on liquidity, capital management safeguard the assets of the company and to prevent and detect and management of risks relating to interest rate, foreign exchange fraud and other irregularities.
and credit exposures are set out on pages 120 to 123.
The principal risks facing the Group are set out on pages 58 to 60.
Internal control As required under sections II.
1.5. of the Dutch Code, the Auditors Audit Committee and the Board have reviewed the effectiveness of Resolutions for the re-appointment of Deloitte Accountants BV as the systems of internal control and risk management during the auditors of the company and to authorise the Board to determine last financial year.
The objective of these systems is to manage, their remuneration will be submitted to the forthcoming Annual rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business General Meeting on 22 April 2015. objectives.
Accordingly, they can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Signed by: outcome of this review has been discussed with the external Non-executive directors Executive directors auditors.
The Board confirmed that as regards financial reporting, A Habgood Chairman E Engstrom the risk management and control systems provide reasonable W Hauser Chief Executive officer assurance against material inaccuracies or loss and have A Hennah N Luff functioned properly during the financial year.
L Hook Chief Financial officer M van Lier Lels Directors responsibility statement R Polet The Board confirms, to the best of its knowledge, that: L Sanford the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance B van der Veer with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by Registered ofce the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted Radarweg 29 by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the financial 1043 NX Amsterdam position and profit or loss of the group: and The Netherlands the Report of the Board includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business during the Chamber of Commerce Amsterdam financial year and the position of the group as at 31 December Register le No: 33155037 2014 together with a description of the principal risks and 25 February 2015 uncertainties that it faces.
Neither Reed Elsevier NV nor the directors accept any liability to any person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent that such liability arises under Dutch law.
Disclosure of information to auditors As part of the process of approving the Reed Elsevier NV 2014 financial statements, the Board has taken steps to ensure that all relevant information was provided to the Reed Elsevier NV auditors and, so far as the Board is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Reed Elsevier NV auditors are unaware of.
