BUSINESS REVIEW 32 EXHIBITIONS Exhibitions Market opportunities We operate the worlds leading Growth in the exhibitions market is influenced by both business-tobusiness marketing spend and business investment.
Historically, exhibitions business, with 500 these have been driven by levels of corporate profitability, which in turn has followed overall growth in GDP.
Emerging markets and events in over 30 countries.
higher growth sectors provide additional opportunities for Reed Exhibitions.
As some events are held other than annually, growth Reed Exhibitions portfolio of exhibitions and conferences serves in any one year is affected by the cycle of non-annual exhibitions.
43 industry sectors across the globe.
In 2014, Reed Exhibitions brought together over 7m event participants from around the Strategic priorities world, generating billions of dollars of business and facilitating Reed Exhibitions strategic goal is to understand and respond entry into new markets for its customers and boosting the local to its customers evolving needs and objectives better than its economies where the events are hosted.
competition through deep knowledge of its customers and the markets they serve.
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2014 were 890m.
ReedExhibitions is a global business headquartered in London Reed Exhibitions delivers a platform for industry communities and has principal ofces in Paris, Vienna, Norwalk Connecticut, to conduct business, to network and to learn through a range of So Paulo, Abu Dhabi, Beijing, Moscow, Tokyo and Sydney.
Reed market-leading events in growth sectors, especially in higher Exhibitions has 3,700 employees worldwide.
In 2014, growth geographies, enabling exhibitors to target and reach approximately 16% of Exhibitions revenue came from North new customers quickly and cost effectively.
America, 47% from Europe and the remaining 37% from the rest Organic growth will be achieved by continuing to generate greater of the world on an event location basis.
customer value through the intelligent application of customer Reed Exhibitions organises market-leading events which are knowledge, by developing new events, and by building out relevant to industry needs, where participants from around the technology platforms to ensure the rapid deployment of innovation world meet face-to-face to do business, to network and to learn.
and best practices across the organisation.
Reed Exhibitions is Its exhibitions and conferences encompass a wide range of also shaping its portfolio through a combination of strategic sectors.
They include construction, cosmetics, electronics, partnerships and acquisitions in high-growth sectors and energy and alternative energy, engineering, entertainment, gifts geographies as well as by withdrawing from markets and and jewellery, healthcare, hospitality, interior design, logistics, industries with lower long-term growth prospects.
manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, real estate, recreation, securityand safety, transport and travel.
Manufacturing World Tokyo Japans largest Premier global event for the trade show for the manufacturing industry travel industry International contemporary art fair The worlds property market The North American jewellery industrys premier trade event International machinery trade fair A As si ia as s s so ou ur rc ci in ng g a an nd d networking platform Pax Prime Game festival for tabletop, for the complete aluminium industry chain videogame and PC gamers 94118 Reed AR p007-036.
indd 32 06 03 2015 08:49 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 33 Reed Exhibitions is committed to continuously improving Business model, distribution channels and competition customer solutions and experience.
By providing a variety of The substantial majority of Reed Exhibitions revenues are from services, including its integrated web platform, the company sales of exhibition space.
The balance includes conference fees, continues to drive customer satisfaction.
Using customer insights, online and ofine advertising, sponsorship fees and, for some Reed Exhibitions has developed an innovative product offering shows, admission charges.
Exhibition space is sold directly or which enhances the value proposition for exhibitors by broadening through local agents where applicable.
Reed Exhibitions often their options in terms of the type and location of stand they take works in collaboration with trade associations, which use the and the timing of their commitment to the event.
events to promote access for members to domestic and export markets, and with governments, for whom events can provide In 2014 Reed Exhibitions launched 36 new events.
These included important support to stimulate foreign investment and promote many events which delivered on the strategy of taking sector regional and national enterprise.
Increasingly, Reed Exhibitions is expertise, customer relationships and leading brands from one offering visitors and exhibitors the opportunity to interact before market and extending them into new geographies using local and after the show through the use of online and mobile tools such operational capability.
Mipim, the leading property show held as directories and matchmaking.
annually in Cannes, responded to the buoyant UK property market with the launch of an offshoot in London: FIBO China health and Reed Exhibitions is the global market leader in a fragmented tness was launched in Shanghai, building on the successful and industry, holding less than a 10% global market share.
Other long running German event FIBO: and in Singapore, Reed international exhibition organisers include UBM, Informa IIR and Exhibitions launched an Asian version of Maison&Objet, the leading some of the larger German Messe, including Messe Frankfurt, design-led home and furniture show held twice a year inParis.
Messe Dsseldorf and Messe Munich.
Competition also comes from industry trade associations and convention centre and A number of targeted acquisitions and investments were exhibition hall owners.
Increasing its holding in Reed Tyap gave Reed Exhibitions a strong position in Turkey, and with the acquisition of Fidalex and AFG, Reed Exhibitions achieved market leader status in Mexico.
The Mexican acquisitions brought events such as Expo Carga transport and logistics and the Beauty Show into its portfolio.
In addition, an investment in the Bakery event, serving the bakery and confectionery industry, broadened its footprint in China.
NUMBER OF EVENT LAUNCHES EVENTS IN EMERGING MARKETS 37 36 209 192 2013 2014 2013 2014 REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET 890m 890m Electronic 3% North America 16% Rest of World 37% Face-to-face Europe 97% 47% On an event location basis.
indd 33 06 03 2015 08:49 BUSINESS REVIEW 34 EXHIBITIONS 2014 financial performance 2014 2013 Change at constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 890 862 3% 11% 7% Adjusted operating profit 217 210 3% 12% 9% Excluding exhibition cycling.
Had cycling effects been included underlying growth would have been 9%.
Exhibitions achieved another year of strong underlying revenue China continued to see strong growth in certain sectors, and and profit growth, and continued to actively pursue growth moderate growth elsewhere.
Revenues in Brazil reected good opportunities through new launches and small acquisitions.
growth in some of our leading events, but a slowdown in the wider economy.
Most other markets continued to grow strongly.
Underlying revenue growth was 7% and underlying adjusted operating profit growth was 9%.
Had the effects of exhibition In 2014 we launched 36 new events and completed several small cycling been included underlying revenue growth would have been acquisitions and joint venture investments, primarily in around two percentage points higher.
The difference between the high-growth geographies and sectors.
reported and underlying growth rates primarily reects the 2015 outlook impact of exchange rate movements.
We expect underlying revenue growth trends to continue, with The US and Japan achieved strong growth.
In the US, growth strong growth in the US and Japan and modest growth in Europe.
reected strong demand across our broad portfolio of leading In other markets the outlook remains strong, albeit slightly below events.
Strong growth in Japan was driven by new launches and the high levels achieved in recent years.
In 2015 we expect cycling strong demand across our major events.
out effects to reduce the overall revenue growth rate by three to four percentage points.
Europe saw modest growth overall.
Domestic markets remained subdued, but international events in the UK and France achieved good growth.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m Underlying growth 7% Underlying growth 9% 890 217 862 210 2013 2014 2013 2014 94118 Reed AR p007-036.
indd 34 06 03 2015 08:49 RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 35 35 IN COSMETICS: AN AWARD WINNING GLOBAL BRAND The leading global business platform for In April 2015 in-cosmetics celebrates its The first in-cosmetics Brazil took place in the personal care ingredients industry, 25th anniversary in Barcelona, marking a So Paulo in September 2014 and in June in-cosmetics is an outstanding example of major milestone in the shows history.
2015 in-cosmetics makes its debut in South Reed Exhibitions ability to leverage the Staged each spring in a major European Korea, Asias third largest cosmetics strength of its brands in new geographies.
city, the agship global event has played a market.
The combined portfolio has From a single event in 1990, the dynamic role in helping to shape the achieved double digit revenue growth in-cosmetics brand has grown to landscape of the personal care ingredients year-on-year for the last five years.
encompass four events across Europe, industry as the annual launch pad for Reecting the strength of the brand, Asia and Latin America, all delivering new products, and set the standard for in-cosmetics scooped two awards at the access to the very latest cosmetic in-cosmetics events around the world.
AEO Association of Exhibition Organisers ingredients and technologies, world-class in-cosmetics Asia was launched in 2008 and Excellence Awards 2014, taking the top spot educational programmes and unrivalled has quickly grown to become the largest for Best Overseas Tradeshow Exhibition networking opportunities.
pan-Asian personal care ingredients event.
and Best Tradeshow Exhibition Overall.
90% Visitor satisfaction THE SHOW HAS BEEN VERY SUCCESSFUL AND EXTREMELY BUSY.
INCOSMETICS SETS THE INDUSTRY STANDARD FOR OTHER EXHIBITIONS AND MOST OF OUR CUSTOMERS HAVE BEEN HERE, BIG AND SMALL.
ITS A GOOD WAY TO MEET PEOPLE FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD, NOT JUST EUROPE BUT PEOPLE FROM COUNTRIES SUCH AS BRAZIL AND CHINA.
IN THREE DAYS YOU CAN MEET MORE PEOPLE THAN YOU COULD IN SIX MONTHS OF TRAVELLING AND THE INTERACTION IS BETTER FACE TO FACE.
Dr Thomas Satzinger Director, Global Marketing, Evonik Industries 94118 Reed AR p007-036.
indd 36 06 03 2015 08:49 O Ov ver erv vie iew w B Bu usi sine fines ss s re rev vi ie ew w F Fi in na an nc cial ial re rev viie ew w G Go ov ver ern na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc cial ial s st ta at tem eme en nt ts s an and d oth othe err i n inf for or ma ma titon ion Re REL ed X E Glr so eu vp ier An Anu nnu alal R R ep eo pr otr st a s a nd n d F iF nia nn ac nial cial S tS atta em tem en en tst 2 s 2 01 04 14 37 37 Business review Corporate Dest que occusae vel responsibility ex explant vendae id etur, quo maximent, consed mo temea commodita similia tiatur simolor The Corporate Responsibility Report is an integral part of our Annual Reports and Financial Statements.
This section highlights progress on our 2014 corporate responsibility objectives.
You can read the full 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
com go CRReport IN THIS SECTION 00 Elsevier 00 LexisNexis Risk Solutions 00 LexisNexis Legal & Professional 00 Reed Exhibitions 00 Reed Business Information 00 Corporate responsibility 94118 Reed AR p037-047.
