BUSINESS REVIEW 20 RISK & BUSINESS INFORMATION Risk & Business Information The identity management and risk evaluation solutions provided In Risk & Business Information, by Insurance Solutions, Business Services, Government Solutions and Health Care Solutions utilise comprehensive database we provide data, analytics and platforms of public records and proprietary information with more than two petabytes of unique data, which makes it the largest insight that enable customers database of its kind in the US market today.
Our market-leading technology enables Risk & Business Information to provide its to evaluate and manage risk.
customers with highly relevant search results swiftly and to create new, low-cost solutions quickly and efficiently.
It is also We develop market intelligence, increasingly used across other Group business areas such as Legal and scientific, Technical & Medical.
supporting more confident Risk & Business Information is focused on developing a pipeline of decisions, improving economic new solutions to drive growth in existing business segments and selected adjacent markets and geographies.
outcomes, and enhancing Insurance Solutions provides a comprehensive combination of data and analytics to personal, commercial and life insurance operational efficiency.
carriers in the US to improve critical aspects of their business, from customer acquisition and underwriting to claims handling.
From 2014 Risk Solutions and Business Information have been Information solutions, including the most comprehensive US combined into one business area.
This union brings together personal loss history database, C. L. U. E. help insurers assess LexisNexis Risk Solutions proprietary, public and third-party risks and provide important inputs to pricing and underwriting information, advanced technology and analytics, with Reed insurance policies.
Additional key products include LexisNexis Business Informations high-value industry critical data services, Data Prell, which provides critical information on customers, information and tools as well as conferences, websites and potential customers and their auto, property and life policy business magazines.
information directly into the insurance workow, and LexisNexis Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2014 were 1,439m.
Current Carrier, which identies current or previous insurance Risk & Business Information has principal operations in Georgia, coverage details as well as any lapses in coverage.
Insurance Florida, Illinois and Ohio in the US and London, Amsterdam and Solutions released new driving behaviour products in four states Shanghai.
Risk & Business Information has 7,400 employees.
These products aggregate court data within specic states to provide insurers with vital trafc violation information for Approximately 73% of revenue in 2014 came from North America, use in underwriting.
In the UK, Insurance Solutions contributory 22% from Europe and 5% from the rest of the world.
No Claims Discount NCD module, which automates verication Risk & Business Information is organised around market-facing of consumers claims history, has achieved data contribution from industry sector groups including insurance, business services, over 55% of the UK auto insurance sector in just over a year.
government, healthcare, major data services including banking, energy and chemicals, human resources and other leading brands.
The largest of these sector groups is insurance.
LexisNexis Identity Management Payment efficiency solutions, AML and KYC services andcompliance tools for the Range of solutions to help clients verify that banking andcorporate sectors worldwide an identity exists and authenticate individuals C. L. U. E. Data, news and advisory services for Most comprehensive US personal insurance Global provider of news, price benchmarks, professionals working in the global claims database data, analytics and research to the energy, aviation industry chemical and fertiliser industries LexisNexis Revenue LexisNexis Anti-Money LexisNexis Data Prefill Recovery and Discovery Laundering Solutions Tool to automate insurance application Suite of tools to enable governments to Content and information for anti-money process providing critical information leverage public records and analytics to laundering compliance, risk mitigation insurers need to quote and underwrite apolicy identify instances offraud and to more andenhanced due diligence efficiently collect onoutstanding debts 94118 Reed AR p007-036.
indd 20 06 03 2015 08:49 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 21 In the Insurance business, Risk & Business Information acquired Government Solutions provides data and analytics to US federal, four businesses during 2014.
Wunelli is an industry-leading state and local law enforcement and government agencies to help telematics data services company based in the United Kingdom.
solve criminal and intelligence cases and to identify fraud, waste The combined LexisNexis and Wunelli data sets will result in one and abuse in government programmes.
The groups Tax Refund of the largest provider-held insurance telematics databases in the Investigative Solution TRIS, now sold into eight states and the world, with solutions to support insurers as they assess risk and District of Columbia, continues to generate substantial benets discount safer drivers.
Risk & Business Information also acquired for both clients and taxpayers, with results to date of over $100m three US-based businesses to enhance the LexisNexis eCrash in avoided fraud losses.
iyeTek is an innovative provider of mobile and handheld Health Care Solutions provides identity, fraud and clinical software solutions, enabling public safety agencies to save time analytics solutions across key stages of the healthcare workow and money and improve services provided to their communities.
to enable intelligent decision making for payers and providers.
US is an online distributor of vehicle accident reports currently in use by 29 states and Coplogic is a leading During the year, the acquisition of Health Market Science, a leading provider of citizen self-reporting software solutions to law supplier of high-quality data on healthcare professionals and an enforcement agencies.
InOctober, a joint venture was signed administrator of one of the largest practitioner-level medical claim withJing You to supply data into the fast-growing auto insurance databases in the US, was completed.
The business also provides risk-related information to the legal Business Services provides financial institutions with risk industry through LexisNexis Legal & Professional.
management, identity management, fraud detection, credit risk Outside of these areas, Risk & Business Information provides management, and compliance solutions.
These include Know Your information and online data services to business professionals Customer and Anti-Money Laundering products.
The business worldwide, with high-value industry critical data services, also provides risk and identity management solutions for information and tools as well as producing conferences, websites corporate customers in retail, telecommunications and utilities and business magazines.
It has many strong global brands with sectors.
Receivables management solutions help debt recovery market-leading positions across a wide range of industry sectors.
professionals in the segmentation, management and collection ofconsumer and business debt.
In 2014, the group substantially Data Services include: ICIS, an information and data service in advanced its international strategy, with the expansion of its chemicals, energy and fertiliser: Accuity, a provider of services international sales force, launch of a simplied Chinese and solutions to the banking and corporate sectors focused on languageversion of Bridger Insight XG, a Bank Secrecy Act and payment efficiency, Know Your Customer, Anti-Money Laundering Anti-Money Laundering solution, and the ongoing upgrade of and compliance: and XpertHR, an online service providing theWorldCompliance heightened risk individuals database.
regulatory guidance, best practices and tools for HR professionals.
During the year, Accuity completed the acquisition In Business Services, Risk & Business Information acquired of FircoSoft, a leading provider of watch list ltering solutions for Tracesmart, a United Kingdom-based provider of tracing, identity financial institutions and corporates.
Accuity also launched risk verication, fraud prevention, anti-money laundering, debt solutions for customers in trade finance.
collection and data cleansing solutions.
Tracesmart, a leader in identity management and fraud solutions in the UK, is a natural Leading Brands include Flightglobal, Farmers Weekly, Boerderij, complement to Risk & Business Informations core competencies Fiscaal Totaal, Estates Gazette, Elsevier and New Scientist and and brings a robust set of UK public records, allowing Risk & deliver a mix of high-quality data, workow tools and high-value Business Information to extend its capabilities beyond the US in news, information and opinion to business professionals across order to serve its customers more fully.
many industry sectors while also providing an effective marketing channel for customers.
During the year Flightglobal completed the acquisition of Innovata, a provider of global airline schedule data.
Risk & Business Information also acquired Farmade, aUK-based supplier of crop recording, mapping and precision farming workow tools.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY Rest of World 1,439m 1,439m 5% Print 12% Face to face Europe 3% 22% North America Electronic 73% 85% 94118 Reed AR p007-036.
indd 21 06 03 2015 08:49 BUSINESS REVIEW 22 RISK & BUSINESS INFORMATION In 2014, Risk & Business Information continued to reshape its increasing anti-money laundering fines.
In receivables portfolio, exiting areas not core to its strategy.
As part of this management, demand is driven mainly by levels of consumer debt strategy, 51% of Reed Construction Data RCD, a provider of and the prospect of recovering that debt, which is impacted by online construction data and information to the construction employment conditions in the US.
In corporate markets, demand industry was divested, and 100% of RS Means, a construction is supported by growth in online retail sales and continued high costing service which had previously been a division of RCD.
levels of credit card fraud.
Growth in government markets is Risk&Business Information also completed its exit from its driven by the increasing use of data and analytics to combat Marketing Solutions businesses, including the sales of BuyerZone criminal activity, fraud and tax evasion, and to address security and emedia and one divestment of a portfolio of B2B assets from issues.
The level and timing of demand in this market is influenced its Netherlands operation is now also completed.
by government funding and revenue considerations.
In Health Care, there are numerous growth drivers for fraud and analytics Market opportunities solutions including the expansion of insurance coverage under the Risk & Business Information operates in markets with strong Affordable Care Act and the focus on cost containment and better long-term underlying growth drivers with growing demand for patient outcomes.
high-quality industry data and information and insight including: Growth in the global energy and chemicals markets is driven by insurance underwriting transactions: insurance, healthcare, increasing trade and demand for more sophisticated information taxand entitlement fraud: credit defaults and financial fraud: solutions.
Risk & Business Informations aviation information regulatory compliance and due diligence requirements markets are being driven by increases in air trafc and in the surrounding customer enrolment: security and privacy number of aircraft transactions.
considerations: and data and analytics for the banking, energy andchemicals, human resources and aviation sectors.
Strategic priorities In the insurance segment, growth is supported by increasing Risk & Business Informations strategic goal is to help businesses transactional activity in the auto, property and life insurance and government achieve better outcomes with information and markets and the increasing adoption by insurance carriers of more decision support in its individual markets through better sophisticated data and analytics in the prospecting, underwriting understanding of risks associated with individuals, other and claims evaluation processes, to assess underwriting risk, businesses and transactions.
By providing the highest quality increase competitiveness and improve operating cost efficiency.
industry data and tools, we assist customers in understanding their Transactional activity is driven by growth in insurance quoting and markets and managing risks efficiently and cost effectively.
To policy switching, as consumers seek better policy terms.
This achieve this, Risk & Business Information is focused on: delivering activity is stimulated by competition among insurance companies, innovative new products across customer workows: expanding high levels of carrier advertising, and rising levels of internet the range of risk management solutions across adjacent markets: quoting and policy binding.
addressing international opportunities in selected markets to meetlocal needs: further growing its data services businesses, A number of factors support growth in banking and financial and continuing to strengthen its content, technology and services markets, including cross-border payments and trade .
finance levels, new credit originations, continued high fraud losses, stringent regulatory compliance requirements, and GROWTH IN PROVIDER DATA RECORDS GROWTH IN FLIGHTGLOBAL DATABASE 35% 13% 2013 2014 2013 2014 Growth in Provider Data Records processed by Healthcare customers Flightglobal holds a database of 156,000 minimum connection times driven by increased demand for cost, quality and compliance solutions.
between ights at all of the worlds major airports.
indd 22 06 03 2015 08:49 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 23 Business model, distribution channels and competition which in many cases address different activities in these segments Risk & Business Informations products in Insurance, Business as well.
Services and Government are for the most part sold directly, Risk & Business Informations data services and leading brands withpricing predominantly on a transactional basis for insurance compete with a number of information providers on a service carriers and corporations, and primarily on a subscription basis andtitle-by-title basis including: Platts, Thomson Reuters, IHS for government entities.
and Wolters Kluwer as well as many niche and privately owned Data services are typically sold directly on a subscription or competitors.
Risk & Business Information competes for online transactional basis.
Business magazines are mainly distributed advertising with other business-to-business websites, search on a paid basis.
Advertising revenues are sold directly.
Risk & Business Information and Verisk, a competitor, each sell Across Risk & Business Information, user and subscription data and analytics solutions to insurance carriers but largely revenues now account for 94% of the total business with address different activities.
Risk & Business Informations the remaining 6% derived from print and online advertising.
principal competitors in business services and government Electronic revenue streams now account for 85% of segments include Thomson Reuters and major credit bureaus, total revenue.
2014 financial performance 2014 2013 Change at constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 1,439 1,480 3% 2% 6% Adjusted operating profit 506 507 0% 5% 6% Strong underlying revenue growth was driven by volume Major Data Services maintained strong underlying revenue growth, new product roll-outs and expansion in adjacent growth, driven by Accuity, XpertHR and ICIS, and other magazines segments.
Underlying profit growth broadly matched revenue and services were stable.
growth reecting ongoing organic initiatives.
In 2014 we continued to support organic growth through the Underlying revenue growth was 6% and underlying adjusted acquisition of data and analytics assets.
In 2014 we completed the operating profit growth was 6%.
The difference between the acquisition of Innovata, a provider of airline schedule data, reported and underlying growth rates reects the impact of Tracesmart, a provider of UK public records, Wunelli, a provider exchange rate movements and portfolio changes.
oftelematics solutions for the auto industry, FircoSoft, a provider of anti-money laundering solutions for the financial services Strong growth in the insurance segment was driven by solid industry, and Health Market Science, a supplier of high-quality demand for the US auto underwriting business, good take up of data on healthcare professionals.
new products and services across the insurance workow, and expansion in adjacent market verticals.
The international We also exited assets that no longer t our strategy, including initiatives are progressing well.
thedisposal of several magazines and the spin-off of certain construction industry assets.
In Business Services, growth was driven by demand for identity authentication and fraud detection solutions, particularly in the 2015 outlook financial services sector.
The fundamental growth drivers of Risk & Business Information In Government, the state and local segment continued to achieve remain strong.
We expect underlying revenue growth trends to strong growth.
Federal government revenue trends improved continue in 2015. during the year.
indd 23 06 03 2015 08:49 BU BUS SI INE fines SS S R RE EV VIE IEW W 24 24 R REED ISK & EL BSE USV IN IER ESS INFORMATION More police ofcers in the US are killed in trafc accidents than are killed by guns.
LEXISNEXIS LexisNexis and New Mexico State Police are reducing the toll with a revolutionary electronic application, eCrash.
RISK SOLUTIONS: In 2012, New Mexico was one of the first state police agencies to minimise the SAVING LIVES ONE manual administrative process associated with accident reporting and fullment.
Byauto-lling information, clearing roads TRAFFIC INCIDENT more quickly and sharing reports automatically with state agencies, ofcers AT A TIME can get back to patrolling the streets and better serving their communities.
eCrash can reduce the average time it takes an officer to writea report from 60 minutes down to only 19 minutes.
This reduces the BY INTERACTING WITH THE PUBLIC MORE EFFICIENTLY, time spent in a potentially dangerous WE ARE ABLE TO FREE UP MANPOWER AND ASSIGN environment by 41 minutes.
OFFICERS TO POSITIONS THAT ARE BETTER FOR THE DEPARTMENT AND OUR COMMUNITY.
THE IMPROVEMENT From all the information gathered IN THE EFFICIENCY OF THE SYSTEM HAS A POSITIVE electronically, ofcers can use eCrash IMPACT FOR THE AGENCY AS WE ARE CHALLENGED provided analytics to evaluate when, whereand why accidents occur, further WITH LIMITED RESOURCES.
improving trafc safety, reducing injuries Pete Kassetas and fatalities.
Chief of Police, New Mexico State Police 2,000 LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES USING ECRASH IN THE US 41 minutes TIME SAVED BY USING ECRASH Police officer recording road accident 94118 Reed AR p007-036.
indd 24 06 03 2015 08:49 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 25 ACCUITY: ENSURING AN EFFICIENT, COMPLIANT AND COST EFFECTIVE SOLUTION TO PAYMENT PROCESSING The Ecobank Group is a full-service bank Accuity provides solutions to banks and ACCUITYS INTEGRATED DATA LINKS with operations in 36 countries across businesses worldwide.
Its unmatched data INTO OUR CORE BANKING SYSTEMS.
It provides wholesale, retail, and services deliver optimal payment THIS MEANS THAT WE CAN PROCESS investment and transactional banking efficiency, compliant transactions, bank HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF services to governments, financial counterparty insight and anti-money PAYMENTS ACCURATELY, QUICKLY institutions, multinationals, local laundering screening success.
AND EFFICIENTLY USING THE MOST companies, small and medium UPTODATE AND TRUSTED BANKING enterprises, and individuals.
Accuitys global data ensures that the DATA OUT THERE.
payments process for companies Ecobank needs to ensure its transactions like Ecobank are efficient, compliant Victor Oyango are fast and accurate and it uses Accuitys and cost effective.
Global Payment le to achieve this.
Group Manager, Cash Management Operations, Ecobank 94118 Reed AR p007-036.
