FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 148 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors report The Directors present their report, together with the financial Consolidated income statement statements of the Group and Reed Elsevier PLC the Company, Reed Elsevier PLCs shareholders 52.9% share of the adjusted for the year ended 31December 2014. profit before tax of the combined businesses was 842m 2013: 832m.
Reported profit before tax, including the Reed Elsevier As a consequence of the merger of Reed Elsevier PLCs PLC shareholders share of amortisation charges,  withthose of Reed Elsevier NV, and the Governing related costs and disposals and other non-operating items, was Agreement regulating the relationship including board 493m 2013: 576m.
The decrease reects the non-recurring composition and economic interests of the parties, the deferred tax credits in 2013. shareholders of ReedElsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV can be regarded as having the interests of a single economic group.
The Elsevier achieved good growth in primary research submissions combined financial statements represent the combined interests and usage, and in databases and tools, across the scientific, of both sets of shareholders and encompass the businesses of technical and medical segments.
At Risk & Business Information, Reed Elsevier Group plc, Elsevier Reed Finance BV and their all business segments achieved strong growth.
Legal maintained subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, together with the parent positive underlying revenue growth despite subdued market companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV the conditions in the US and Europe.
Exhibitions achieved strong combined businesses.
This Directors report and the financial underlying growth and continued to actively pursue growth statements of the group and Company should be read in opportunities through new launches and small acquisitions.
conjunction with the combined financial statements and other Theoverall adjusted operating margin was 1.1 percentage points reports set out on pages 2 to 145.
Areview ofthe combined higher despite investment in global technology platforms and new businesses and their performance in the year is set out on pages 7 products and services, reecting a combination of process to 35, a summary of the principal risks facing the Group is set out innovation, portfolio development and currency effects.
on pages 58 to 60, and the Group statement on corporate Reed Elsevier PLCs shareholders share of the adjusted profit responsibility is set out onpages 37 to 47. attributable to the combined businesses was 642m 2013: 633m.
After deducting Reed Elsevier PLCs share of the post tax Effective 25 February 2015, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier charge for amortisation of acquired intangible assets, and NV transferred their ownership interests in Elsevier Reed Finance acquisition-related costs, disposal-related and other nonBV to Reed Elsevier Group plc and named this newly combined operating items, the net nancing charge on dened benefit single group entity RELX Group plc, as part of a proposed pension schemes, and movements on deferred taxes related to simplication and modernisation of the corporate structure, acquired intangible assets, the reported net profit for the year was equalisation arrangements and corporate entity names.
description is set out on pages 66 and 67.
Adjusted earnings per share increased 2.3p to 56.3p 2013: 54.0p.
Financial statement presentation At constant rates of exchange, the adjusted earnings per share The consolidated financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC were 10% higher.
Including the effect of the tax credit equalisation include the 52.9% economic interest that shareholders have under as well as amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisitionthe equalisation arrangements in the combined businesses, related costs, disposal-related and other non-operating items, the accounted for on an equity basis.
net nancing charge on dened benefit pension schemes, and tax Dividends paid to Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV adjustments, the basic earnings per share were 43.0p 2013: 48.8p.
shareholders are, other than in special circumstances, equalised at the gross level inclusive of the UK tax credit available to certain Consolidated statement of financial position Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
Because of the tax credit, Reed The consolidated statement of financial position of Reed Elsevier Elsevier PLC normally requires proportionately less cash to fund PLC reects its economic interest in the net assets of the Group its net dividend than Reed Elsevier NV does to fund its gross which as at 31 December 2014 was 1,117m 2013: 1,266m.
An adjustment is therefore required in the consolidated 149m decrease in net assets reects dividends paid and shares income statement of Reed Elsevier PLC to share this tax benefit repurchased, partially offset by Reed Elsevier PLCs share in the between the two sets of shareholders in accordance with the comprehensive income of the Group.
The equalisation adjustment arises on dividends paid by Reed Elsevier PLC to its shareholders and it Dividends reduced the consolidated attributable earnings by 15m 2013: The Board is recommending an equalised final dividend of 19.00p 15m, being 47.1% of the total amount of the tax credit.
This gives total ordinary dividends for the year of 26.00p 2013: 24.60p.
The final dividend In addition to the reported gures, adjusted profit gures are will be paid on 22 May 2015 to shareholders on the Register on presented as additional performance measures used by 1May 2015. management.
These exclude the tax credit equalisation adjustment and, in relation to the results of joint ventures, Dividend cover, based on adjusted earnings per share and the total ReedElsevier PLCs share of amortisation of acquired intangible interim and proposed final dividends for the year, is 2.2 times.
assets, acquisition-related costs, disposal gains and losses and TheBoards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have other non-operating items, related tax effects, and movements adopted dividend policies in recent years in respect of their indeferred taxation assets and liabilities related to acquired equalised dividends that, subject to currency considerations, grow intangible assets and include the benefit of tax amortisation dividends broadly in line with adjusted earnings per share whilst whereavailable on acquired goodwill and intangible assets.
maintaining dividend cover being the number of times the annual dividend is covered by the adjusted earnings per share of at least 2.0 times over the longer term.
indd 148 06 03 2015 13:17 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 149 to one-third shall retire from ofce and, if they wish, put The total dividend paid on the ordinary shares in the financial year was 285m 2013: 278m.
themselves up for re-election by the shareholders.
The UK Code recommends that all directors should seek re-election by Parent company financial statements shareholders annually.
Accordingly, the Board has adopted The individual parent company financial statements of thispractice.
ReedElsevier PLC are presented on page 160, and were prepared The ofce of director shall be vacated if he or she: i resigns: under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
ii becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors Distributable reserves as at 31 December 2014were 1,459m generally: iii is or may be suffering from a mental illness: 2013: 1,449m, comprising reserves less shares held in treasury.
iv is prohibited by law from being a director: or v is removed Parent company shareholders funds as at 31 December 2014 from ofce pursuant to the Companys Articles.
shareholders rights to appoint individuals to the Board in accordance with the Companys Articles, no individual may be Corporate Governance appointed to the Board unless such appointment is recommended Reed Elsevier PLC has complied throughout the year with the by the Nominations Committee.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Duncan Palmer stepped down as Chief Financial officer on FRC in September 2012 the UK Code.
The UK Code is publicly 1September 2014 and left the Group on 24 September 2014. available at www.
Details of how the principles of the UK Code have been applied and the Directors statement on Nick Luff was elected as a Director by shareholders at the AGM internal control are set out in the Corporate Governance report inApril 2014.
He joined the Board as Chief Financial officer on onpages 66 to 73.
The FRC published a revised UK Corporate 1September 2014.
Governance Code in September 2014 the 2014 Code which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1October 2014.
The In accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, all of the Directors will retire from the Board at the AGM in 2015 and, being Board expects to comply in full with the 2014 Code during 2015. eligible, they will each offer themselves for re-election.
Taking into Details of the role and responsibilities, membership and activities account the assessment by the Corporate Governance Committee of the Audit Committees, including Reed Elsevier PLCs Audit of the qualications, performance and effectiveness of each Committee, are set out in the Report of the Audit Committees on individual Director seeking re-election, the Board has accepted a pages 89 to 90. recommendation from the Nominations Committee that each Director be proposed for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reed Elsevier PLC is required to state the annual quantity of The notice period applicable to the service contracts of Erik emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from group Engstrom and Nick Luff is 12 months.
The remaining Directors operational activities.
Details of our emissions during the year seeking re-election at the 2015 AGM do not have service contracts.
ended 31December 2014 and the actions being taken to reduce Details of Directors remuneration and their interests in the them are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of the sharecapital of Reed Elsevier PLC are provided in the Directors Strategic Report on pages 46 and 47 and form part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 75 to 88. report disclosures.
Further details can be found in our online Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
com go Share capital CRReport.
Reed Elsevier PLCs issued share capital comprises a single class ofordinary shares, all of which are listed on the London Stock Directors Exchange.
All issued shares are fully paid up and carry no The following served as Directors of the Company during the year: additional obligations or special rights.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of Reed Elsevier PLC.
In a A Habgood Chairman general meeting, subject to any rights and restrictions attached to E Engstrom Chief Executive officer any shares, on a show of hands every member who is present in D Palmer Chief Financial officer until 1 September 2014: person shall have one vote and every proxy present who has been resigned 24 September 2014 duly appointed by one or more members entitled to vote on the N Luff joined as Chief Financial officer on 1 September 2014 resolution has one vote although a proxy has one vote for and one W Hauser vote against the resolution if: i the proxy has been duly appointed A Hennah L Hook Senior Independent Director by more than one member entitled to vote on the resolution: and ii R Polet the proxy has been instructed by one or more of those members to L Sanford vote for the resolution and by one or more other of those members B van der Veer to vote against it.
Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a vote on a resolution on a poll every member Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of given on pages 62 and 63. which he is the holder.
Proxy appointments and voting instructions Directors are appointed in accordance with the Articles of must be received by the registrars not less than 48hours before a Association the Articles, which provide that any director general meeting.
There are no specic restrictions on the size of a appointed during the year holds ofce only until the next following holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by Annual General Meeting AGM and is then eligible for election by the general provisions of the Articles and prevailing legislation.
Reed Elsevier PLCs Articles provide that at Reed Elsevier PLC is not aware of any agreements between every AGM of Reed Elsevier PLC, one-third of the directors shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of or if their number is not a multiple of three the number nearest shares or on voting rights attached to the shares.
indd 149 06 03 2015 13:17 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 150 DIRECTORS REPORT At the 2014 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution authorising rights, should there not be a comparable offer from the offeror the Directors to allot shares up to a nominal value of 9m, forReedElsevier NV, Reed Elsevier NV may serve notice upon representing less than 5% of the Reed Elsevier PLC issued share ReedElsevier PLC varying certain provisions of the Governing capital.
Since the 2014 AGM, no shares have been issued under Agreement, including the governance and the standstill provisions.
The shareholder authority also permitted the There are a number of borrowing agreements including credit Directors to allot shares in order to satisfy entitlements under facilities that in the event of a change of control of both employee share plans, and details of such allotments are noted ReedElsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and, in some cases, below.
The authority to allot shares will expire at the 2015 AGM, aconsequential credit rating downgrade to sub-investment and a resolution to further extend the authority will be submitted grademay, at the option of the lenders, require repayment to the shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
During the year, 3,360,624 ordinary shares in Reed Elsevier PLC were issued in order to satisfy entitlements under employee share Powers of directors plans as follows: 497,870 under a UK Sharesave option scheme at Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the prices between 401.60p and 708.80p per share: 2,744,793 under ReedElsevier PLC Articles and any directions given by executive share option schemes at prices between 466.50p and specialresolutions, the business of Reed Elsevier PLC shall be 991p per share: and 117,961 under the Long Term Incentive Plan at managed by theBoard which may exercise all the powers of 511.50p per share.
The issued share capital as at 31 December 2014 is shown in note Directors indemnity 11 to the consolidated financial statements.
In accordance with its Articles, Reed Elsevier PLC has granted Directors an indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, in respect of Authority to purchase shares liabilities incurred as a result of their ofce.
Reed Elsevier PLC also At the 2014 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution authorising purchased and maintained throughout the year Directors and the purchase of up to 126.7 million ordinary shares in Reed Ofcers liability insurance in respect of itself and its Directors.
Elsevier PLC representing less than 10% of the issued ordinary shares by market purchase.
During the year, 35,251,501 ordinary Related party transactions shares were purchased under this and the previous authority.
Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party On29December 2014, 65 million ordinary treasury shares transactions involving Directors or their connected persons are werecancelled.
Therefore, as at 31 December 2014 there were carried out on an arms length basis and are properly recorded and 69,698,335 ordinary shares held in treasury, representing 5.8% disclosed where appropriate.
A further 4,815,950 ordinary shares were purchased between 2 January 2015 and the date of this Conicts of interest report.
Theauthority to make market purchases will expire at the The Reed Elsevier PLC Articles permit the Board to approve 2015AGM, at which a resolution to further extend the authority situations where a Director has an interest that conicts, or may willbe submitted to shareholders.
possibly conict, with the interests of Reed Elsevier PLC.
The Board has established a formal system whereby the Nominations Substantial share interests Committee considers any such conict or potential conict and As at 25 February 2015, Reed Elsevier PLC had been notied by the makes a recommendation to the Board on whether to authorise it.
following shareholders that they held an interest of 3% or more in Inreaching its decision, the Board is required to act in a way it voting rights of its issued share capital: considers would be most likely to promote the success of Reed BlackRock Inc 5.03% Elsevier PLC and may impose limits or conditions when giving its Invesco Limited 5.03% authorisation, if it thinks this is appropriate.
Lloyds Banking Group plc 3.47% Legal & General Group plc 3.40% Political donations The Group does not make donations to European Union EU The percentage interests stated above are as disclosed at the date political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
In the US, on which the interests were notied to Reed Elsevier PLC.
the Group companies donated 55,793 2013: 48,000 to political organisations.
In line with US law, these donations were not made Employee benefit Trust at federal level, but only to candidates and political parties at the The Trustee of the Employee benefit Trust heldaninterest in state and local levels.
8,032,643 ordinary shares in Reed Elsevier PLC representing 0.7% of the issued ordinary shares as at 31December 2014.
Disclosures required under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4 TheTrustee may vote or abstain from voting any shares it holds The following information is disclosed pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4: inany way it sees t. Long-term incentive schemes page 80: Dividend waivers page 158, note 11. significant agreements change of control The Governing Agreement between Reed Elsevier PLC and Financial Statements and accounting records ReedElsevier NV states that upon a change of control of The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors report ReedElsevier PLC for these purposes, the acquisition by a third and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law party of50% or more of the issued share capital having voting and regulations.
indd 150 06 03 2015 13:17 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 151 Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Neither Reed Elsevier PLC nor the Directors accept any liability to statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors any person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent arerequired to prepare the consolidated financial statements in that such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue IFRS as adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in TheDirectors have elected to prepare the parent company accordance with Section 90A of the Financial Services and financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP United Kingdom Markets Act 2000.
Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied Disclosure of information to auditors that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the As part of the process of approving the Reed Elsevier PLC 2014 Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
financial statements, the Directors have taken steps pursuant to section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006 to ensure that they are In preparing the parent company financial statements, the aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and the Reed Elsevier PLC auditors are aware of that information.
then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting In that context, so far as the Directors are aware, there is no estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether relevant audit information of which Reed Elsevier PLCs auditors applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject are unaware.
to any material departures being disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on a Going concern going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that Company will continue in business.
adequate resources exist for the combined businesses to continue In preparing the group financial statements, IAS1 requires that in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that, directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in information, including accounting policies, in a manner that preparing the 2014 financial statements.
In reaching this provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable conclusion, the Directors have had due regard to the combined information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with businesses financial position as at 31 December 2014, the strong the specic requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users free cash ow of the combined businesses, the Groups abilityto to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events access capital markets and the principal risks facing the Group.
and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial No material uncertainties have been identied.
performance: and make an assessment of the companys ability A commentary on the combined businesses cashows, financial tocontinue as a going concern.
position and liquidity for the year ended 31December 2014 is set out The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting in the Chief Financial Ofcers Report on pages 50 to 57.
This records that are sufficient to show and explain Reed Elsevier PLCs shows that, after taking account of available cash resources and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time committed bank facilities that back up short term borrowings, all of the financial position of Reed Elsevier PLC and enable them to the Groups borrowings that mature within the next two years can ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies be covered.
The Groups policies on liquidity, capital management Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of and management of risks relating to interest rate, foreign Reed Elsevier PLC and hence for taking reasonable steps for the exchange and credit exposures are set out on pages 120 to 123. prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The principal risks facing the Group are set out on pages 58 to 60.
Directors responsibility statement Auditors The Board confirms that, to the best of its knowledge: Resolutions for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors ofReed Elsevier PLC and to authorise the Directors to x their the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance remuneration will be submitted to shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the financial By order of the Board Registered Ofce position and profit or loss of the group: and Henry Udow 1-3 Strand the Directors report includes a fair review of the development Company Secretary London and performance of the business and the position of the group.
25 February 2015 WC2N 5JR A description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group is set out on pages 58 to 60.
Having taken into account all the matters considered by the Board and brought to the attention of the Board during the year, the Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Reed Elsevier PLCs performance, business model and strategy.
