BUSINESS REVIEW 26 LEGAL Legal In North America, electronic information solutions and innovative In Legal markets, we are a worldworkow tools from Research Solutions help legal and business professionals make better informed decisions in the practice of leading provider of legal, law and in managing their businesses.
Flagship products for legal research are Lexis.
com and Lexis Advance, which provide federal regulatory, and news and business and state statutes and case law, together with analysis and expert commentaries from sources such as Matthew Bender and Michie information and analysis to law and the leading citation service Shepards, which advises on the continuing relevance of case law precedents.
Research solutions rm, corporate, government and also include news and business information, ranging from daily news to company lings, as well as public records information and academic customers.
LexisNexis also partners with law schools to provide services to students as part of their training.
Serving customers in more than 175 countries, LexisNexis Legal & Professional provides resources and services that inform In 2014, LexisNexis continued to release new versions of decisions, increase productivity and drive new business.
LexisAdvance, an innovative web application designed to transform how legal professionals conduct research.
Built on Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2014 were 1,396m.
anadvanced technology platform, Lexis Advance allows primary LexisNexis Legal & Professional is headquartered in New York researchers within legal and professional organisations to nd and has principal operations in the New York area, Ohio and North relevant information more easily and efficiently, helping to drive Carolina in the US, Toronto in Canada, London and Paris in Europe, better outcomes.
Future releases will continue to expand content and cities in several other countries in Africa and Asia Pacic.
and outreach and add new innovative tools.
LexisNexis employs Ithas 9,500 employees worldwide.
Approximately 66% of revenue lawyers and trained editors with professional legal backgrounds by destination in 2014 was derived from North America, 23% from who review, annotate and update the legal content to help ensure Europe and the remaining 11% from the rest of the world.
each document in the collection is current and comprehensive.
LexisNexis Legal & Professional is organised in market-facing This domain expertise combined with the application of the groups.
These are supported by global shared services Groups big data HPCC technology means Lexis Nexis is able to organisations providing platform and product development, update its entire legal collection faster and more efficiently, while operational and distribution services, and other support functions.
also identifying and linking content, enabling customers to uncover previously undiscovered relationships between documents.
LexisNexis UK agship legal online product LexisNexis UK legal practical guidanceservice Matthew Bender Critical analysis, checklists, forms and Premier citations service Leading legal news provider covering the practice guides authored by industry experts entire spectrum of practice areas every single covering over 50 major practice areas business day Lexis New online legal research tool that New resource that offers guidance to help Unparalleled legal, news and public records transforms the way legal professionals attorneys handle transactional matters more content for legal professionals conduct research efficiently and effectively 94118 Reed AR p007-036.
indd 26 10 03 2015 07:24 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 27 New workow and analytical tools and content sets are regularly In the UK, LexisNexis is a leading legal information provider introduced on Lexis Advance.
For example, in 2014 LexisNexis offering an unrivalled collection of primary and secondary launched LexisNexis Counsel Benchmarking, a new analytics legislation, case law, expert commentary, and forms and solution that works with Verdict & Settlement Analyzer to inform precedents.
Its extensive portfolio includes a number of heritage litigation strategy decisions.
Also, LexisNexis launched new brands: Halsburys, Tolleys and Butterworths.
The content is modules for Lexis Practice Advisor, a web-based practical guidance delivered through multiple formats from print to online to product tailored for attorneys who handle transactional matters.
mobileapps and embedded in customers workow.
LexisNexis Business & Litigation Software Solutions serves as In 2014, LexisNexis launched additional modules for the UK thesoftware arm for the company.
Its business of law software LexisPSL product suite which provides lawyers with a single provides law rms with practice management solutions, including destination for their practical legal information needs with direct time and billing systems, case management, cost recovery and links to the relevant cases, legislation, precedents, forms, document management services.
Its litigation software provides practical guidance and expert commentary.
lawyers with a suite of tools covering case preparation to In France, LexisNexis is a leading online provider of information to processing and review to trial preparation.
During 2014, lawyers, notaries and courts.
A heritage brand JurisClasseur and LexisNexis released multiple new versions for its existing portfolio leading authoritative content is provided through multiple formats including CounselLink, PCLaw, Sanction and Firm Manager.
These content sources are, In international markets outside the US, LexisNexis serves legal, asin the UK, being combined with new content and innovative corporate, government, accounting and academic markets in workow tools to develop practical guidance and practice Europe, Canada, Africa and Asia Pacic with local and management solutions.
In 2014, LexisNexis France continued to international legal, regulatory and business information.
enhance Lexis 360, the first semantic search online tool combining Themost significant businesses are in the UK, France, legal information, practical content and results from the web Australia, Canada and South Africa.
byproviding tailored solutions for the public sector and the accounting markets.
LexisNexis focuses on providing customers with leading collections of content and innovative online solutions to help Additional practical guidance solutions were launched in Canada, legaland business professionals make better decisions more South Africa and Australia.
Following the continued success of efficiently.
Penetration of online information services has grown LexisAdvance in the US, an Australian version was launched strongly and electronic solutions now account for 63% of revenue in2014 and additional international launches are planned.
In 2014, LexisNexis Legal & Professional strengthened its positions in Asia by introducing products created specifically for legal professionals and practitioners, corporate counsels, legal researchers and government institutions in markets including India, China and Japan.
New practical guidance offerings are now available in China, Hong Kong and Japan.
Also, LexisNexis continued its investment in broadening its core content offerings in India, Singapore and other countries in the region.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET 1,396m 1,396m Rest of World 11% Print 22% Europe Face to face 23% 1% North America Electronic 66% 77% 94118 Reed AR p007-036.
indd 27 06 03 2015 08:49 BUSINESS REVIEW 28 LEGAL Market opportunities In the US, LexisNexis focus is on the continuing development of Longer-term growth in legal and regulatory markets worldwide is next generation legal research and practice solutions.
It is also driven by increasing levels of legislation, regulation, regulatory conducting a major upgrade in operations infrastructure and complexity and litigation, and an increasing number of lawyers.
customer service and support platforms.
This will provide Additional market opportunities are presented by the increasing customers with an integrated and superior experience across demand for online information solutions and practice multiple products and solutions.
Over the next few years management tools that improve the quality and productivity of progressive product introductions, often based on the New Lexis research, deliver better legal outcomes, and improve business platform, leveraging big data HPCC technology, will combine performance.
Notwithstanding this, legal activity and legal advanced technology with enriched content, sophisticated information markets are also influenced by economic conditions analytics and applications to enable LexisNexis customers to and corporate activity, as has been seen with the dampening of make better legal decisions and drive better outcomes for their demand and the subdued environment in North America and organisations and clients.
Europe in the aftermath of the global recession.
Outside the US, LexisNexis is focused on growing online services and developing further high-quality actionable content and Strategic priorities workow tools, including the continuous development of practical LexisNexis Legal & Professionals strategic goal is to enable guidance and practice management applications.
In 2015, better legal outcomes and be the leading provider of  will continue to introduce New Lexis globally.
enhancing information and information-based workow solutions Additionally, LexisNexis is focusing on the expansion of its in its markets.
To achieve this LexisNexis is focused on introducing activities in emerging markets.
next generation products and solutions on the global New Lexis platform and infrastructure: leveraging New Lexis globally to Business model, distribution channels and competition continue to drive print to electronic migration and long-term LexisNexis Legal & Professional products and services are international growth: and upgrading operational infrastructure, generally sold directly to law rms and to corporate, government, improving process efficiency and gradually improving margins.
accounting and academic customers on a paid subscription basis, with subscriptions with law rms often under multi-year contracts.
Principal competitors for LexisNexis in US legal markets are West Thomson Reuters, CCH Wolters Kluwer and Bloomberg.
In news and business information they are Bloomberg and Factiva News Corporation.
Competitors in litigation solutions also include software companies.
significant international competitors include Thomson Reuters, Wolters Kluwer and Factiva.
LEXIS ADVANCE CUSTOMER PENETRATION MOBILE DOCUMENT ACCESSES 82% 73% 54% 2013 2014 2013 2014 Increasing use of Lexis Advance and lexis.
Increasing uptake of next generation legal platform.
indd 28 06 03 2015 08:49 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 29 2014 financial performance 2014 2013 Change at constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 1,396 1,567 11% 6% 1% Adjusted operating profit 260 250 4% 10% 6% Underlying revenue trends remained unchanged in 2014, with The roll-out of new platform releases continued in 2014, and subdued market conditions in the US and Europe limiting overall adoption and usage rates for new products and solutions have revenue growth.
The improvement in profitability reects a continued to progress well.
combination of process innovation, infrastructure Around one percentage point of the 270 basis points of margin decommissioning and portfolio reshaping.
improvement was achieved through organic process innovation Underlying revenue growth was 1% and underlying adjusted and infrastructure decommissioning, with the balance largely operating profit growth was 6%.
The difference between the reecting portfolio changes.
reported and underlying growth rates reects the impact of exchange rate movements and portfolio changes.
2015 outlook Trends in our major customer markets are unchanged, limiting Electronic revenues, which now account for 77% of the total, saw the scope for underlying revenue growth.
We will maintain our continued growth, partially offset by print declines.
focus on process innovation, and expect further improvement in US and European markets remained stable but subdued.
In other profitability over the medium term, albeit at a modest rate in 2015 international markets we continued to see good growth.
following the sharp margin increase in 2014.
indd 29 06 03 2015 08:49 BUSINESS REVIEW 30 30 LEGAL LEXISNEXIS DIGITAL LIBRARY: LEGAL INSIGHTS, ANYTIME ANYWHERE Foley & Lardner, a full-service law rm with 20 ofces in the United States and across the globe, serves clients in 49 distinct practice areas within 12 major industry sectors.
The rm, which is recognised for its exceptional client service, combines extensive resources with a local focus to deliver seamless business and legal insight.
Foley implemented the LexisNexis Digital Library solution to transform the management of its 40 disparate collections and services across geographies to offer a better user experience and save staff time and operating costs.
By centralising its library collection and services into one digital solution, Foleys 850 attorneys now have one single, easy-to-use destination to search and access titles.
The eLending capabilities extend to any device computer, smartphone and tablet.
Digital library management and eLending helps Foleys library staff maximise content investments and frees up administrative time so they can better support their attorneys with value-added services.
LEXISNEXIS DIGITAL LIBRARY HELPED US CENTRALISE OUR COLLECTION AND ITS ACCESS POINTS, ELIMINATE REDUNDANCIES ACROSS OUR OFFICES, AND REDUCE THE OVERALL RESOURCES NEEDED TO SUPPORT OUR LIBRARY SYSTEM.
Jeffrey A. Bois Director of Research & Information Services, Foley & Lardner 94118 Reed AR p007-036.
indd 30 06 03 2015 08:49 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 31 About LexisNexis Digital Library LexisNexis Digital Library provides librarians with a user friendly, centralised platform to order titles, supervise lending of all electronic content, and manage their collectionsreducing storing, ling and distribution costs.
Built in collaboration with Overdrive, its platform is based on an open industry standard, allowing other legal publishers such as the American Bar Association to add their content to the collection.
800,000 Titles FROM MORE THAN 2,000 PUBLISHERS CAN BE PURCHASED THROUGH LEXISNEXIS DIGITAL LIBRARY.
