GOVERNANCE 62 BOARD DIRECTORS Board Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Erik Engstrom 51 Anthony Habgood 68 R N C Wolfhart Hauser 65 R C Chief Executive officer Chairman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed: Chief Executive officer since 2009.
Appointed: 2009 Appointed: 2013 Joined Reed Elsevier as Chief Executive officer Nationality: British Nationality: German of Elsevier in 2004.
Other appointments: Chairman of: Court of the Other appointments: Chief Executive officer Nationality: Swedish Bank of England, Preqin Holding Limited and of Intertek Group plc and a Non-Executive Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Norwich Research Partners LLP.
Director of Associated British Foods plc.
Past appointments: Previously was Chairman of Past appointments: Chairman of Past appointments: Prior to joining Reed Elsevier Whitbread plc, Bunzl plc and of Mlnlycke Health Dragenopharm GmbH & Co AG from 2002 to was a partner at General Atlantic Partners.
Care Limited and served as Chief Executive of 2006.
Prior to that he was Chief Executive officer Before that was President and Chief Operating Bunzl plc, Chief Executive of Tootal Group plc and of TV Suddeutschland between 1998 and 2002 officer of Random House Inc and, before its a Director of The Boston Consulting Group.
and Chief Executive officer of TV Product merger with Random House, President and Chief Formerly Non-Executive Director of Geest plc, Service GmbH for 10 years.
Served as a Executive officer of Bantam Doubleday Dell, North Marks and Spencer plc, National Westminster Non-Executive Director of Logica plc and America.
Began his career as a consultant with Bank plc, Powergen plc, SVG Capital plc, and Intertek Group plc before his current position McKinsey.
Served asa Non-Executive Director of Norfolk and Norwich University Hospitals Trust.
Eniro AB and Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA.
Education: Holds an MA in Economics from Education: Holds a BSc from Stockholm School Cambridge University and an MS in Industrial of Economics, an MSc from the Royal Institute Administration from Carnegie Mellon University.
ofTechnology in Stockholm, and gained an He is a visiting Fellow at Oxford University.
MBAfrom Harvard Business School as a Fulbright Scholar.
Nick Luff 47 Marike van Lier Lels 55 Robert Polet 59 C R C Chief Financial officer Non-Executive Director of Reed Elsevier NV Non-Executive Director Appointed: Chief Financial officer on Appointed: 2010 Appointed: 2007 1 September 2014 Nationality: Dutch Nationality: Dutch Nationality: British Other appointments: Member of the Supervisory Other appointments: Chairman of Salo Group Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Boards of TKH Group NV, Eneco Holding NV and S. p. A.
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of of Lloyds Banking Group plc.
Royal Imtech NV, and a member of the Executive Rituals Cosmetics BV, and a Non-Executive Past appointments: Prior to joining Reed Elsevier Committee of Aegon Association.
A member of Director of Philip Morris International Inc, William was Group Finance Director of Centrica plc from various Dutch governmental advisory boards.
Grant & Sons Limited, Scotch and Soda NV and 2007.
Before that he was Chief Financial officer Past appointments: Member of the Supervisory Crown Topco Limited, parent company of Vertu.
at The Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Boards of Maersk BV, KPN NV and USG People Past appointments: President and Chief Company P&O and its afliated companies, NV, and Executive Vice President and Chief Executive officer of Gucci Group from 2004 to having previously held a number of senior Operating officer of the Schiphol Group.
Prior to 2011, having previously spent 26 years at finance roles at P&O.
Began his career as an joining Schiphol Group, was a member of the Unilever working in a variety of positions accountant with KPMG.
Formerly a Executive Board of Deutsche Post Euro Express including President of Unilevers Worldwide Ice Non-Executive Director of QinetiQ Group plc.
and held various senior positions with Nedlloyd.
Cream and Frozen Foods division.
Formerly a Education: Has a degree in Mathematics from member of the Supervisory Board of Nyenrode Oxford University and is a qualied UK Foundation and a Non-Executive Director of Chartered Accountant.
indd 62 06 03 2015 09:04 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 63 Adrian Hennah 57 A C Lisa Hook 56 R N C Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointed: 2011 Appointed: 2006 Nationality: British Nationality: American Other appointments: Chief Financial officer Other appointments: President and Chief ofReckitt Benckiser Group plc and Executive officer of Neustar, Inc and a Director Non-Executive Director of Indivior PLC.
ofVantiv, Inc and Island Press.
Serves on the Past appointments: Chief Financial officer USPresidents National Security ofSmith & Nephew plc from 2006 to 2012.
Before Telecommunications Advisory Committee that was Chief Financial officer of Invensys plc, NSTAC, and as a member of the Advisory Board having previously held various senior finance and of the Peggy Guggenheim Collection.
management positions with GlaxoSmithKline Past appointments: President and Chief for 18 years.
Executive officer at Sun Rocket Inc. Before that was President of AOL Broadband, Premium and Developer Services.
Prior to joining AOL, was a founding partner at Brera Capital Partners LLC.
Previously Chief Operating officer of Time Warner Telecommunications and has served as Senior Advisor to the Federal Communications Commission Chairman and a Senior Counsel to Viacom Cable.
Formerly a Director of Covad Communications, Inc and The Ocean Foundation.
Board Committee Membership Linda Sanford 62 A Ben van der Veer 63 A C N C Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committees A Audit Committees: RELX Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Appointed: 2012 Appointed: 2009 R Remuneration Committee: RELX Group plc Nationality: American Nationality: Dutch N Nominations Committee: joint Reed Elsevier PLC Other appointments: An independent Director of Other appointments: Member of the Supervisory and Reed Elsevier NV Consolidated Edison, Inc.
Serves on the boards Boards of Aegon NV, TomTom NV, Koninklijke C Corporate Governance Committee: joint Reed of directors of The Business Council of New York FrieslandCampina NV and Royal Imtech NV.
Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV State and the Partnership for New York City.
Past appointments: Chairman of the Executive Both of the Executive Directors are directors of Also serves on the boards of trustees of the Board of KPMG in the Netherlands and a RELX Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and State University of New York, StJohns member of the Management Committee of the Reed Elsevier NV.
University, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and KPMG International board until his retirement Marike van Lier Lels is a Non-Executive Director of the New York Hall of Science.
All of the other Non-Executive Past appointments: Senior Vice President, member of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Directors are directors of RELX Group plc, Reed Enterprise Transformation, IBM Corporation Nederland NV.
Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
until December 2014, having joined the company in 1975.
Formerly a Non-Executive Director ofITT Corporation.
