GOVERNANCE 64 BUSINESS LEADERS RELX Group Business Leaders Senior Business Executives Mark Kelsey Mike Rusbridge Mike Walsh Ron Mobed Chief Executive officer Chairman Chief Executive officer Chief Executive officer Risk & Business Information Exhibitions Legal scientific, Technical & Medical Joined in 1989.
Appointed to Business Information in 2010 and current position in 1996. current position in 2011. current position in 2012.
Previously President of Reed Previously CEO of LexisNexis US Previously President of Cengage Has held a number ofsenior Exhibitions Europe and Asia and Legal Markets and Director of Learnings Academic & positions across the Group over the President Reed Exhibitions North Strategic Business Development Professional Group and past 30 years.
Prior to that worked with Home Depot.
Prior to that was a Co-President and Co-Chief University and received his MBA leading US exhibition organiser, practising attorney at Weil, Gotshal Operating officer with information from Bradford University.
Studied at and Manges in Washington D. C. and services company, IHS.
Holds a Manchester University and served as a consultant with The degree from Trinity College, Harvard Business School.
Holds a Cambridge and a masters degree Juris Doctor degree from Harvard from Imperial College, London.
Law School and is a graduate of Yale University.
indd 64 06 03 2015 09:05 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 65 Corporate Executives Ian Fraser Kumsal Bayazit Youngsuk YS Chi Henry Udow Human Resources Director Chief Strategy officer Director of Corporate Affairs and Chief Legal officer and Chairman Elsevier Company Secretary Joined in 2005.
Appointed to current position at that time.
current position in 2012. current position in 2011. current position at that time.
Previously Global HR Director at Previously Executive Vice Previously he was President and Previously Chief Legal officer and BHP Billiton 1998 to 2005.
Holds President of Global Strategy and Chief Operating officer of Random Company Secretary of Cadbury plc an MBA in Finance and Business Development for House, founding Chairman of having spent 23 years working with International Business from LexisNexis Legal and Professional.
Random House Asia and Chief the company.
Prior to that he Londons City University and an MA Prior to that she worked with Bain Operating officer for Ingram worked at Shearman & Sterling in from Edinburgh University.
Ian is & Company in New York, Los Book Group.
Holds an MBA from New York and London.
Angeles, Johannesburg and Columbia University and is a Juris Doctor degree from the Sydney.
Holds an MBA from Graduate of Princeton University.
University of Michigan Law School Harvard Business School and is a and a bachelors degree from the Graduate of the University of University of Rochester.
