Our market The world of work continues to evolve, driven by structural changes in how, where and when people work.
People are increasingly working in more diverse locations, at different times and in different ways.
Organisations are finding it more difficult than ever to respond to these challenges and adequately support an increasingly mobile workforce.
As a result, they are increasingly turning to specialist providers such as Regus.
Growth drivers Significant and growing Today the serviced office and co-working sector is only a very small percentage of the entire 1 workplace market while the long-term market opportunity is clearly very significant.
It is into this growing demand that Regus is developing the products and services to help workers be as productive as possible whilst they work in a more flexible way.
Cost Technology Property is not just expensive, it is a fixed From smartphones and tablets to 4G, Wi-Fi and often long-term cost: it can also be and the Cloud, we increasingly work under-utilised.
A more flexible, agile whenever, wherever and however we want.
approach to work has been proven time We expect the pace of innovation will only and again to be more cost effective than accelerate and continue to stimulate fixed alternatives such as leasing.
The demand for our locations.
Today over accompanying capital and operational 500,000 of our clients work from home.
expenditure is lower and an outsourced model is less management intensive.
On many occasions we have been able to reduce our customers costs by up to 80%.
4 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Businesses desire to improve efficiency, by narrowing their focus on critical core competencies, has been a major catalyst Achieving balance between working and in the continuing trend to outsourcing.
personal lives often tops professionals Invariably, for businesses, property is not definitions of career success.
Flexible a core competency and so many seek ways working is a major contributor to a better The shift to a low-carbon economy remains to outsource this to specialist third party work-life balance, and is now used by a priority for governments.
Flexible providers such as Regus, which improves many companies to attract and retain working, with its reduction in commuting the support they provide to their teams at talent such is its positive impact on and fixed office space, plays a valuable a far lower cost.
Work-life Outsourcing Sustainability balance Diverse and A clear market fragmented opportunity The potential of this nascent sector is significant Some work from home, but even then, available and demand is strong and growing, yet given its data suggests that only a small minority of a relative immaturity compared to the traditional developed economys workforce is based 3 property industry, options are diverse and predominantly at home.
Many more are working providers fragmented.
However, we believe that, wherever they happen to find themselves be as has happened in other industries as they that a coffee shop, hotel, roadside service mature, consolidation will occur.
At the same station, airport or any one of many alternatives.
time the pace and direction of customer demand, Clearly these are not ideal work locations: poor from fixed to flexible and from in-house to levels of security, high levels of distraction and a outsourced, is driven by five fundamental factors lack of support services being just a few of the as described on these pages.
It is for this reason that specialist significant variations by geography.
For example, workplace providers such as Regus exist.
leading market research company IDC estimates that more than 75% of the US workforce spends at least one day a week away from their main office, whereas the figure for developing 2 economies is not yet approaching this level.
So the key question is, where do these people work?
1 CBRE the worlds largest commercial real estate services and investment firm, The Workshop, April 2013 2 IDC Worldwide Mobile Worker Population 20112015 Forecast, January 2012 3 UK Office for National Statistics, Characteristics of home workers, July 2014: Global Workplace Analytics, September 2013 www.
