Our business model During the year we made excellent progress in all aspects of our business model.
Our consistent and successful strategy applied across markets where demand for our products and services is growing, delivered another good operating and financial performance this year for the Group.
Our business Customers Our business comprises four fundamental Businesses use Regus because they want elements: our people, network, products to be in the best places where they can focus and brand.
The geographic scale of Regus on what they are doing, not where they are operations is unmatched and critically, as doing it from.
They stay because we provide our physical network grows, so does the them with an excellent service at a Groups competitive advantage over other competitive rate and, most importantly, with workplace alternatives.
a product that flexes to meet their every requirement.
As a result, demand continues to increase and over the course of 2014 we exceeded 2 million members.
Investment in growth We invest a significant amount of cash in The Groups ability to alter growth plans to growth, either through organic openings reflect changing market conditions is or acquisitions.
We continue to find many another important part of its capability to high quality opportunities that deliver our manage risk through the economic cycle.
Growth has been With relatively short lead times between enhanced by our continued investment in contracting with our partner and opening a developing new location formats and a new location, the Group can quickly greater diversity in partner relationships.
capitalise on a favourable investment Together these have helped the Group environment and invest in attractive grow in a more capital efficient way, with a assets, or restrict growth, depending on reduction in net growth capital the economic cycle.
8 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements How we calculate our returns.
These returns are based on the post-tax return divided by the net growth 3. capital investment.
Post-tax cash return EBITDA less Returns amortisation of partner contribution, less tax based on EBIT, less maintenance capital expenditure Net growth capital investment growth capital less partner contributions The Groups approach to investment The Group focuses on optimising revenue ensures it delivers strong post-tax cash generation through improving the returns.
We generate long-term performance of each location, which when shareholder value through returns-oncombined with strong discipline on investment well in excess of the Groups overhead costs, which have reduced as a cost of capital.
Figure A shows the returns percentage of revenues, provides a solid achieved in 2014 by individual year group foundation to deliver strong returns.
investments back to 2007 and the combined performance of all locations Figure A opened in or earlier than 2006.
2014 Post-tax cash return on net investment % 26.8 24.3 21.4 18.0 15.3 14.9 Returns to 4.2 0.0 shareholders -9.5 06 and 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 earlier We have a progressive dividend policy and with the 11% increase for 2014 we have doubled our dividend over the last five years.
Cash The strong conversion of profit into cash is an attractive feature of the Regus business model.
The cash flows we generate from our network support a significant proportion of our continued investment in developing our network where we see the potential for attractive returns.
As well as funding valuable location additions to our network, strong cash generation underpins the Groups progressive dividend.
