Board of Directors Name Name Douglas Sutherland Mark Dixon Dominique Yates Lance Browne Elmar Heggen Nina Henderson Florence Pierre Alex Sulkowski Role Role Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director Director Director Appointment Appointment 18 May 2010 Founder 1 September 2011 27 August 2008 1 June 2010 20 May 2014 21 May 2013 1 June 2010 Experience Experience Douglas was Chief Financial Chief Executive Officer Dominique previously served Lance was previously CEO Elmar has extensive During her thirty year career Florence has over 30 years Alex has over 30 years of Officer of Skype during its and founder, Mark Dixon as Chief Financial Officer at then Chairman of Standard management experience.
with Bestfoods and its of international corporate experience in international acquisition by eBay and was is one of Europes best both LM Windpower, the Chartered Bank China Ltd, Elmar began his career at predecessor company CPC finance practice, holding finance structures, private also Chief Financial Officer known entrepreneurs.
Since  Non-Executive Director of the Felix Schoeller Group, International, Nina has held senior positions at BNP, equity, tax advice and real at SecureWave during its founding Regus in Brussels, renewable energy company, IMI plc, Senior Advisor to the becoming Vice President a number of international Financire Rothschild, estate.
He is a founding acquisition by PatchLink.
Belgium in 1989, he has and Symrise AG, the City of London, Chairman of & General Manager of Felix and North American general Degroof Corporate Finance, member of Taxand, the achieved a formidable MDAX-listed speciality China Goldmines plc, and Schoeller Digital Imaging management and executive 3i Infrastructure plc and largest global network of Prior to this, Douglas was an reputation for leadership chemicals company.
He also Director of Business in the UK in 1999. marketing positions, her own M&A advisory independent tax advisors.
Arthur Andersen Partner with and innovation.
Prior to held senior positions at Development at Powergen including Vice President boutique.
Florence has an Prior to this Alex enjoyed a international management Regus he established Imperial Tobacco Group plc, International HK.
of Bestfoods and President international perspective career with Arthur Andersen, responsibilities.
He has businesses in the retail and including Group Financial of Bestfoods Grocery.
She having worked in Chicago, responsible for the Belgium served as a director of wholesale food industry.
A Controller, General Manager has also served as a director New York, Paris and and Luxembourg tax companies in multiple recipient of several awards of France, Switzerland, of numerous companies Brussels.
She has also practices, prior to joining jurisdictions and was the for enterprise, Mark has Italy and Malta, and Group including AXA Financial Inc, taught economics and Ernst and Young in 2002 as founding Chairman of the revolutionised the way Business Development Royal Dutch Shell plc.
Del finance, published a number the Partner responsible for American Chamber of business approaches its Director.
He is a qualified Monte Food Company and of books and articles on the Luxembourg tax practice Commerce in Luxembourg.
property needs with his chartered accountant.
valuation, and has been a and then serving as the vision of the future of work.
member of several French Managing Partner of Atoz entrepreneurship and Tax Advisors from 2004 innovation committees.
External External Douglas is currently also a Lance is Vice Chairman of Chief Financial Officer and Nina is currently a director Florence is a director He is currently the Managing appointments appointments Director of Median Gruppe Standard Chartered Bank Head of the Corporate Centre of CNO Financial Group at ESL Network, and Director of Third Millennium S. r. l. China Ltd, Chairman of at RTL Group, the leading and Walter Energy Inc. also shares her time Investments SA.
Travelex China, and a European entertainment She is Managing Partner between directorships, WS Atkins International network.
He is also a board of Henderson Advisory, consulting and venture Advisory Board member.
member of Atresmedia a Director of the Visiting investments in companies Spain and Metropole Nurse Service of New York providing innovative and Television France.
and the Foreign Policy internet services.
Association, and a Trustee of Drexel University.
Board gender diversity Board balance The role of the Board is to and diversity provide entrepreneurial leadership and to review the Female Male overall strategic development 2 of the Group.
6 26 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board of Directors Name Name Douglas Sutherland Mark Dixon Dominique Yates Lance Browne Elmar Heggen Nina Henderson Florence Pierre Alex Sulkowski Role Role Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director Director Director Appointment Appointment 18 May 2010 Founder 1 September 2011 27 August 2008 1 June 2010 20 May 2014 21 May 2013 1 June 2010 Experience Experience Douglas was Chief Financial Chief Executive Officer Dominique previously served Lance was previously CEO Elmar has extensive During her thirty year career Florence has over 30 years Alex has over 30 years of Officer of Skype during its and founder, Mark Dixon as Chief Financial Officer at then Chairman of Standard management experience.
Balance of Non-Executive and Length of tenure of Non-Executive Board balance Executive Directors Directors and diversity Chairman 6-9 years 1 Executive 3-6 years Non-Executive 0-3 years 2 2 2 5 2 www.
com 27 Chairmans Introduction Corporate Governance This has been another strong year for the Group where we have achieved our financial and growth aspirations.
The board plays a full and active role in ensuring that the management team is focussed on delivering our strategy and achieving the returns expected from our shareholders.
Douglas Sutherland Chairman As a Board we regularly discuss and We also trust that you will find this report always do things better, so it is essential review our: to be fair, balanced and understandable.
we are open to ideas which help us It is a reflection of how we do business and improve.
Our annual Board evaluation Performance and progress how the Board has served its stakeholders.
plays a key role in highlighting those areas Major risks and their mitigation where we want to do better, and these Behaviours Changes to corporate reporting form part of the action plan for this year.
People and how we can create a high The Board continues to keep abreast of There were no reportable matters arising performing team changes to company reporting regulations.
from this years review and we plan an Future development and succession external Board evaluation during 2015.
This year has seen the culmination of Customers several years of policy development with Shareholders Corporate responsibility the finalisation of legislation affecting the The corporate responsibility activities These all reflect the considerations for structure and contents of the Annual of the Group, including community directors as referenced in the Companies Report.
The new Strategic Report on pages projects and environmental impact Act 2006 and which our directors know 1 to 25 includes, amongst other matters, initiatives, are overseen at the Board they are trusted to consider on behalf the Groups strategy, progress and level by the Chairman.
Changes to Douglas Sutherland remuneration reporting in particular are Governance framework significant and these are fully covered in Chairman We hope you can see that Governance the Directors Remuneration Report on at Regus is taken very seriously, a critical pages 38 to 45. element of our Board environment.
It enables us to test whether we do the right Structure of the governance report things in the right way, with the right In the Governance Report we have provided safeguards, checks and balances, and an overview of how the Board operated whether the right considerations underpin during the year, focusing specifically on every decision we take.
As such, our the Boards activities during 2014.
A Governance Framework is reviewed separate section of the Governance Report every year and sets out the roles, on page 33 provides a detailed description accountabilities and expectations for of how the Company has complied with the our directors and our structures.
Principles set out in the Code.
We hope that this new layout will assist readers to navigate this section of the Annual Report with greater ease.
In this section Monitoring risk In view of our long-term ambitions, the significant investments that have been made across the business and increasing complexity as we grow, the Audit Committee has played a substantial role in ensuring appropriate governance and 28 Corporate governance challenge around our risk and assurance 34 Committee reports processes.
This is covered in further detail on pages 20 to 23 and 35 to 37.
38 Remuneration report 46 Directors report We have built a committed, challenging 48 Directors statements Board.
There is much to do and we can 28 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
