Our business Regus is a fast expanding business in a rapidly growing market with world class capabilities and sound financial discipline.
We are focused on generating attractive, sustainable returns for our shareholders.
The global workplace Driven by a structural provider market shift Regus network of over 2,200 locations, currently As we outline in more detail on pages 4-5, the serves more than two million customers, across way in which people work continues to change some 100 countries: providing convenient, rapidly, driven by a wide variety of factors high-quality places to work, for any period of including technology, globalisation and time.
We are the only workplace provider with workforce dynamics.
At the same time there is a significant and growing national networks, which, growing recognition from large organisations when taken as a connected whole, results in a that these changes can drive substantial geographic scale that is unmatched.
Crucially, as productivity gains, alongside lower capital and The image below our national networks and global footprint operating costs.
demonstrates the develop, so does the Groups competitive As this trend develops, the growth in demand for depth to which advantage over other providers.
high quality, flexible and conveniently located the Regus Our network provides the ideal work platform for workplaces will continue.
Our business is ideally network extends businesses set free by mobile technology.
We placed to serve these needs and we are firmly into the urban put companies in control of how and where they focused on participating in this structural shift and suburban work, helping them to be more focused and towards flexible work.
Our investment landscape to productive, and making sure that they only pay programme reflects this continuing growth in railway stations, for the space they need, when they need it.
In demand, with customers seeking workplaces motorway service todays world of outsourcing and a willingness ranging from our core office based locations: stations, airports, to share resources, it is not surprising that we railway stations: motorway service stations: retail outlets, are experiencing strong and growing demand for airports and retail outlets.
business centres, our products and services.
Our network 2,269 locations 2 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our locations Each Regus location provides a wide range of products and services that cater to the needs of our customers.
These include but are not limited to private offices, meeting rooms, co-working, training rooms, virtual offices and admin support.
850 towns and cities 104 countries Location diversity 2.1m Set free by ever more powerful and innovative members mobile technology, work now happens almost everywhere.
As a result, we are experiencing strong demand from a wide range of infrastructure providers, such as airport operators and railway companies, to partner with them and place our facilities in their locations.
Several years ago we opened our first drop-in Innovation is key facilities at train stations in the Netherlands and motorway service stations in the UK.
Today, Transitioning from a predominantly fixed to a working closely with our partners, Regus facilities more flexible mode of work is difficult and, can be found within shopping malls and retail despite the significant benefits outlined above, outlets, university campuses and community its often a major physical and cultural change for centres, public libraries and innovation centres.
We pioneered flexible working 25 At the same time, the size of our locations now years ago and so are in the ideal place to help varies from the very small to ones that can them make the transition from fixed to flexible in accommodate more than a thousand people.
We the most efficient way.
Technology is as have also begun to develop single occupancy important to this today as it was back in 1989 facilities called Workpods which will be used in when Regus was founded.
To remain at the high footfall areas.
What is common to all is that cutting edge we make significant investments in they provide a high quality place to work, with a Research and Development R&D.
This drives full suite of associated services.
two things: first it helps us better serve our customers and unlock additional revenue streams: and, second, it helps protect existing revenue streams.
