42 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Key performance indicators The Groups long-term aim is to achieve sustainable growth in revenue and profits inorder to provide an increasing dividend to shareholders.
This is to be achieved through substantial investment in people and in research and development of new products and processes, acquisition of niche businesses complementary to and supporting the Groups strategic development aims, the application of technologies into different market areas and the development of its global marketing facilities.
The main performance measures monitored by the Board are: 'JOBODJBM, 1 T Total engineering costs including research and Adjusted earnings Dividend per share Revenue growth m development m pershare pence pence Included in the Consolidated income statement Gross expenditure We are focused on growth in The growth of the business In order to provide an increasing We aim to achieve significant revenue, through increasing is fundamentally dependent return to shareholders, along long-term returns to shareholders our market and geographic on the continuing investment with retaining adequate funds by maintaining a progressive penetration and continually in engineering costs for the for reinvestment in the business, dividend policy, whilst introducing new products.
development of new products we aim to achieve year-on-year maintaining a solid capital base We have also made a number and processes.
The Group growth in earnings per share.
with sufficient working capital to of acquisitions over the last continues to make significant support the forecast growth.
five years which expand our investment in future products, product range and will support with engineering costs equal revenue growth by using the to approximately 16% of group Groups worldwide marketing revenue, and has also been and distribution infrastructure to accelerating new product expand these businesses.
Further strategic priorities are set out on page 7 346.9 331.9 288.7 51.8 47.9 48.7 45.0 40.0 37.1 95.6 88.5 88.9 40.0 38.5 35.0 2011 2012 2013 2012 2013 2011 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 43 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Training is key to our future growth and the Renishaw Academy gives our engineers the skills to deliver expert customer support.
Non-financial KPIs Non-financial KPIs Staff turnover % Number of apprentices Training Health and safety intraining Renishaw staff turnover Number of new placements Total lost working time injuries per ascompared to the UK andmembers of the graduate 100,000 hours worked averagealso shown.
andapprenticeship schemes New placements New graduates New apprenticeships We continue to train, develop We believe we need to provide Renishaws strategy is to In a manufacturing environment, and reward our staff so that many options for career entry for grow organically and therefore it is crucial that we maintain we retain a skilled and effective young people and we are proud developing students and high standards of health and workforce.
Our aim is to of our apprentice programme taking on apprentices and safety.
Our aim is to have zero maintain a UK staff turnover rate and the success it has achieved graduates forms a key element fatalities and zero lost working which is below the UK average both for the apprentices that of our strategy.
Dependent on time injuries meaning injuries for the manufacturing and have trained with us and for economic conditions, we propose involving more than seven lost production sector.
Renishaw in terms of solving to increase year-on-year the working days.
In a period of growth, number of new apprenticeships, we intend to increase the graduates and student numbers of apprentices taken placements we take on.
