8 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Our strategy in action 5IF QSPHSFTT XF NBEF EVSJOH JT TVNNBSJTFE CFMPX 1FPQMF $POUJOVBM SFTFBSDI &GfiDJFOU IJHI RVBMJUZ MPCBM DVTUPNFS DSFBUJOH TUSPOH NBSLFU NBOVGBDUVSJOH TVQQPSU QPTJUJPOT XJUI JOOPWBUJWF QSPEVDUT %FTDSJQUJPO Renishaw is well known for its Renishaw is a strongly Renishaw is founded on the Renishaws employees are central to the success of its sector-leading investment in vertically integrated belief that excellent customer R&D and engineering.
company with significant support delivers success.
Our innovative, hard-working and loyal in-house manufacturing Our customers are often global, Apply innovation is a way of capabilities.
With high-quality with an order being placed employees make Renishaw life for Renishaw employees, the business success that it manufacturing plants located in one country, the product not just a strap-line.
We have in the UK, Ireland, India, shipped to another and the is.
Many staff have worked continued to protect our core in the Group for two or three Germany, USA and France eventual end-user often located businesses with exciting decades, creating a wealth we are able to deliver robust on a different continent.
It is by new patented technology of specialised engineering and reliable products tested having local global support and process developments, expertise.
In addition, to our exacting standards.
through our wholly-owned whilst also diversifying into Renishaw has actively Our efficiencies, through subsidiary network, that we newproduct and market areas.
focusedon the ongoing in-house automation and the are able to assure customers recruitment and training of use of our own latest product that whatever their needs, we many bright and enthusiastic developments, enable us to be are able to support and assist young graduates, apprentices competitive with the highest them, resulting in a positive and experienced professionals.
1SPHSFTT Headcount has increased A significant range of new We have continued to Renishaw continues to invest in the Group to 3,492.
This products have been brought scale-up manufacturing at in training for both its technical includes 1,178 in our overseas to market during the year, Miskin, increasing manufacturing support and sales staff.
The subsidiaries and 2,314 in the including game-changing capacity and reducing supply Renishaw Academy now trains UK.
Renishaws in-house technologies such as chain risk.
We are now using Renishaw staff around the world Academy, established SPRINT and ATOM.
154,000 sq ft for electronic to ensure that they are able to initially to focus on technical 29 new patents have been and final product manufacture deliver the excellent support applications engineer training led and 81 granted during this including the production of our levels that our customers modules, has now expanded financial year.
The neuromate 3D metal additive manufacturing demand.
As the business to include sales development frameless Gen II robotic system AM machines which has continues to grow and diversify, and corporate introductory was cleared for sale inthe USA been transferred from our UK headcount has been increased courses for employees by the FDA on 29thApril 2014. facility in Stone, Staffordshire.
accordingly 257 to ensure including graduates and Our machining and nishing that resources are available apprentices.
Training can be as capabilities have increased with where and when needed.
diverse as presentation skills, new machine platforms and team-building or technical equipment now installed.
training with one of Renishaws software products such as TM TM MODUS orProductivity.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 9 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 'PDVT PO EFMJWFSJOH 4USPOH NBSLFU QSFTFODF $POTJTUFOU PSHBOJD 4VQQMFNFOUJOH UIF TPMVUJPOT BOE GPDVT PO FNFSHJOH HSPXUI CVTJOFTT WJB OJDIF NBSLFUT BDRVJTJUJPOT %FTDSJQUJPO Renishaw has always been Whilst Renishaw does invest We actively undertake Renishaws business has transitioned over recent years a global group with a strong for the long term, it also closely acquisition as a means to local presence.
By ensuring manages costs at all levels expand our product portfolio, from primarily being a supplier of products to capital equipment we target emerging markets and ensures that it does not quicken geographic market we are able to develop strong undertake undue risks.
It is penetration and gain access manufacturers to becoming much more focused on working partnerships with through this approach that to newpatents, technologies newly developing businesses.
Renishaw has been able to and customers.
delivering a full solution directly to end-users.
Our experience These loyal relationships build deliver such a long-term track in our core product lines, quickly as our customers record of profitable growth.
highlighting that our global realise that all our customers customers need assistance in are important to us.
solving their problems, is being carried across into our newer product lines dental, gauging, neurological, diagnostics and AM.
Our sales force and technical support teams need to be ever more knowledgeable, not just about what our products do, but also how they can be applied to benefit our customers processes and practices.
By truly understanding our customers needs, Renishaw is able to offer a cost-effective, efficient and easy-to-use solution.
1SPHSFTT Complex problems ideally Renishaws expansion into new Renishaws 153,000 sq ft In March 2014 we acquired require simple solutions.
growth economies continues, new building at the New Mills Advanced Consulting & Whilst Renishaws hardware and this year we have opened, site, which will house R&D, Engineering, Inc ACE, a uses the latest technologies extended or relocated to corporate services teams USA-based supplier of and innovative approaches to larger premises in the UK, and corporate demonstration dimensional measurement deliver robust and repeatable Poland, Germany and China.
and training areas, will be fully products and services focused functionality that is world-class, This includes thepurchase of occupied by 2015.
Relocation on the automotive industry.
our software is becoming a new 18,000 sq ft property started in June 2014.
Given the importance of being ever more user-friendly, in Shanghai, required to Renishawpurchased adjoining successful at acquisitions, intuitive and packaged for accommodate growth and premises at Renishaw GmbH, Renishaw is strengthening specic problems.
The users act as headquarters for the Germany, giving an additional its in-house process to experience of Renishaw China region.
116,000 sq ft into which the ensure quicker and more includes the sales teams, LBC AM business is now effective integration of newly applications engineers and housed alongside other acquired businesses.
products, and we therefore Renishaw employees.
endeavour to make this whole interaction a professional and positive experience.
