28 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Performance Metrology in the Far East.
The business is also The important automotive sector is 1FSGPSNBODF being aided by the drive to industrial showing positive signs of recovery automation to increase capacity and in Europe, with year-on-year growth There was strong growth for our AM exibility, improve product quality and each month since January 2014, whilst products for 3D printing in metal, whilst reduce manufacturing lead times growth continues to be driven from for the second consecutive year we and costs.
Such automation requires China, where a major programme also experienced good growth for our the rapid, reliable and accurate has been announced to scrap older, encoder and measurement automation measurement of position between high-polluting vehicles.
The global car product lines.
The latter, which is currently moving parts delivered by our encoders.
rental market is also forecast to increase focused on the award-winning Equator strongly over the next five years, with gauge, is seeing high levels of success in Whilst demand for the encoder product higher levels of business andleisure the automotive, aerospace and consumer line can be unpredictable, our continuing travel in markets such as India, China electronics sectors on a global basis, infrastructure investments in the Far East and Asia-Pacic.
with integration within automation cells and agile manufacturing capabilities continuing to be a notable trend.
mean that we are very well positioned In the civil aviation sector the trends are to provide the rapid supply and expert also very positive for Renishaw, with the The AM products line, which includes local support required by customers 2013 Airbus Global Market Forecast the LBC business in Germany, is responding to the fast-paced needs of predicting a doubling of air trafc over continuing to benefit from high levels of these sectors.
The report also sees investment and integration within the the number of aircraft required in the Groups infrastructure, including the.
BSLFU DPOEJUJPOT Asia-Pacic region, for example, more relocation of LBC to our enlarged ofces than doubling over the next 20 years, near Stuttgart, Germany.
There has In the relentless drive to reduce costs, requiring an additional 11,000 aircraft to been significant re-engineering of shorten lead times and improve meet expected demand.
Our metrology the AM machines, plus investments the quality of nished products, products are heavily used in this sector.
in multiple machines for applications manufacturers continue to adopt the support and process development, latest Renishaw technologies to keep and new machines for demonstration machines running reliably, to maximise facilities in major markets.
This is now output from those machines and to bearing fruit and we are seeing strong reduce signicantly the time taken to interest from the aerospace, medical, inspect nished components.
The skills motorsport and mould and die sectors.
shortages faced on a global basis As last year, position encoders was in engineering and manufacturing is one of our strongest lines, continuing to also driving increased investments in benefit from a recovery in investments automated processes, many of which into the electronics, semiconductor and require our products.
at panel display markets, especially Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 29 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Case study Creating the first titanium bike frame using additive manufacturing technology Exciting new manufacturing developments enable a lighter bike with the potential for customisation.
$VTUPNFS OOPWBUJWF 4VDDFTTGVM OFFET FOHJOFFSJOH TPMVUJPOT Renishaw, the UKs only manufacturer Although there are lighter carbon bre The final titanium frame weighed in at of an AM machine that prints metal bikes available, Chris Williams, Managing 1,400g compared with 2,100g for an parts, has collaborated with Empire Director at Empire Cycles, stated that aluminium alloy of the same design, a Cycles to create the worlds first the durability of carbon bre cant 33% weight saving.
additive manufactured bike frame compare to a metal bike.
Benets of this type of manufacturing made from titanium.
Given the innovative approach to making are wide: not only was the bike This mountain bikes frame is lighter the bike parts, testing went beyond lighter and stronger, there are huge than a metal frame made from the the normal levels and successfully possibilities for customisation and traditionally used aluminium, whilst achieved six times the normal standard tailoring, as one-offs are as easy to continuing to be extremely strong, without failure.
The bike was designed, produce as production batches.
corrosion resistant and long lasting.
manufactured and built over a 20-week timescale, ready for its debut at the Euromold 2013 trade show.
com 30 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Performance Metrology continued A key focus is on developing technologies 4USBUFHZ GPS HSPXUI, FZ EFWFMPQNFOUT that provide patented products and methods which support our product We continue to position Renishaw In September 2013, at EMO Hannover, strategies, with 45.3m netof as a solutions provider and reduce the worlds largest metalworking capitalisation costs expenditure on R&D the risks of over-reliance on large industry trade show, we gave full market and engineering during the year.
customers who integrate our products.
launches to the SPRINT scanning The current technology focus includes Our measurement automation and system and the new Renishaw xtures miniaturised, high-resolution position AM products are supplied direct to product line.
feedback systems, high-speed, the end-user, whilst we continue to SPRINT is a high-speed contact high-accuracy dimensional measurement strengthen our portfolio of hardware and scanning system which incorporates a systems, and the development of AM software for CMMs that can be used to new generation of on-machine scanning systems with fasterprocessing capability upgrade measuring machines already technology that we believe will open and improved process control for installed.
For example, during the year up new process control opportunities large-scale manufacturing.
we launched a new line of metrology for high-value CNC machine tools.
xtures, following the purchase of We also constantly evaluate new It will enable fast and accurate form R&R Fixtures, LLC R&R in 2012. opportunities for existing or and prole data to be captured from This allows us to further develop our complementary technologies both to prismatic and complex 3D components, end-user metrology business, whilst increase sales to our existing customer creating possibilities for sales into the minimising risk by selling xtures to base and to expand upon that base, aero-engine blade refurbishment market.
organisations with which we already especially within the metal cutting sector.
Following the acquisition of R&R, we This is illustrated by the new SPRINT have also developed an extensive new high-speed scanning system for machine range of modular xturing, designed tools which will develop new high-value specifically for CMMs, vision systems opportunities with existing customers.
and the Equator gauging system.
We also invest in businesses that provide complementary technologies and skill-sets for faster market access, as demonstrated by the purchase of ACE.
TM TM ATOM ultra-compact readhead AksIM true-absolute magnetic rotary encoder SPRINT contact scanning system for machine tools Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 31 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Case study Renishaw encoders at the forefront ofelectronics The semiconductor industry is unforgivingly fast-paced and competitive.
ASM Pacic Technology Limited ASMPT holds a leading position and works with Renishaw at the forefront of continuous technological advances.
$VTUPNFS OOPWBUJWF 4VDDFTTGVM OFFET FOHJOFFSJOH TPMVUJPOT ASMPT is the worlds largest supplier Renishaw optical encoders, from ASMPTs leading position hinges on of wafer assembly and packaging the RG2 and RG4 incremental family its ability to remain at the forefront of equipment for the semiconductor through to the RESOLUTE absolute technological advances.
A wide variety of encoders series, are ideally suited to ASMPTs continuing encoder product was required for the linear and rotary most demanding applications.
development supports the latest axes of various ASMPT machines.
Renishaw was the first to provide an ASMPT equipment - illustrating the Their requirements include excellent integral set-up LED to allow simple closed loop of innovation established dirt immunity, compact package readhead installation bringing immediate between Renishaw and its customers.
These features benefit to ASMPTs production guard against airborne contaminants, efficiency.
Renishaws ultra-high minimise machine footprint and allow accuracy TONiC DSi rotary encoder rapid acceleration of low inertia axes.
system eliminates eccentricity error giving cost effective state-of-the-art positioning performance.
ASMPT and their customers benefit further from Renishaws use of dynamic signal processing which ensures the highest standards of servo feedback performance and axis stability throughout the life of the equipment.
com ASMPT 32 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Performance Metrology continued In March 2014 we launched the 0VUMPPL ultra-compact ATOM readhead, aninnovative optical linear and rotary We are confident that there will be incremental encoder system with increased adoption of AM technologies unrivalled metrology performance that by many of our existing customer uniquely combines miniaturisation groups, whilst a continuing recovery in with leading-edge dirt immunity, signal the electronics sector will benefit our stability and reliability.
It is ideally position encoder product line.
suited to a variety of space-critical The outlook for global investment for motion control, inspectionand production systems in civil aviation, metrology applications.
consumer products, agriculture, Other products introduced during the construction and power generation year for our CMM products line include including oil, gas and renewables the PH10M-iQ PLUS probe head, a new continues to look favourable.
version of our market leading PH10 with These trends should all result in reduced calibration time that is ideal for increased demand for our metrology body-in-white inspection: the SPA3 products to help drive efficiencies, high power, compact CMM amplier: reduce waste, increase automation and RSP2 V2, a new improved version of aid product measurement traceability.
the REVO 2D scanning probe: and a new release of our MODUS metrology software V1.6, which includes surface nish measurement and enhanced scanning routines.
There were also two new enhancements for the Renishaw Equator gauging system.
A new process monitoring window instantly displays measurement results of inspected features on a bar-graph display and shows the history of measurement on each feature so that process trends can be seen.
Renishaw EZ-IO software provides simple comprehensive communication functions for automated cells.
For position feedback, our associate RLS, launched AksIM, an 18-bit true-absolute magnetic rotary encoder for embedded OEM motion control applications, which is available through Renishaws worldwide distribution network.
New process monitor software window forthe Equator gauge.
