60 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Board of directors and company secretary Sir David McMurtry 74 John Deer 76 Ben Taylor 65 CBE, RDI, FRS, FREng, CEng, FIMechE CEng, FIMechE Chairman and Chief Executive Deputy Chairman Assistant Chief Executive t Formerly employed by Rolls-Royce plc, t Trained as a mechanical engineer and t Before joining Renishaw Inc as President Bristol, for 17 years, latterly holding the worked for Rolls-Royce plc, Bristol, in 1985, Ben was the Director of positions of Deputy Chief Designer and for 14 years.
Engineering at Shefeld Measurement, Assistant Chief of Engine Design of all USA.
t Co-founded Renishaw with Sir David Rolls-Royce engines manufactured at McMurtry in 1973.
Managing Director of t Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc Filton, Bristol.
Renishaw from 1974 to 1989, primarily in 1987. t Invented the original measuring probe in involved in the commercial direction of t Responsible for group marketing, theearly 1970s and co-founded Renishaw the Group, with particular emphasis on international operations, human with John Deer in 1973. marketing and the establishment of the resources and metrology regulatory Groups wholly-owned subsidiaries.
t In addition to his role as Chairman and quality assurance.
Chief Executive, Sir David also has t Responsible for group manufacturing t Ben also reports to the Board on corporate responsibility for Group technology and and Chair of the overseas social responsibility matters.
is Chair of the Nomination committee.
Allen Roberts 65 Geoff McFarland 46 Carol Chesney 51 FCA FCA Group Finance Director Group Engineering Director Non-executive director t Qualied as a chartered accountant in t Graduated with a BEng in computer aided t Chair of the Audit committee and 1972 with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. mechanical engineering at Heriot-Watt member of the Remuneration and before joining Renishaw in 1979.
University, where he subsequently worked Nomination committees.
for several years as a research associate.
t Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc t Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in1980.
t After working briey in the high-volume in October 2012. manufacturing electronic sector, joined t Heads group finance, business systems t A chartered accountant who worked Renishaw in 1994 and appointed to the and Wotton Travel Ltd. at Arthur Andersen for seven years in Board of Renishaw plc in 2002. audit services.
t Allen also has the healthcare regulatory t Heads the group engineering function and quality assurance functions reporting t Worked for some time in the group andis also responsible for group IP intohim.
accountsfunction at English China Clays andpatents.
plc before joining Halma plc, where she is now Company Secretary, having also been Group Financial Controller.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 61 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Norma Tang 50 Dr David Grant 66 John Jeans 64 CBE, FREng, FLSW, CEng, FIET CBE, CEng Head of Legal and Company Secretary Senior independent director Non-executive director t Joined Renishaw in 2001. t Member of the Nomination and t Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Audit committees, Chair of the Nomination committees.
t Qualied as a solicitor in 1988 and since Remuneration committee.
then has specialised in company and t Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc commercial legal matters, advising t Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in April 2013. business clients and as an in April 2012. t Currently chair of the Council of Cardiff in-house counsel.
t Currently senior independent director University, Imanova an imaging t Heads the legal and company secretariat of IQE plc, non-executive director of research partnership between three function, advising the Board on legal the Defence Science and Technology London universities and the Medical compliance and governance matters.
Laboratory, chair of STEMNET and Research Council and the board of member of the governing board of the MRC Technology.
t Board member of the University and t Was Vice-Chancellor of Cardiff University College Employers Association.
from 2001 to 2012 and previously held t Chairs of the Technology Strategy Boards leadership positions at Dowty Group stratied medicine advisory board and and GEC.
is a Steering Board member of the HealthTech and Medicines Knowledge Transfer Network.
t John was appointed advisor to the Prime Minister at the Ofce of Life Sciences in June 2014.
#PBSE CBMBODF #PBSE UFOVSF #PBSE OBUJPOBMJUZ Chairman 1 03 years 3 UK 5 Executive 4 10 years 5 USA 2 Non-executive 3 Ireland 1
