58 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Introduction The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders for all of the Groups activities, itsstrategy and financial performance, for the efficient use of the Groups resources and for social, environmental andethical matters.
David Grant Senior independent director With the assistance of the Audit The most significant changes have committee, the Board approves the been to our Directors remuneration Groups governance framework and report together with a binding vote reviews its risk management and at the AGM on our remuneration internal control processes with a view to policy as well as a new requirement maintaining high standards of corporate for a relationship agreement with governance throughout the Group.
The Board takes seriously its Our 2013 externally facilitated Board responsibilities for making sure that all evaluation by David Mensley of Equity employees are aware of their obligations Communications provided much to act with openness, honesty and positive and constructive feedback and transparency.
These values are in the period we were able to identify embedded in our Group Business focus areas to ensure that the Board Codeand Anti-Bribery Policy which can continues to operate in an open and be found at http: www.
com transparent way and constructively businesscode.
In 2014, we carried challenges and supports the executive on rolling out our anti-bribery training team.
More details are provided on and since 2011, when we approved page 67. our policy, 713 relevant worldwide Another key area was our first investor employees have received training.
day on 15th May 2014, attended by During the last financial year our 60 market participants where there governance framework has been was a wide range of presentations enhanced to take into account the including corporate overview and changes introduced by the September strategy, financial overview, business 2012 edition of the UK Corporate sector strategies, product and market Governance Code the Code and overviews, healthcare and metrology the commencement of The Large and product demonstrations as well as Medium-sized Companies and Groups various Q&A sessions.
Our investor Accounts and Reports Amendment relations website was also signicantly Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 59 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 The UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure $PNQMJBODF EJTDMPTVSFT Rules and Transparency Rules, require the Annual report to include a The Directors corporate governance management report which can be found report and Other statutory and in the Strategic report.
regulatory disclosures set out on pages 64 to 84 form the directors report.
For the purposes of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules which require The Directors corporate governance a corporate governance statement to report has been prepared in accordance be included in the directors report, with the Code issued by the Financial the Companys corporate governance Reporting Council FRC which can be practices are set out in the Directors viewed on the www.
corporate governance report, which This report, which incorporates the forms part of the directors report.
reports of the Audit committee and Nomination committee, together with For the purposes of the UK Listing the Directors remuneration report, Authoritys Listing Rules, certain describes how we have applied the main information required to be provided to principles of the Code.
The edition of the shareholders is also contained in the Code published in September 2012 the Directors corporate governance applied throughout the period, but the report, the Directors remuneration Financial Conduct Authority has yet to report and the Other statutory and change the Listing Rules and therefore regulatory disclosures including certain requires that certain compliance information relating to arrangements with statements are made in relation to controlling shareholders.
the predecessor edition of the code, For the purposes of the Disclosure Rules issued in June 2010.
The Directors and Transparency Rules, the information corporate governance report addresses required by Section 7 of such rules is the requirements of both editions of referred to in the Directors corporate the Code.
We report on the operation of our business in the following ways: A review of the business of the Group and likely future developments is given in the Chairmans statement and the Strategic report.
Segmental information by geographical market is given in note 2 to the financial statements.
