Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Introduction Renishaw is a world leading metrology company.
With our highly experienced team, we are condently driving our future growth through innovative and patented products and processes, efficient, high-quality manufacturing and the ability toprovide local support in a growing number of geographies andmarkets.
93% of our sales are outside the UK.
Our continuing investment in property, plant and equipment and newproduct development c. 75m in the last year isthe key toour confidence in ourlong-term strategic prospects.
With around 3,500 skilled and motivated staff, we continue tobeattheleadingedge of technological innovation.
New building at New Mills A computer generated image of our new 153,000 sq ft building due for full occupation by the first calendar quarter of 2015.
Find more information online %PXOMPBET OWFTUPS BOE XFCDBTUT JOGPSNBUJPO You can access the annual and half year Information of interest to shareholders and others, reports for the last five years from our such as videos explaining our products and website.
Also available are recordings business strategy, areprovided on our website.
com nancials This Annual report has been prepared for the purpose of assisting the Companys shareholders toassess the strategies adopted by the Company and the potential for those strategies to succeedand no-one, including the Companys shareholders, may rely on it for any other purpose.
The directors owe their duties only to the Company as a whole and they undertake no duty of care to individual shareholders, other stakeholders or potential investors.
This Annual report has been prepared on the basisof theknowledge For more information visit: and information available to the directors atthe time.
Given the nature of some forward-looking information, www.
com which has been given in good faith, the Companys shareholders should treat this information with due caution.
All dates within this document refer to financial years unless stated otherwise.
