34 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Performance Healthcare Elsewhere there were also robots quantitative easing effects impacting 1FSGPSNBODF installed at a leading UK childrens on different governments priorities hospital and at the University Hospital in on research spending.
However, as Growth came from our dental product Cologne, Germany.
We continue to sell our Raman spectroscopy systems line, with the spectroscopy line only standalone seats of our neuroinspire are ideally suited to many priority slightly ahead of the previous years surgical planning software system, research areas, we feel customers for record annual sales due to the negative including a recent installation at the our systems are well placed to contest impacts of currency.
The former was Charing Cross Hospital, London.
boosted by growing demand for metal frameworks and abutments During the year we again achieved a 4USBUFHZ GPS HSPXUI manufactured by Renishaw on our AM new record for the production levels machines as mentioned below.
of metal dental structures created We aim to develop innovative healthcare from cobalt chrome powder using Demand for our spectroscopy products products that will signicantly advance AM.
We now have a strong portfolio remains strong across nanotechnology, our customers operational performance of products manufactured using advanced materials and life sciences, by maximising research capabilities, this process including LaserPFM and we have seen a re-emergence of reducing process times and improving frameworks crowns and bridges, investment from the pharmaceutical the efcacy of medical procedures.
LaserBridges for implant supported sector.
Research sales into advanced As a key Renishaw focus is to develop frameworks using a hybrid of AM battery technologies, such as lithium technologies that provide patented and conventional 5-axis machining ion, were also strong during the year, products and methods, we invested to achieve a high quality of t and whilst the wider green energy market 8.0m net of capitalisation costs of Laser Abutments which are implant offers a range of advanced materials expenditure on R&D and engineering supported custom abutments that are development areas for which Raman during the year.
The regulatory also machine nished for tment a spectroscopy is well suited.
The market requirements for healthcare products custom abutment is a prosthetic device for graphene research has also been demand significant investment, inserted into an implant to replace particularly strong, and is increasingly but make barriers to entry high for natural dentition and provide functional applications-based rather than solely for competitive products.
During the year we benefit from offering dental materials developed a customised version of our Our metrology and healthcare that are fully certied and traceable, and inVia Raman microscope for monitoring businesses are interconnected and we a central manufacturing facility to dental the growth of large area graphene in a employ core metrology technologies laboratories that use non-Renishaw chemical vapour deposition chamber.
and manufacturing expertise to minimise CAD systems.
This is illustrated very Whilst overall revenue for our clearly in our dental CAD CAM scanners neurosurgical business declined, we.
BSLFU DPOEJUJPOT and the zirconia milling systems that we continued to achieve new sales of the use in our dental structure production, neuromate stereotactic robot which is Life expectancy is increasing in both which utilise proven measurement used for functional neurosurgery.
In the developed and developing markets, sensors, encoders, software and our Middle East we made our first Qatari meaning that key drivers include the knowledge of subtractive machining, installation with a sale to the Hamad requirement for faster procedures to whilst, as mentioned previously, we Medical Center in Doha, whilst in the reduce waiting times, more economical also produce a range of 3D printed Kingdom of Saudi Arabia we achieved treatments and safer procedures with metal dental structures on Renishaw a significant breakthrough when the reduced human errors.
Our dental and AM machines.
Saudi Food and Drug Authority granted neurological products are well placed to marketing authorisation for the sale of deliver on these requirements.
This has already led to the The global funding picture remains installation of a robot at the King Fahad stronger for biomedical research than Medical City Hospital in Riyadh, which is for some markets.
There is variation in the first placement of any neurosurgical research investment, with currency and robot in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 35 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Case study Pioneering AM reshapes patients face Motorcycle trauma victim, Stephen Power has seen first-hand the benets of surgeons and engineers working together and how the outcome can change a persons life.
$VTUPNFS OOPWBUJWF 4VDDFTTGVM OFFET FOHJOFFSJOH TPMVUJPOT A horric incident left Stephen with Despite the recent introduction of AM to Professor Sugar felt that the jig and multiple skull fractures that changed create bespoke maxillofacial implants, guide resulted in a more predictable his life and meant he would require the surgical procedure itself still remains outcome and said: I think its reconstructive surgery.
incomparable - the results are in a different league from anything weve However, Professor Adrian Sugar, Renishaw worked in collaboration with done before.
Stephens response consultant in Cleft & Maxillofacial the Centre for Applied Reconstructive was even more emphatic: It is totally Surgery at the Morriston Hospital Technologies in Surgery CARTIS in life-changing.
in Swansea, was keen to push South Wales, to provide Morriston the boundaries of his profession Hospital with the bone cutting jig and embrace new techniques and implant placement guide that and processes.
made the surgery quicker and more accurate.
The metal jig and guide were manufactured on a Renishaw AM250 AM machine.
com 36 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Performance Healthcare continued We also apply AM to an increasing There were also new releases within We are also manufacturing an number of healthcare applications.
During the year we investigational drug delivery system to The metal delivery port of an introduced Realistic, a highly the specication required by an NHS investigational drug delivery system translucent zirconia material that allows Trust, which is conducting a cliniciansee below is manufactured using a dental laboratories to design lifelike led clinical trial for a therapy for the combination of AM and conventional crowns using CAD software programs treatment of Parkinsons disease.
machining, and also during the year such as Renishaws Dental Studio.
The system, which delivers therapies we worked with a leading maxillofacial Using Realistic there is no longer the directly into the brain, is also on trial by surgeon and other partners to print need to apply porcelain to machined the Trust to deliver a chemotherapy drug metal cutting and placement guides crowns, as these require only a quick for the treatment of brain tumours.
for breakthrough facial reconstruction stain and glaze nish to achieve the 0VUMPPL surgery see page 35. desired tooth characteristics and therefore save dental laboratories time We also actively consider acquiring Increased life expectancy on a global and money.
With growing interest in businesses and or technologies that we basis means greater incidences of the use of AM for dental restorations, feel are complementary to our existing degenerative neurological diseases we are now selling our AM machines healthcare products.
which will require surgical therapies.
specifically tailored to the needs of the With new regulatory approvals we dental market.
A dental-ready add-, FZ EFWFMPQNFOUT are increasingly well placed to supply on package is an option that can be neurosurgeons with the products and supplied with machines purchased During the year we launched techniques to support such procedures.
by dental customers ensuring that StreamLineHR Rapide for our inVia the machines are ne-tuned for the Raman microscopes.
This dramatically In developing markets, levels of wealth production of dental structures in cobalt increases the speed of Raman imaging are increasing at a national and individual chrome powder.
and, coupled with the large le handling level, which are driving demand for capacity introduced last year, enables higher-quality medical treatments, Towards the end of the year the FDA customers to collect highly detailed often requiring more technologically issued Renishaw clearance to market chemical images faster than ever before.
the neuromate stereotactic robotic We also enhanced 3D Raman image system in the USA.
This represents The market for Raman spectroscopy viewing so that biological cells and other a significant opportunity for our continues to grow in elds such as structures can be clearly visualised, neurosurgical product line as the nanotechnology, advanced materials and added a new capability known as USA is the worlds largest market and life sciences.
Surface, so that data can be collected formedical devices.
from sloping or uneven sample surfaces.
TM Metal dental framework produced on a Dental crowns produced from a Realistic Raman image of titanium coated drill bit Renishaw AM machine zirconia material using Surface Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 37 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Case study Neurosurgical advances change future Renishaws neuromate robot has dramatically changed the life of Stella, a 13 year old who has suffered from up to 100 potentially life threatening epilepsy attacks every day since the age of 1.
$VTUPNFS OOPWBUJWF 4VDDFTTGVM OFFET FOHJOFFSJOH TPMVUJPOT Stella aged 13 developed severe For Stellas family, their last hope was Immediately after surgery, Stellas epilepsy when she was 1 year old at the Niguarda Ca Granda hospital seizures stopped and she has and subsequently endured up in Milan, Italy where the neurosurgical been seizure-free now for 2 years.
to 100 potentially life threatening team are pioneering the use of the A life changing success story for the seizures every day.
Over 10 years, Renishaw neuromate stereotactic whole family.
she underwent 5invasive surgical robot as a tool during the treatment procedures, and after every of epilepsy.
Due to the precision procedure, the seizures returned and stability of the neuromate the immediately, often more violently surgical team were able to implant than before.
 SEEG electrodes deep into the brain, enabling an accurate mapping of the source of the seizures.
A subsequent surgery was then carried out to remove the identied section.
