82 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Other statutory and regulatory disclosures 3FWJFX PG UIF CVTJOFTT %JSFDUPST BOE UIFJS JOUFSFTUT A review of the business and likely future The directors at the end of the year are listed below together with their interests in the developments is given in the Chairmans share capital of the Company with the equivalent number of voting rights, as notied statement and the Strategic report.
to the Company:- Segmental information by geographical Ordinary shares of 20p each market is given in note 2 to the financial statements.
Sir David McMurtry 26,377,291 D J Deer 12,233,040 The Group has established and acquired overseas manufacturing, marketing and B R Taylor 10,147 distribution subsidiaries to manufacture A C G Roberts 5,165 some of the Groups products and to G McFarland 2,000 provide support to customers in our major markets in the following regions C T Chesney 500 outside the UK: D Grant nil t Europe: Germany, France, Italy, Spain, D J Jeans nil Switzerland, The Netherlands, Czech Republic, Poland, Russia, Sweden All the above interests were beneficially Sir David McMurtry, as one party, and and Austria: held with the exception of 2,434,411 DJ Deer and Mrs M E Deer, as the other t Americas: USA, Mexico, Brazil shares 2013: 2,434,411 shares party, have entered into an agreement and Canada: whichwere non-beneficially held by relating to the way each party would DJ Deer but in respect of which he has vote in respect of his or her shares t Far East: Japan, Hong Kong, voting rights.
if requested by the other party to do Australia, South Korea, The Peoples so.
Under this agreement Sir David Republic of China, Singapore and There has been no change in the above McMurtry, John Deer and Mrs Deer Taiwan: and holdings in the period 1st July 2014 agree that i Mr and Mrs Deer will vote to 23rd July 2014.
In accordance with t Other regions: India and Israel.
their shares in favour of any ordinary the provisions of the Code all directors resolution if requested to do so by There are also representative ofces in will retire and, being eligible, offer Sir David McMurtry and ii Sir David Hungary, Turkey, Malaysia, Indonesia themselves for re-election at the annual McMurtry will vote his shares against and Thailand and an associate general meeting AGM to be held any special or extraordinary resolution company, 50%-owned, in Slovenia.
Details of the if requested to do so by John Deer.
directors are shown on pages 60 and 61 The voting arrangement was renewed Further information is also available and full biographical details are available on the Companys website: in 2013 for a further period of 5 years on www.
and will terminate on the earlier of www.
25thMay 2018 and the deaths of both %JWJEFOET ofSirDavidMcMurtry and John Deer.
The rules on appointment, The directors propose a final dividend reappointment and retirement by of 21,741,938 or 29.87p per share rotation of the directors and their powers 2013: 20,868,475 or 28.67p per share are set out in the Companys Articles which, together with the interim dividend of Association.
There are no powers of 8,246,942 or 11.33p per share given to the directors that are regarded 2013: 8,246,942 or 11.33p makes a as unusual.
total amount of dividends for the year of 29,988,880 or 41.2p per share, compared to 29,115,417 or 40p per share for the previous year.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 83 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 %JSFDUPST BOE PGficers %JTDMPTVSF PG JOGPSNBUJPO JOEFNOJUZ JOTVSBODF toauditor Subject to the provisions of the The directors who held ofce at the date Companies Act 2006, the Companys of approval of this statement confirm Articles of Association provide for the that, so far as they are each aware, there directors and ofcers of the Company is no relevant audit information of which to be appropriately indemnified.
the Companys auditor is unaware: and The Company maintains insurance each director has taken all the steps for the directors and ofcers of the that he or she ought to have taken as a Company in respect of their acts and director to make himself herself aware omissions during the performance of of any relevant audit information and to their duties.
establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
"4IBSF DBQJUBM ""OOVBM HFOFSBM NFFUJOH Details of the Companys share capital, including rights and obligations, is given The notice convening the AGM and in note 21 to the financial statements."
anexplanation of the resolutions sought The Company is not a party to any are set out in a circular which has been significant agreements that might sent to the shareholders separately.
terminate upon a change of control At the meeting, the Company will be ofthe Company.
seeking shareholder approval for, amongst other things, the ability to A shareholders authority for the makemarket purchases of its own purchase by the Company of a ordinary shares, up to a total of 10% maximum of 10% of its own shares was ofthe issued share capital.
in existence during the 2014 financial year.
However, the Company did not The directors consider that all the purchase any of its own shares during resolutions proposed are in the that time.
"best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole ""VEJUPS and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP resolutions, as they intend to do as auditor of the Company, will be inrespect of their own holdings."
proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
84 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Other statutory and regulatory disclosures continued %POBUJPOT 4VCTUBOUJBM TIBSFIPMEJOHT No political donations were made during Apart from the shareholdings andcorresponding voting rights of SirDavid the year 2013 nil.
McMurtry and John Deer 36.2% and 16.8% respectively, the following voting rights have been notied to the directors under the requirements of the UK Listing $POUSPMMJOH TIBSFIPMEFST Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules DTR 5, which represent BSSBOHFNFOUT 3%ormore of the voting rights attached to issued shares in theCompany, as at 30th June 2014: In May 2014 the Listing Rules Listing Regime Enhancements Instrument % of issued Number of 2014 came into effect.
The revised rules share capital shares require that premium listed companies Baillie Gifford & Co 5.25% 3,846,993 with controlling shareholders dened as a shareholder who individually or with BlackRock Inc 4.92% 3,578,133 any of their concert parties exercises Capital Research and Management Company 4.76% 3,465,730 or controls 30% or more of the votes Standard Life Investments Limited 4.99% 3,631,612 able to be cast on all or substantially all the matters at the Companys general No notications have been received under the provisions of DTR 5 in the period meeting must enter into a relationship 1stJuly 2014 to 23rd July 2014. agreement containing independence provisions.
Transitional arrangements provide that the Company has until Employment policies are designed 3FTFBSDI BOE EFWFMPQNFOU 16th November 2014 in order to to provide equal opportunities implement the relationship agreement irrespective of race, colour, religion, The Group has a continuing and therefore the Company is in sex, age, disability or sexual orientation.
commitment to a high level of research the process of putting in place an Proper consideration is given to and development.
applications for employment from involved is directed towards the disabled people who are employed research and development of new SFFOIPVTF HBT FNJTTJPOT where suitable for appropriate products relating to metrology, vacancies.
Employees who become including computer aided design and The disclosures concerning greenhouse disabled whilst with the Company manufacturing systems, and relating to gas emissions required by law are set will be given every opportunity to healthcare products, including Raman out in the Corporate social responsibility continue their employment through spectroscopy systems, dental systems report on pages 54 and 55. reasonable adjustment to their working and certain areas in the medical conditions, equipment, or where this devices eld.
Further information on Signed on behalf of the Board is not possible, re-training for other the expenditure on research and positions.
They will also be afforded development is contained in the financial opportunities to continue training and review section of the Strategic report.
Norma Tang gain promotion on the same basis as Company Secretary &NQMPZFFT any other employee.
23rd July 2014 Details on information provided to staff Renishaw plc The maintenance of a highly-skilled on the performance of the business, Registered number 1106260, England workforce is essential to the future of consultation with employees and and Wales the business and the directors place performance incentives are contained great emphasis on the continuation in the description of corporate social of the Companys approved training responsibility activities set out on policy.
Health and safety matters are pages48 and 49. given special attention by the directors and well established systems of safety There are no agreements with employees providing for compensation management are in place throughout the Group to safeguard employees, for any loss of employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
