Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report 13 Strategy in action Emerging Growth Emerging Manage Protect & for Value Enhance Our focus in the Emerging China At a glance quadrant is on investing Strategy in capability and effectively Build leading market positions 24% directing sales to extend Proportion of revenue in the key cities across those from food processing markets which we identify as our footprint.
sector having the best opportunities for our pest control and hygiene businesses.
Asia In China we have focused on building density in the top 15 cities and top 10 industrial zones through M&A strategy targeted sales delivery to improve gross margins, which Pest control-led market entry, rose by 7.5% on revenue up 29.7%.
We continue to focus on acquiring local 7.2% see strong growth in the food processing sector which management capabilities, New contract now accounts for 24% of total China revenue.
India M&A activity Our priority in Asia in 2014 was to strengthen sales Eight acquisitions in 2014 The acquisition of PestconePlus marked our entry leadership teams to increase productivity.
Good contributing 16.9m intoGujarat, a state with higher GDP and Foreign progress has been made in recruiting and retaining annualised revenues Brazil, Direct Investment FDI.
The portfolio and experienced sales directors in India, Indonesia, Brunei, Chile, Colombia, India,  our leading position in the Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand.
Our resulting Mozambique, Singapore and pharmaceutical, food processing, industrial and new structured approach to sales management and South Korea.
Rentokil is now one of the development has delivered a 7.2% in-year increase three leading pest control businesses in India.
Changes in 2015 Inclusion of Fiji pest control from Protect & Enhance Latin America Targeted sales delivery in Malaysia In Latin America Rentokil Initial entered the Chilean market through the acquisitions of Bestway and Key facts Chileno Alemana, which is particularly focused on the urban area of Santiago.
In Brazil, Rentokil is now the 7.4% number two player in the country and is focused on building density in Rio fide Janeiro and So Paulo.
Percentage of group revenue 2013: 6.3% To read more about our M&A activity and the value it creates go to page 17 5.9% Percentage of operating profit Malaysia, our largest business unit in Asia, delivered 2013: 4.8% When it has to be right strong revenue growth of 7.5% in 2014.
Both categories have grown, with Pest Control up 9.9% and Hygiene up 5.0%.
Our strategy for 2014 was to 21.7% drive growth through targeted sales delivery at branch Ongoing revenue level, promoting the new Signature range, premium scenting and PestNetOnline extranet reporting services to differentiate our offer in a mature market.
22.6% The strengthening of the sales and customer care functions has enabled the business to deliver good Ongoing profit growth in all targeted market sectors.
During the 2014 FIFA World Cup the eyes of the world were on Brazil.
Our local teams managed pest control services for a number of team hotels, training facilities and grounds including mosquito control to minimise the risk of dengue fever.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 14 Strategic Report Strategy in action continued Emerging Growth Growth Manage Protect & for Value Enhance Our focus in the Growth New products At a glance quadrant is on investing to Strategy take share, develop existing Focus on growing market customers and fill gaps in share and on developing existing customers, while our geographic footprint.
fillinggaps in our geographic footprint through organic Acquisitions andacquisitive growth.
Our M&A focus in the Growth quadrant has been on The Company launched several new products in 2014 M&A strategy extending our geographic reach into new cities and to including a new Signature hygiene colour range, new Extend geographic reach bolt on smaller acquisitions to our existing operations workwear ranges and a series of new pest control intonew cities and build out to build density, particularly in North America where products.
In the UK just over 30% of our pest control sub-scale regions.
IRR: 15% wehave acquired ten companies this year and sales in 2014 were generated by innovations launched as platform for growth.
For M&A, and for from 2011 onwards.
our capex investments to support our growth plans, M&A activity 2014 we set slightly lower hurdle rates in the Growth To read more about our 15 acquisitions contributing quadrant given the long-term importance of these innovation programme 41.7m annualised revenues markets to the Company.
go to page 24 Bahamas, Lithuania, North America and UK.
For further details of our M&A activities go to page 17 Changes in 2015 Pestaurant Inclusion of seven businesses from Protect & Enhance, including France pest control Enhancing our digital presence and cleanrooms, Netherlands cleanrooms, and Nordics, South Africa, Australian and 25% New Zealand pest control Increase in traffic to our pest control businesses.
websites Key facts Our global multiple award-winning PR and brand campaign has generated extensive media coverage In Pest Control many of our new customers find us across 11 countries, raising our brand awareness and when they need pest control services, rather than us 41.1% driving online traffic.
The first pop-up Pestaurant, finding them.
So our challenge is to ensure that when Percentage of group revenue offering a menu of pests including barbecued pigeon a customer has a need for pest control, the first name 2013: 40.3% burgers, Mexican spiced meal worms, cheese n that comes to mind, or the first name they find when onion crickets and chocolate-dipped ants, took place they search online, is Rentokil.
During 2014 our digital in the UK.
This was followed by Global Pestaurant Day team was able to deploy new websites enhanced on 4 June 2014.
40.2% forsearch engine performance which, together with Percentage of operating profit our highly successful PR initiatives e. g. Pestaurant, Pestaurants took place in Australia, the Caribbean, 2013: 38.2% helped to drive up our organic search performance on Denmark, France, Malaysia, Turkey and USA.
They Google and other search engines.
Since their roll-out proved to be an effective and fun way to engage with in the second half of the year we have seen a 25% the public about pests, generating news headlines increase in traffic to our pest control websites, leading 5.7% across the world and driving significantly increased to a 24% increase in inbound customer contacts.
Results included: Ongoing revenue 1,200 print and online articles To see how digital excellence is More than 60 TV and Radio broadcasts improving our sales effectiveness 6.3% 19,000 visitors to Rentokil and Pestaurant websites go to page 22 Ongoing profit 5,000 Twitter mentions 6,000 YouTube views Over 1m mentions on social media, including Facebook and LinkedIn Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report 15 Strategy in action continued Emerging Growth Protect & Enhance Manage Protect & for Value Enhance Our focus in the Protect M&A At a glance & Enhance quadrant is on Strategy service productivity, route Focus on retaining existing density, retention, new customers, while building profit and cash contributions.
customer wins and product and service development.
M&A strategy Consolidate regional and Three acquisitions were made in 2014 in this quadrant.
localstrengths, acquire new These included one pest control business in the Price discipline capabilities in adjacent service Netherlands, a franchise buy-back in Zambia and a areas.
Above average plants business in Sweden.
consolidate our regional and local strength through bolt-ons and on acquiring new capabilities.
M&A activity 2014 Three acquisitions contributing 2.9m annualised revenues Benelux inthe Netherlands, Sweden and Zambia.
In France the business is using state-of-the-art analytical tools to provide detailed financial analysis Changes in 2015 ofour customer base, enabling its management team Inclusion of four businesses to focus on yield management and execute much from Manage for Value, improved pricing discipline throughout the portfolio including France Technivap, byanalysing customer profitability by account, sector, Our Benelux business has experienced a sustained Italy pest control and Ireland branch and route.
Using this insight, we are able period of decline and continues to operate in a pest control and hygiene totarget and incentivise the sales teams on driving challenging market.
We have recently appointed businesses.
margins in relatively low-margin accounts, whilst a new Managing Director and Finance Director with recognising the particular importance of retaining avery clear brief.
We have dramatically simplified the Key facts othercustomers where our margins are already higher.
agenda: the team is very focused on customer service, In the past we had very little data on individual account management, improving our supply chain customer-by-customer performance now we are performance and on a much sharper focus on yield 44.6% able to adopt a much more sophisticated approach management.
The business is now operating in Percentage of group revenue tomargin management.
The strategy used by our amuch more customer-focused and stable 2013: 46.3% French team is being deployed in many other markets environment.
Its rate of profit decline improved from across the group.
the first half to the second half of the year and the business returned to revenue growth in Q4.
48.3% Delivering a financial turnaround is a priority for theCompany in 2015.
Percentage of operating profit 2013: 51.0% -0.1% Ongoing revenue -4.4% Ongoing profit Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 16 Strategic Report Strategy in action continued Emerging Growth Manage for Value Manage Protect & for Value Enhance Our focus in the Manage Investment in pest control At a glance for Value quadrant is on Strategy productivity, route density, Focus on retaining existing reducing costs and improving customers, cost management and enhancing productivity retention.
M&A strategy Changing the shape Acquire bolt-ons for density of the portfolio requires high IRR: 30%, There are two types of businesses within this quadrant divesting sub-scale those which operate in challenged economic In Italy the pest control business continues to perform unprofitable businesses.
environments e. g. Greece, Ireland, Portugal and well and in 2014 we added four small pest businesses Spain and those with a challenged economic model including a bolt-on in Bergamo near Milan which M&A activity 2014 where we are looking to drive improved performance.
builds density in this important location and improves Three disposals, four We continue to reduce our exposure in this quadrant productivity.
Any investment in this quadrant has to acquisitions contributing and in addition to the disposal in March of the Initial have a particularly strong business case and must 4.2m annualised revenues Facilities business we also divested our Spanish meet a higher investment hurdle than in the Emerging inIreland, Italy and Spain.
Medical and Austrian Products operations later in or Growth quadrants.
All three businesses operated in highly Changes in 2015 competitive markets and delivered lower margins.
Ireland pest control and Productivity While the divestments reduce our annual revenues by hygiene moves to Protect 547m, the sale proceeds have reduced debt and we &Enhance.
have also taken the opportunity to redeploy funds into our core businesses where we will be able to drive Key facts better growth and higher returns.
Proceeds have also 6% been used to accelerate M&A activity and implement Improved revenue level aprogressive dividend policy.
6.9% per stop Percentage of group revenue 2013: 7.1% excluding Initial Facilities Also in Italy, our hygiene business initiated a productivity improvement programme in 2014 which introduced better service scheduling and re-zoning 5.6% of service technicians to better fit the density of our Percentage of operating customer base.
At the same time a new up-selling profit 2013: 6.0% excluding programme was designed to improve our coverage Initial Facilities intargeted areas where it was weak.
As a result the business is now operating at a 6% improved revenue level per stop and we have also 0.5% seen a small increase in customer satisfaction.
Ongoing revenue Thenumber of services per premises has increased by2.6%.
-4.5% Ongoing profit Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report 17 17 Strategy in action continued Emerging Growth Mergers and Acquisitions Manage Protect & for Value Enhance M&A activity is core to our differentiated strategy.
In 2014 we acquired 30 companies for a consideration of 68m, 90% of which were in our Growth and Emerging quadrants.
How the M&A process works: 1 2 3 4 5 Identify Opportunities Assessment Acquisition Monitoring Identify cities with good Carry out structured M&A team assess Once offer successful, performance density and good growth contact programme, operational forecasts and move to detailed due Post deal a rigorous potential.
Identify right building high-quality integration plans.
Plans diligence processs and integration plan is companies following database of contacts, submitted for approval final negotiations prior implemented, which live targets and from group Investment to purchase detailed analysis of involves monthly competitive landscape companies no longer Committee and monitoring of business meeting our requirements transactions negotiated activity and performance to ensure growth opportunities are realised.
Upon the first anniversary of acquisition, a detailed review of strategy and performance is completed, with key learnings informing strategy Business benefits Over 100 target cities 50 live prospects by 30 acquisitions in 500 50 66m and over 500 target end of 2014, many 2014 giving 66m of Target Live Annualised companies identified of which we hope to annualised revenues prospects companies revenues todate convert into deals over next two years Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
