40 Corporate Governance Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1.
Jeremy Townsend, Chairman 66 Chief Executive 51 Chief Financial Officer and Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chief Information Officer 51 Skills and experience Skills and experience Andy joined Rentokil Initial as an Executive Skills and experience John joined Rentokil Initial as Chairman in Director in May 2008 and became Chief Jeremy joined Rentokil Initial as Chief Financial May2008.
Prior to this he had a successful Executive in October 2013.
Before becoming Officer in August 2010 and, in addition, executive career with Imperial Chemical Chief Executive, he was responsible for the became Chief Information Officer in November Industries plc ICI, becoming Chief Executive West region business and the Group Legal 2013.
Formerly Finance Director of Mitchells from 2003 until ICIs takeover by Akzo Nobel and M&A functions.
Rentokil Initials &Butlers plc, and previously an executive at in 2008.
Before joining ICI he held a number Asia-Pacific businesses were added to his JSainsbury plc where he held various finance ofsenior executive positions at Unilever from remit in 2008 09.
Formerly a senior executive roles including Group Financial Controller, 1974, with Birds Eye Walls, Quest International at ICI 19872008 where he was responsible Corporate Finance Director and Strategy and Unichema International.
Formerly a for a number of group functions and Director.
Prior to Sainsburys, Jeremy was Director of Severn Trent plc and Sara Lee international businesses including ICIs employed by Ernst & Young, working in audit Corporation USA.
He also and corporate finance.
served as the Executive Vice President of Qualifications Qualifications Mergers and Acquisitions, General Counsel Graduated from Manchester University with a Graduated from Manchester University with and Company Secretary.
first class honours degree in chemical physics afirst class honours degree in Management and, after completing his doctorate, was Qualifications Science.
LLB Hons Law from the University of Other appointments Southampton.
Other appointments Member of the Accounting Council of the Chairman of United Utilities Group PLC, Senior Other appointments Financial Reporting Council.
Independent Director of J Sainsbury plc and Director and Trustee of Street League charity.
Non-executive Director of Rolls-Royce PLC.
Advisor to TPG Capital LLP.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance 41 4.
Alan Giles Non-executive Director 60 Non-executive Director 55 Non-executive Director 60 Member of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Skills and experience Skills and experience Member of the Nomination Committee and Peter joined Rentokil Initial as a Non-executive Julie joined Rentokil Initial as a Non-executive Audit Committee Director in July 2006.
He brings extensive Director in July 2014.
She has had a long, Senior Independent Director with effect experience to the Board over developing the successful career in a number of from 1 January 2015 marketing agenda for Rentokil Initials brands.
 finance and related He was one of the key architects of developing roles working for some of the worlds best Skills and experience the global Vodafone brand as Chief Marketing known consumer brands.
Most recently she Alan joined Rentokil Initial as a Officer and Director of Vodafone Group plc was Chief Financial Officer from 2000 to 2010 Non-executive Director in May 2006. from 1998 to 2006.
Prior to this he held senior and then Chief Commercial Officer from 2010 Hehas extensive commercial and strategic positions at Kingfisher plc and Tesco PLC and to 2013 of Virgin Atlantic Limited.
Prior to this service industry experience, having led two was a Director of WHSmith PLC.
He was Julie held a number of financial and major retail brand businesses through formerly Chairman of PRS for Music Limited operational roles in Porsche Cars, Great significant periods of change.
Formerly and Brandtone Holdings Limited Ireland.
Chairman of Fat Face Group Limited, Chief Executive of HMV Group plc, Managing Other appointments Qualifications Director of Waterstones, a Director at Chairman of SuperGroup Plc and Six Degrees Graduated from Cambridge University WHSmith PLC and Book Tokens Limited Technology Group Ltd. withMA Hons Economics.
A Chartered and held Non-executive Directorships at Accountant.
Somerfield plc and Wilson Bowden Plc.
Angela Seymour-Jackson Other appointments Other appointments Non-executive Director 48 Non-executive Director of NXP A Non-executive Director of the Member of the Remuneration Committee Semi-Conductors N. V. NASDAQ, Competition and Markets Authority.
Non-executive Director of DFS Furniture plc.
Skills and experience Chairman of the Advisory Board at the Angela joined Rentokil Initial as a Oxford Institute of Retail Management and Non-executive Director in March 2012.
Richard Burrows Associate Fellow at Oxford Universitys was previously Chief Executive of RAC Non-executive Director 69 Sad Business School.
Prior to joining RAC she Member of the Remuneration Committee professor at Cass Business School.
held roles as Distribution Director of Aviva UK Skills and experience Life and Norwich Union Insurance.
Richard joined Rentokil Initial as a 9.
Daragh Fagan Qualifications Non-executive Director in January 2008.
General Counsel & Company A member of the Chartered Institute of Hehas significant international business Secretary 45 Marketing and the Chartered Insurance experience ranging from leading successful Skills and experience Institute, with a masters degree in Marketing.
manufacturing and service businesses in the Daragh joined Rentokil Initial in September drinks industry to banking and financial Other appointments 2013 as Group General Counsel, and services roles.
Formerly Governor of the Bank Managing Director, Corporate Solutions added the role of Company Secretary on of Ireland, joint Chief Executive and latterly a atAegon UK plc, a Non-executive Director 30 July 2014.
He has extensive in-house Non-executive Director of Pernod Ricard SA ofHenderson Group plc.
legal and company secretarial experience France, Chairman and Chief Executive of Irish in major listed multinational corporations in Distillers and a Director of CityJet Ltd Ireland, the energy and media financial services Mey ki Turkey and Eurasian Natural sectors, including significant businesses in Resources Corporation PLC.
He joined Qualifications the Company from Thomson Reuters A graduate of Wesley College, Dublin Ireland.
where he was General Counsel, Europe & A Chartered Accountant.
Asia, and previously General Counsel EMEA for Reuters Group plc.
Before Other appointments Reuters he spent ten years in the oil and gas Chairman of British American Tobacco p. l. c. exploration industry with Eni SpA, ultimately and Voicesage Global Holdings Ltd. as Associate General Counsel, North Non-executive Director of Carlsberg A S America, North Sea & Middle East.
Qualifications Graduated from Cambridge University with MA Hons in History.
Note: Duncan Tatton-Brown stood down as a Director on 14May 2014 at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and Peter Long stood down as a Director on 31 December 2014.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
