10 Strategic Report Differentiated strategy Managing the portfolio through profit and growth potential Achieving our aims We aim to manage the business for profitable growth in order to drive By way of illustration, the strategies we need to deploy to grow shareholder value.
To achieve our aim we use a quadrant analysis to inBrazil are very different to those we need to deploy to manage our group our categories and geographies into a growth potential and businesses in Spain and Greece.
We review quadrant composition profit contribution matrix taking account of, for instance, a countrys annually, looking carefully at business performance and developments GDP forecasts.
Using this approach we are able to introduce in the economic environment.
As a result a number of changes in different growth levers see page 9 to maximise impact.
categorisation are planned for 2015, as indicated below.
Emerging Growth Strategy Categories Categories Strategy Our strategy is to build leading Pest Control Pest Control, Hygiene, Our strategy is to focus on market positions in the key Cleanroom Workwear growing market share and on cities across those markets Geographies developing existing customers, which we identify as having Asia, East Africa, Middle East, while filling gaps in our Geographies the best opportunities for North Africa, SouthAmerica geographic footprint through Austria, Caribbean, Germany, our pest control and hygiene and Turkey organic and acquisitive growth North America, Switzerland businesses and UK M&A strategy Changes for 2015 M&A strategy Inclusion of Fiji pest control Extend geographic reach Changes for 2015 Pest control-led market entry, from Protect & Enhance into new cities and build out Inclusion of seven businesses focus on acquiring local sub-scale regions.
IRR: 15% from Protect & Enhance, management capabilities, as platform for growth including France pest control adding bolt-ons for density.
and cleanrooms, Netherlands Internal Rate of Return IRR : cleanrooms, and Nordics, 15% South Africa, Australian and New Zealand pest control businesses Manage for Value Protect & Enhance Categories Strategy Categories Strategy Plants Our strategy is to focus on Hygiene, Workwear Our strategy is to focus on retaining existing customers retaining existing customers, Geographies while building profit and cash Geographies aggressive cost management Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal contributions and enhancing productivity Australia, Benelux, Fiji, France, and Spain and efficiency New Zealand, Nordics and M&A strategy Changes for 2015 South Africa Acquiring bolt-ons for density M&A strategy Ireland pest control and requires high IRR: 25%, Changes for 2015 hygiene moves to Protect Consolidate regional and divesting some sub-scale and & Enhance Inclusion of four businesses local strengths, acquire unprofitable businesses from Manage for Value, new capabilities in adjacent including France Technivap, serviceareas.
Above average Italy pest control and Ireland IRR: 30% pest control and hygiene businesses Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report 11 Markets Key drivers and considerations in our market place Our strategy for managing our businesses remains unchanged.
We use a quadrant model to set differentiated strategies for our businesses and to manage capital allocation.
The four quadrants are characterised by the economic environment and by the performance of our respective businesses in the relevant markets.
The allocation is reviewed annually and businesses can move quadrant should circumstances and or their performance change positively or otherwise.
Emerging Market opportunity: A rapidly growing Competitive position: In the early stages, andlargely urban middle class have higher emerging markets are generally small and 135.4m expectations for hygiene standards.
The arrival of international players 2014 revenue reinforced with increasing levels of regulation.
such as Rentokil Initial helps professionalise These two drivers allow pest control and the industry by leveraging our global best washroom hygiene markets to be established practice and allows us to establish a strong and grow rapidly.
competitive position as the markets grow.
7.4% Share of group 2013: 6.3% Challenges: Markets have lower value per customer and sometimes a less sophisticated Market dynamics: Markets are operating environment.
typically characterised by high GDP Investment strategy: IRR for investment growth and strong macroeconomic 15%.
As an example, our pest control indicators.
In the early stages of acquisitions in 2014 included Chile which development, our focus is on major benefits from a very high population density cities rather than entire countries and and urbanisation rate 89% compared to we only infill to other areas once there 75%in EU and 52% in Asia, as well as a issufficient customer density to support fast-growing middle class and stable political our route-based operations.
Growth increasing across a wide set of sectors worth over 5bn and the most developed forpest and hygiene services.
The national economy, but hasmore than 16,000 pest 751.7m ormultinational customers offer growth control companies and the market leader only opportunities to national service companies has anestimated 16% market share.
2014 revenue but require broad coverage across the country, although this can be achieved due tothe higher density of customers than in 41.1% emerging markets.
Share of group 2013: 40.3% Market dynamics: Growth markets tend to have established business models for our core categories and are 5bn economically more sophisticated and US pest control market mature.
Growth markets have average or better GDP growth, high regulatory Challenges: The competitive dynamic, and legislative hygiene standards and both for customers and acquisition targets, rigorous enforcement regimes.
is often more intense than in Emerging, but the fragmentation of the market and higher Market opportunity: Significant Competitive position: Significant growth customer value offer good growth growth opportunities from the opportunities remain, however, because of opportunities.
underlying growth rate and often the lack of consolidation within them.
For because of the lack of consolidation example, the US is the largest pest control Investment strategy: IRR for investment inthe market.
Service penetration market in the world estimated to be 15%.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 12 Strategic Report Markets continued Protect & Enhance Competitive position: Within these markets Challenges and strategy: Lower growth the Company usually has a good market markets with higher competitive intensity, 817.0m position, a strong commitment to the market but we are well positioned to manage this and good levels of profitability.
with good market positions and efficient 2014 revenue operations.
Investment strategy: IRR for investment 44.6% 25%.
Bolt-on acquisitions can also unlock Share of group 2013: 46.3% value by increasing our customer or industry sector density in key areas, such as our acquisition of a pest control business in the Market dynamics: These markets south of the Netherlands in early 2014 which share alevel of maturity and established focused on the profitable food industry and business models in our core categories bird control services segments.
with those markets in the Growth quadrant, but typically have average or Market opportunity: Profitability initiatives below average GDP growth.
They are and branch route optimisation tools can concentrated with smaller numbers of improve price and margin realisation while still strong competitors and consequentially allowing enhanced customer satisfaction and high margin pressure.
high levels of customer retention.
There is also scope to leverage our existing operations to identify targeted opportunities to grow in certain categories or sub-categories such as cleanroom within the workwear category.
Manage for Value Investment strategy: IRR for investment Competitive position: Businesses in this 30%.
Businesses in this quadrant can be quadrant may have higher market shares 126.4m strengthened through bolt-on acquisitions but still suffer due to broader economic that have strong synergies and increases in 2014 revenue weaknesses in the country as a whole.
For example, in 2014 we quadrant also includes a number of sub-scale acquired a pest control business in Italy to or non-core businesses that are under review.
improve coverage and density that delivered 6.9% Market opportunity: The main focus is ahigh return on investment.
Other options 1 Share of group 2013: 7.1% oncustomer service, pricing and productivity include exit by divestment or closure.
If there is not a viable turnaround we sold a number of underperforming or plan, businesses may be divested.
Market dynamics: Manage for Value lower-margin businesses such as Initial markets exhibit a broader range of Facilities, the Austrian Products business Challenges: Defined by market dynamics characteristics than in the other three andSpanish Medical operation, generating and or competitive position.
We also exited our joint venture in and growth rates are flat or shrinking Libya given the deteriorating security situation and frequently experience very strong in the country.
The macroeconomic situation is weak with low or negative GDP growth and or political instability creating a higher than average risk of economic shocks.
1 excluding Initial Facilities Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
