2 Strategic Report Our business Our business Rentokil Initial is a global leader in the provision Ours is an international services business of route-based services which protect people and operating in63 countries and employing some 29,000 people at the end of 2014 enhance lives.
Our services include pest control, but with a local focus on route-based hygiene, workwear and plants.
These are delivered efficiency, delivering high-quality technical training and outstanding service quality.
through five strong regional businesses: North Throughout the world, demand for higher America, Europe, UK & Rest of World, Asia and Pacific.
standards ofpublic health, stricter food safety legislation and compliance with workplace safety regulations are driving demand for our service expertise.
Our values Service, Relationships and Teamwork have been identified by our colleagues across the group as the core values of the Company.
By living our values we arebetter placed to offer outstanding andconsistent customer service.
Our regions North America Europe UK & Rest of World Asia Pacific Find out more about the performance of our regions go to page 26 North America UK & Rest of World The worlds largest pest control market.
We provide commercial Here we provide pest control, hygiene and plants services as well and residential pest control services and sell pest control products.
as a number of smaller specialist services including property care, We also provide plants to enhance office environments.
North medical and specialist hygiene.
Rest of World regions include Poland, America is a key focus for our acquisitive growth as we consolidate the Nordics and Baltics, the Caribbean, the Middle East and our national presence.
Our countries of operation within this region sub-Saharan Africa.
are the US, Canada and Mexico.
Asia Europe We provide pest control and hygiene services in many countries We provide pest control, hygiene, plants and, exclusively to across Asia including Brunei, China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Europe, workwear and textile services.
Our largest operations are thePhilippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam.
in France, Germany and Benelux.
The expansion of our business in LatinAmerica is also managed through our European business Pacific with support from our Spanish and Portuguese teams due to We provide pest control, hygiene services and plants in Australia, language and cultural similarities.
Other countries managed out New Zealand and Fiji.
of the Europe region include Austria, Czech Republic, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, and in Latin America, Brazil, Chile and Colombia.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
