28 Annual Report 2014 The Restaurant Group plc Report of the Directors The Directors present their Annual Report and the Group During the year the Audit Committee comprised the following Accounts for the year ended 28 December 2014. non-executive Directors: Simon Cloke Chairman Results and dividends Tony Hughes The results for the year are presented under International Sally Cowdry from 1 March 2014 Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Report and Accounts are drawn up on During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised a 52 week reporting basis ending on 28 December 2014 2013: 52 week reporting basis ending on 29 December 2013. the following non-executive Directors: The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income Tony Hughes Chairman statement on page 63.
This shows a Group profit after tax of Simon Cloke 67m 2013: 56.2m.
An interim dividend of 6.1p per share Sally Cowdry from 1 March 2014 was paid on 9 October 2014.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 9.3p per share, which is subject to approval at the During the year the Nominations Committee comprised Companys Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on the following Directors: 14 May 2015.
Should this be approved, the final dividend will be paid on 8 July 2015, bringing the ordinary dividend per Tony Hughes Chairman share payable in respect of 2014 to 15.4p 2013: 14.0p.
Simon Cloke Alan Jackson Directors The Directors who held office during 2014 were as follows: Sally Cowdry from 1 March 2014 Danny Breithaupt from 1 September 2014 Executive Directors Andrew Page until 31 August 2014 Danny Breithaupt from 1 September 2014 Andrew Page until 31 August 2014 The Directors remuneration report includes details of Stephen Critoph Directors remuneration and interests in the Companys shares and options, together with information on service Non-executive Directors contracts.
Alan Jackson Directors shareholdings Tony Hughes The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company, Simon Cloke all being beneficially owned, were as follows: Sally Cowdry from 1 March 2014 At At At 26 February 28 December 29 December Each of the non-executive Directors excluding the Chairman 2015 2014 2013 is considered by the Board to be independent.
Tony Hughes Executive Directors is senior non-executive Director.
Alan Jackson was appointed Danny Breithaupt 52,703 52,703 n a non-executive Chairman on 1 January 2006 having previously been executive Chairman and given his tenure as an Stephen Critoph 275,220 275,220 263,220 executive Director, is not considered to be independent as defined by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Non-executive Directors Alan Jackson 250,191 250,191 250,191 No Director has a service contract with the Company Tony Hughes 400,000 400,000 400,000 requiring more than twelve months notice.
Simon Cloke 7,000 7,000 15,000 In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Sally Cowdry 1,000 1,000 n a the Directors will be subject to re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of the Directors share options are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report.
The closing mid-market price of the ordinary shares on 28 December 2014 was 666p and the range during the financial year was 555p to 713p.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2014 29 Share capital structure Substantial shareholdings The Company has one class of shares, ordinary shares of As at 4 February 2015, the Company had been notified of the 1 28 8p.
As at 28 December 2014, the issued, called up and following interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share fully paid number of shares in issue was 200,648,821 shares.
capital of the Company: There are no preference shares or special rights pertaining to Number % of issued any of the shares in issue.
of shares share capital Black Rock Investment Following the 2014 Annual General Meeting the Directors Management Inc 16,625,449 8.29 have had the authority to allot shares up to an aggregate Standard Life Investments 15,413,727 7.68 nominal amount of 18,810,669 which represented Old Mutual Asset Managers 11,922,136 5.94 approximately one third of the ordinary share capital of the Company at the time the authority was given by shareholders.
Royal London Asset This authority expires at the Annual General Meeting to be Management 10,990,927 5.48 held on 14 May 2015 and it will be proposed to extend this M&G Investment Management 9,252,342 4.61 authority updated for the current number of shares in issue Legal & General Investment at the forthcoming Meeting.
The Directors have no present Management 8,815,382 4.39 intention of exercising this authority.
Aviva Investors 8,217,255 4.13 Aberdeen Asset Management 6,233,517 3.11 At the 2014 Annual General Meeting the Directors were also provided with the authority to allot shares for cash other than Franklin Templeton 6,060,000 3.02 on a pre-emptive basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,821,600 which represented approximately 5% of the Corporate governance issued share capital at the time that the authority was given The Company is committed to high standards of corporate by shareholders.
This authority also expires at the Annual governance and to observing the principles of corporate General Meeting to be held on 14 May 2015 and it will be governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance proposed to extend this authority updated for the current Code that was revised and issued in 2014 by the Financial number of shares in issue at the forthcoming Meeting.
Reporting Council the Code for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
In addition, following the 2014 Annual General Meeting, the Directors have the authority to make market purchases Statement of compliance with the Code of shares in The Restaurant Group plc on behalf of the Throughout the year ended 28 December 2014, the Company up to 20,064,714 ordinary shares which Company has been in compliance with the provisions set represented 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share out in the Code except for the independence of the Chairman capital at the time of the Notice of the 2014 Annual General who was previously executive Chairman before being Meeting.
The minimum price that may be paid for such appointed to the role of non-executive Chairman in January 1 shares is 28 8p per share.
The maximum price is the higher 2006.
Sally Cowdry was appointed a non-executive Director of 5% above the average middle market quotation for the from 1 March 2014 and is considered independent.
ordinary shares for the five business days preceding the Accordingly, since that date, the Company has had three date of purchase and the higher of the price of the last non-executive Directors who are considered to be independent trade and the highest current independent bid independent and has been in compliance with Code on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List at the time provision B.
The Audit, Nomination and the purchase is carried out.
Remuneration Committees therefore comprised of three non-executive Directors from 1 March 2014.
This authority expires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and it will be proposed to extend this authority The size and composition of the Board is regularly reviewed updated for the current number of shares in issue at to ensure that the effectiveness of the Board and the Meeting.
performance of the Group remains at a high standard.
As announced in January 2015, Debbie Hewitt will join the Board The Group has entered into various contracts, including as an independent non-executive Director on 1 May 2015. leases, during the course of ordinary business which may Debbie is currently Chair of Moss Bros Group Plc and senior be terminated in the event of a change of control of The non-executive director of Redrow Plc and NCC Group Plc.
30 Annual Report 2014 The Restaurant Group plc Report of the Directors continued Application of Code Principles The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper The Company has applied the principles of the Code, management of the Group and has access to the necessary including both the Main Principles and the supporting information and training to enable it to discharge its duties.
Further explanation of how All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the the Main Principles have been applied is set out below and first opportunity after their appointment, except where in the Directors remuneration report and the Audit they are appointed by shareholders, and to annual Committee report.
The Board There is significant involvement from the non-executive The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of Directors.
This includes an ongoing dialogue with the the Company and Group within a framework of prudent and executive Directors including constructive challenge of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and performance and the Groups strategy.
The Board reviews the Groups business model Directors are provided with sufficient information to allow and strategic objectives and looks to ensure that the them to monitor, assess and challenge the executive necessary financial and human resources are in place to management of the Group.
achieve these objectives, to sustain them over the long-term and to review management performance against these Comprehensive Board papers including financial information objectives.
The Board also sets the Companys values and are circulated to all Directors prior to Board meetings and, on standards and manages the business in a manner to meet a weekly basis, they receive up-to-date trading information.
its obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders.
The non-executive Directors have the opportunity to meet without the executive Directors being present.
Matters The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, examined on these occasions include consideration of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and targets set and performance achieved by management.
Their biographies appear on pages 26 and 27 and demonstrate a range of All Directors have access to the advice and services of the experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent Company Secretary and a procedure has been agreed for judgement on issues of strategy, risk management, the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take performance, resources and standards of conduct which independent professional advice, if necessary, at the expense is vital for the success of the Group.
On joining the Board there is a process for Directors to receive training as to their role and its Tony Hughes acts as senior independent non-executive requirements and for non-executive Directors to gain an Director and is available to shareholders if they have concerns understanding of the whole business.
Non-executive on which contact through the normal channels is Directors are actively encouraged to meet with operational inappropriate or has failed to resolve an issue.
management and to visit the Groups operations in order to enhance their understanding of the Groups business, The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly its brands, employees and processes.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer During 2014 there were eight Board meetings with full is responsible for the strategic direction and operational attendance by Board members at all but one meeting, management of the Group.
The Board meets on a regular which Sally Cowdry was unable to attend due to a prior basis and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically commitment that pre-dated her appointment to the Board.
This includes approval of the annual budget and the three year business plan, approval of The Company acknowledges the importance of developing the interim Report and year-end Report and Accounts, review the skills of the Directors to run an effective Board.
To and approval of significant capital expenditure including assist in this, Directors are given the opportunity to attend development of new sites, significant disposals of assets and relevant courses and seminars to acquire additional skills acquisitions or disposals of businesses.
and experience which may enhance their contribution to the ongoing progress of the Group.
The performance Operational management are responsible for the day-to-day of the Board and its Committees are appraised annually.
running of the Group and report on a regular basis on that The process is led by the Chairman, supported by the performance to the Board.
The Board is responsible for Company Secretary, and involves a comprehensive review reviewing, challenging and approving the strategic direction of performance against objectives and areas for future of the Group and monitoring operational performance.
The non-executive Directors also meet in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2014 31 Following feedback received during the externally facilitated Following an extensive search by a leading, independent review of Board effectiveness completed in 2013, Board executive search consultancy who are a signatory of the papers are more focussed on matters of strategic Voluntary Code of Conduct, Sally Cowdry was appointed as importance.
The papers are now circulated electronically via a non-executive Director of the Company on 1 March 2014. a secure web based portal.
In 2014 an internal review was Debbie Hewitt will also join the Board with effect from undertaken which examined the key functions of the Board, 1 May 2015. the effective discharge of its responsibilities and progress since the prior years review.
The results were analysed by the The Nominations Committee is also responsible for Board which concluded that no further significant changes or succession planning for the Group.
In 2014, it oversaw the improvements were required.
The Board continues to evolve appointment of Danny Breithaupt as Chief Executive Officer in accordance with best practice and feedback received from following a search carried out by a leading independent the Directors.
The Committees work on succession planning was a significant factor in the smooth transition of Communications with shareholders this key role within the Group.
Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The Strategic Report includes a detailed review of the Both the Nominations Committee and the Board business and operations, including a review of planned future acknowledge the importance of diversity and promoting developments.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional equal opportunities throughout the Group and continue to investors including presentations after the Companys have regard to the recommendations of Lord Davies announcement of the year end results, and at the half year.
Women on Boards report published in February 2011 in its Feedback from major institutional shareholders is provided deliberations on future appointments and to the benefits of to the Board on a regular basis and, where appropriate, the diversity more broadly.
Board will take steps to address their concerns and recommendations.
Audit Committee Since 1 March 2014 the Audit Committee has consisted of The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate three non-executive Directors.
During the year the Committee with private and institutional investors and welcomes their was chaired by Simon Cloke.
There are written terms of participation.
The Chairman seeks to ensure that the Chairs reference for the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee met of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and on two occasions during 2014 with full attendance at each Nominations Committee are available at the Annual General meeting but for the absence of Sally Cowdry at one meeting Meeting to answer questions, and for all Directors to attend.
due to another commitment that pre-dated her appointment to the Board.
A more detailed description of the work Remuneration Committee undertaken by the Audit Committee is included in the Audit Since the appointment of Sally Cowdry on 1 March 2014, the Committee report.
Shareholders will have the opportunity to Remuneration Committee has consisted of three independent re-appoint Deloitte LLP as external auditor of the Company non-executive Directors.
There are written terms of reference at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 May 2015. for the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee met on four occasions in 2014.
There was full Internal control attendance at each meeting but for the absence of Sally The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal Cowdry at one meeting, due to a commitment that pre-dated control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In accordance her appointment to the Board.
The role of the Committee and with the Code as revised in September 2014 the Board details of how the Company complies with the principles of has ensured that there is an ongoing process for reviewing the Code are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
the effectiveness of the system of internal control including identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks Nominations Committee faced by the Group.
This process, which is reviewed Since 1 March 2014, the Nominations Committee has throughout the year, is carried out in conjunction with consisted of the three independent non-executive Directors, business planning and is documented in a risk register the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
that has been progressively enhanced during the financial It met twice during 2014, with full attendance.
There are year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report written terms of reference for the Nominations Committee.
It is responsible for making recommendations to the Board for the appointment or replacement of additional Directors and ensuring there is an appropriate balance and diversity of skills, experience, knowledge and independence, both now and in the future.
32 Annual Report 2014 The Restaurant Group plc Report of the Directors continued Whilst acknowledging its overall responsibility for the system Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to of internal control, the Board is aware that the system is the accounts designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report to achieve business objectives and can only provide and Accounts in accordance with applicable law and reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare misstatement or loss.
the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as The Group has well-established procedures which have been adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS developed over many years which meet the requirements of Regulation and have chosen to prepare the parent company the Turnbull Guidance and the Code.
A key control procedure financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom is the day-to-day involvement of executive members of the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Board in all aspects of the business and their attendance at Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company regular management meetings at which performance against law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they plan and business prospects are reviewed.
The Group has a are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of monthly executive management meeting where the executive affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Directors, senior operational managers and heads of Company for that period.
functional departments review Group performance and issues affecting the Group.
Additionally, the Board seeks to In preparing the Group financial statements, International continually strengthen its internal control procedures to Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: ensure there is a consistent and appropriate balance properly select and apply accounting policies: between risk and reward.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Other key features and the processes for reviewing understandable information: effectiveness of the internal control and risk management system in relation to financial reporting are described below: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable terms of reference for the Board and its sub-committees, users to understand the impact of particular transactions, including a schedule of matters reserved for the Board and other events and conditions on the entitys financial position an agreed annual programme of fixed agenda items for and financial performance: and Board approval: make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue an established organisational structure with clear lines of as a going concern.
responsibility and rigorous reporting requirements: operational performance and operational matters are In preparing the parent company financial statements, the considered at monthly meetings of the executive Directors Directors are required to: with senior management.
Financial performance is select suitable accounting policies and then apply them monitored and action taken through weekly reporting to the consistently: executive Directors and monthly reporting to the Board against annual budgets approved by the Board: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: capital investment is regulated under a budgetary process and appropriate authorisation levels, including appraisals state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed: and and post-investment reviews: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis comprehensive policy manuals setting out agreed standards and control procedures.
These include human unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
resources related policies, information technology and health and safety.
The Group employs a firm of external auditors to monitor restaurants on a regular basis for compliance with statutory and internal health and safety requirements: and an internal audit function headed by an experienced internal auditor with access to all areas of the Company and Groups business.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2014 33 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate Capital risk management accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain The Group manages its capital to ensure that it will be able the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable to continue as a going concern while looking to maximise accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company returns to shareholders.
The capital structure of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements consists of equity comprising issued share capital, other comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also reserves and retained earnings, debt, finance leases and responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company cash and cash equivalents.
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Group monitors its capital structure on a regular basis through cash flow projections and consideration of the cost The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and of financing its capital.
The Group has a 140m revolving integrity of the corporate and financial information included credit facility in place until October 2016 and a 10m on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom overdraft facility.
Under the terms of the 140m revolving governing the preparation and dissemination of financial credit facility the Group is required to comply with its statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
financing covenants whereby net interest charges must be covered at least four times by EBITDA and net debt must not Information provided to auditor exceed three times EBITDA.
The margin on interest rates Each of the current Directors have taken all the steps that applied to the revolving facility is dependent on the ratio of they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any net debt to EBITDA.
The banking facility covenants are relevant information needed by the Companys auditor for tested twice annually and are monitored on a regular basis.
the purpose of their audit and to establish that the auditor is The Group remained within its banking facility covenant limits aware of that information.
The Directors are not aware of any throughout 2014. relevant information of which the auditor is unaware.
This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance Financial risk management with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board regularly reviews the financial requirements of the Group and the risks associated therewith.
The Group does Going concern not use complex financial instruments, and where financial The Financial Review contains a summary of the cash flows instruments are used it is for reducing interest rate risk.
The and borrowing position of the Group.
The Group is highly Group does not use derivative financial instruments for cash generative and enjoys negative working capital as, given trading purposes.
Group operations are primarily financed the nature of the business, it generally does not give credit to from retained earnings and bank borrowings including an its customers.
Further information on the Groups policies for capital risk In addition to the primary financial instruments, the Group management and financial risk management are set out also has other financial instruments such as debtors, below.
The principal risk factors and uncertainties that could prepayments, trade creditors and accruals that arise directly affect the business are detailed in the Strategic Report.
Further information is provided in note 23 to the accounts.
Based on the Groups plans for 2015 and after making enquiries including preparation of reasonable trading The average rate of interest charged during the year on the forecasts, consideration of current financing arrangements Groups debt was 2.90% 2013: 2.74%, and the average year and current headroom for liquidity and covenant compliance, end rate was 1.75% 2013: 1.74%.
On 2014 results, net the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group interest was covered 33.7 times 2013: 33.6 times by profit has adequate resources to continue operations for the before tax, interest and non-trading items.
Based on year end foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the debt and profits for 2014, a 1% rise in interest rates would going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
reduce profits before tax and non-trading items by 0.5% 2013: 0.7% and interest cover would reduce to 28.9 times 2013: 27.4 times.
At 28 December 2014 the Group had gross borrowings attracting interest including overdraft of 40m 2013: 50m and cash balances of 0.9m 2013: 7.3m.
34 Annual Report 2014 The Restaurant Group plc Report of the Directors continued Annual General Meeting A separate Circular is included with the mailing of the Annual Report and Accounts to shareholders setting out the resolutions to be voted on at the Annual General Meeting, which is to take place at 11am on 14 May 2015 at the offices of Instinctif Partners, 65 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7NQ.
The Board believes that the proposed resolutions to be put to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of shareholders and, accordingly, recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings in the Company.
Auditor Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board Stephen Critoph Company Secretary 27 February 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2014 35 Corporate responsibility report The Restaurant Group plc TRG, Company or Group Alcohol Unit Reduction we have signed up to a core acknowledges that it has a significant role to play in the commitment to foster a culture of responsible drinking.
communities and wider environment in which it operates.
Part of the commitment is to help to remove 1 billion units of alcohol sold annually from the market by December This statement sets out the principal areas of focus and 2015.
We aim to achieve this by improving consumer choice activity that the Group has undertaken to date: of lower alcohol products and making the alcohol units more visible on our products and displays.
Nutrition the Groups approach to healthy eating.
Fruit and Vegetables we will support customers in their Our people the Groups policies and actions towards consumption of fruit and vegetables.
To help achieve this our employees.
we will be using the Governments 5-a-day guidelines, Our communities how TRG interacts with those due to be published in 2015, with a view to help making communities from which our customers and employees it easier for our customers to choose healthier meals.
Our environment the impact of TRG on the wider Being a Responsibility Deal partner means that the Company environment, and how we are seeking to reduce this.
is required to monitor and provide regular updates to the Department of Health with regard to the actions we are taking Our shareholders those that have invested capital in the to fulfil our commitments within each pledge.
development of TRG, and to whom the Directors and management of the Group are accountable.
Healthy eating is a personal responsibility but the Group acknowledges that as a provider of food and drink we have Nutrition a role to play in providing appropriate options from which TRG is a partner of the Public Health Responsibility Deal the individuals may choose when they eat out.
The Company Responsibility Deal, launched by the Department of Health.
strongly believes that we should offer our guests choices on The Responsibility Deal has been established to tap into the the menu.
Whilst we do not wish to be prescriptive we aim to potential for businesses and other organisations to improve provide a healthy choice at each menu point, alongside more public health through their influence over food, alcohol, indulgent options.
For many people, dining out is a treat and physical activity and health in the workplace.
therefore normal restrictions which may be applied to healthy eating on a day-to-day basis may be waived in favour of their The Group has renewed three pledges within the enjoyment and experience.
Responsibility Deal: we have removed all added trans fats from our products Allergens and constantly monitor our products to ensure this remains In October 2013, Frankie & Bennys launched a Non-Gluten the case: Containing Ingredients NGCI menu to cater for consumers we will use our local presence to encourage children and with a gluten allergy or intolerance.
This menu has been fully adults to become more active: and endorsed by Coeliac UK and as a result, Chiquito also launched a NGCI menu to improve choice for customers in we commit to ensuring effective action is taken in all 2014. premises to reduce and prevent under-age sales of alcohol primarily through the rigorous application of Challenge 21 During 2014, we published full allergen information for food and Challenge 25. and drink for all of our Leisure and Concessions brands in accordance with EU legislation.
This information is easily The Group has also signed up to a further five pledges accessible to customers on our brand websites.
Frankie & during 2014: Bennys and Chiquito customers are also now able customise Salt Reduction we feel this is an important consideration the menus online by selecting their dietary needs.
Customers for our customers and as a result have agreed to three visiting these brands can also access allergen information pledges under this category and commit: online via a personalised iPad on site.
to the salt targets for the end of 2012 agreed by the Responsibility Deal of which we achieved 95% compliance in 2014: to achieve the 2017 salt targets and are currently working with suppliers to reduce salt in the products we procure: and to work towards reaching the Salt Catering: Procurement target to help consumers lower their salt intake while eating meals out of the home.
We commit to procuring at least 50% by volume of products to meet these targets.
