12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED MARKETS AND EUROPE & REST OF WORLD DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE This region covers the countries of Europe 1,705m The market background and the world in which and the AMEA region including South we operate are explained more fully on page Korea.
In total these markets consume Sales 2014 4 but, in 2014, volume growth in our markets some 134bn cans annually but per capita Organic sales growth 5% was mixed with strong growth in South America consumption varies widely from region to helped by the FIFA World Cup, good growth region.
Our largest market is Europe in the AMEA region, albeit from a low base, where we have about 40% market share.
and North America and Europe performing In all we have 25 plants in the Europe & in line with their respective markets.
183m This year, we have adopted a new segmental disclosure for financial performance comprising Underlying operating Europe & Rest of World and the Americas to profit 2014 help transparency and understanding of our Organic operating growth 5% business see page 41 and Note 2 to the financial statements.
The following section reviews the trading performance of the two segments which encompass our four main geographic regions.
Europe & Rest of World: overview In the Europe & Rest of World segment organic sales grew 5%, with growth in all regions with the exception of Russia, and organic operating profit growth was 5%.
Return on sales was down slightly, and lower profits and recent investments made in growing the business including the new plant in Switzerland combined to reduce return on net assets for the segment.
Europe After a quiet start to the year in both standard and specialty cans, trading in Europe excluding Russia improved significantly and volume growth for the year was 3%, driven by the UK, Benelux and Germany.
Standard cans, as anticipated, were up 2% while specialty cans were up 4% as good growth continued within energy drinks.
Our business in Russia is self contained in terms of supply of aluminium and other raw materials, the can manufacturing process and customers.
Trading, however, was subdued primarily due to the weak macroeconomic backdrop.
Market performance in beer impacted the brewers while flavoured alcoholic drinks were delisted from the popular kiosks channel.
As a consequence, our volumes declined 2%.
The regulatory environment regarding alcohol appears now to be steadying and tax on beer has been frozen.
A positive development is that beverage cans share of the pack mix in Russia grew by 0.9% to 21.7% compared with 2013.
