22 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: INVEST WITH FOCUS The long term sustainability of our performance is 72% dependent on the successful expansion in current and Growth in India new markets, all the while maintaining a balance between Growth in India was very buoyant with volumes up 72%, growth and returns to our shareholders.
Through organic helped by our introduction of a growth and carefully selected bolt on projects, we aim to new domestically manufactured specialty can size.
defend our market positions and improve our ability to serve the needs of our customers.
EMERGING MARKETS Expansion in India STRATEGY BEARS FRUIT We have secured building plots in Sri City In line with our emerging markets strategy 55km from Chennai, Southern India, as 7% to complement our existing footprint, we well as Jaipur, Northern India, for two strengthened our capabilities in a number beverage can plants to complement the Attractive growth rates of faster growth markets during the year.
current plant The beverage can is expected in Mumbai.
The location of the new plants to continue to grow in the Middle Foothold in Saudi Arabia improves our footprint and will enable us East region in the medium term.
In January 2015, we acquired a 51% stake to better support our customers and to take in beverage can maker United Arab Can advantage of the continued exciting growth UAC for US$122m.
The two line plant has an of the beverage can in this market.
annual capacity of 1.8bn cans in both standard Each plant represents an initial investment and specialty sizes.
We are investing in a third of c 50m and together they will provide production line to meet the market growth, an extra capacity of 1.6bn cans in this and this is planned to come on line in the growing market.
The plant in Sri City is expected to be UAC is a modern business with respected operational in the second half of 2016. partners, well established customer 2.3bn relationships and a strong competitive Size of Central America position in an attractive market with good can market returns.
While the plant is operating well, The Central American can given our own global scale and technical market is growing at a rate expertise, we see a number of opportunities of around 4%.
Growth prospects for the beverage can in the Middle East are attractive and we look forward to working together with our partners in UAC to lead further expansion in the region.
Central America expansion The new joint ventures in Saudi Arabia and Panama Also in January 2015 we announced that, we, have well established customer relationships which together with Envases Universales fide Mexico, will form a base for further expansion in the completed an investment in Envases del Istmo respective regions.
SA, a single line beverage can plant in Coln, Panama.
Long term supply agreements have been secured with customers.
The transaction positions us well to serve both our local and global customers in an exciting growth region.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 23 INVESTING IN AMEA AMEA is the fastest growing region in the world in terms of beverage can consumption.
It accounts for 75% of the worlds population and around one third of the worlds can consumption.
24 PROCUREMENT GAINS 2014 was another strong year for procurement.
We moved to a global procurement model in 2013 with the aim of better leveraging our global scale and pockets of best practice across the business.
In 2014, the team delivered more than twice the budgeted savings for the second year running, helping to reduce year on year cost.
