08 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW A full review of the underlying and statutory I am pleased to report that in a difficult year, we delivered results can be found on pages 40 to 46. a good performance.
It has been a great team effort in the FOCUSED INVESTMENT face of unprecedented rises in metal premiums, the impact Our ultimate aim as a Company is to balance growth and returns to shareholders through of foreign currency translation and some pricing pressure.
focused and disciplined organic investment and bolt on acquisitions.
During 2014, we The annual dividend is up by 2% to 17.7p and we returned continued to invest in new growth markets 450m to shareholders during 2014 following the sale of and in our capabilities to manufacture new, differentiated products.
We installed a new line at our existing plant in Chile to meet the growth in specialty cans and also completed line conversions for specialty Before providing an overview of 2014, cans in Brazil, Turkey, Egypt and India to meet I believe, along with fellow board members, changing customer preferences and market that the proposed combination with Ball 4% needs.
We also announced the conversion of our represents a strong opportunity for industry two plants in Spain Europes second largest can consolidation to create a truly global platform Beverage can market from steel to aluminium.
The conversion to deliver best in class service to customers volume growth demonstrates our commitment to invest for our based on shared cultures of manufacturing In 2014, our beverage can customers and our confidence in the growth excellence and continued innovation.
In all dynamics of the can market in Spain.
Other we made in the region of 64bn significant projects included the investment in THE YEAR 2014 cans out of total global sum expanding the capacity of our Fusion aluminium In 2014, our beverage can volumes grew 4%.
bottle production in the Czech Republic to meet Reported sales from continuing operations, the demand for this innovative product.
however, were down 3% at 3,832m, mainly as a result of the depreciation against sterling The construction of the new can plant in of all three of our major trading currencies Widnau, Switzerland, is on schedule and on US dollar, euro and Russian rouble.
Organic budget, and is due to come on stream in the sales, which adjust for the impact of foreign final quarter of 2015.
The plant will give us currency translation, were up 4%, broadly in more flexibility within our European network to 40% line with our volume growth.
meet the growing demand for specialty sizes.
Aluminium premiums The increase in volumes stemmed from good We also announced that we will invest in a The aluminium premium is the organic growth in all regions except North second can plant in the south of India to meet additional cost over and above America at rates in line with or ahead of the continued growth in that market.
In the short the London Metal Exchange price respective markets.
In Brazil we saw exceptional term, expanding our existing plant close to to cover the physical delivery of volume growth boosted by the 2014 FIFA World Mumbai could have given us some cost the primary aluminium in a given Cup.
As expected we also increased market advantage but having plants in different location in Europe and North share in Brazil following the conversion of locations in India will ensure a favourable America.
During 2014, the some of our plants to meet the growing footprint and bring longer term advantages.
European premium reached an demand for specialty cans.
As part of this expansion project we also all time high of $510 tonne secured land in the north of India where we This good volume growth along with a non 2013 high: $300 tonne.
As plan to locate a third can plant in due course.
recurring indirect tax benefit in Brazil of 18m premiums are contractually passed were offset by 39m of foreign exchange In all, net capital expenditure from continuing through only in North America translation headwinds and 34m of higher operations was 195m 2013: 186m, 1.4 times and in some cases with aluminium premium costs.
As a result, reported depreciation and within our stated limits.
European customers this underlying operating profit from continuing resulted in a net additional cost operations was down at 418m 2013: 449m EXPANDING GLOBAL PLATFORM to Rexam of 34m in 2014. while organic operating profit increased, During the year, we continued to strengthen our as anticipated, by 2%.
We have spoken for some time about the opportunities in emerging markets but While the year was challenging in terms of have also indicated that competition is strong both sales and profit growth, we generated for new growth opportunities.
It was, therefore, good free cash flow one of the characteristics pleasing to see our strategy bear fruit as we of our business through tight management of acquired a controlling stake in United Arab working capital and disciplined capital spend.
Can UAC in Saudi Arabia in January 2015.
Free cash flow from continuing operations was strong at 225m 2013: 180m.
