02 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT on 27 May 2015 to shareholders on the register On 19 February 2015, the boards of Ball Corporation on 1 May 2015.
This takes the total dividend for 2014 to 17.7p, up 2% from last year.
Ball and Rexam announced that they had reached During the year, we also returned value to agreement on the terms of a recommended offer for shareholders through the 450m return of the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital cash following the completion of the sale of the Healthcare packaging business.
In recent years Rexams management page 44.
As we have said before, we will return surplus cash as additional distributions team has led a transformation of the Group, returning if we do not find the opportunities for approximately 1.5bn of cash to shareholders since investment with the right levels of return.
We expect to sustain the dividend in 2015 2010 and creating a focused beverage can maker with despite the fact that our free cash flow a promising future.
Notwithstanding that, the Rexam board generation will be constrained by the plans we have for the business see page 15 as believes that consolidation in the beverage can industry well as by trading headwinds.
We measure value not only in economic terms.
We also will bring an enhanced ability to serve the demands of identify and prioritise issues that concern our our increasingly global customers and would represent internal and external stakeholders such as environmental and societal issues so that we a compelling opportunity for our shareholders.
can align ourselves to their priorities and expectations.
During the year, we progressed I will now turn to matters concerning 2014. our thinking in these areas with a new materiality study involving a broad base of stakeholders, including customers, suppliers and relevant NGOs.
The result is a new sustainability framework and a set of metrics that will enable us to measure our progress for 2014 IN SUMMARY the period 20142020 in three main areas of Like many other UK based global companies focus: products, operations and people.
You we were buffeted by foreign exchange can read more about this on page 9.
On a constant currency basis, however, we continued to INVEST WITH DISCIPLINE 2% increase grow profits despite the impact of an Our capital expenditure in 2014 remained in total dividend unprecedented rise in aluminium premiums within our guidelines.
We are disciplined in The board is proposing a final and an economic environment which may our financial choices, selecting the options dividend of 11.9p per share, prove to be the new reality.
that can help best meet customer demand making a total dividend of 17.7p and generate value.
The board works with per share for the year.
Subject to The full report of our performance is on the leadership team to ensure the Group shareholder approval, we intend pages 40 to 46.
That we made progress in spends its capital allocation wisely and that to pay the final dividend on such tough conditions is testament to the investments deliver good returns.
Timely 27 May 2015 to shareholders strength and resolve of everyone at Rexam, execution of projects is key, and it is on the register on 1 May 2015. from Graham Chipchase and the executive encouraging to see that the investments leadership, to the management teams and we have made in recent years, for example, employees across the business.
Hard work bolstering our capabilities in the energy drinks and adherence to our core values helped sector, investing in extra capacity in the Africa, shape our performance.
They will also help 450m Middle East and Asia AMEA business, the us as we move forward.
new plant in the Nordic market and the Cash return conversion to more specialty can lines in In 2014, following the successful DELIVERING VALUE Brazil and Chile, have all progressed and sale of our Healthcare packaging We are conscious of the need to balance the are delivering the results we expected.
business, we returned 450m of long term capital investment requirements for cash to shareholders.
tomorrow with the rewards for shareholders today.
Returns to shareholders are a key constituent of our investment proposition and, within this, the dividend is a core element.
Subject to shareholder approval, we intend to pay a final dividend of 11.9p
