18 Five key strategic priorities see below and pages 21 to 29 help us to focus on what is important to deliver on our commitments, OUR STRATEGIC to align and mobilise our organisation and to optimise time to execution.
Together they will enable us to achieve our vision and our overriding goal to deliver sustainable value PRIORITIES to all stakeholders.
Our strategic priorities What are our key strengths?
How does this help to create value Events in 2014 Future challenges and risks OUR VALUES and how we measure?
Clear values help build a sense of trust and accountability.
They are We grew volumes 4% in 2014.
Strengthen our Global manufacturing footprint Delivering on our promises coupled Pressure on profit margins through a point of reference, a compass customer relationships with a proactive approach increases coordinated global customers Long standing relationships with to guide us.
Not simply by providing best quality and the likelihood of further sales growth.
procurement world leading brands customer service at the right cost but also Measures: Sales growth, Research and See summary of principal risks and Safety by working with customers strategically Depth of packaging knowledge new product development and Customer uncertainties on pages 34 to 39 In 2014, we took the decision to add and proactively.
We will strengthen ties Responsiveness to operational satisfaction score see pages 30 and 31. safety to our core values.
We wanted through commercial excellence and requirements to reinvigorate our focus, not just on marketing capability and while innovating the shop floor, but right across our to meet the challenge of profitable growth Continued investment in new products business.
Our safety vision is that we in a lower growth world.
and processes all get home safely to our family and Invest with focus Disciplined capital allocation with Our customers operate globally and expect We invested in organic growth in Brazil, Egypt, Asset acquisition expensive friends every day.
Ensure that we capture opportunities and good investment track record us to be able to match their geographic Lack of significant available new protect our core business, all the while footprint.
Our geographic base translates Continuous improvement World class project management emerging market investment We are determined to do better maintaining strict capital discipline into a robust business portfolio.
Investment of processes opportunities and a focus on returns.
improves our ability to win and extend tomorrow.
This is the key to strong customer relationships, operational Strong enterprise risk management contracts to serve the growing needs of See summary of principal risks and our customers and fully utilise our can uncertainties on pages 34 to 39 excellence and business success.
We Regarded as proactive, reliable set ourselves ambitious targets and, in making capacity.
global partner making us the benchmark for quality Measures: Sales growth, Profit growth in our industry, become a beacon Strong balance sheet and Emerging market sales see page 30. of best business practice.
Pursue continuous improvement Unrelenting focus on beverage Lowest delivered cost is essential to We again gained recognition for operational Metal premiums Recognition excellence from The Shingo Institute.
in operational excellence can making maintaining winning business and See summary of principal risks and We believe in recognising every contribution Our emphasis is on delivering first class ensuring that our production lines are Stringent focus on quality and uncertainties on pages 34 to 39 to our business and we celebrate outstanding products at cost at or below those of working at optimum capacity.
We reward and promote our competitors.
Measures: Underlying profit growth, people on merit, through fair and open Globally recognised manufacturing Free cash flow, Annual efficiency savings performance management and career excellence based on six sigma and see page 30. development systems.
We should all lean principles feel that our work is an enjoyable Highly skilled employees with the and fulfilling part of our lives.
engineering and technical expertise to support our business Teamwork We know that as a focused beverage In 2014, our customers products were recognised Shape our future Global centrally funded Positions us as the can maker of choice for Maintain balance in our innovation can company we are at our best when at various cans of the year awards across By innovating and continuing to innovation programme our customers and serves as a further portfolio across the short, medium and we work together as a group.
improve our sustainability performance means of reducing our cost base and long term in light of short term pressures deliver the greatest possible benefit to Close ties with technology leaders to to underpin our licence to operate and earning our licence to operate.
customers, shareholders, colleagues enhance our can making process See summary of principal risks and to support our customers as they face and communities when we pool our Measures: Recycling rates, Research and uncertainties on pages 34 to 39 increasing consumer and legislative Clear, aligned sustainability framework talents and pull together.
We respect new product development, Carbon intensity, pressures.
with stretching targets and value the diversity of our people Recycling rates see page 31. and we are committed to fairness Industry leading commitment to promote and meritocracy.
and support post consumer recycling Trust Build a winning organisation Engaged employees Engaged, motivated people understand We introduced safety as a core value.
Competition for talent Openness and honesty are essential to Ensuring that a culture of collaboration, how their work contributes to the delivery Strong and improving safety culture with See summary of principal risks and business efficiency and fundamental delivery and behaviour centred around of our strategy and the satisfaction of our engagement across the company uncertainties on pages 34 to 39 to a positive working environment.
our core values and leadership practices customers.
Training and development We encourage people to say what underpins everything that we do.
Continual investment in training and ensure that they have the skills to help they think and if we promise we will development to ensure that we are us remain competitive.
We will prepared Measures: Employee engagement and earn and deserve the trust of Clear values and leadership practices as Lost time accident rates see page 31. everyone who comes into well as globally applied Code of Conduct contact with us.
part of leaders performance objectives STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 19 Our strategic priorities What are our key strengths?
How does this help to create value Events in 2014 Future challenges and risks and how we measure?
Strengthen our Global manufacturing footprint Delivering on our promises coupled Pressure on profit margins through customer relationships with a proactive approach increases coordinated global customers Long standing relationships with Not simply by providing best quality and the likelihood of further sales growth.
procurement world leading brands customer service at the right cost but also Measures: Sales growth, Research and See summary of principal risks and by working with customers strategically Depth of packaging knowledge new product development and Customer uncertainties on pages 34 to 39 and proactively.
We will strengthen ties Responsiveness to operational satisfaction score see pages 30 and 31. through commercial excellence and requirements marketing capability and while innovating to meet the challenge of profitable growth Continued investment in new products in a lower growth world.
and processes Invest with focus Disciplined capital allocation with Our customers operate globally and expect We invested in organic growth in Brazil, Egypt, Asset acquisition expensive India and below Chile.
Our geographic base translates World class project management emerging market investment maintaining strict capital discipline into a robust business portfolio.
improves our ability to win and extend Strong enterprise risk management contracts to serve the growing needs of See summary of principal risks and our customers and fully utilise our can uncertainties on pages 34 to 39 Regarded as proactive, reliable making capacity.
global partner Measures: Sales growth, Profit growth Strong balance sheet and Emerging market sales see page 30.
Pursue continuous improvement Unrelenting focus on beverage Lowest delivered cost is essential to We again gained recognition for operational Metal premiums excellence from The Shingo Institute.
in operational excellence can making maintaining winning business and See summary of principal risks and Our emphasis is on delivering first class ensuring that our production lines are Stringent focus on quality and uncertainties on pages 34 to 39 products at cost at or below those of working at optimum capacity.
on time delivery our competitors.
Measures: Underlying profit growth, Globally recognised manufacturing Free cash flow, Annual efficiency savings excellence based on six sigma and see page 30. lean principles Highly skilled employees with the engineering and technical expertise to support our business In 2014, our customers products were recognised Shape our future Global centrally funded Positions us as the can maker of choice for Maintain balance in our innovation at various cans of the year awards across By innovating and continuing to innovation programme our customers and serves as a further portfolio across the short, medium and the world.
improve our sustainability performance means of reducing our cost base and long term in light of short term pressures Close ties with technology leaders to to underpin our licence to operate and earning our licence to operate.
enhance our can making process See summary of principal risks and to support our customers as they face Measures: Recycling rates, Research and uncertainties on pages 34 to 39 increasing consumer and legislative Clear, aligned sustainability framework new product development, Carbon intensity, pressures.
with stretching targets Recycling rates see page 31.
Industry leading commitment to promote and support post consumer recycling Build a winning organisation Engaged employees Engaged, motivated people understand We introduced safety as a core value.
Competition for talent Ensuring that a culture of collaboration, how their work contributes to the delivery Strong and improving safety culture with See summary of principal risks and delivery and behaviour centred around of our strategy and the satisfaction of our engagement across the company uncertainties on pages 34 to 39 our core values and leadership practices customers.
Training and development underpins everything that we do.
Continual investment in training and ensure that they have the skills to help development to ensure that we are us remain competitive.
prepared Measures: Employee engagement and Clear values and leadership practices as Lost time accident rates see page 31. well as globally applied Code of Conduct part of leaders performance objectives 20 HELPING OUR CUSTOMERS STAND OUT Different can sizes, smaller sizes for portion control, value add features as well as functional differentiation for consumers, such as freshness cues and easier pour openings, all help our customers cans to stand out from the crowd.
These cans from US brewer Dog Tag Brewing use Rexam Editions printing technology to deliver personalised messages of gratitude to the nations military personnel who lost their lives in the line of duty.
