04 MARKET REVIEW The major growth areas in terms of new plants The global beverage market is large and growing.
and new production lines have been in the developing parts of the world particularly in In 2014, around 1.9 trillion litres of packaged beverages China, South East Asia, Brazil, Middle East and were consumed across the world, an increase of 3% Africa.
The rapid expansion of modern retail in these markets supports can growth versus compared with 2013.
The beverage can is helping returnable glass packaging.
Moreover, current low levels of can consumption per capita in to drive that growth.
markets such as India 1 can per capita in 2014 compared with North American and West European averages respectively 315 and 86 cans per capita in 2014 suggest major long term growth opportunities.
We also continue to see can growth in mature markets driven THE GLOBAL BEVERAGE MARKET THE GLOBAL BEVERAGE CAN MARKET by share gains from glass packaging and While the average consumer drinks around The beverage can market comprises about 90% by the consumption shift from on trade 270 litres of beverages a year, consumption aluminium cans and 10% steel cans.
There is to off trade channels, where cans are levels and growth rates differ widely by a continued move from steel to aluminium, the preferred packaging.
North America and steel cans are now only used in some remains the largest market for beverages, with parts of AMEA and Brazil.
Moreover, nearly CAN ADVANTAGE consumption at 577 litres per capita while all beverage cans used in North America The advantages of the can are well average rates in Africa, the Middle East and and Europe are two piece cans but some documented: cans are unbreakable, light, Asia AMEA are well below the global average.
three piece beverage cans are still used quick to chill and offer great visibility on the The low consumption regions are expected in China and South East Asia.
Cans also to achieve the strongest growth in coming support long product shelf life, they protect Rexam estimates that around 310 billion years, especially AMEA.
from light and oxygen and keep the beverage beverage cans were consumed globally in fresh and safe to drink.
They are suitable for all Carbonated soft drinks CSD and beers are 2014.
Beer and CSD account for the vast beverages, either carbonated or still, alcoholic well established beverage categories and one majority of consumption, but an increasing or soft drinks.
They are also convenient for the of the largest globally in terms of consumption number of consumers are drinking other retailer with high cubic efficiency for transport along with packaged water, milk and hot drinks.
beverage categories such as energy drinks, and are easy to stack on shelves.
Furthermore, In 2014, the beer category continued to grow cider, iced RTD tea and coffee, FABs, flavoured beverage cans can be recycled forever.
at an annual rate of around 2%, while CSD and sparkling water and milk from a can.
Craft See page 26. volumes increased by less than 1%.
The fastest beer is also growing strongly, especially in North growth rates over the next three years are America and Europe.
THE GLOBAL PLAYERS expected from smaller categories such as Industry trends vary significantly region to The global beverage can market has three energy drinks, iced ready to drink RTD region according to different market dynamics.
major players, Rexam, Ball and Crown, who tea and coffee and flavoured alcoholic The worlds largest two piece market by far, together account for over 60% of the global beverages FABs, but also from the large North America, continues to show a slow supply of beverage cans.
Can-Pack has and high growth packaged water category.
controlled decline in the CSD market.
This is emerged as a strong regional player in recent See charts 1 and 2 opposite.
being partially offset by the growth in cans for years and accounts for some 4% of global Globally, more than 1.5 trillion units of beer, energy, RTD tea, and specialty categories.
Excluding Japan and Australia, two beverage packaging were sold in 2014, Brand owners seek pack differentiation and geographically isolated markets, the three an increase of 5% versus 2013.
Glass still shelf appeal in the more mature markets of largest players account for over 70% of accounts for the biggest share of the market North America, Europe and Japan and we the market.
closely followed by PET and then beverage can expect an increase in niche markets for cans, with the remainder packaged in a mix specialty cans such as Sleek, Big Cans and of cartons, pouches, sachets and other pack sizes other than standard 12oz cans.
Cans and PET have been growing fast at respectively 3% and 7% per year over the past five years, gaining share over glass.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B J E D C C I H G A A A A F REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 05 KEY CUSTOMERS Innovation is taking place in areas such as Rexams customers include large global and beverage categories, consumer segments, regional beverage companies in soft drinks and drinking occasions and channels using pack 77% alcoholic drinks with a diverse geographic size, shape and decoration as differentiators.
Percentage of turnover In emerging markets, the challenge is more One of their key challenges is profitable growth around different pack types to access myriad derived from Rexams top 10 customers in a world which is growing at a slower pace consumer segments, price points, beverage than before.
The slowdown in mature markets categories and channels.
has put pressure on prices and margins, and ABInBev Heineken To address customers needs, Rexam has emerging markets are proving no less Arizona Monster increased its focus on innovation.
We have Carlsberg Group Pepsi competitive as local champions and internal structures, governance and areas Coca-Cola Petropolis multinationals fight for position.
of activity in place to address the strategic CCU Red Bull The consolidation trend among the beverage priority of innovation.
We participate earlier producers industry continued in 2014 with a in the technology value chain and allocate number of new strategic partnerships aimed part of our innovation funds to earlier stage at increasing market share, expansion into development to help academic ideas come new and emerging markets and at the to commercial fruition.
We also develop reduction of costs by leveraging both partnerships with existing and new suppliers suppliers and distributors.
to concentrate on new technologies with potential for creating competitive advantage.
In developed markets, the trend is towards See also pages 9 and 10. finding ways for our customers to continue to capture consumers share of throat.
Our customers are increasingly focused on innovation to differentiate their products in a crowded and lower growth marketplace.
2014 Global consumption 201417 e Global beverage 1 2 Energy drinks 10% by beverage category volume growth CAGR Sports drinks 8% 1.9 trillion litres Soft drink and alcoholic drinks Packaged water 7% A: Packaged water Flavoured milk 7% B: CSD Iced RTD tea 7% C: Beer & cider Still drinks 6% D: Juice drinks Spirits 6% E: Iced RTD tea & coffee Iced RTD coffee 4% F: Spirits incl FABs FABs 4% G: Squash & fruit powders Beer & cider 3% H: Wine Wine 2% I: Energy & sports drinks 2% Juice & nectar J: Milk & dairy drinks Squash & fruit powder 2% K: Hot drinks CSD 2% Source: Canadean Source: Canadean 3 2014 Global beverage 4 2014 Whats in a can pack mix 1.5 trillion units A: Glass A: Beer B: Plastic B: CSD C: Cans C: Still drinks D: Other D: Energy drinks E: Iced RTD coffee drinks F: Iced RTD tea drinks G: FABs H: Sports drinks I: Nectars 2599% J: Juices 100% Source: Rexam estimates Source: Rexam estimates 5 2014 Global can volumes 6 2014 Can makers by region market share c310 billion cans c 310 billion cans Middle East & Africa A: Rexam South & Central America B: Ball Europe C: Crown Asia D: MCC North America incl Mexico E: Can-Pack F: Other 2014 Source: Rexam estimates Source: Rexam estimates J E D K F I H G D F B E B D B C C 06 MARKET REVIEW CONTINUED As a leading global beverage can maker, Consumer trends are changing: not simply what they drink Rexam stays in tune with the main trends seen in the table below and opposite, but where they drink it and what they expect the packaging adapting as needed so that it can continue to deliver above and beyond traditional expectations.
to ensure that the beverage can remains a package of choice for our own customers.
Consumer trends How Rexam cans address these growing trends Health and wellbeing: Cans are available in a variety of smaller sizes and slim shapes, supporting portion control Healthy nutrition and single serve consumption.
Product safety Cans are suitable for all beverages, including juices, iced ready to drink RTD tea and coffee, and flavoured and sparkling water.
Cans support long product shelf life.
They protect from light and oxygen, and keep the beverage fresh and, being tamper evident, safe to drink.
Easy and convenient: Cans are available for multiple channels eg vending machines, convenience stores, Easy to buy hypermarkets and in multiple sizes and formats to suit a wide range of consumer Easy to consume occasions at home, on the go, with food, etc.
Rexam offers thermochromic inks on cans to signal to the consumer when the product is at its optimum drinking temperature.
1 Individualism customisation: Rexams Standard Editions and Super Premium Editions technologies allow between Novelty, fun and experience 6 to 24 variable print designs on the can eg names, city photos for enhanced marketing Personalised packaging opportunities.
Cans have 360 branding capability for enhanced visibility on shelf.
Rexam can easily print QR codes and augmented reality AR features on a can, ideal for enabling social media interaction.
Premium and affordable: Rexam uses a combination of printing technologies eg high definition printing, tactile, Premiumisation debossing, sparkling, thermochromic inks and decorative effects as well as a variety Modern contemporary look of can ends and tabs coloured, laser engraved, cut out tabs to achieve a premium Affordability and contemporary look.
Rexams Fusion aluminium bottle 250ml and 330ml is ideal for premium products and special editions.
Cans offer affordable options when retailed in multipacks and smaller pack sizes.
Sustainability: The can is a highly efficient and economic package to produce, fill and distribute.
Sustainable production Lightweight, cubic efficient and unbreakable, the can protects the product perfectly.
Easy to recycle The can is the most recycled beverage packaging in the world.
Cans are infinitely and 100% recyclable with no loss of quality.
Cans have the ability to be recycled back into new cans and on the shelf within 60 days.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 07 NEW BEVERAGE CATEGORIES JUICE CRAFT The traditional categories of CSD, beer WINE BEER and energy drinks represent the majority CIDER of Rexams volumes.
READY TO In a world with a maturing traditional CSD DRINK category, fast growing beverage categories COCKTAILS such as juices, dairy, flavoured alcoholic BEER beverages and nutritious drinks offer an exciting growth path and diversification of our customer base.
In 2014, there were c 17,000 NPD new product developments launched FLAVOURED SOFT MILK in Rexam markets.
DRINKS Around 2,300 were in cans 13.5%.
FLAVOURED WATER The can offers customers the opportunity for product differentiation on crowded retail ENERGY DRINK shelves, where plastic bottles dominate in soft drinks, and provides a viable alternative to the more premium types of glass packaging.
CSD SPARKLING WATER Coca-Cola Perrier, Nestl Switzerland Germany Sleek 25cl Sleek 25cl SPARKLING WATER QR code Bisleri Soda, Bisleri Standard India Sleek 25cl 1 Editions SPARKLING FLAVOURED WATER La Croix, National Beverage Corp.
US Sleek 12oz ENERGY FLAVOURED MILK DRINKS MIO, Alcon Group Lotus Elixirs Russia Sleek 33cl US Sleek 12oz ICED RTD COFFEE Tactile printing Marleys One Drop, Marley Beverages US Sleek 12oz ICED RTD TEA NamasTea, Arbor Brasil Brazil Std 33cl HD printing CRAFT BEER NON ALCOHOLIC BEER Four Pure Bavaria Radler 0% UK Std 33cl Matt OV Germany Fusion 25cl Six Point FABS US Cap-Can 24oz Mang-O-Rita, ABInBev US Sleek 8oz Straw-Ber-Rita, ABInBev US Std 25oz Mikes Hard Lemonade US Sleek 8oz 1 Patent pending.
