14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Outside the US, there is significant potential for further growth in Mexico and Central America with the regions increasing population and improving GDP per capita.
We are participating in this growth through our own plant in Quertaro, Mexico, where we saw specialty can growth continue particularly in Sleek and 16oz cans.
We have a joint venture in Guatemala to help us broaden and strengthen our customer relationships, and at the start of 2015 we announced a new can making joint venture in Panama.
South America Trading was very strong in South America in the first half as a result of better than normal weather, the timing of the Carnival which extended the normally busy summer season and the build up to the FIFA World Cup.
As expected, volumes softened in the latter part of the second half but overall volumes grew 12%, ahead of the market as we regained market share and shipped a record 14bn cans.
Specialty cans continued to grow faster than the total market, ratifying the decision of converting four lines in Brazil to meet these needs.
We also expanded the specialty capacity of our plant in Chile.
The macroeconomic environment continues to THE AMERICAS be weak in Brazil with GDP growth expected The Americas region comprises North, to be 0.1% in 2015.
We expect the beverage Central and South America.
In total these can market growth to slow significantly 2,127m markets consume some 176bn cans compared with 2014 in the absence of any annually.
Per capita consumption varies Sales 2014 major stimulus such as the FIFA World Cup.
widely from region to region.
Our largest Organic sales growth 3% A new tax on drinks is expected to come into markets are the US where we are the force during 2015.
Additionally, we expect second largest can maker and Brazil fillers to revert to prioritising specialty cans where we have more than 50% market to provide attractive price points with share.
In Chile and Argentina we are the different can sizes.
In all, we have 30 plants in the region.
235m Underlying operating profit 2014 Organic operating growth flat
