STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 11 commitments with 15 measures enable us to monitor and report on progress across our Cans are the packaging of choice for many US craft beers three areas of focus.
We introduced a new product commitment to reduce the overall carbon footprint of a beverage can by 25% by 2020 from a 2010 baseline.
We also now have a specific commitment relating to water consumption, which is a major concern for our customers especially in regions of high water stress.
In the quest for continuous improvement, we benchmark our performance against the best in the world through regular third party reviews.
We are continually challenging ourselves to be the most sustainable business we can be, and our inclusion once more in the prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability Indices DJSI Europe, where we are one of only five packaging companies listed, and in the MSCI Global Sustainability Indices confirm the progress that we have made.
BUILDING A WINNING ORGANISATION Building a winning organisation is a key element of our strategy to help secure a sustainable future for our business and our people, our customers and shareholders.
We have values and FOR CRAFT ITS CAN leadership practices which define how we Why are craft brewers all over the should behave, how we perform and how world choosing cans?
Because of the 1,860 we can act as one company.
The values many advantages cans deliver for beer, and practices are part of leaders personal including durability, high recyclability, Beer brands in cans performance objectives and help us to light-barrier properties that preserve Whilst recent years have been differentiate ourselves and make us the freshness and portability cans go tough on overall beer volume, employer of choice.
We reward and where glass cannot, such as parks, craft beer growth has increased recognise our people in return, and beaches and golf courses.
Demand for beer support them in their choice of career.
produced by small and independent brewers has never Prepared for the future been higher and craft beer In 2014, we continued to focus on companies are increasingly performance management, talent choosing the beverage can.
management and providing learning and According to the US based development opportunities for our people.
com, close to 500 Our aim is to develop employees skills to different breweries offer nearly help them progress their careers, and help us In 2014, we developed these unique cans 1,860 beer brands in cans, and grow our business.
Development objectives for UK based Fourpure Brewing Co they now account for more than are agreed during annual performance an independent UK craft brewer.
evaluations and employees across all locations have the opportunity to learn proactively through our online resources, good example of our work to date.
We can regular team meetings, the local presentation on the job learning and mentoring as well expect to see similar work in the future as of the annual and half year financial results as through formal programmes with leading we seek to ensure that we are well placed to and the economic factors affecting the business schools, specialist consultancies and address the needs of customers in an ever Groups performance.
We have nominated vocational training organisations to build skills more complex market.
employee representatives who help ensure and performance levels.
that employees view are taken into Our internal appointment rate for our most Engaged consideration.
We also have employee share senior leadership levels of more than 75% is The global roll out of our vision to be the best schemes, in countries where this is feasible, a clear demonstration that we offer careers beverage can maker in the world as well as the to promote share ownership.
introduction of safety as a core value during In our employee survey 2013, in terms of the year are expected to drive employee During 2014, we continued to look at the engagement, we were three percentage engagement further.
organisations effectiveness to ensure that we points from the upper quartile in our focus on the work that is important to us and Communicating with all our employees is a key benchmark group which includes a number where this is best carried out.
Our ultimate priority for all our leaders.
Each sector has its of non manufacturing organisations.
Our aim is to provide the right structure to support own regular channels and vehicles such as face 2015 survey will, we hope, show that we the work we do and an organisation that is to face meetings, notice boards, publications, continue to make progress with this key geared to bring as much clarity as possible and, in South America a dedicated Facebook indicator as we have done in the latest to what is an increasingly ambiguous world.
See page 31. regular site visits organise townhall meetings The internal restructuring of our business in with the employees.
We encourage employees Europe into four distinct but interdependent to participate and give their views on any regions during the year brought our aspect of the Groups business through organisation closer to the customer and is a
