STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 09 Also in the same month, we completed a To respond to the shifting and challenging Our lean manufacturing approach was very substantial investment in Envases del Istmo SA back drop, we made further important changes much in evidence, and we saw good results from Endelis, a beverage can business in Coln, during the year in the way we are organised.
the many value stream activities implemented Panama, in association with Envases Universales The aim was to bring us closer to our customers in 2014, not least the delivery of a further 20m fide Mexico EUM, a long standing partner in and build strong, sustainable relationships as of efficiency savings to maintain our solid Central America.
Internally we are record in this area.
See page 30. more aligned across our four regions to help UAC is a modern business with respected The world class standard of our operations us better understand, anticipate and respond partners, well established customer was again recognised by The Shingo Institute to customer needs.
Key account directors now relationships, in a market with attractive a global reviewer of operational excellence.
manage our main customers on a global rather growth prospects for the beverage can and It was not just our manufacturing that gained than regional basis.
This helps to co-ordinate we look forward to working together with our Shingo accreditation: at the start of the year our approach and is helping to extend our partners in UAC to lead further expansion in our headquarters in Rio fide Janeiro became points of interaction with customers beyond the region.
See also page 22. the first corporate office in the world to be procurement and into marketing and recognised by the Institute.
At year end, our The joint acquisition of the Endelis business sustainability two areas where we can add plant in Jacare in South America received its in Panama complements our existing Central value to our relationships.
Only a handful of sites from American footprint and positions us well to serve and quarterly reviews of mutually agreed key all walks of industry meet the Institutes strict our customers in this exciting growth region performance indicators help ensure further criteria each year: the fact that we now have as well as the broader Latin America market.
that we execute as planned and deliver the eight accredited plants unmatched by any other best product offering at the best cost.
The reaction to the acquisitions from customers company in the world demonstrates the extent and employees has been very positive and of our achievements.
With two plants in North OPERATIONAL the integration of the two businesses is now America well advanced in the accreditation EXCELLENCE AT THE CORE proceeding apace.
We expect to extract further process, we are confident of adding more to this At Rexam, our drive for operational synergies given our own global scale and roster as we continue our pursuit of excellence.
excellence extends beyond just the financial breadth of technical expertise.
A major focus this year has been driving SHAPING OUR FUTURE further improvement in the Groups health and STRENGTHENING THROUGH INNOVATION safety performance.
It was pleasing to see that CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Our ability to innovate is crucial: it adds value the Groups Lost Time Accident Rate improved Our major customers are growing: they have and is an important driver of growth and substantially after the absence of any ambitious growth targets and are, naturally, keen improved returns.
Our innovation programme improvement in 2013.
A fatal injury at the UAC to deliver on these.
There is significant pressure focuses on the pack of the future, core process plant although prior to the completion of the in some of our customers core markets from improvement and the plant of the future.
acquisition shows that there is still more to consumer, regulatory and other trends and the do.
In 2015, we are rolling out a new world Consumers continue to demand more and need for growth is driving higher demands on class safety plan to all locations in the Group, more from the products they buy and are innovation and differentiation: in the case of to establish a single standard of expectation doing this in an increasing variety of outlets.
cans this centres mainly on different can sizes for behaviour as we renew our efforts to Differentiation is key, and we consistently and value add features.
Customers are also remove accidents from our sites, and sustain pursue innovation for customers as can be seen focused on supply chain savings to help support that level.
More details on page 25. in various examples in this report.
As a consequence, we are development programme encompasses both experiencing a more co-ordinated, global Our manufacturing capabilities are where incremental and transformational technologies, approach to procurement among our customers.
we create the vast majority of our value helping our customers to position and sell We also see players in both soft drinks and and where we aim to generate sustainable their products as efficiently, sustainably and beer exploring consolidation opportunities.
profitably as possible well into the future.
BELIEVING ZERO LOSS IS ATTAINABLE All production processes have losses.
Rexams philosophy is that all losses can be understood and minimised by using continuous improvement techniques embedded within an engaged workforce.
In 2013, we started a programme called Zero Loss in several Rexam production facilities to eliminate defects and machine stoppages by using world class total productive maintenance TPM techniques that rely on employee and leadership collaboration for success.
By eliminating losses we are making our production processes inherently safer by removing the need for physical interventions.
We may never get to zero but we have an undying belief that we can always improve, and that, by educating and engaging our workforce, they will fully integrate improvements with their daily work.
Our intention is to accelerate the Zero Loss programme by leveraging any lessons learned and best practices established in 2015 and beyond.
Employee and leadership collaboration on Zero Loss at the Milton Keynes plant in the UK.
10 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED our supplier collaboration programme, and measures in our key performance indicators.
Within core process improvement we build on our embedded lean manufacturing and by leveraging public funding for earlier stage See page 31.
In 2015, we plan to provide a research.
I am encouraged by the progress more detailed update on our progress.
six sigma practices with new technologies to deliver step change improvements in our we have made and confident that we have a As a global manufacturing business robust technology pipeline for the future.
manufacturing process and costs to address producing billions of beverage cans a year, our customers need for increased productivity.
we have a corporate responsibility to ensure AND THROUGH SUSTAINABILITY sustainability sits at the heart of our business.
During 2014, our intention to pursue Many of our customers have advanced transformational innovation was exemplified We have a carefully considered and robust programmes that commit them to ambitious framework to ensure we address the broader by us taking an equity stake in an advanced targets with regard to the sustainability of engineering company, Magnaparva issues of sustainability across all of our their packaging.
As one of their core suppliers, business.
This framework is focused on three Packaging, to investigate disruptive we support them in their journeys to drive technologies in metal forming to drive can key areas: products, operations and people.
sustainable transformation within their supply lightweighting and reduce energy consumption.
chains and to maintain the case for the can.
In 2014, we carried out a materiality study Together these are expected to provide cost Our work with Carlsberg, the Danish global to understand better the key areas that are advantage and improve the quality and brewer, on their Circular Economy programme of importance to our stakeholders.
The study efficiency of our can making process.
is just one example of the work that we are highlighted economic, social and environmental A third focus for innovation is developing the doing to support our customers.
See page 26. issues that most concern our stakeholders and plotted the risks and opportunities.
plant of the future with highly sustainable and Our own sustainability agenda is an flexible plant designs to help our customers important means of not simply supporting Following the study, we reviewed our access new markets.
During the year, we our customers but also of reducing our cost sustainability framework to align our added a number of strategic technology base and earning a licence to operate as a commitments closer to those of our projects to support this work.
trusted member of the community.
We have set ourselves Our ongoing collaboration with our customers decade or more of embedding sustainability stretching goals for 2020 to ensure the throughout our organisation, we now think business continuously improves and plays helps identify opportunities and understand priorities.
We deliver by examining and using and operate in a more integrated manner its part in addressing the issues facing and now include a number of non financial business and society today.
Twelve specific new technologies from other industries, via WHAT MATTERS Consumer Product Customer Legislation In 2014, we carried out a new materiality health issues quality partnership packaging assessment involving a broad base of and dialogue waste Supply chain Climate internal stakeholders, customers, investors, responsibility change Pack choice Energy suppliers, industry associations as well efficiency Circular Human Recycling as NGOs.
economy rights Material use Carbon in The process enabled us to realign our the pack Water usage priorities to match their expectations Innovation Legislation as closely as possible and to update materials our own targets and measures.
Data security ESG reporting Spills and Health environmental and safety Generation Y Consumer Trend stable incidents attitudes to Good Trend increasing packaging Zero waste governance Emerging Code of Local markets Conduct communities Employee relations 25% Volatile Customer Organic consolidation We have committed to reduce Compounds Discrimination the overall carbon footprint of Employee Talent a beverage can by 25% by 2020 wellness management versus 2010. Business significance of economic, environmental and social impacts Influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions
