STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 15 ACTING RESOLUTELY TO Total P&L costs of the plan over the next three The Groups balance sheet remains strong and MEET CHALLENGES AHEAD years are expected to be 140m of which 80m we maintain our investment grade rating with 2015 is expected to remain challenging.
Most of the cash costs will all rating agencies.
Aluminium premiums, despite new proposed occur in 2016 and 2017.
Capital expenditure We still see opportunities for further load out rules, are expected to remain high is expected to be an additional 70m in 2015 development in all our regions.
We funded and there is limited opportunity to pass on and 2016, which relates mainly to investment the two latest acquisitions out of debt and these costs in Europe and South America in the current footprint to support our would envisage adopting a similar approach under current contracts.
Customer pressure customers during this restructuring.
in the future for smaller bolt ons.
and competitor actions are reducing market Once the restructuring is complete, annual prices, and competition is strong for new Significant steps have been taken to savings are expected to be 50m from 2017. growth opportunities.
On top of this, our strengthen our strategic position to better customers still want and expect us to invest in We plan to pursue further restructuring actions, serve our customers, and we are now a new growth markets and new differentiated included in the costs set out above, but we are 100% focused beverage can maker.
We are taking resolute steps to not in a position to disclose anything further at acquisition of a majority stake in UAC and address these challenges in Europe, reducing this juncture.
I am confident that the actions our investment in Panama position us well our cost base and increasing our productivity we are taking and those that we are planning in higher growth geographies.
We will be carrying will help us achieve the cost leadership that In summary, we expect 2015 to present a through these plans irrespective of the we need.
Rexam has the pragmatic mindset tough trading environment with headwinds outcome of the Ball offer.
required and has proven over the years that, from metal premium, foreign exchange when set a target, it will deliver.
As a first step, we will be opening consultations volatility and pricing pressure.
However, with the German works council in March 2015 In closing, while the fundamentals of our we are taking steps to address these through with a view to closing our plant in Berlin.
industry may be shifting, I am confident that further improvements in productivity to make Berlin has three low speed lines and one of they are sound.
The global beverage can sure we are delivering cost leadership and the highest fixed cost bases in our European market is expected to continue to grow at continuing to invest in growth capacity to network and has become uncompetitive in around 3% for the foreseeable future.
We can enhance our competitive market positions.
serving its core German, Benelux and Polish capture that growth: we have leading positions markets.
Whilst we conducted a thorough in our main markets and are increasing our review of our options, including investing in exposure in emerging markets.
We are building higher speed lines, reductions in SG&A and stronger partnerships with our customers.
incremental investment in capacity to reduce They are global businesses, and they want the cost per thousand cans, it was clear that to deal with sophisticated, global suppliers.
Graham Chipchase the plants location meant that even if those Chief Executive We have also strengthened our technological steps were taken, it could still not provide capabilities to meet increasingly demanding 12 March 2015 a competitive cost base to support those customer needs.
PREMIUM PACKAGING Fusion combines the functional benefit and sustainability credentials Such is the demand for Fusion aluminium of a standard beverage can with the premium characteristics of a bottle.
bottle that we are more than doubling the capacity of our plant in the Czech Republic.
Due to come on line in 2015, it will enable us to better serve our customers in their search for a container that helps promote their brands.
35m Investment in a high speed line will enable us to increase the capacity for Fusion bottles and to further seed markets in North and South America see also page 26.
