STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 13 Africa, Middle East & Asia NEW WAYS TO ENJOY Our AMEA business saw continued growth with overall volumes growing 18% to just In 2014, US based Mikes Hard Lemonade 200% Co expanded its packaging mix to include over 3bn driven by good growth in specialty cans.
Our volumes in India, boosted by the small 8oz cans to respond to the needs of Growth customers eager for new ways to enjoy introduction of domestically manufactured The 12 pack of 8oz cans has 250ml cans, grew robustly 72%.
In the a quiet start to the year but with our conversion US, these smaller serving sizes The 8oz Sleek can is a distinctive package.
to specialty cans now fully ramped up, we Combined with colourful, eye catching continued to grow in popularity, were able to benefit from a buoyant market in 2014, with sales of 8oz cans in graphics, it attracts attention on retail and 16% growth as we supplied to both global shelves while at the same time delivering 12 pack formats increasing more and local drinks manufacturers.
In Turkey, than 200% compared with 2013. the inherent benefits of the can: superior the market picked up throughout the year recycling, quick filling, and easy distribution.
and volumes ended up ahead of last year.
Americas: overview Performance in the Americas see page 14 was good.
Organic sales were up 3% as strong volume growth in South America was partially offset by a volume decline in North America.
Organic operating profit was flat as the benefit of strong sales in South America and a good product mix was offset by the commoditisation of some specialty can sizes in North America.
Return on sales and return on net assets were lower than last year, reflecting the adverse impact of foreign exchange translation on profits and the investment in line conversions in South America.
At c 40% North America still has the highest return on net assets in the Group.
North and Central America In North America, can consumption remains the highest in the world at more than 315 cans per capita per year.
Rexam has more than 20% of the North American market.
During the year we have continued to focus on diversifying the portfolio and establishing strong positions with growth customers in growth categories.
Our strategy is bearing fruit: we are the largest can supplier across both the tea and energy drink categories with both categories continuing to show year on year growth.
In 2014, our volumes tracked the industry.
Our standard can volumes were down 3% SAFETY THROUGH ENGAGEMENT in line with the CSD market.
Specialty can Our safety vision is that we all get home volumes were up 1% as good volume growth safely to our family and friends every day.
in Sleek and 16oz sizes offset maturing, In the high speed manufacturing of cans, larger specialty can sizes.
Encouragingly, it takes a great deal of effort and vigilance growth in Sleek and 16oz was driven by from everyone to establish and maintain customers in a variety of beverage categories a safe work environment.
While we adopt including beer, CSD and energy drinks as a common approach to safety, businesses well as flavoured alcoholic beverages, so have their own award programmes to called malternatives.
encourage and recognise plants that keep their people safe.
For example, in the US, The process of commoditisation in the plants that reach one million hours without specialty can segment in North America is a lost time injury are recognised for this accelerating as contracts are renewed and, achievement: to date, seven of them have as previously stated, this will have an effect achieved this milestone.
They give credit on volumes and margins during 2015. for their success to the engagement of their people, from management to shop floor as well as a strong safety culture.
At least one safety goal is included in the annual objectives of plant management and their people.
