STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This remuneration policy received a binding vote from shareholders POLICY at the AGM 2014 and became effective at the conclusion of the AGM on 2 May 2014.
Any commitments, eg historical share awards, entered into prior to approval and implementation of the remuneration policy as detailed in this report will be honoured on their original terms.
Policy table executive directors fixed pay Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Base salary Salaries are reviewed annually taking Annual salary increases for executive The overall performance of the account of our remuneration policy, directors will not normally exceed individual is considered by the To attract and retain personal performance and the the average percentage increase Committee when reviewing salary.
high performing talent experience of the executive director.
awarded to other employees in the by setting base salaries Other factors considered are the levels United Kingdom.
Increases may be at rates comparable of base salary provided for the above this level: for example if there with what would be broader employee base, prevailing is an increase in the scope, scale, paid in an equivalent market and economic conditions, and market comparability or responsibility position elsewhere.
market data from companies of similar of the role.
market capitalisation and revenue to Rexam with consideration of industry sector relevance.
Benefits The Company provides private healthcare Set at a level which the Committee None.
insurance, permanent health insurance,  To provide competitive acarbenefit orcashequivalent, travel,  and cost effective accommodation and meals while on and individual circumstances, benefitstoassist Company business.
The policy allows such as relocation, and which are executive directors  to carry out their  by companies of similar size duties effectively.
by the relevant tax authority, or in certain and complexity.
circumstances are considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
Retirement and other Executive directors who commenced Current executive directors receive a None.
relatedbenefits UK based employment prior to 6 April pension entitlement equal to 1 30th of 2011, participate in the Rexam Pension their selected pensionable salary with To provide market Plan, a career average revalued earnings an optional cash supplement of 44% competitive retirement definedbenefitplan thePlan.
Members of eligible base salary not pensioned.
and other related select a pensionable salary for the year In the event of death in service of a benefits.
and receive a salary supplement on member of the Plan with dependants, pension eligible base salary not an age related amount of between pensioned.
11 and 15 times salary is provided.
Executive directors who commence UK In the event of ill health and subject based employment after 6 April 2011   may be provided through the Plan in contribution pension arrangement.
accordance with the Plan rules.
A newly appointed executive director who is an internal recruit and already a member of the Plan is entitled to continue to participate in the Plan.
Executive directors who are newly recruited may opt for a retirement plan contribution of 25% of base salary, or alternatively elect for a cash supplement of 22% of base salary.
Death in service life cover of four times base salary and a Group income replacement plan, providing continuing income for two years at 50% of base salary after short term , withalump sum of two times base salary payable on cessation of service if there is no return to work, is also provided.
68 POLICY CONTINUED Policy table executive directors performance based pay Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Annual incentives Financial and personal objectives Annual incentive opportunity The annual incentive is based are set at the start of the year and as a percentage of base salary: , To incentivise the are aligned to strategic objectives.
 Maximum performance 180% executive directors Following the end of the year, the accounts for 80% of the overall and senior executives Committee considers the extent to Target performance 90% incentive, and also on achievement toachieveprofitable which these have been achieved of personal performance objectives Threshold performance 45% growth and to sustain and sets the award level.
which accounts for 20% of the overall the Groups cash Annual incentive payments are incentive.
Details of measures for Annual payments are subject performance.
2014 are included on page 75. to overall Committee discretion taking into consideration both the  and achievement against personal objectives.
Subject to malus and clawback.
Deferred bonus shares A proportion of the annual incentive A part of any earned annual All deferred shares vest after as determined by the Committee is incentive is to be deferred into Rexam three years.
To add long paid in Rexam shares and deferred shares, the current mandated term sustainability for three years.
Dividend equivalents amount being 25% of total incentive and shareholder are awarded in shares or cash equal earned.
alignment to short to the dividends paid during the period term performance between the date of grant and the achievement.
date of transfer of the shares on the number of shares that vest.
Awards will be forfeited in the event that a participant voluntarily terminates his employment and breaches restrictive covenants.
Long term incentives The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The maximum value that can be The LTIP performance measures is used for the long term incentive granted in a given year is 220% for awards from 2014 are relative To motivate and arrangement.
Awards which may of base salary.
total shareholder return TSR reward longer term be granted as nil cost options or performance and EPS growth Under each measure, threshold performance, linked to conditional share awards vest to the weighted 25% on TSR and 75% on performance will result in 25% of key strategic objectives.
extent that performance conditions EPS.
The EPS portion will only vest if maximum vesting for that element, have been achieved over a three a certain minimum average return rising on a straight line basis to year measurement period.
Dividend on capital employed ROCE is full vesting.
equivalents are awarded in shares achieved.
TSR targets are set with or cash equal to the dividends paid threshold being median ranking in during the period between the date the relative TSR versus the largest of grant and the date of vesting on 150 companies excluding investment the number of shares that vest.
trusts by market capitalisation within the FTSE All Share Index: maximum Subject to malus and clawback.
vesting is for upper quartile ranking.
Awards will be forfeited in the EPS targets are set at the start of event that a participant voluntarily each three year measurement terminates his employment.
period having regard to a number of internal and external reference points.
The ROCE underpin is set above the cost of capital.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 69 Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures All employee Under the current all employee share Savings limits and the maximum None.
share plans plan UK based executive directors are discount for the option price are entitled to participate in the UK tax set by the UK tax authorities.
The To encourage voluntary approved Savings Related Share current maximum approved monthly participation in share Option Scheme SAYE.
The current ownership throughout maximum discount for the option Participants make monthly the Group where share price is 20% of the market price contributions from salary for either plans are appropriate.
of a share on the invitation date.
 of an option to buy Rexam shares at the end of the savings period at an option price which can be discounted by up to 20% of the market price on the invitation date.
Notes to the policy table Use of discretion The Committee will operate the annual incentive, deferred bonus plan, LTIP and, where relevant, the SAYE scheme, according to their respective rules or relevant documents and in accordance with the Listing Rules.
The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice as to the operation and administration of these plans.
This includes, but is not limited to, the following: selecting participants: reviewing performance measures, their weighting and targets, from year to year: determining the timing of an annual incentive payment or share grant: deciding the amount of annual incentive or share awards, as well as the proportion of an award vesting or paying out, upwards or downwards, : deciding how to treat leavers, depending on their leaving circumstances, as detailed on page 73: deciding the adjustments required in certain major corporate events such as rights issues, share buybacks, special dividends or corporate restructurings: taking the necessary decisions in the event of a change of control as detailed on page 73.
In exercising judgement and discretion, the Committee will ensure at all times that any adjustment will be made on a neutral basis, .
 performance may be made in exceptional circumstances to ensure outcomes are fair both to shareholders and to participants.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the annual report on remuneration in the following years annual report and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major institutional shareholders.
The use of discretion in relation to the Companys SAYE and share incentive plans will be as permitted under relevant legislation, HMRC guidance and the Listing Rules.
Malus and clawback The Committee can cancel, reduce or impose further conditions in relation to the payment of annual incentives or the vesting of deferred, .
Thetriggersforthese malus adjustmentsinclude: being misstated other than restatement due to a change in accounting policy or to rectify a minor error : management, shareholders or the  misconduct that resulted in the Group suffering a loss or reputational damage.
For the executive directors and any other selected individuals, the Committee can decide at any time within two years of the award payment or vesting date that an amount of value in cash or shares should be recovered clawed back from the individual or that subsisting awards or other proposed payments should be cancelled, reduced or have further conditions imposed.
The clawback triggers are broadly the same as  clawback.
In relation to the deferred bonus plan, awards will be forfeited in accordance with remuneration policy in the event that a participant voluntarily terminates his employment and breaches restrictive covenants.
Remuneration policy for other employees The following differences exist between the policy set out above and the approach to the remuneration of employees generally.
executive directors annual incentive measures are set at Group level other incentive plan participants are incentivised using a mix of sector and Group level measures: only executive directors are required to defer 25% of their annual incentive into Rexam shares: the LTIP as described above applies to executive directors, the executive leadership team and senior management.
Similar arrangements apply for all other participants although the performance measures and targets may vary: , : clawback will apply to the executive directors and to any other employees by direction of the Committee.
70 POLICY CONTINUED Performance measure selection and approach to target setting Measures and weightings for the annual incentive are reviewed and selected annually by the Committee to align with the Companys strategic prioritiesfortheyear.
The performance measures proposed for 2015 are set out below.
Incentive plans Performance measure Reasons for selection Annual incentive plan Profitbeforetax oroperating Key driver of shareholder value.
 Captures growth as well as Rexams ability to manage costs.
Cashflow Encourages operational cash discipline and responsible and well timed investments.
Personal objectives Alignment of behaviours to strategic annual objectives.
Long term Earnings per share Captures long term growth and drives shareholder value creation.
incentive plan Relative total shareholder Captures creation of shareholder value and rewards management return for outperformance.
ROCE underpin for earnings Rexam is committed to maintaining strong capital discipline and balance growth per share measure and returns.
The Committee believes that EPS, with the ROCE underpin, and TSR provide strong alignment with shareholder interests and our longer term strategy.
These measures also strike a good balance between growth and returns, as well as between internal and external perspectives on the Companys performance.
Policy table non executive directors fees Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Non executive The fees of the chairman, the senior independent An annual fee will be paid monthly to the chairman directors fees director and the other non executive directors are and non executive directors.
Each will be set at a reviewed annually.
Fee levels are benchmarked , motivateandretainnon To attract and retain non against FTSE listed companies of similar size executive directors while being proportionate to the executive directors of the and complexity and against sector comparators.
requirements, time commitment of the role and highest calibre with broad the contribution that is expected.
An additional fee is The chairman is paid a single, consolidated fee commercial and other paid to the senior independent director and to and non executive directors are paid a basic fee.
experience relevant to the Committee chairs.
An additional fee is paid to the senior independent the Company.
director and to the chairs of the board committees.
The maximum fee that the non executive directors including the chairman will be paid by way of If revised, the effective date of any fee change remuneration for their services as directors of the is 1 January.
Company is set with reference to the relevant comparator group.
The aggregate fee that can be paid as stated in the Companys articles of association is 1,000,000 pa. Benefits The chairman and the non executive directors may Set at a level which the Committee considers will    duties effectively.
The Company reimburses travel,   accommodation and meals to the chairman and the by companies of similar size and complexity.
executive directors to carry non executive directors while on Company business The non executive directors do not participate out their duties effectively.
and provides secretarial support to the chairman of in the Companys incentive plans or receive the Company.
The policy allows us to provide any .
 the relevant tax authority, or in certain circumstances are considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee, .
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 71 Approach to remuneration upon the appointment of a new executive director In the cases of hiring or promoting an executive director from within Rexam, the Committee will align the remuneration package with the stated remuneration policy, as described in the table below.
In determining the appropriate remuneration, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both Rexam and its shareholders.
Item Approach Maximum Base salary The base salary will be determined by reference to Set at a level appropriate to attract talent, relevant market data, experience and skills of the taking into account market conditions.
individual, internal relativities and their current basic salary.
Where new appointees have initial base salaries set below market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over a period of two to three years.
Retirement and other As outlined under Retirement and other related Maximum contributions are as outlined under relatedbenefits .
Externallyrecruited  executives can opt for a retirement plan pension on page 67. contribution or an equivalent cash supplement.
Benefits   in the table on page 67 and may include any other executive directors.
Annual incentives The structure described in the policy table on The maximum opportunity is 180% of base salary.
 proportion of employment over the year.
Long term incentives Will be granted awards under the LTIP as described The maximum award size is 220% of base salary in the policy table on page 68 at the next scheduled at date of grant.
External recruitment The Companys policy is that all executive directors serve under contracts terminable by the Company or the executive director on one years notice.
However, in circumstances which the Committee considers exceptional and believes it appropriate to do so, the policy allows for an externally recruited executive director to be offered a contract terminable by the Company on two years notice if, for reasons other than poor performance, .
If circumstances are such that it is not possible to make awards under the incentive arrangements in the remuneration policy, the Committee may make an award in respect of a new external appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including i any performance conditions attaching to those awards: ii the likelihood of those conditions being met: and iii the proportion of the vesting period remaining.
Under exceptional circumstances, the Committee may consider it appropriate to grant a buy out award under a structure not included in the policy, exercising the discretion available in the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Awards will not be of a materially greater fair value as assessed by the Committee than the fair value of awards that the appointee is giving up.
Internal recruitment In cases of appointing a new executive director by way of an internal promotion, the Committee will follow the approach in the table above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to executive director level, the Company may honour these arrangements:however, ,  the arrangements as stated in the table.
Employment contracts for executive directors Graham Chipchase was appointed to the board on 10 February 2003 and the date of his current employment contract is 30 November 2009.
David Robbie was appointed to the board on 3 October 2005 and the date of his current employment contract is 20 October 2010.
The executive directors have rolling employment contracts which contain the key terms shown in the table below and which are more fully explained in the policy table on pages 67 to 69 and in the termination of contracts and exit payment policy on page 73.
Item Terms Remuneration Basesalary, pensionandbenefits, ,  Private health insurance for director and dependants 30 days paid annual leave Participation in annual incentive plan and deferred bonus plan, subject to plan rules Participation in LTIP, subject to plan rules Participation in SAYE, subject to plan rules Notice period 12 months notice from the Company 12 months notice from the executive director Termination payment Payment in lieu of notice equal to: 12 months base salary, pension supplement and 5% of base salary .
 herlossofoffice Takeover Change of control No special contractual provisions apply in the event of a takeover or change of control Restrictive covenants During employment and for 12 months after leaving .
External directorships The Companys policy is to permit executive directors to have non executive directorships with other companies, subject to the approval of the chairman of the board.
Any fees payable will be retained by the executive director unless otherwise agreed.
Graham Chipchase has been a non executive director of AstraZeneca PLC since 26 April 2012.
His director fees in 2014 which he retained were 91,734 2013: 95,000.
72 POLICY CONTINUED Illustrative pay for performance scenarios LTIP 4,500 Annual incentive: shares 4,308 Annual incentive: cash 40% 0,000 Otherbenefits 4,000  Base salary 3,500 3,000 2,740 2,601 32% 40% 2,500 8% 2,000 6% 1,653 25% 32% 1,500 19% 8% 1,172 0% 0% 1% 6% 25% 1,000 9% 14% 32% 19% 705 0% 0% 1% 9% 14% 32% 500 18% 29% 67% 18% 29% 67% 0 maximum target minimum maximum target minimum Graham Chipchase, chief executive David Robbie, finance director Assumptions Fixed remuneration base salary ,   48.2% of base salary, including death in service cover and less an offset where applicable otherbenefits  Annual incentive maximum target minimum annual incentive: cash 135% of salary 67.5% of salary 0% of salary annual incentive: shares 45% of salary 22.5% of salary 0% of salary Long term incentive maximum target minimum LTIP 220% of salary 110% of salary 0% of salary 100% vesting 50% vesting 0% vesting Contracts for services for non executive directors Non executive directors do not have contracts of employment but serve under contracts for services and are generally appointed for an initial three year term renewable thereafter, at the discretion of the board, for a maximum of two further three year terms, subject to election or re-election by shareholders at the Companys AGM.
Appointments of non executive directors are terminable without compensation in the event that the director is not elected or re-elected by shareholders, or by either the Company or the non executive director giving one months written notice or, in the case of the chairman of the Company and the senior independent director, by either the Company or the chairman or senior independent director giving three months written notice.
Date of original Effective date of current Expiry of Non executive director Date of appointment letter of appointment letter of appointment current term Stuart Chambers 1 February 2012 15 November 2011 1 February 2015 31 January 2018 Carl-Peter Forster 10 June 2014 3 June 2014 10 June 2014 9 June 2017 John Langston 30 October 2008 30 October 2008 30 October 2014 29 October 2017 Leo Oosterveer 1 September 2011 10 August 2011 1 September 2014 31 August 2017 Ros Rivaz 12 June 2013 12 June 2013 12 June 2013 11 June 2016 Johanna Waterous 4 May 2012 3 April 2012 4 May 2012 3 May 2015 000s STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 73 Termination of contracts and exit payment policy The Company has the right to terminate an employment contract immediately, even where termination is without cause.
In such circumstances, the contract provides for a payment in lieu of notice to be made and calculated by reference to base salary, prorated annual incentive to the period , ,  of any annual incentive in respect of the termination notice period.
When considering termination payments, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair both to shareholders and participants.
If employment is terminated by the Company, the departing executive director may have a legal entitlement our policy is to comply with any applicable legal requirements under relevant legislations to additional amounts, which would need to be met.
The Committee retains discretion to settle any other amounts reasonably due to the executive, for example to meet the legal fees incurred by the executive in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement as provided for below and the individual must seek independent legal advice.
As part of its policy, the Committee also has discretion to meet reasonable relocation costs if the executive director had relocated to perform their duties.
The table ,  subject to the Committees discretion which will take into account the executive directors personal performance.
Item Approach Pay in lieu of notice The Company will make any termination payment in monthly instalments over what would have been the notice period until the earlier of the director commencing in a new position or the notice period expiring.
The executive has a duty , thereby reducing the need for compensation.
The Committee may decide to waive the requirement to mitigate in exceptional circumstances, for example compassionate reasons.
relatedbenefits Executive directors who leave in circumstances approved by the Committee, for example, incapacity retirement, may have a favourable actuarial reduction applied to their pension or may receive a pension related enhancement under the rules of the Plan.
Annual incentives Annual incentives may be paid on a prorated basis dependent on the circumstances under which the executive is leavingtheCompany, forexampleredundancy, retirement, death, injuryorillhealth,  individual objectives set at the beginning of the relevant year have been met.
Any resulting bonus will be prorated for time served during the year and is subject to malus and clawback.
Long term incentives Outstanding share based awards will generally vest at the end of their original measurement period to the extent performance conditions are met on a time prorated basis, in the event of serious ill health, injury or disability and retirement with employer consent and in any other circumstances where the Committee would decide, in its sole discretion, to allow the awards to vest.
The Committee has discretion to allow the awards to vest immediately on cessation of employment eg in the event of death or other compassionate circumstances and, in very exceptional circumstances, without applying time prorating if it thinks this is appropriate.
Any potential or vested awards are .
SAYE Participants in the SAYE schemes who leave because of injury, disability, redundancy, retirement or the sale of a business will have the option to buy a reduced number of Rexam shares with their savings within six months from the date of leaving.
The option to buy shares lapses at the end of six months.
Options held by participants leaving for other reasons will lapse except if the contract has been held for at least three years from the date of grant in which case the option to buy shares continues for six months from the date of leaving employment.
Deferred shares The proportion of the annual incentive paid in deferred shares will vest on the date of termination of employment subject to the executive directors restrictive covenants, and the Companys right to initiate malus and clawback if the participant leaves because of death, ill health, injury, retirement with employer consent, redundancy, sale of business, voluntary resignation, or for any other reason which the Committee considers appropriate.
Takeover Change In the event of a takeover or other major corporate event but excluding an internal corporate reorganisation of the of control Company, all outstanding awards granted under the LTIP and the deferred bonus plan would vest and in the case of the LTIP, subject to the achievement of any performance conditions as determined by the Committee and taking into .
 to disapply time pro rating if it considers it appropriate to do so.
In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation or a takeover, the Committee may determine, with the agreement of the acquiring company, that outstanding awards should be exchanged for equivalent awards in another company.
Options granted under the Companys Savings Related Share Option Schemes would become exercisable in accordance with the prescribed legislation.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group ,  the employee engagement survey to discuss and answer questions, or give feedback, on matters of relevance to them.
However, the Company does not formally consult with employees on remuneration policy or framework.
When making decisions on executive director remuneration, the Committee considers pay and conditions across the broader employee base.
Prior to the annual salary review, the Committee considers the proposed level of increase for overall employee pay.
An exception to this may be considered where new appointees have initial base salaries set below market, and where there is an intention for any shortfall to be managed with phased increases over a period of two to three years or where the role of the executive director has increased substantially due to a change in the scope of the position or organisational change.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee chairman and the Company Secretary are available to meet with institutional shareholders should such shareholders wish to discuss any of the policy related disclosures or outcomes in this directors remuneration report.
