26 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: SHAPE THE FUTURE Shaping the future is about our ability to innovate in terms 60 days of products and processes, to support our customers Part of a circular economy sustainability agendas and, at the same time, to promote The materials used to make cans have strong sustainability the can as a viable global drinks container.
A can could be back on the shelf in as little as 60 days once recycled.
Society is looking to increase resource efficiency by turning waste into a resource and both aluminium and steel are permanent materials, which mean they can be recycled without CRADLE TO CRADLE NEW METAL RECYCLING MARK losing their functionality.
Beverage Sustainability is a key area of customer focus.
A new recycling mark to engage consumers cans are designed to circulate In late 2013 Carlsberg, the fourth largest and highlight their role in the continuous life endlessly and to contribute brewer in the world, asked us to become one cycle of metal has been developed by Rexam to a circular economy.
of the founding partners of the Carlsberg and industry peers in Europe.
Many consumers Circular Community a non commercial do not understand the real value of recycling platform for Carlsberg and their suppliers or do not always have a clear understanding to work collaboratively on circular economy of what happens with the collected metal.
One of the first activities was for Research in UK, France and Spain showed 7 t o 12 packaging products to be assessed using the that both keen and reluctant recyclers agreed Cradle to Cradle Design Framework which the message Metal recycles forever together Innovation projects looks at five sustainability aspects: material with the loop symbol provided new and clearer Our innovation programme health, material reutilisation, renewable information.
This clarity subsequently prompted is gaining traction.
In 2014, we energy and carbon management, water a positive re-evaluation of their recycling habits.
almost doubled to 12 the number stewardship and social fairness.
Rexam has started sharing this research with of projects going through our customers and it is anticipated that the new innovation pipeline for processes In January 2015, Carlsberg was awarded mark will become another way for brands and products.
See more on Bronze certification for the can we supply to support improvement in consumer innovation on page 9. to them in the UK.
This is the first beverage recycling habits.
package to be certified by the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute, and the first of any of Carlsbergs packaging.
We are proud of this first: the certification First demonstrates that we have a balanced approach to sustainability.
Used beverage Beer in Fusion in Brazil cans are a valuable source of material for Following the success of making new cans as well as other applications Germnia 55 in Rexams large such as car components.
Each can recycled 24oz cans, Rexams Fusion avoids the use of an equivalent amount of aluminium bottle brought another primary material in the next production cycle.
innovation opportunity to NewAge This has created a 2.5m tonne market for used Bebidas with the youthful appeal beverage cans valued at 2.5bn and we are of the aluminium bottle.
It was committed to increasing the recycling rate the first beer to be launched further in order to help close the material loop.
in the Fusion bottle in South America and TM helped enhance the products premium positioning and sophisticated visual identity.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 27 CREATING A RECYCLING SOCIETY High recycling rates are essential to maintain the sustainability credentials of the can.
Global beverage can recycling rates are at 70%, making them the most recycled drinks package of all.
Rexam is proactive in a number of European countries and the US providing support for can recycling through industry initiatives such as Every Can Counts in Europe, Metalmatters in the UK and The Great American Can Round-Up in the US.
We also run our own events such as Cans For Cash in the US and The Can Community Challenge in Europe.
We also fund outdoor billboards and trucks to promote the recyclability of the can.
28 EMPLOYEE HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING A top priority is to make sure our people work in a safe and healthy environment.
All of our sites offer some sort of wellness programme.
In 2014, 490 employees from 70 teams across our European and Global HQ locations participated in the Global Corporate Challenge achieving a total of 824,981,778 steps.
Together the teams crossed the Sahara desert the equivalent of 293 times, and burnt 138,596,939 kilojoules.
