16 BUSINESS MODEL Our business model is underpinned by MANUFACTURING Rexam is a global beverage clear and consistently applied frameworks Our core skill lies in converting sheet metal for enterprise risk management, including into beverage cans and that is where we can can maker producing around governance and sustainable development.
generate sustainable competitive advantage 64bn cans a year at 55 plants We are part of a supply chain that stretches and where we create the vast majority of our from ore mining to the consumption of value.
We invest in assets to convert metal across the world.
We offer our beverages from cans by the consumer.
Within sheet into cans and in most cases assume the that chain, we have direct control over the risk of converting aluminium ingot into coil.
customers a broad range of manufacture of beverage cans and ends and Our success and ability to create value relies can sizes for their products such the capital see below to make this viable.
on high utilisation of our can making lines and We also constantly support and promote the our ability to convert metal sheet into finished as CSD, beer, energy drinks beverage can as a sustainable alternative to beverage cans and ends as sustainably as other drinks packaging.
See more on page 26. possible at the lowest delivered cost.
Managing enterprise risk see page 32 WE EFFECTIVELY USE...
IN OUR CAN AND END OUR STRATEGIC INPUTS MAKING AND FOCUS ON... Natural capital Addressing our customers needs to get Energy, virgin and recycled metal, inks, water their products to their end users as innovatively, efficiently and sustainably Financial capital as possible see page 20 Disciplined capital allocation Intangible assets Continually improving the efficiency and sustainability of our processes and our Manufactured capital footprint to achieve low cost base Well invested asset base comprising 55 can see page 25 making plants including joint ventures and associates in five continents Expanding into new markets and into new 64bn cans Global suppliers and strong relationships product areas see page 7 and page 22 Human capital Maintaining capital discipline and managing 8,000 employees cash and costs see page 45 Safe and healthy working conditions Keeping our people safe and healthy and Training and development opportunities developing our structure and their skills to Fair remuneration and health benefits meet our customers needs see page 28 Social capital Promoting the drinks can as a viable Licence to operate and sustainable packaging option Community engagement see page 26 High governance and ethical standards Creating sustainable value Enhanced financial, manufactured and human capitals CASH RETURNS SALARIES AND PEOPLE TO SHAREHOLDERS EMPLOYMENT DEVELOPMENT 583m including We employed close We delivered on return of cash and to 8,000 people average 22.5 share consolidation.
and paid them in training hours See pages 2, total c 500m.
Cans recycled back into the metal supply chain reduce carbon emissions and offset virgin material requirements STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WATER REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 17 We focus on operational excellence see page CUSTOMERS PEOPLE AND CAPABILITIES 25 using six sigma and lean principles across Our aim is to build strong and mutually We have a highly skilled and motivated our operations and processes to reduce cost beneficial relationships with our customers to workforce, most of whom work in plants.
and material usage, all the while ensuring ensure that we are the preferred can supplier.
We invest in training and development to the safety and wellbeing of our people Cost leadership is essential and the location help employees achieve their full potential see page 31. of our can making network relative to our and make sure they have the engineering, customers filling locations is important in technical and commercial skills to help us SUPPLIERS minimising logistics and freight costs.
Larger remain competitive and match the needs We are key strategic partners for most of customers are moving to global procurement of our customers.
our major suppliers who include aluminium, models and, as part of our response, we have We aim to attract and retain top talent by energy, chemical, machinery and freight global key account management for core making Rexam a great place to work where companies.
Aluminium represents almost global customers to further align ourselves people from all backgrounds can develop 60% of our annual cost base from continuing with them.
The complexity of our business is their careers and feel rewarded for what operations, some 2bn annually.
We source growing with the proliferation of different can they do.
our metal from well established global sizes and finishes, and shorter product runs.
While we largely derisk The ability to deliver at low cost in such an SHARED VALUE the procurement of aluminium ingot with pass environment will become a prime capability.
Our business follows a circle of revenue and through clauses in customer contracts or long Innovation in products and processes, and our profit generation, efficient cash conversion term agreements with suppliers backed by close understanding of the trends affecting and reinvestment in the business.
We share appropriate hedging, we are exposed to our customers, are also critical differentiating the value we generate with our shareholders cost increases in the metal premiums.
factors in shaping our future.
See page 6. through the dividend see page 2 and with the We work closely with all our suppliers to wider community through employment, salaries, codevelop innovative processes and products the payment of taxes and supplier payments to help reduce our material usage or take as well as social and charitable projects.
advantage of the advances in can making Our aim is to balance growth and returns technology to complement the work we are measured in return on capital employed: already doing in this area.
ROCE may drop slightly in a year of high investment or if we make an acquisition and in a low investment year it may go up.
Through the cycle, however, our aim is to maintain ROCE around 15%.
Sales growth is expected to be slightly above the GDP of the countries in which we operate...
THE VALUE WE BRING... AND HOW WE as beverage markets grow and cans continue TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUPPORT CONSUMERS to take a greater share of the pack mix mostly replacing glass containers.
Lowest delivered cost through the Provide the most convenient supply chain single serve beverage package We plan for operating efficiencies and pricing to offset cost inflation over time, thereby Partnership approach Ensure a safe package that expecting profits to grow slightly faster than keeps contents secure Innovative solutions sales.
This translates into good cash generation Deliver an easily recyclable which supports a healthy balance sheet and Investment to ensure that they are able package to maximise market opportunities helps maintain an investment grade rating.
Support recovery and recycling To underpin sales growth and to protect our Our customers growth is driven by a of beverage cans across the globe business, we aim to continue to invest at a number of evolving trends.
See page 6. rate of 1 to 1.5 times depreciation over the cycle not including the plans for Berlin detailed on page 15.
Any investment in organic growth or in bolt on acquisitions will be determined by where we see the best opportunities to grow with good returns over time.
The disciplined allocation of capital is a crucial competency in this respect and, consequently, a source of advantage.
We consider the dividend to be a core element of shareholder remuneration and TEA something on which they should be able CSD JUICE to depend.
We aim to continue to pay the dividend in line with our policy of 2.0 to 2.5 times cover and return surplus cash to shareholders.
SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL PAYMENTS IMPACT We paid more We reduced our than c 2.6bn to carbon intensity main suppliers by 3.4%.
Cans recycled back into the metal supply chain reduce carbon emissions and offset virgin material requirements BEER
