STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 53 EFFECTIVENESS OUR BOARD EVALUATION PROCESS Our board members bring important skills and experience to our organisation and this Completion of questionnaires complements the skills of our executive team.
My ambitions for the composition of the board are to broaden the range of expertise, experience and diversity and ensure that effective succession plans are in place.
Throughout 2014 the members of the board have Analysis of responses, strengths and challenges continued to challenge each other to ensure the quality of our decisions.
Stuart Chambers Nomination committee chairman Recommendations and discussion document HOW IS THE BOARD EFFECTIVE?
The board acts in the best interests of the Company, making well informed and high quality decisions within a framework of prudent Individual meetings with the chairman risk management.
Matters are discussed cohesively by the board as a whole, with challenge and debate encouraged, and no one individual has unrestricted power of decision making.
Collective board discussion The composition of the board and its committees facilitates the effective discharge of its duties and responsibilities.
Rexam has a board of directors with international business backgrounds and a  range of diverse skills, experience and nationalities.
Their diversity committee effectiveness: the environment culture, dynamics and and knowledge are invaluable in challenging and developing the Groups composition, the focus strategy and operations, key stakeholders, strategy and enable the board to govern the global business effectively.
risk and control and people engagement leadership development Throughout 2014 and up to the date of this annual report the Company and succession planning.
A number of challenges and opportunities had a majority of independent non executive directors on the board.
 to improve the boards effectiveness in 2015: The board is aware of the other commitments of the directors and  Challenges 2015 actions following 2014 evaluation directors of the Company.
Stuart Chambers appointment in 2014 as .
Heconfirmed Competitors, customers To further increase board knowledge  and suppliers of underlying commercial trends and will have no adverse impact on his time commitment to Rexam, a view dynamics that are shaping the future with which the board agreed.
A biography of each member of the board, consumer packaging and beverage including details of their business experience and other directorships, packaging industries to promote is given on pages 48 and 49. understanding and aid decision making.
Talent pipeline and To continue to align and develop the BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION succession planning connection between strategic objectives The directors recognise that the evaluation process is an important and executive succession planning: and annual opportunity to review the practices and performance of the promote interaction and debate between board, its committees and its individual directors, and implement the board and senior management to actions to improve the boards focus, effectiveness and ability to add value in discussions relating to contribute to the Companys success.
In 2014, the chairman and management succession planning.
company secretary agreed the scope of the review and the chairman Board and committee To increase the opportunities for met with each director to discuss their views on the effectiveness of professional professional development to equip the board and obtain open and constructive feedback.
development the board with specialist knowledge to The senior independent director is responsible for the annual contribute to and challenge issue based performance appraisal of the Chairman and presents the feedback debates and outcomes.
from this process and her recommendations to the nomination committee.
54 EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED The board made progress during 2014 against the areas for development All newly appointed directors participate in an internal induction .
Inparticular: programme that introduces the director to the Group and includes visiting Group businesses.
This programme is tailored to each directors Areas for development 2014 progress following 2013 evaluation needs, .
Strategic objectives The focus and increased time allocation If required, an overview of the role and responsibilities of a director has given greater clarity to the strategic can be facilitated by an external consultant.
The company secretary process and developed directors gives guidance on board procedures and corporate governance.
knowledge of the business to aid the Carl-Peter Forster joined the board as a non executive director in board in formulating longer term June 2014.
Carl-Peter had one to one meetings with functional strategic objectives.
and operational management for an overview of the corporate Talent management and Greater opportunity has been provided in and business aspects of the Group.
He visited the beverage can succession planning 2014 for interaction and debate between operations in Milton Keynes, UK, and, together with the other board the board and senior management.
This members, visited the beverage can operations in La Selva, Spain process has highlighted key areas for .
Groups external auditors, legal advisors, the Companys brokers Board and committee Further progress towards this objective has and capital markets advisors.
Governance and board related development strengthened the open and transparent matters were discussed with the company secretary.
culture of the board, and the effectiveness The chairman is responsible for, and reviews and agrees with of the board as its members work as each director their training and development needs.
 Customers The boards knowledge of the Groups to their role.
The chairman arranges for the board to visit at least one and suppliers customers and suppliers has developed of the Groups business locations each year to ensure that the directors through board presentations, the global knowledge of, and familiarity with, the businesses are updated tender process and site visits.
progress in relation to competitors and a more in depth knowledge of the During 2014, the board visited the beverage can plant in La Selva, beverage can market have been Spain where directors met with local management and toured the highlighted for future focus.
They also toured a customers beverage .
The board committees each discussed their own effectiveness evaluations .
Members of the senior management team with responsibility for A full performance evaluation of the board and its committees will the Groups businesses and those with corporate and service centre continue to be conducted annually.
functional responsibilities make periodic presentations at board meetings about their businesses, functions, performance, suppliers, DEVELOPMENT, INFORMATION AND SUPPORT customers, competitors, markets and strategy.
Formal board meetings are held during the year and the chairman The company secretary, who is appointed by the board, is responsible and the company secretary ensure that, prior to each meeting, the for ensuring compliance with board procedures.
This includes taking directors receive accurate, clear and timely information which helps minutes of the board meetings and recording any concerns relating them to discharge their duties.
In the months with no scheduled board to the running of the Company or proposed actions arising therefrom meeting, , that are expressed by a director in a board meeting.
The company operating and risk information relating to the Group and its businesses.
secretary is also secretary to the audit and risk, nomination and The directors receive their board papers through a secure electronic remuneration committees.
portal and are able to reference and mark the electronic papers in the board meeting.
Under the direction of the chairman, the company secretary is responsible for the communication of relevant information between the board, its committees and the senior management team.
He also advises the board, through the chairman, on all governance and regulatory compliance matters.
Should a director reasonably request independent professional advice to carry out their duties, such advice is made available at the Companys expense.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 55 NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS 2014 NOMINATION COMMITTEE AREAS OF FOCUS 2014 The board has approved the terms of reference delegating certain During 2014, the nomination committee carried out its duties by responsibilities to the nomination committee.
The terms of reference focusing on its key activities and ensuring the long term effectiveness are reviewed annually and are available on the Companys website.
Reviewed the board and committee composition following The nomination committee is chaired by the chairman of the board.
The other members of the committee during 2014 were all independent Jean-Pierre Rodiers retirement from the board in 2014. non executive directors.
Discussed the range of skills on the board and its diversity and how to ensure an adequate balance of skills and experience for effective Committee membership Attendance medium and long term decision making.
Stuart Chambers committee chairman 4 4 Conducted an appointment process leading to the recommendation John Langston 4 4 of Carl-Peter Forster as non executive director.
2 Carl-Peter Forster 2 2 Reviewed succession planning and development for executive Leo Oosterveer 4 4 directors and non executive directors.
Ros Rivaz 4 4 Oversight of the board performance evaluation.
3 Jean-Pierre Rodier 2 2 BOARD APPOINTMENTS AND DIVERSITY Johanna Waterous 4 4 , including 1 Number of scheduled meetings attended maximum number of meetings that gender diversity.
It recognises that a diverse and inclusive culture, the director could have attended.
and policies that promote diversity are key to creating a breadth of 2 Appointed to the committee on 30 July 2014. perspective among directors and effective balance in the boardroom.
3 Retired from the committee on 2 May 2014.
The nomination committee has a policy of working alongside recruitment consultants who adhere to a voluntary code of conduct to ensure that when seeking new candidates for the board, at least THE ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by the 30% of the candidates on their initial list of candidates are women the Voluntary Code of Conduct and are independent in that they Companys articles of association, which may only be amended with shareholders approval in accordance with relevant legislation.
have no other connection with the Company.
For executive director appointments the recruitment consultants evaluate and consider Recommendations for appointments to the board are the responsibility of the nomination committee which acts in accordance prospective external candidates and review internal candidates.
In all cases the nomination committee then meets with and considers with its terms of reference and the articles of association.
prospective appointees and, if appropriate, recommendations are All board appointments are conducted through a formal, rigorous made to the board for approval.
and transparent procedure involving the nomination committee and the board.
The performance and effectiveness of the nomination The Groups gender balance at board level is currently six males, committee are reviewed as part of the main performance evaluation 75% and two females, 25% 2013: 75% male and 25% female.
It is of the board and all its committees.
the boards intention to maintain that at least 25% of the board are women.
 The main responsibilities of the nomination committee are to: given by the nomination committee to recruitment consultants when review the structure, size and composition of the board including its appointing new directors.
The nomination committee ensures that, skills, knowledge, experience and diversity, including gender diversity : with the assistance of recruitment consultants who adhere to the Voluntary Code of Conduct, female candidates are considered give full consideration to succession planning and ensure that processes routinely as part of the recruitment process to bring the most and planning are in place with regard to both the board and senior effective balance within the boardroom.
The overriding objective executive appointments: is that board appointments will continue to be on merit and that identify and consider candidates on merit against objective criteria .
and make recommendations to the board on appointments to the In 2015, the nomination committee will continue to assess the boards board and board committees, and on the appointment of the composition and how it can be enhanced and will consider diversity as company secretary: part of this process to ensure it continues to draw candidates from the , senior widest possible range of talent.
Further details on diversity throughout the Group can be found on page 29. independent director and non executive director: During the year the nomination committee asked Odgers Berndtson to keep up to date on strategic issues and commercial changes commence a search for a new non executive director to join the board.
affecting the Company and its markets: and  assist the chairman with the annual board performance evaluation other connection with the Company.
Carl-Peter Forster was interviewed process to assess the overall performance and effectiveness of the by the nomination committee as part of the external search process board and each board committee, and the individual performance and was recommended to the board for appointment on the basis that of directors.
he brought considerable operational and manufacturing expertise and experience as a leader in global organisations to the board, and .
56 EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED SUCCESSION PLANNING Carl-Peter Forster is considered by the board to be independent.
The nomination committee develops succession plans for the board, He is being recommended for election as the board believes that he mindful of the need for progressive refreshment of the board, and has considerable operational and manufacturing expertise and the a balance of skills, experience and diversity.
knowledge and experience gained as a leader in global organisations which is of value to Rexam.
 commence a search for a new non executive director to replace Graham Chipchase is being recommended for re-election as the board Jean-Pierre Rodier on his retirement from the board.
believes his leadership and insight into the Group and its markets will continue to help Rexam develop as a global beverage can maker and The boards responsibility for succession planning means that it is create shareholder value.
actively involved in the Groups talent processes to identify internal candidates for promotion and develop senior managers to give them David Robbie is being recommended for re-election as the board every opportunity to progress their careers.
The nomination committee    whose skills, experience and contribution to the Group would add .
The board periodically discusses current senior John Langston, Leo Oosterveer, Ros Rivaz and Johanna Waterous are management positions within the organisational structure and, being recommended for re-election as, in the boards view, they remain led by the chief executive, considers potential successors to meet independent and, following their formal performance evaluation, the the Groups leadership needs over time.
 and demonstrate their commitment to the board.
John Langston has ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS served on the board as a non executive director since 2008 and To promote good governance and in accordance with the Code, the therefore, in accordance with the Code, his performance was board has recommended that all directors should submit themselves subject to particularly rigorous review.
for election or re-election on an annual basis.
On the recommendation of the nomination committee, Stuart  Chambers, who was considered independent on appointment as for election or re-election at the AGM 2015 chairman of the Company, is being recommended for re-election, Stuart Chambers Chairman as the board believes he continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Graham Chipchase Chief executive David Robbie Finance director A biography of each member of the board can be found on pages 48 and 49.
Carl-Peter Forster Non executive director John Langston Non executive director Leo Oosterveer Non executive director Ros Rivaz Non executive director Johanna Waterous Senior independent director Following a rigorous evaluation of the performance of each director and on the recommendation of the nomination committee, the board is recommending that Carl-Peter Forster, who was appointed as a non executive director since the date of the last AGM, stand for election and that the other directors named above stand for re-election at the AGM 2015.
