STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 57 ACCOUNTABILITY The committee recognises its role in supporting the board by ensuring Throughout 2014 the audit and that appropriate internal controls and risk management processes are in place to maintain good corporate governance for the Company.
risk committee carried out its duties by The board recognises its responsibility for ensuring the implementation focusing on the key activities associated and maintenance of effective systems of risk management and internal with, and complementary to, its core control, and presenting a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The systems and controls in internal financial control responsibilities.
place include policies and procedures which provide assurance that  Year end results 2013 reviewed with external auditors and  recommended for approval to the board: internal audit update accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Q4 2013 presented: internal audit plan for 2014 approved: Representatives of the businesses complete biannual representation review of whistle blowing calls.
 External audit plan for 2014 year end approved: early warnings .
report presented by external auditors for half year 2014: review and To discharge its responsibilities the board works closely with the audit assessment of internal and external audit effectiveness: internal and risk committee.
audit update Q1 2014 presented: update on Group risks and risk After taking account of the detailed work of the audit and risk committee, register reviewed and approved: risk presentation by the Beverage  Can South America management team.
the system of risk management and internal control which operated Half year results 2014 reviewed with external auditors and within the Group during 2014 and up to the date of this annual report in recommended for approval by the board: internal audit accordance with the requirements of the revised Guidance on Internal update Q2 2014.
Control published by the FRC formerly known as the Turnbull Guidance.
This review covered the effectiveness of internal controls, namely Early warnings report presented by external auditors for year financial, operational, .
end 2014: detailed review of Group risks including presentation by the Beverage Can North America management team:   2014.
,  technology risks with emphasis on cyber risks: internal audit identified,  update Q3 2014: presentation by PwC on the new format of is taken and that progress is monitored.
The board will continue to external audit report: reviewed and approved terms of carry out such reviews on an annual basis and will monitor the risk reference for the committee.
management and internal control systems as recommended by the 2014Code.
 the control environment and continue to improve controls are set out under risk management and internal control on pages 59 and 60.
John Langston Audit and risk committee chairman 58 ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE AREAS OF FOCUS 2014 MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS 2014 .
The audit and risk committee members comprise independent non , andconfirming, theaccountingprocess executive directors.
John Langston is the chairman of the audit and risk for the sale of the Healthcare business and the return of cash committee.
 Reviews of effectiveness of both external and internal audit.
and is well placed to lead the audit and risk committee to enable it to carry out its responsibilities.
Conducting a detailed review of risks for the business including presentations by the management teams of the Beverage Can Committee membership Attendance North America and Beverage Can South America sectors.
John Langston committee chairman 4 4 Reviewing updates from the director internal audit on the controls 2 Leo Oosterveer 3 3 within the businesses, focus on IT risks and controls, and reviewing 3 Jean-Pierre Rodier 1 1 reports of whistle blowing calls.
Johanna Waterous 4 4 Audit and risk committee chairman met the internal audit team at its September 2014 meeting.
1 Number of scheduled meetings attended maximum number of meetings that the director could have attended.
FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING 2 Appointed to the committee on 2 May 2014.
The audit and risk committee shares responsibility with the board for 3 Retired from the committee on 2 May 2014. reviewing in detail the annual report and half year results announcements, which provide a clear assessment of the performance and prospects THE ROLE OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE of the Group through the business model, strategy, and a review of The board has approved the terms of reference delegating certain .
Theannual responsibilities to the committee.
The terms of reference are reviewed report is reviewed at draft stage by sector and functional management annually and are available on the Companys website.
The main to ensure it is fair, balanced and understandable.
Also included in the responsibilities of the audit and risk committee are to: annual report is the external auditors report to the members providing  , policies statements.
The half year results announcement includes the external and management: auditors review report to the Company.
assist the board in meeting its responsibilities by ensuring an  effective system of internal control and compliance and accurate audit and risk committee for statutory and regulatory compliance and : is submitted to the board with a recommendation for approval.
assist the board in managing the relationship with the Companys external auditors, to review and monitor their independence, and Significant issues considered by the committee in particular the provision of any non audit services provided by The committee has regular discussions with both management and them to the Group: .
Thefollowingkeyrisks, judgements and accounting issues were considered by the committee keep under review the effectiveness of the process for the during 2014, as part of the reporting and review process.
identification, assessment, mitigation,  of risks facing the business: Metal premium costs The committee reviewed with management the continuing increase approve the appointment of the director internal audit and review and in metal premium costs and discussed the implications of this on the approve the annual programme of internal audit assignments: and Groups performance.
ensure the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Tax understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders The committee considered key tax issues facing the Group, in to assess the Companys business model, strategy and performance.
particular those where judgement was required to determine their ,  The audit and risk committee meets four times a year.
At the request deferred tax assets and the appropriate levels of provisions where of the audit and risk committee chairman, the chairman of the board, there are uncertainties or interpretation of local laws and regulations.
thechiefexecutive, thefinancedirector, ,  the director internal audit and the external auditors are invited to attend judgements adopted by management.
Conversion of Spanish plants from steel to aluminium Should it be requested, the audit and risk committee has access to The committee discussed with management the contract with a major independent expert advice at the Companys expense.
The performance aluminium supplier to support the conversion of the Spanish plants and effectiveness of the audit and risk committee are reviewed as part from steel to aluminium, and reviewed the accounting treatment of the performance evaluation of the board and all its committees.
relating to such contracts with the external auditors.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 59 There is an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, mitigating, Cyber risks reporting and monitoring the risks faced by the Group captured within The board had requested an audit of the Companys information a formal ERM framework.
Meetings are held with businesses and assets and the committee reviewed the results of this audit together functional managers who present their risk registers, enabling discussion with a presentation on particular IT risks such as those relating to oftherisksidentified,  cyber security.
measures as well as the effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
Global and significant contracts The process ensures that risks are not just the product of a bottom up The committee reviewed progress with management relating to the approach but are also examined from a top down perspective and global bid process requested by a number of key customers and the closely aligned with the Groups strategy.
impact these new contracts would have on the business.
It also considered The enterprise risk management function chairs the risk leadership team  with representatives from internal audit and senior management from front payments and rebates.
The team meets regularly to focus on key Group Whistle blowing provider .
The committee approved the change of whistle blowing provider, following a review of the existing provider, to ensure that the whistle During2014, : blowing process continued to enable employees concerns to be assessment of the risk and mitigation actions put in place to address raised effectively and to better understand the reasons as to why and respond to the competitive environment, exposure to commodity concerns are raised.
prices, metal premiums and other costs, and the trend towards global Healthcare business disposal procurement contracts by our customers: and payment of cash to shareholders continued development of the ERM framework and risk based auditing The committee reviewed, with guidance from external advisors, the system, and improvements to the risk management system to improve accounting treatment relating to the return of cash to shareholders : following the successful disposal of the Healthcare business.
Goodwill impairment a new risk team established for the AMEA sector and independent The committee reviewed the carrying value of goodwill and other : assets compared with the value in use for each business in the Group risk maturity survey: fraud and bribery workshops and business , .
continuity management workshops: and review of the common risk themes across the businesses and RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Group functions with the aim of achieving consistency in risk The Group has well established risk management and internal control and mitigating actions.
While all elements of risk cannot be eliminated, the processes and systems aim to identify, assess, prioritise and, where possible, The results of the ERM framework are reported to the audit and risk mitigate the Groups risks.
Although no system can provide absolute committee and provide an opportunity for the audit and risk committee assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups systems to discuss and analyse the risks reported.
In addition to reviewing the are designed to provide the board with reasonable assurance that assets risks, as presented by management, the audit and risk committee also are safeguarded, transactions are properly authorised and recorded receives presentations from the Groups businesses or functional and that material errors and irregularities are either prevented or , to detected within a timely period.
 and to challenge management on the mitigation measures in place.
The enterprise risk management ERM function is led by the director The audit and risk committee reports its conclusions to the board for , financedirector, the review.
Details of the key risks to which the Group is exposed and director internal audit and other senior management representatives, additional information on risk processes and management are and has brought an increased focus and emphasis on global risk included in the strategic report and can be found on pages 32 to 39. management, providing leadership and co-ordination across the Groups business and operational risk activities.
Operational risk The framework which the board has established to provide effective , environment, fireandproperty internal control for both the Group and its associates and joint ventures protection, security, business continuity and crisis management is supported by the key areas set out in the table below.
is the responsibility of senior functional management.
THE INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK Responsibility Activity in 2014 Financial The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting Regular reviews took place to ensure businesses were reporting .
Anannualbudgetand performing in line with budget and strategy.
The chief strategic review are prepared for each business and  are consolidated for review by the board before being operational management to ensure businesses were formally adopted.
During the year, monthly management performing as expected and reporting in accordance accounts,  with the Groups standards.
Following those meetings reporting, are prepared with a comparison against  budget and prior year.
Forecasts are revised in light of back to the board.
this comparison and are also reviewed by the board.
Delegated  Following the divestment of the Healthcare business the authority levels of authority in operation throughout the Group, , which .
Businesses   reserved for the boards consideration, were reviewed responsibility delegated to corporate and local management and updated.
to the extent that they have approval to operate within .
60 ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED THE INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK CONTINUED Responsibility Activity in 2014 Procedures  Improvements were made to access and security controls and controls ,  along with a detailed review of the consistency of the for treasury matters, capital investment and the approval Groups computerised management systems and .
 controls operating around the Group.
are required to complete biannual representation letters The Group control framework has been fully  implemented to ensure that controls are operated  consistently and in line with best practice.
Online legal compliance training system developed to ensure employees familiarity and compliance with the  on Financial Integrity, Combating Bribery in Business and Competition and Anti Trust Law, and was completed by all appropriate employees during the year.
Internal audit  The annual internal audit plan, produced from an assessment other risks faced throughout the Group and the control of the risks following the enterprise risk management .
Allsignificant process, was approved by the audit and risk committee.
 Meetings were held regularly between internal audit risk committee.
management,  Groupfinance, , to review progress on implementing audit recommendations .
Updates on performance were provided to the audit and risk committee by the director internal audit, including details of progress against the audit plan, audit report opinions given and progress in implementing audit recommendations.
As well as reporting on Group controls and risks the internal audit function also reports on its own performance using key performance indicators KPIs measuring such areas as completeness of the audit plan, timeliness of internal audit reports, coverage of businesses, key projects supported and development of internal audit staff.
The internal audit function further enhanced its approach to the audit of business risks by focusing on a number of the key  framework and carried out a detailed review of the risk mitigations management had put in place to address these risks.
Areas reviewed included commercial sales in Beverage Can South America, production and treasury risks in Russia as well as the Group treasury and information management functions of Rexam PLC.
Operational Operational risk management, part of the enterprise risk In line with the Rexam values, a system of awards was risk management function, provides the leadership to develop and monitor introduced to recognise businesses receiving high scores processes which identify, assess and manage risks associated based on the audits.
An enhanced global environment, with health and safety, environment, business continuity and health and safety EHS audit approach was developed to crisismanagement, , securityandasset provide the basis of challenge for a more sustainable and protection.
Purpose built audit programmes allow for businesses robust improvement of EHS management systems and to be evaluated against Rexams and external best practice performance at all sites.
In addition, we continued with standards in these areas, and provide the basis for continuous  improvement action plans.
In addition, many Rexam businesses supported and performed by AXA Matrix.
Further details are accredited to external internationally recognised standards.
can be found in the principal risks section of this annual The function also manages Rexams global insurance report on page 37. programme.
Periodicupdates,  and issues, are reported to the audit and risk committee.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 61 INTERNAL AUDIT Non audit services are provided by PwC to the Group only in The internal audit function plans and undertakes audits to ensure accordance with Rexams policy on the provision of such services, that the controls operating in the businesses conform with Group which assesses the type of service to be provided and the associated controls and procedures, and reviews the effectiveness of the risk fees.
Any request for non audit services above a fee threshold of management process.
 The director internal audit provides quarterly updates to the audit prior authorisation of the chairman of the audit and risk committee for .
services deemed restricted above a threshold of 50,000 and above He has separate meetings with the chairman of the audit and risk 150,000 for services deemed unrestricted.
PwC are prohibited committee without any other member of management being present.
from providing services to the Group that would be considered to A one on one meeting was also held by the director internal audit with ,  Leo Oosterveer, who joined the committee during the year, to familiarise implementation, actuarial services, internal audit outsourcing and him with the role, remit and responsibilities of the internal audit function.
The policy on non audit services was reviewed A similar meeting was also held between Mr Oosterveer and the during 2014 to ensure it continues to be in line with best practice.
The audit and risk committee biannually reviews the level of non audit In 2014, the audit and risk committee reviewed and approved the fees to ensure that the provision of non audit services does not impair annual internal audit plan including the proposed audit approach, PwCs independence or objectivity.
Non audit fees in 2014 relate mainly coverage and allocation of resources.
It also reviewed the results of  the audits undertaken, with particular emphasis on the recommendations business disposals and global tax advisory services.
The fees for non made and managements response to the matters raised.
The quarterly  update provided to the committee also includes the internal audit functions statements.
 own KPIs reporting on audit plan performance, coverage of operations, specialist tax advisory services as well as to advise on business disposals.
days to issue reports and transfer of auditors into the business.
Following the favourable external review of the internal audits DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST effectiveness in 2013, the director internal audit reported to the The board has a formal system in place for directors to review regularly committee on further improvements in the teams processes, including their interests and to deal with situations where a director reports any an upgrade of its TeamMate software to ensure better audit methodology conflictsofinterest.
An internally commissioned survey with Group, and the company secretary is considered by the board based on its sector and business management was undertaken at the end of 2014 particular facts.
Any authorisations given to a director who has a and the results were reported to the committee in early 2015.  .
Noconflict EXTERNAL AUDITORS situations were reported to the board during 2014 and up to the date The audit and risk committee has primary responsibility for, and advises of this annual report.
the board on, the appointment, reappointment and the remuneration of the Companys external auditors.
Any recommendation for the TAX MANAGEMENT reappointment of the external auditors is subject to their continued Our businesses pay a number of different taxes to local and national satisfactory performance.
Following an audit tender in 2003, governments.
, employment  LLP PwC were appointed as the Companys taxes, property taxes, customs duties and withholding taxes.
In addition external auditors, with the lead audit partner changing by rotation in our businesses administer on behalf of taxing authorities the collection 2008 and in 2013.
The board continues to monitor the proposals from of sales taxes charged to our customers and taxes paid by our employees.
the EU and the rules of the Competition and Markets Authority relating We take our responsibilities seriously and the management of our tax to audit tendering and rotation, and the audit and risk committee has affairs is aligned with the Groups wider business practices and our indicated that it plans to consider, in 2016, a review of the current commitment to corporate responsibility.
In particular the Group seeks external audit service provider in conjunction with the subsequent to adopt the following principles in its management of its tax position: formal rotation of the lead audit partner in 2017.
The review may compliance with and reasonable interpretation of tax laws: paying the include a tender of the external audit, which could result in the right amount of tax at the right time: a constructive relationship with  tax authorities: alignment of planning with our commercial operations financialresults.
In2014,  and the needs of our businesses: and delivering shareholder value  while protecting the Groups reputation.
by the director internal audit.
CODE OF CONDUCT The external auditors attend all audit and risk committee meetings and A Code of Conduct, which applies to all Company employees annual enterprise risk review meetings with each of the business sectors.
worldwide, has been approved by the board and provides a clear The audit and risk committee chairman also has separate meetings , orimpactedby, with the external auditors to discuss relevant matters.
It is communicated through an induction process for auditors work with Group and sector management and discuss their newemployees,  .
and on the Groups intranet and website.
The board is kept informed During 2014, the audit and risk committee reviewed the effectiveness regarding the maintenance of the Code of Conduct and any breaches and independence of the external auditors and recommended to the of it.
The content of the Code of Conduct captures the key compliance board that a resolution to reappoint PwC be proposed at the AGM messages that are relevant for all employees, whether working in the 2015.
The effectiveness review in 2014 was conducted by the director .
internal audit surveying both sector and business management following During2014,  the change in lead audit partner at the beginning of 2013.
A report the changing demographics of Rexams business and to support Rexams was presented to the committee which was compared with PwCs own vision to be the best beverage can maker in the world.
An online customer satisfaction survey, focusing on a number of areas including training system is operated to ensure employees are aware of their audit scope, delivery and audit team.
A further review of PwCs responsibilities and are in compliance with the Code of Conduct.
effectiveness will be undertaken in 2015 following completion of the Further details can be found on page 29.
The audit and risk committee will continue to keep under review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
62 ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED The Groups policies and procedures relating to bribery and corruption All calls are investigated by the director internal audit, in conjunction were kept under review by the executive leadership team and the audit with the company secretary or deputy company secretary, and, if and risk committee during 2014.
There were no material breaches of appropriate, .
Anysignificant the Code of Conduct during 2014. concerns are reported directly to the chairman of the audit and risk committee as well as to Group management.
During 2014, we took steps to increase the scope and impact of our online compliance training programme.
The training is now tightly Group management and the audit and risk committee receive a linked to our onboarding process to reinforce the messages quarterly report on calls received and how they have been resolved.
 The audit and risk committee will continue to review the whistle blowing was introduced in 2014 so that all appropriate employees will be policy and the RYC process annually.
reminded of the requirements of the Code and their obligations.
GOING CONCERN  The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect the year in respect of antitrust matters.
its future development, performance and position are set out in the .
, WHISTLE BLOWING POLICY itscashflows,  Rexam has an open door policy whereby employees are encouraged to .
Inaddition, notes22,23and24 share concerns, raise issues and provide ideas for improvement with  all levels of management in the business.
It is recognised, however, ,  that there will be times when an employee might be uncomfortable objectives, , raising concerns directly with local management and, in such cases, and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
communication with business and Group management is encouraged.
 The Company operates a whistle blowing policy which is supported by agreements with a number of key customers and suppliers across ,  .
Thehelpline, include 2.2bn of debt facilities, of which 0.8bn are undrawn, with which has been operated by the same provider since it was introduced  0.8bn.
The in 2006, was reviewed by a steering committee in 2014 via a tendering Group also has cash and cash equivalent balances at 31 December process with a number of the leading providers of global whistle 2014 of 0.3bn.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the blowing services to ensure that it was still relevant and providing the Group is well placed to manage its business despite the economic appropriate service to Rexam.
A decision was made to change to environment which increases risks and uncertainties.
Thedirectors, , aresatisfiedthat The change to a new Raise Your Concern RYC helpline provider the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue provided an opportunity to refresh the service by circulating new in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, promotional literature both online, and through the use of posters they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the and wallet sized cards that were placed in break out and refreshment .
We were able to engage with employees to better understand the reasons that calls are made via the helpline rather than through THE ROLE OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE the internal communication lines, especially as a number of the calls AND REMUNERATION POLICY received relate to human resource grievance related issues.
The remuneration committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board on the Groups remuneration policy and setting the The RYC policy is explained to employees when they commence remuneration arrangements appropriate for the directors within the employment with the Group and in team meetings to ensure the terms of the policy approved by shareholders.
The directors remuneration policy is understood by, and available to, all employees.
Employees report, which includes the remuneration policy that received a binding are encouraged to use the service only when other internal reporting vote from shareholders at the AGM 2014, is on pages 65 to 83 of this lines have not adequately dealt with their concerns, or if the matter is annual report.
During 2014, 41 calls were received by the helpline provider 2013: 45 calls, 7 of which were from the Healthcare business.
There have been on average 42 calls per year since the policy was introduced in 2006.
The majority of calls continue to relate to human resources issues and practices.
All reports of calls are taken by internal audit  .
