Aluminium Financial performance Greenhouse gas emissions Rio Tintos Aluminium group has one of the lowest carbon footprints in the 2014 2013 aluminium industry.
The group has reduced greenhouse gas emissions by US$ million US$ million 40 per cent since 2008.
Almost 80 per cent of its total power needs comes Revenue 12,123 12,463 from non-fossil-fuel based hydro 72 per cent and nuclear six per cent Net cash generated from operating activities 2,550 1,696 power compared with an industry average of 35 per cent for non-fossil-fuel Underlying earnings 1,248 557 based power.
This means that the emissions intensity from the groups Capital expenditures 2,021 2,226 smelters is around half of the industry average less than six tonnes of CO 2 equivalent per tonne of aluminium versus an industry average of around Net operating assets 18,297 18,814 11 tonnes.
Strategy and strategic priorities Review of operations Rio Tintos Aluminium group is focused on delivering industry-leading With effect from 1 June 2014, Alfredo Barrios succeeded Jacynthe Ct performance through the cycle and strong returns in the years to come.
The as chief executive of the Aluminium group and also joined the Rio Tinto business has been reshaped around the core pillars of bauxite and the groups Executive Committee.
smelting assets that are in the first quartile of the industry.
By taking action to move the smelting asset base down the cost curve, the portfolio has been The groups position as a sector-leading business is demonstrated in its positioned squarely into the first quartile.
Upon completion of the Kitimat financial performance in 2014.
The Aluminium groups underlying earnings Modernisation Project, more than 80 per cent of the Aluminium groups increased by 124 per cent to US$1,248 million, US$691 million higher than in smelter assets will be in the first quartile compared with only 40 per cent in 2013.
The group achieved underlying EBITDA of US$2,930 million, which 2011.
Following the transition of Gove to a bauxite export business, the group represented a gain of 55 per cent from 2013, while widening the gap with the has ramped up bauxite exports and supplied around 50 per cent of Chinese competition on the strength of its industry-leading EBITDA margins.
Its goal is to establish its Cape York bauxite as the improved underlying EBITDA, combined with reduced working capital levels, .
has increased net cash generated from operating activities by US$854 million to US$2,550 million and generated positive free cash flow.
The solid financial In 2015 the Aluminium group intends to capitalise on its competitive results reflected numerous ongoing cost reduction and productivity advantages through: improvement initiatives across the Aluminium group, as well as benefits Growing the groups sector-leading, high-margin bauxite position derived from rising regional and product premiums and the impact of the while further enhancing performance and cash generation from its weaker Australian and Canadian dollars.
Value-added products, which are low-cost smelters.
produced to individual customer specifications, represented some 62 per cent Driving operating excellence at the groups alumina refineries, providing of the primary metal produced by Rio Tinto in 2014, which translated into competitive supply security to its first-quartile smelter portfolio.
superior realised prices and margins.
Capitalising on its commercial and trading capabilities to increase margins The average London Metal Exchange price for aluminium in 2014 was and value.
US$1,867 per tonne, which compares with an average of US$1,845 per tonne Achieving continuous improvement from driving sustainable cost in 2013.
Rio Tintos average realised price for primary metal products reduction, productivity improvement initiatives and working capital including market and product premiums was US$2,395 per tonne in 2014, reductions across all the Aluminium groups operations.
compared with US$2,249 per tonne in 2013.
Optimising the portfolio by divesting non-core operations to concentrate Cash cost improvements lifted earnings by US$168 million US$232 million on strategic, top-tier assets.
Greater production efficiencies, lower raw material prices, reduced Exercising a disciplined approach to capital allocation, geared to delivering functional costs, and increased production at various operations all helped to key brownfield and modernisation projects that leverage the groups reduce unit cash costs of production.
competitive advantages in bauxite ore reserves and self-generated energy.
In 2014, record bauxite production was achieved at the Sangaredi mine in Guinea and the Weipa mine in Australia delivered a similarly strong Safety performance to that achieved in 2013.
However, global bauxite production was The Aluminium groups all-injury frequency rate continued its steady marginally lower in 2014 compared with 2013 as Gove production was downward trend in 2014.
The key all-injury metric at the years end was 0.53, impacted by infrastructure constraints following the shift to bauxite exports, which represented a 20 per cent improvement over the 0.66 rate at the end of after curtailment of the refinery.
Exports are expected to ramp up towards a 2013.
However, despite showing an incremental improvement in the groups run rate of eight million tonnes per annum in 2015 as export infrastructure overall safety performance, the tragic death of Darryl Manderson at the Gove constraints are addressed.
operations in Australia in the first half of 2014 is a sobering reminder of the importance of the relentless focus on safety.
The Aluminium group is Alumina production increased by six per cent in 2014.
This position will be  further improved during the second half of 2015, when the expanded Yarwun kinds of accidents.
The group has therefore redoubled its efforts to improve refinery in Australia is expected to reach full capacity as design and further through initiatives such as the Zero Harm by Choice leadership construction challenges are progressively addressed.
development programme, a Human Performance initiative and activities to Rio Tintos share of aluminium production for 2014 totalled 3.4 million tonnes, improve process safety.
Drawing on lessons learned from previous incidents, which was broadly in line with 2013.
Production from the new AP60 plant, and the group is constantly working to implement enhanced policies, systems and capacity creep across the smelter portfolio offset the closure of Shawinigan in procedures to improve performance.
November 2013 and the partial shutdown at Kitimat as preparations are made to commission the modernised smelter.
Eight smelters, representing 54 per cent of 2014 production volumes, achieved annual production records.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS The Aluminium group continues to make some difficult but necessary Outlook decisions with respect to portfolio management.
The Gove site in Australia is After several very challenging years, there is growing optimism and positive now operating as a bauxite export business, following the curtailment of sentiment about the prospects for the aluminium industry.
The fundamentals refinery operations in May 2014.
The plan is to ramp up export capacity from are strong, with forecasters anticipating a healthy market deficit outside China six to eight million tonnes per annum towards the end of 2015, following for the coming years.
While the workforce at Gove has been Global primary demand reached around 54 million tonnes in 2014, and is reduced, the bauxite business will be used to sustain an important economic expected to grow in the range of six to seven per cent during 2015.
Aluminium base for the region and its Indigenous population.
prices gradually improved over the course of 2014, and regional premiums Since 2009, Rio Tinto has closed, curtailed or divested approximately one have continued to increase, reflecting the tight market outside China.
million tonnes of primary aluminium capacity and three million tonnes of A combination of current forecast production rates and strong demand is alumina capacity.
In October 2014, Rio Tinto sold its 50 per cent interest in the expected to result in the global market maintaining a supply deficit for 2015.
SRAL aluminium smelter in Norway, and in December divested its 46.67 per Crucially, the ex-China market appears set to continue a strong rate of cent interest in the Alucam smelter in Cameroon.
drawdown of stored metal in the coming years, which is expected to result in The new Arvida Aluminium Smelter AP60 Technology Centre in Quebecs inventory returning to pre-financial crisis levels when measured against  region was inaugurated in January 2014.
initial capacity of 60,000 tonnes per annum, the smelter provides an Over the medium term, forecasters envisage compound annual aluminium industrial-scale Research & Development platform for commercialisation of demand growth of around four per cent through 2025, supported by increased Rio Tintos latest-generation AP Technology.
This facility also benefits from intensities in key applications, most notably the transportation sector.
Aluminiums unique properties light weight, strength and resistance to In Iceland, modernisation of the ISAL smelter, including the addition of a corrosion are driving increasing market penetration in the automotive market.
leading-edge casting facility to produce value-added billet, was completed in It is expected that within the next ten years, seven out of ten new pickup trucks the first half of 2014.
Annual capacity has been increased from 190,000 to produced in North America will be aluminium-bodied, as competitors follow the 205,000 tonnes.
lead of Ford, which recently introduced its first aluminium-bodied F-150.
Many In June 2014, as a result of further revisions to future capital required to other leading automakers also have been increasing the amount of aluminium complete the modernisation project at Kitimat in British Columbia, and related used in lightweight and fuel-efficient car models.
impacts on the project, the Kitimat assets were impaired by US$800 million Demand for alumina will be underpinned by aluminium and will be nearly net of tax.
In December 2014, an impairment reversal of US$1 billion net of balanced, given that alumina cannot be stored as easily as aluminium tax was recognised relating to the Pacific Aluminium operations, where or bauxite.
significant cost improvements and high regional and product premiums have increased the value of the assets.
Prospects for bauxite a sector where Rio Tinto enjoys an unrivalled position are particularly bright, with a projected rate of growth outpacing that of Development projects aluminium, thanks in large part to robust demand in the Chinese market.
The The Aluminium groups development pipeline is focused on leveraging the emerging Middle East market represents an additional opportunity.
product groups two sustainable competitive advantages: unrivalled positions On the supply side, exports from Indonesia, a major bauxite producer, have in energy and bauxite.
ceased in the wake of an export ban imposed by the Indonesian Government At the years end, preparations were being finalised for full commissioning of that took effect in January 2014.
Although medium-term uncertainty remains, the transformed Kitimat smelter in the first half of 2015.
Leveraging the sustained tightness in supply is expected.
With attractive growth opportunities Aluminium groups wholly-owned Kemano hydropower resource and highranging from South of Embley to rich deposits in Brazil and Guinea, the efficiency AP smelting technology, the Kitimat Modernisation Project will Aluminium group is well positioned to capitalise on increased demand for increase production capacity at the smelter by more than 48 per cent to seaborne bauxite.
approximately 420,000 tonnes per year, while reducing overall environmental emissions by nearly 50 per cent.
Kitimat will be one of the lowest-cost smelters in the world in the first decile of the cost curve and is strategically located to supply key emerging markets in the Pacific Rim.
In August 2014, the board approved additional capital of US$1.5 billion to complete the Kitimat project, taking the total approved capital cost to US$4.8 billion.
In early 2014, Rio Tinto entered into an option agreement with LNG Canada for an undisclosed sum.
Exercise of the option would entitle LNG Canada to acquire or lease a wharf and associated land at the Kitimat port to facilitate a proposed liquid natural gas export project.
The exercise of this option would not impact the groups ability to operate the Kitimat aluminium smelter.
Rio Tinto is now prioritising the South of Embley bauxite growth project at Cape York, Queensland in Australia.
With mining costs in the first quartile and with attractive returns, this is a Tier 1 investment opportunity.
The project includes mine, port and infrastructure elements, with a planned initial output of 22.8 million tonnes per year and options, using the same infrastructure, to later expand up to 50 million tonnes.
The project feasibility study is under way.
The project will be brought to the board for approval in 2015. riotinto.
