Copper Financial performance Review of operations The Copper group is focused on creating long-term value for shareholders.
In 2014 2013 the short term, it aims to achieve this by improving earnings quality through US$ million US$ million ongoing cost improvements and productivity gains.
In the medium term, it Revenue 6,282 5,916 aims to develop attractive brownfield projects at Kennecott and Oyu Tolgoi to a Net cash generated from operating activities 1,701 379 leverage the next copper market cycle.
In the longer term, the group is Underlying earnings 912 821 focused on two greenfield projects designed to deliver world-class returns and Capital expenditure 1,011 1,866 steady cash flows.
Net operating assets 10,581 12,070 In 2014, the group delivered significant improvements in productivity, with a seven per cent increase in mined copper from its operations at Kennecott and a Net cash generated from operating activities excludes that from equity accounted Oyu Tolgoi, making Rio Tinto the worlds sixth largest supplier.
The group units Escondida but includes dividends from equity accounted units.
produced 603 thousand tonnes of mined copper Rio Tinto share.
Copper operations also produced 487 thousand ounces of mined gold, 4,699 thousand Strategy and strategic priorities ounces of mined silver and 11.5 thousand tonnes of molybdenum as byThe Copper groups strategy is to focus its resources on generating value from products.
a core portfolio of low-cost, high-value, world-class assets.
This includes existing operations at Rio Tinto Kennecott, Oyu Tolgoi, Escondida and The Copper groups underlying earnings of US$912 million were 11 per cent Grasberg, and greenfield growth opportunities at La Granja and Resolution.
higher than 2013, driven by increased gold and molybdenum sales at Kennecott, the ramp-up of Oyu Tolgoi and delivery of further cash cost The Copper groups goal is to set an industry profitability benchmark by: savings.
The group generated sustainable cost reductions of more than Focusing on a world-class asset portfolio.
US$900 million in 2013 and 2014, and is making good progress improving Positioning itself in the first or second quartile of the cost curve.
In 2014, the Copper group reduced working capital by Delivering quality earnings by reducing costs and improving productivity.
US$500 million, generated positive free cash flow for the first time since 2010 delivering US$800 million in free cash flow and delivered underlying Making selective investments that can deliver growth to meet EBITDA margin improvement of 26 per cent, compared with 2013, closing the market opportunities.
gap with its peer companies.
The groups strategic priorities are to: The groups impairment charge resulted from a review of the investment case Improve productivity through safer, better and smarter practices, and for the Molybdenum Autoclave Process project at Kennecott.
The review selected technology investments.
concluded that the project, which has been on care and maintenance since Drive maximum value out of the products the group mines and optimise early 2013, will be terminated.
The recoverable amount was determined based the entire supply chain.
on anticipated net disposal proceeds.
As a result, a pre-tax impairment charge Develop strong leadership and an aligned, capable, engaged and of US$559 million has been recorded against property, plant and equipment.
As part of ongoing work to focus its portfolio on high-value, world-class assets, the group divested its ownership in the Sulawesi nickel project in Indonesia, Safety and its 19.1 per cent stake in Northern Dynasty Minerals, owner of the Pebble In 2014, the Copper product groups all injury frequency rate was 0.51, copper and gold project in the Bristol Bay region of Alaska.
While there has not been a fatal incident in the Copper groups managed operations in the past two years, unfortunately six Core operating assets employees were killed at the non-managed Grasberg operation during 2014: Rio Tinto Kennecott Rio Tinto: 100 per cent four in a haul truck incident, one due to a fall of ground in the underground Kennecott supplies approximately 20 per cent of US refined copper operation and one due to a roll-over involving a concrete mixer truck.
requirements, and is one of the worlds few fully-integrated mining, During 2014, the group launched several new safety initiatives: concentrating, smelting and refining operations.
A Critical Risk Management programme aimed at easily identifying and In 2014, Kennecott produced 204.1 thousand tonnes of refined copper, mitigating the common risks that can lead to fatalities and catastrophic 252.2 thousand ounces of refined gold, and 11.5 thousand tonnes of accidents.
The programme was built on the principles of the Material molybdenum.
Production in 2014 was impacted by ongoing recovery from the Safety Risk Management process at Escondida, where there have been no 130 million-tonne landslide on the north-east wall of the Bingham Canyon fatalities since the process was put in place in 2011.
Mine, which occurred in April 2013, and a 65-day planned smelter shutdown A Hand Safety campaign designed to increase employee awareness of safe completed in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Recovery work will continue in 2015, practices and decrease common injuries to hands and fingers.
with production in the nearand medium-term impacted by continued removal of slide material and constrained by ongoing management of pit wall stability.
Drilling safety standards and improvements to underground control safety standards.
Oyu Tolgoi Rio Tinto: 50.8 per cent interest in Turquoise Hill Resources Located in Mongolias South Gobi Desert, Oyu Tolgoi is one of the worlds Greenhouse gas emissions largest copper-gold-silver mines.
In 2014, Oyu Tolgoi produced 148 thousand The Copper groups 2014 greenhouse gas GHG emissions were 8.57 tonnes tonnes of copper and 589 thousand ounces of mined gold 100 per cent basis.
of carbon dioxide equivalent per tonne of copper cathode produced, compared Since the second half of 2014, deliveries to Oyu Tolgoi customers have with 8.34 tonnes in 2013.
The decrease in efficiency resulted from a planned outstripped production and the operation ended the year with inventories at maintenance shutdown of the Kennecott smelter, which reduced copper normalised levels.
cathode production year-on-year despite the continued operation of the mine Escondida Rio Tinto: 30 per cent interest and concentrator during the shutdown period.
As a result, GHG emissions per Located in Chiles Atacama Desert, Escondida is the worlds largest coppertonne of copper cathode produced were higher.
In 2014, Escondida produced 1,137.6 thousand tonnes of mined copper 100 per cent basis.
Copper production was higher year-onyear due to increased mill throughput and increased ore stacked for leaching.
Water constraints at Escondida are expected to create some risk to production volumes in 2015.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Grasberg a joint venture that gives Rio Tinto a 40 per cent share of production Resolution submitted a General Mine Plan of Operations in 2013.
In December above specified levels until the end of 2021 and 40 per cent of all production 2014, President Obama signed legislation that will allow the US Federal after 2021 Government to exchange 2,400 acres of federally owned land immediately Grasberg is owned and operated by PT Freeport Indonesia PTFI, a subsidiary adjacent to Resolutions operational site, for 5,300 acres of important wildlife of US-based Freeport-McMoRan, Inc.
Located in the province of Papua, habitat, conservation and recreational land owned by Resolution.
Both the land Indonesia, it is one of the worlds largest copper mines.
Rio Tintos share of exchange and proposed mine plan will now undergo a comprehensive mined copper production at Grasberg was 7.7 thousand tonnes in 2014. environmental and regulatory review that includes an assessment under the US National Environmental Policy Act.
This process will include public input, Development projects  consultation with Arizona Native American tribes, The Copper group is focused on delivering high-quality, medium-term projects and a US Federal Government appraisal of the exchange lands.
to extend mine life at its existing operations, creating future options with Growth and innovation world-class greenfield projects and developing innovations that drive safety, Rio Tinto Copper is testing and evaluating technologies to drive improved safety growth and productivity.
A phased development approach allows the group to and productivity at its current mines and development projects.
The innovation deploy capital in a way that maximises shareholder return, minimises risk and portfolio is being prioritised to ensure that the best projects are being pursued, times new production to come online when the market requires.
and that there is a balance between short and long-term initiatives.
Productivity and mine life extension In 2014, Rio Tinto opened the Processing Excellence Centre after successful Rio Tinto Kennecott trials at a number of copper and energy sites.
The Centre is improving Kennecott is at the early stages of its South Pushback project which may concentrator performance by linking experts with operations across the allow the Copper group to extend the life of Bingham Canyon through globe in real-time, which has driven significant improvements at Oyu Tolgoi accessing additional copper units from approximately 510 million tonnes of and Kennecott.
During an industrial-scale chalcopyrite heap leaching demonstration at Grasberg Kennecott, the group achieved expected copper extraction targets.
The Growth PTFI continues to develop the large-scale, high-grade underground orebodies & Innovation team is now conducting laboratory tests at its Bundoora facility located beneath and nearby the Grasberg open pit.
In aggregate, these near Melbourne, Australia with the aim of enhancing leaching recovery further.
underground orebodies are expected to ramp up over several years to This will allow the group to develop chalcopyrite deposits such as La Granja approximately 240,000 tonnes of ore per day following the anticipated more efficiently.
transition from the Grasberg open pit in 2017.
The Copper group is working with a variety of partners in areas such as the Oyu Tolgoi development of safer and more productive underground mining equipment The Copper group is focused on unlocking the full value of Oyu Tolgoi and and processes, as well as technologies for dynamic measurement of remains committed to the underground development, pending appropriate underground rock mass and caving performance.
The goal of these projects is investment conditions.
Rio Tinto continues to engage with the Government to significantly improve safety and productivity during construction and of Mongolia to resolve a number of outstanding shareholder matters, progress operation of underground mines.
project financing and meet certain conditions needed to proceed with the proposed underground development project, where a significant portion of Outlook the value is contained.
The copper market is expected to see a period of continued price weakness in the short term as, despite continued demand growth, the market moves into a Greenfield projects surplus resulting from a number of new projects coming online.
However, La Granja Rio Tinto: 100 per cent beyond this challenging short-term picture, the medium and long-term Located in northern Peru, the La Granja project is one of the worlds largestfundamentals remain robust, with a substantial supply gap expected by the known undeveloped copper resources.
end of the decade requiring further significant investment in new capacity.
The The project team is assessing a range of options to develop the large nearcontinued urbanisation, industrialisation and electrification of China and other surface resource at La Granja, including staged development with early large markets creates a solid demand outlook, while supply will be constrained production from leaching of both secondary sulphide and primary sulphide by the industrys need to invest to offset grade declines and closures at mineralisation.
The team continues to successfully prove very good recoveries existing mines, and by the many challenges of bringing on new projects.
from the leaching of  ore, and has continued to build a These market dynamics create opportunity for Rio Tinto Copper.
The group strong social consensus for the project.
has a world-class portfolio of low-cost assets and high-quality growth Resolution Copper Rio Tinto: 55 per cent opportunities.
It has made material progress in reducing costs and is on The Resolution Copper project, located in Arizona, US, is one of the worlds course to become a producer in the first or second quartile of the cost curve largest undeveloped copper deposits.
In 2014, drilling continued and the and deliver superior profitability.
It is leveraging technology to make Copper project completed construction of the #10 mine shaft to final depth of 2,116 group operations safer, more productive and more sustainable.
Drilling, underground development and engineering studies continue pursuing high-value growth opportunities at its existing operations in the as the Copper group works to optimise the business case.
medium term and greenfield development projects in the longer term, using a phased approach to manage risk and time new production to come online b This is only a portion of Rio Tinto Kennecotts current ore reserves.
See Ore when the market requires.
Finally, the Copper group is building strong reserves section of this report for Rio Tinto Kennecotts ore reserves including community partnerships and encouraging its employees to deliver results breakout of all metals and classifications.
through collaboration and sharing of best practices.
The group believes this strategy will generate significant and sustainable shareholder value.
