Capital allocation The aim of Rio Tintos capital allocation process is to invest in a sustainable way through the cycle, having consideration of shareholders expectations of returns, and the robustness of our balance sheet.
This is achieved through an evaluation and prioritisation of the Groups portfolio of investment opportunitiesovera number of years to determine what will be the best use of capital.
Key considerations in determining the best use of capital include the progressive dividend policy and the strength of the balance sheet.
This, together with financial policies, existing capital commitments and net cash generated from operating activities forecasts set the boundaries for how much capital is available for investment.
In todays capital-constrained environment, only the highest-returning investments will be approved.
The Group analyses each investment based on net present value but also considers a number of further factors, including internal rate of return, payback period and risk profile.
This suite of ranking criteria, together with the application of strategic judgment, ensures that capital is deployed to the best opportunities.
Rio Tintos capital expenditure reduced by 37 per cent to US$8.2 billion in 2014, compared with the peak level in 2012 of US$17.6 billion.
It is expected to be reduced further to less than US$7 billion in 2015 of which around US$2.5 billion is expected to be sustaining capital.
Rio Tinto funded its capital expenditure with net cash generated from operating activities in 2014 and aims to continue funding its capital programme from internal sources.
Essential sustaining Progressive Iterative Compelling Debt reduction 1 2 3 capex dividends cycle of: growth Further cash returns to shareholders Major capital projects US$1bn Total approved capital cost Rio Tinto 100% owned unless otherwise stated 100% US$ Status milestones In production Iron ore expansion of the Pilbara mines, ports and $9.8bn The integrated mines, rail and ports reached a run-rate of 290 Mt a in May railways from 237 Mt a to 290 Mt a. Rio Tinto share 2014, two months ahead of schedule.
The Nammuldi mine expansion was US$8.4bn.
completed and is commencing production.
Ongoing and approved Iron ore expansion of the Pilbara port, rail and power $5.9bn The phase two expansion to 360 Mt a includes investment in the port, rail supply capacity to 360 Mt a. Rio Tinto share, US$3.5bn.
and power supply and investment in automation.
Iron  $1.7bn The investment includes a wet processing plant to maintain product Yandicoogina mine in the Pilbara to 2021. specification levels.
Aluminium modernisation and expansion of Kitimat $4.8bn First production from the modernisation is expected towards the end of the smelter in British Columbia, Canada to increase capacity first half of 2015 with full capacity expected to be reached in the first half from 280ktpa to 420ktpa.
Copper development of Organic Growth Project 1 $1.3bn Replacement of the Los Colorados concentrator with a 152kt per day plant, OGP1 at Escondida Rio Tinto 30%, Chile.
Rio Tinto share accessing higher-grade ore.
Initial production is expected in the first half of 2015.
Copper construction of a desalination facility to ensure $1.0bn The project is designed to provide a sustainable supply of water for the new continued water supply and sustain operations at Rio Tinto share OGP1 copper concentrator.
Cash returns to shareholders The aim of Rio Tintos progressive dividend policy is to maintain or increase the US dollar value of ordinary dividends per share.
The rate of the total dividend, in US dollars per share, is determined annually, taking into account the results for the past year and the outlook.
The interim dividend is set at one half of the total dividend per share for the previous year.
The full year dividend in respect of 2014 was increased by 12 per cent, to 215 US cents per share, reflecting the boards confidence in the business and its attractive prospects.
This follows a 15 per cent increase in both the 2013 and 2012 full year dividends.
In February 2015, Rio Tinto announced a US$2.0 billion share buy-back programme, comprising a targeted A$500 million c. US$0.4 billion off-market share buy-back tender of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the balance of approximately US$1.6 billion for an on-market buy-back of Rio Tinto plc shares.
These represent a total cash return to shareholders, in respect of 2014, of almost US$6.0 billion, an increase of approximately 64 per cent on 2013.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Divestments and acquisitions Consideration Asset US$m Status Divested in 2014 a Clermont Joint Venture 1,015 Sold to GS Coal Pty Ltd. a Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique 50 Sold to International Coal Ventures Private Limited ICVL.
Sral Undisclosed Sold to Norsk Hydro.
Alucam Undisclosed Sold to the Government of Cameroon.
Divested in 2013 Northparkes mine 820 Sold to China Molybdenum Co. Ltd. Constellium 671 Shares sold to general public.
Palabora Mining Company Limited 373 Sold to a consortium led by Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa and Hebei Iron & Steel Group.
Eagle nickel copper project 315 Sold to Lundin Mining Corporation.
Altynalmas Gold 235 Sold to Sumeru Gold B. V. Inova Resources Limited 81 Sold to Shanxi Donghui Coal Coking & Chemicals Group Co. Sebree 48 Sold to Century Aluminum Co.
Divested in 2012 Alcan Cable 229 Sold to General Cable Corporation.
Specialty Alumina businesses Undisclosed Sold to H. I. G. Lynemouth Power Station Undisclosed Sold to RWE.
Energy Extract Resources Ltd Kalahari Minerals plc 429 Equity investment sold to Taurus Mineral Limited.
Acquired in 2012 Copper Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. Purchase of additional shares increasing the Groups holdings to formerly Ivanhoe Mines Limited 307 51 per cent.
Minerals Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited 1,700 Acquisition of BHP Billiton Groups entire interests in Richards Bay Minerals, doubling the Groups holding to 74 per cent.
a Before working capital and completion adjustments.
There were no material acquisitions in 2014 or 2013. riotinto.
