Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy We regularly consult with shareholders on the design of our policies and Remuneration Policy introduction programmes, most recently on the subjects of the safety measure This Remuneration Policy applies to our executive and non-executive directors component of the STIP, the ceasing of the use of share options as a and to the chairman.
It also sets out, in conformance with Australian law, the mechanism for long-term reward, and the performance conditions and the broad policy principles which generally apply to the non-director members of performance period for the Performance Share Plan PSP.
The policy applying to our chairman and nonEmployee share plans provide the opportunity for employees to participate executive directors is set out at the end of the Remuneration Policy.
in the voting on executive remuneration.
Employees who are shareholders Shareholders should note that this Remuneration Policy is binding only in so 25 per cent of the workforce at the date of this report are able to vote far as it relates to directors.
Employees have not been consulted on the Remuneration Policy but are free to ask any questions they wish and to Our remuneration policies, principles and practices offer any opinions they have through our normal employee Our first objective is to spend remuneration resource wisely in pursuit of communications channels.
the implementation of the Groups strategy.
We want our pay policies to be regarded as fair by shareholders and employees alike.
Although we Safety have remuneration structures which are fit for purpose, the Committee We have a strong focus on safety in the STIP targets.
retains appropriate discretions, enabling it, if it thinks fit, to override As an organisation, we strive for superior long-term shareholder value inappropriate mechanistic outcomes, but always within the confines of the creation in a healthy, safe and environmentally appropriate way.
important elements of our licence to operate.
Rio Tinto operates in global and local markets where it competes for a limited Safety key performance indicators determine a significant portion of the pool of talented executives.
High-quality people, who are capable of achieving STIP for executives.
stretching performance targets, are essential to generating superior returns Any fatality will have a material impact on the STIP score for the relevant for the Group.
Our compensation strategies aim to provide this support by executives.
Further details on the approach to fatalities are provided in the enabling the Group to attract and retain people whose contribution will Implementation Report.
increase shareholder value over time.
We aim to engage our people over the long term by fostering diversity, providing challenging work and development opportunities, and encouraging strong delivery by good performance.
This people strategy is underpinned by our values of respect, integrity, teamwork and accountability and by our commitment to provide sustainable growth and development for both Rio Tinto and its employees.
Our policy is based on the principle of aligning remuneration outcomes with the successful delivery of strategy.
The remuneration strategy and the policies which support it, together with a description of how we believe they will help Rio Tinto achieve its vision, are set out below and under the heading Executive remuneration structure policy table.
Complementary remuneration structures are designed for other employees, drawing on these strategies and policies.
Competitive, performance-related, remuneration We aim to provide competitive rewards that attract, retain and motivate executives of the high calibre required to lead the Group, while ensuring that rewards remain appropriate and proportionate when compared both to market practice and to remuneration arrangements for other employees in the Group.
The majority of remuneration is linked to demanding performance targets over both the short and long term to ensure that executive rewards are directed at delivering good performance for shareholders.
For the purposes of assessing the appropriate level of executive remuneration, the Committee refers to the FTSE30 excluding financial services companies as the initial comparator group.
The FTSE30 is considered the most relevant comparator group as it largely comprises organisations broadly comparable to the Group in terms of global reach, revenue, market capitalisation and complexity.
References are also made to other relevant supplementary comparator groups, including a crosssection of comparable international industrial organisations and other international mining companies.
Typically we aim to position base salaries at the median of these comparator groups, while our incentive plans are designed with the potential to deliver total remuneration outcomes across the full market range according to business and individual performance.
Benchmarking is undertaken periodically, but not annually, and our intention is to apply judgment in evaluating market data.
We will take salary increases in the broader employee population into account in determining any change to the base pay of executives.
We normally use three-year average exchange rates, in order to mitigate the impact of exchange rate volatility, to help determine the appropriate positioning of executive remuneration against internal and external comparators.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION REPORT: AND OPERATIONS POLICY REPORT a Long-term focus Risk management Malus and claw back Consistent with our strategy of investing in and operating long-life, low-cost, The Committee has authority under the malus provisions of the PSP to expandable operations in the most attractive industry sectors, we seek to reduce or cancel awards made from 2013 in the event of gross misconduct provide incentive plans that focus on longer-term performance.
which may have a material effect on the value or reputation of the Group, a materially adverse error in the Groups or a product groups financial Our incentive plans are designed to promote and reward decision-making statements, exceptional events that have a materially detrimental impact with a positive long-term impact while avoiding excessive risk.
on the value of any Group company, or for any other reason that the  Committee decides in a particular case.
after three years, through the Bonus Deferral Plan BDP.
The Committee also has authority under the claw back provisions of the The performance-based options and shares awarded prior to 2013 have a PSP to recover the value of any vested awards made from 2013 in the event of three and four-year performance period, respectively.
The performance deliberate misconduct by a participant that may have a material impact on the period for performance shares awarded under the PSP from 2013 is five value or reputation of a Rio Tinto Group company or for any other reason that years.
However, as a transitional measure, awards granted in 2013 will the directors decide in a particular case.
potentially vest 50 per cent after four years and 50 per cent after five years.
Malus and claw back can be applied by the Committee in relation to the STIP Options are no longer granted, but existing options may be exercised and its deferral into BDP.
The Committee evaluates the outcomes of the STIP subject to their vesting conditions up to ten years after their grant.
for fairness with the original targets and with shareholder experience, and may The Committee intends to keep the Groups long-term incentive make discretionary adjustments for executives using malus principles as arrangements under review.
Any such adjustments are disclosed in the Implementation Report for the relevant financial period.
Shareholder alignment Our share ownership policy requires executives to build up and maintain a The Committee retains discretion with respect to the vesting of BDP awards meaningful shareholding as described in the Implementation Report under the made from 2013 onwards prior to their vesting dates, such that if an executive heading Share ownership policy for executives.
resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any other reason that the Committee decides in the event of an executive terminating their We reward executives for delivering shareholder value by using relative TSR as employment, BDP awards may be clawed back and consequently lapse.
one of the measures for our LTIP.
The Committee reserves rights to exercise discretions more generally as For awards granted from 2013 under the PSP, a relative EBIT margin described under the heading Discretions.
improvement measure has complemented the existing relative TSR measures, and incentivises executives to deliver long-term shareholder a Material changes to the Remuneration Policy, such as those relating to malus and claw back below, are identified in italics in this Report.
value while maximising operational performance in the medium term.
This comprises one-third of the total value opportunity under the PSP awards.
Executive remuneration structure policy table The reward opportunity under the remaining portion of the PSP awards is The Committee seeks to achieve a remuneration mix which best reflects the delivered based on relative TSR performance against both the HSBC long-term nature of the business.
The total remuneration package is therefore Global Mining Index and the broader market of large global companies as designed to provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable measured through the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index MSCI.
components, with an emphasis on long-term variable pay.
The remuneration The choice of both the HSBC Global Mining Index and MSCI reflects the structure for executives, including the relationship between each element of fact that Rio Tinto competes in a global market for investors as well as remuneration and Group performance, is summarised below.
Further details within the mining sector, and is consistent with rewarding executives for on the key performance indicators used to assess Group performance are providing stable returns over the long term relative to the broader market provided in the Strategic report under the heading Key performance and the mining sector.
Shareholders should note that the following remuneration structure is binding only in so far as it relates to directors.
Any commitment made before this Remuneration Policy takes effect or before an executive became or becomes a director will be honoured even if it is not consistent with this Remuneration Policy or any subsequent policy.
Remuneration arrangements Fixed Link to Group performance and strategy Base salary Base salary provides the main fixed element of the remuneration package.
We pay competitive salaries to hire, motivate and retain highly Base salaries are reviewed annually, with a maximum increase of nine per cent, or competent people.
inflation if higher, per annum.
An increase may be higher than this for executives who are not directors in the circumstances described below.
Any increase is generally aligned with the average base salary increases applying to the broader employee population unless there were significant changes to an individuals role and or responsibilities during the year.
Any increases are determined with reference to underlying Group and individual performance, global economic conditions, role responsibilities, an assessment against relevant comparator groups and internal relativities.
An increase above the maximum noted above for executives who are not directors may be made in the event of internal promotion or increase in responsibility or where the executives salary is significantly below market positioning.
Benchmarking is undertaken periodically but not annually, and our intention is to apply judgment in evaluating market data.
com 67 Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration arrangements Fixed Link to Group performance and strategy Pension or Employment benefits typically include participation in a pension plan, We provide locally competitive postsuperannuation superannuation fund, or a cash allowance to contribute to a personal pension or employment benefits in a cost-efficient superannuation fund.
manner in order to hire and retain.
The maximum level of Company contribution to an individual executive directors schemes annually is 35 per cent of base salary.
Other benefits Other benefits include private healthcare cover for the executive and their We provide competitive other benefits dependants, company car or allowance, car parking, life insurance, accident in a cost-efficient manner to hire and insurance, provision of Company-provided transport chauffeur, professional advice, retain.
participation in local flexible benefit programmes and certain other minor benefits including modest retirement gifts in applicable circumstances, occasional spouse travel in support of the business and any Rio Tinto business expenses which are deemed to be taxable where the Company has paid the tax on their behalf.
Secondment, relocation and localisation benefits for example, housing, tax equalisation, cost of living allowance, the payment of school fees, periodic visits home for the executive and their family and where relevant, localisation payments may also be made to and on behalf of executives living outside their home country.
Examples of these types of payments are set out in the Implementation Report.
Other benefits are paid at cost and, given the nature and variety of the items, there is no formal maximum level of Company contribution.
Remuneration arrangements Performance-related At risk Short Term Incentive If target performance is achieved under the STIP, the bonus opportunity is up to STIP focuses participants on achieving Plan STIP 120 per cent of base salary for executive directors and up to 100 per cent of base demanding annual performance goals, salary for other executives.
The award for achieving threshold performance is 50 per which are based on the Groups KPIs, in cent of the target bonus opportunity and the maximum bonus award for pursuit of the creation of sustainable outstanding performance is 200 per cent of base salary.
These percentages, with shareholder value.
the exception of the maximum percentage, are subject to the exercise of discretion We demand that sustainable business by the Committee.
practices are adhered to, particularly in A scorecard of key performance indicators KPIs is established for each executive the context of safety.
at the commencement of the financial year.
The measures and the relative When reviewing the outcome of the weightings are selected by the Committee in order to drive business performance awards under the STIP the Committee for the current year, including the achievement of financial, safety and other will, when evaluating overall safety, individual business outcomes that are priorities for the financial year in question.
financial, Group and individual The measures, weightings and targets are reviewed annually and are included performance, consider the overall either prospectively or retrospectively each year in the Implementation Report.
The fairness against original expectations and Committee retains flexibility to determine the measures, weightings and targets as shareholder experience.
appropriate, based on the outcomes of its annual review.
Any discretionary adjustments for We expect to disclose the measures, weightings and targets for safety goals at the directors will be disclosed in the beginning of each year.
In the area of financial and individual goals, we will, at the Implementation Report for the financial beginning of each year, disclose the measures and weightings only, because we period.
regard the targets as commercially sensitive.
However, we intend to disclose targets and outcomes retrospectively.
In the rare instances where this may not be prudent on grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will seek to explain why, and give an indication of when they will be disclosed.
Threshold, target and outstanding performance levels are established for all STIP measures to help drive high levels of business and individual performance.
The central case or base plan delivers what the board considers to be target performance.
Target performance is intended to be stretching.
Probability factors are then applied, based upon a range of potential operating and cost scenarios, to establish the threshold and outstanding performance levels.
These threshold below target, target, and outstanding above target levels are determined by the Committee at the beginning of each performance year.
The Committee seeks to ensure, in making its year-end determination of STIP awards, that actual performance is directly comparable to the targets set at the beginning of the year.
This sometimes results in adjustments to the targets being made by the Committee in particular to take account of events outside managements control, to ensure a like-for-like comparison.
Both upward and downward adjustments can be made, with reference to principles agreed by the Committee, to ensure the outcomes are fair.
Safety KPIs comprise a significant portion of the STIP for executives, and any fatality will have a material impact on the STIP score for the relevant executives.
Bonus Deferral Plan Fifty per cent of the STIP is delivered in deferred shares under the BDP, with the The BDP ensures ongoing alignment BDP remainder delivered in cash.
between executives and shareholders through deferral of 50 per cent of STIP awards into Rio Tinto shares.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION REPORT: AND OPERATIONS POLICY REPORT Remuneration arrangements Performance-related At risk Link to Group performance and strategy The BDP vests in the December of the third year after the end of performance year to which it relates.
The number of BDP shares which are awarded is increased by reference to the dividends paid in the deferral period before vesting.
BDP shares vest on a change of control.
Performance Share A new plan was approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGMs.
The PSP incorporates a simple Plan PSP structure to align executive reward with Awards under the new PSP have a maximum face value of 438 per cent of base shareholder returns and business salary ignoring dividend equivalents as described below.
strategy, to help drive performance The awards have been calculated independently by our consultants Towers over a long-term horizon.
Watson since 1 August 2013 and Deloitte LLP previously to have an expected value Award levels are set to incentivise of approximately 50 per cent of face value.
Expected value is face value adjusted for executives to meet the long-term the probability of the performance target being met.
strategic goals of the Group, to provide Threshold performance, as explained in the Implementation Report, would result in retention for the executive team and to the vesting of 22.5 per cent of the face value of an award.
contribute towards the competitiveness The maximum expected value that can be awarded under the PSP is 219 per cent of of the overall remuneration package.
base salary ie 438 per cent x 50 per cent.
The threshold value is a maximum of TSR rewards the delivery of superior 98.6 per cent of base salary ie 438 per cent x 22.5 per cent.
returns to shareholders over the Actual award levels may vary for each executive and are included in the long term.
EBIT margin improvement rewards Conditional share awards vest subject to the achievement of stretching sustained operational performance of performance conditions, comparing Rio Tintos performance against: our business and the cost-competitive One-third: TSR relative to the HSBC Global Mining Index: operation of our mining assets, a core One-third: TSR relative to the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index MSCI : and part of our strategy.
One-third: improvement in EBIT margin relative to the global mining How performance is generated is as comparators which will be listed in the Implementation Report each year.
important as what level of performance Each component of the award will be assessed independently.
Details of the TSR is delivered.
Before vesting, the and EBIT margin measures targets and vesting schedules will be set out in the Committee must satisfy itself that Implementation Report each year.
With respect to the EBIT margin measure, in relative TSR and EBIT margin order to ensure that outcomes are fair and that business performance has been performances are an appropriate appropriately taken into account, the Committee will consider, on a discretionary reflection of the underlying basis, any specific, significant, unusual, below the line items eg impairments performance of the business, and can reported by Rio Tinto or its peers during the performance period to ensure genuine adjust vesting accordingly.
comparability when determining any level of vesting indicated by third-party data.
Awards will normally have a five-year The application of any such discretion will be disclosed.
performance period to provide longThe outperformance required for maximum vesting under all components of the term alignment with the interests award is considered by the Committee to be very stretching.
If, but only if, vesting is achieved, participants in the PSP shall be entitled to receive As a transitional measure, awards a number of additional shares whose market value reflects the aggregate cash granted in 2013 will vest 50 per cent amount of dividends that would have been received had the shares which have after four years and 50 per cent after vested at the end of the performance period been held throughout the performance five years.
Awards and performance conditions can be adjusted to take account of variations of capital and other transactions.
Subject to this policy, performance conditions may be amended in other circumstances if the Committee considers that a changed performance condition would be a fairer measure of performance.
If there is a change of control, awards will vest to the extent performance conditions are then satisfied.
If the change of control happens during the first 36 months from the date of grant of the award, the number of shares that can vest will be reduced pro rata over that 36 months period.
The Committee may, alternatively, with agreement of an acquiring company, replace awards with equivalent new awards over shares in the acquiring company.
The Committee retains the discretion, where circumstances warrant, to amend or waive performance conditions under the Plan rules.
As described under the malus and claw back provisions set out earlier in this Policy Report, the Committee retains the discretion to reduce or cancel awards before they vest malus or to recover the value of awards after vesting claw back.
The Committee will seek to ensure that outcomes are fair and that they take account of the overall performance of the Company during the performance period.
The long-term incentive awards made prior to 2013, and under which payments are still intended to be made should the relevant performance conditions be satisfied, can be paid out under this policy.
The details of the awards granted prior to 2013 which have yet to vest, including the details of the performance conditions, are provided in the Implementation Report.
com 69 56 13 13 32 13 45 13 13 5 3 21 34 10 10 8 4 34 18 9 73 55 12 12 3 6 12 43 12 12 4 9 20 29 9 9 7 15 31 13 28 59 Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued Total remuneration opportunity The following charts provide an indication, based on 2015 remuneration and the upcoming 2015 PSP awards, of what can be achieved under the Remuneration Policy for the executive directors at below threshold A, threshold B, target C and outstanding D performance levels, together with the proportion of the package delivered through fixed and variable remuneration.
The PSP, STIP deferred shares and STIP cash are all performance-related remuneration.
UK legislation requires that these charts are given in relation to the first year in which the Remuneration Policy applies.
Sam Walsh chief executive Chris Lynch chief financial officer Potential value of 2015 remuneration package Potential value of 2015 remuneration package A$000 000 Key Key PSP PSP STIP deferred shares 6,418 STIP deferred shares A$15,940 STIP cash STIP cash Superannuation Pension 2,059 Benefits Benefits Base salary Base salary 3,952 A$10,063 1,373 A Below threshold performance Minimum A Below threshold performance Minimum B Threshold performance B Threshold performance A$6,512 2,461 C On-target performance C On-target performance D Outstanding performance Maximum D Outstanding performance Maximum A$3,390 1,151 AB C D A B C D Proportion of the 2015 remuneration package value delivered Proportion of the 2015 remuneration package value delivered through fixed and variable remuneration through fixed and variable remuneration % % Key Key PSP PSP STIP deferred shares STIP deferred shares STIP cash STIP cash Superannuation Pension Benefits Fixed Benefits Fixed } } Base salary Base salary A Below threshold performance Minimum A Below threshold performance Minimum B Threshold performance B Threshold performance C On-target performance C On-target performance D Outstanding performance Maximum D Outstanding performance Maximum AB C D A B C D The following table provides the basis for the values included in the charts above: Base Superannuation Total a b c Fixed stated in 000 shown as column A above salary or pension Benefits fixed Sam Walsh A$1,992 A$450 A$948 A$3,390 Chris Lynch 836 208 107 1,151 a Base salary is the latest known salary.
b Superannuation for Sam Walsh is measured on a basis consistent with the single figure superannuation figure as set out in the Implementation Report but assumes that Sams accrued benefit at 31 December 2014 will receive investment earnings at the rate of six per cent.
The final value for 2015 will depend on the actual investment earnings received and may therefore be significantly different.
c Benefits are as measured at the benefits figure in the single figure tables in the Implementation Report excluding amounts considered to be one-off in nature.
One-off items for Sam in 2014 of A$82,000 included a relocation related benefit for the removal of household goods into storage in Australia and immigration related services.
Note that this number for Sam includes expatriate benefits which are not capped and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION REPORT: AND OPERATIONS POLICY REPORT Performance-related At risk Recruitment remuneration a Threshold STIP and LTIP A STIP award of 50% of the target STIP Our approach to recruitment remuneration for executives both external and performance shown as opportunity, ie 60% of base salary internal is set out below.
Shareholders are reminded that the following principles column B above are binding only in so far as they relate to the recruitment of directors.
Threshold vesting of the PSP award at 22.5% of face value, calculated as 96.8% We aim to position base salary at an appropriate level, taking into consideration a of base salary range of factors including an executives current remuneration, experience, internal relativities, an assessment against relevant comparator groups and cost.
Target STIP and LTIP A STIP award of 100% of the target STIP performance shown as opportunity, ie 120% of base salary Other elements of remuneration will be established in line with the Remuneration column C above Policy set out earlier in this Policy Report in the executive remuneration structure Expected value of the PSP award of table.
As such, annual variable remuneration for new appointees will comprise a 50% of face value, calculated as 215% maximum award of 200 per cent of base salary under the STIP and a maximum of base salary award of 438 per cent of base salary under the PSP.
Outstanding STIP and LTIP A maximum STIP award of 200% of In the event that an internal appointment is made, existing commitments will performance Maximum base salary be honoured.
shown as column D above Full vesting of the PSP award, calculated If the Committee concludes that it is necessary and appropriate to secure an as 430% of base salary appointment, relocation-related support and international mobility benefits a Long-term incentives consist of share awards only, measured at 2015 face value.
may also be provided depending on the circumstances.
Any relocation This does not constitute an estimate of the value of awards that may potentially arrangements will be set out in the Implementation Report.
vest with respect to year end 31 December 2015.
No assumption has been made for Any compensation provided to an executive recruited from outside the Group increase in share price or payment of dividends.
for the forfeiture of any award under variable remuneration arrangements entered into with a previous employer is considered separately to the Context for outstanding performance establishment of forward looking annual remuneration arrangements.
Our Demanding performance targets are designed to ensure that the level of policy with respect to such buy-outs is to determine a reasonable level of remuneration is aligned with performance delivered for shareholders.
award, on a like-for-like basis, of primarily equity-based, but also potentially Outstanding business and individual performance is required to achieve the cash or restricted stock, taking into consideration the quantum of forfeited maximum level of remuneration.
This comprises: awards, their performance conditions and vesting schedules.
The Committee outstanding performance against all financial, health and safety, and will obtain an independent external assessment of the value of awards individual STIP measures: proposed to be bought out and retains discretion, subject to the above, to make such compensation as it deems necessary and appropriate to secure the TSR outperformance against both the HSBC and MSCI indices by six per relevant executives employment.
The Committees intention is that buy-out cent per annum over five years: and compensation should include, where appropriate, performance-tested equity.
EBIT margin improvement equal to or greater than the second ranked No form of golden hello will be provided upon recruitment.
company in the comparator group over five years.
b The intention of the Committee is that if these levels of reward are achieved by Executives service contracts and termination our executives then shareholders will benefit over time from superior share The Committee will seek to honour any commitments made in respect of price performance.
termination of employment in the executive directors service contracts predating this Remuneration Policy which are described in this section.
This Discretions section also sets out Rio Tintos policy on termination payments and notice The Committee recognises the importance of ensuring that the outcomes of periods.
Shareholders are reminded that such policy is binding only in so far as the Groups executive pay arrangements described in this Remuneration it relates to directors.
Policy properly reflect the Groups overall performance and the experience of For new appointments where the Company terminates by making a payment its shareholders and other stakeholders over the performance period.
in lieu of notice, the Committee will for executive directors to the extent permitted by relevant law have regard to the executive directors ability to The Committee undertakes to owners that it will exercise discretion diligently mitigate his loss in assessing the payment to be made.
and in a manner that is aligned with our strategy to create long-term shareholder value.
Accordingly, when reviewing the operation of short and The executive directors may have or may be offered service contracts which long-term incentive plans and the outcome of awards made under these can be terminated by either party with up to 12 months notice in writing, or plans, the Committee will, when evaluating safety, financial, Group and immediately by paying the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
An initial notice period of up to 24 months during the first two years of individual performance, consider the overall shareholder experience during the employment, reducing to up to 12 months thereafter, may sometimes be performance period in question.
necessary to secure an external appointment.
In some circumstances, it may It is the Committees intention that the mechanistic outcome of performance also be appropriate to use fixed-term contracts for executive directors.
conditions relating to awards made under such plans will routinely be subject On 23 October 2014, the Company announced its intention to change the to review to avoid outcomes which could be seen as contrary to shareholders contractual notice periods for the executive directors.
Subject to approval of expectations.
To the extent provided for in the terms of any performance this Remuneration Policy at the 2015 AGMs, both executive directors will condition or in accordance with any relevant amendment power under the transfer from their current fixed term contracts to open-ended contracts with plan rules, the Committee may adjust and or set different performance no pre-determined end date and a 12-month notice period.
measures if events occur such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition Other executives can be offered service contracts which can be terminated by or divestment, a change in control or unexpected event which cause the the Company with up to 12 months notice in writing, and by the employee Committee to determine that the measures are no longer appropriate or in the with six months notice in writing, or immediately by the Company by paying best interests of shareholders, and that the amendment is required so that the the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
measures achieve their original purpose.
Committee discretion should not operate as an automatic override, and it must be exercised judiciously.
The current contract terms of both directors and the other executives are included in the Implementation Report.
To the extent that discretion is applied in any year, the Committee undertakes b Material changes to the Remuneration Policy, such as those relating to executive that this will be clearly explained and disclosed to shareholders in the service contracts above, are identified in italics in this Report.
com 71 Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued Executives may be required to undertake garden leave during all or part of Short Term Incentive Plan STIP their notice period and may receive their contractual salary, STIP and benefits If an eligible leaver leaves the Group during a performance year, the during the notice period or the cash equivalent.
Where applicable, tax Committee may determine in its absolute discretion to award a pro rata equalisation and other expatriate benefits will continue in accordance with the portion of the STIP based on the amount of the year served and based on executives prevailing terms and conditions.
actual assessment of performance against targets.
Any cash payment will be made at the normal STIP payment date and no portion of the award will be In the case of dismissal for cause, the Company can terminate employment deferred into shares.
Deferred bonus shares and outstanding awards under the LTIP may be forfeited in these circumstances.
If an executive provides the Company notice of their resignation during the performance year, but will not leave the Group until after the end of the Accrued but untaken annual leave and any long service leave will be paid out performance year, the Committee may determine in its absolute discretion on termination, in accordance with the relevant country legislation and to make an award under the STIP.
In these circumstances, the executive will applicable practice applying to all employees.
For eligible leavers as defined only be eligible to receive the cash portion of the award and will forfeit the below, in Australia the value of the leave is calculated on the basis of base deferred shares portion.
Any cash payment will be made at the normal STIP salary, target STIP and car allowance.
No STIP is included where the executive payment date.
is not an eligible leaver.
No STIP award will be made where an executive who is not an eligible leaver If termination is a result of redundancy, the terms of the relevant local policy leaves the Group, resigns or is terminated for cause prior to the end of the may apply in the same way as for other local employees.
On termination, the Company will pay relocation or expatriation benefits as Bonus Deferral Plan BDP 2013 onwards agreed on the original expatriation and or in accordance with its applicable policies on travel and relocation.
For example, Sam Walsh is provided with For grants made to executives from and including 2013, awards will normally expatriation benefits and allowances and on termination of his employment by be retained and vest at the scheduled vesting date, save where the Committee the Company repatriation expenses would be paid.
There will be no pro rata reduction of awards and any dividend equivalent shares will be calculated on the vested shares.
On termination other than for cause, the Company may make a payment in consideration for entry by the departing executive director into appropriate If the executive resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any other reason restrictive covenants to protect Rio Tinto and its shareholders.
The amount of that the Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
such payment will be determined by the Committee based on the content and BDP pre-2013 duration of the covenant.
For grants made to eligible leavers before 2013, awards will normally vest at Following termination, executive directors may be eligible to exercise .
term incentives awards under the conditions described in the sections There will be no pro rata reduction of awards and any dividend equivalent following.
They and their dependants may also be eligible for post-retirement shares will be calculated on the vested shares.
benefits such as medical and life insurance.
The Company may also agree to If an executive leaves the Group for any other reason, awards will lapse.
continue certain other benefits for a period following termination where the arrangements are provided under term contracts or in accordance with the For any BDP award, where required by law or regulation, and where the terms of the service contract, for example, payment for financial advice, tax Remuneration Committee so decides, cash may be provided in lieu of shares.
advice and preparation of tax returns for a tax year.
In some cases, they may receive a modest retirement gift.
PSP 2013 onwards For grants made to executives from and including 2013, awards will normally The Company may pay such amount as it determines is reasonable to settle be retained, and vest at the scheduled vesting date.
Unvested awards remain any claims which in the Committees view are legitimate which the executive subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions.
Any dividend director may have in connection with the termination of his employment.
The equivalent shares will be calculated on the vested shares at vesting.
Company may also pay reasonable legal and other professional fees including outplacement support to or in respect of a director in connection with the If the executive leaves the Group during the first 36 months from the date of termination of his employment.
These may include legal fees incurred by him grant of the award, the number of shares that can vest will be reduced pro rata in negotiating a settlement agreement with Rio Tinto.
In assessing what is over that 36-month period.
reasonable, the Company will take account of prevailing rates for such advice Awards will vest immediately on death, but if an executive dies during the first and support and determine appropriate level of contribution based on the 36 months from the date of grant of the award, the number of shares that can complexity of the issues.
Treatment of STIP and LTIP on termination If the executive resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any other reason The STIP and share plan rules govern the entitlements that executive that the Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
participants may have under those plans upon termination of employment.
PSP pre-2013 The concept of an eligible leaver is defined in the relevant Plan rules.
In For grants made to eligible leavers before 2013, awards will normally be general terms, an eligible leaver is an executive who leaves the Group by retained and vest at the scheduled vesting date, although the Committee may reason of ill-health, injury, disability as determined by the executives determine that awards should vest early.
Unvested awards remain subject to employer : retirement: redundancy: transfer of the undertaking in which the the satisfaction of the performance conditions.
executive works: change of control of the executives employing company: or death: and usually there is a discretion for the Remuneration Committee to treat an executive as an eligible leaver.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION REPORT: AND OPERATIONS POLICY REPORT Awards vest immediately on death.
The number of shares vesting is Non-executive directors determined on the assumption that performance conditions are met at median Fees paid to non-executive directors reflect their respective duties and level or at the level to which they are actually satisfied at the date of death, if responsibilities and the time required to be spent by them so as to make a higher.
If an executive leaves the Group for any other reason, awards will lapse.
meaningful and effective contribution to the affairs of Rio Tinto.
For any PSP award, where permitted, and where the Remuneration Committee The non-executive directors fees and other terms are set by the board upon so decides, awards may be made in cash in lieu of shares.
the recommendation of the Chairmans Committee which comprises the chairman, chief executive and chief financial officer.
Share Option Plan SOP pre-2013 Non-executive directors receive a fixed annual fee comprising a base fee, For grants made to eligible leavers before 2013, awards will normally be committee membership or committee chairmanship fee or senior independent retained.
If the executive is an eligible leaver, vested awards will lapse one year director fee, as applicable, and allowances for attending meetings which from the date the executive leaves the Group and unvested awards will lapse involve medium or long-distance air travel.
They do not participate in any of  the Groups incentive plans.
 which remain subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Where the payment of statutory minimum superannuation contributions for Australian non-executive directors is required by Australian Awards vest in full on death.
superannuation law, these contributions are deducted from the directors If an executive leaves the Group for any other reason, unvested awards and overall fee entitlements.
vested awards that have not been exercised will lapse.
Non-executive directors may on occasion receive reimbursement for costs Management Share Plan MSP incurred in relation to the provision of professional advice.
These payments, if made, are taxable benefits to the non-executive directors and the tax arising is  paid by the Company on the directors behalf.
as an Executive Committee member.
All retained awards will be reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the period between the date of grant of the  insurance note this is neither award and the normal vesting date which has not elapsed at the time contractual nor a taxable benefit, other minor benefits including modest employment ceased.
Any dividend equivalent shares or cash equivalent will be retirement gifts in applicable circumstances, occasional spouse travel in calculated on the vested shares.
Awards vest on death, subject to the pro rata support of the business and any Rio Tinto business expenses which are reduction described above.
deemed to be taxable where the Company has paid the tax on their behalf.
Rio Tinto does not pay retirement or post-employment benefits to nonFor grants made to executives from and including 2013, awards will normally executive directors.
be retained, and vest, at the Committees discretion, at the scheduled vesting date although awards of US taxpayers may vest on leaving.
Appointment If the executive resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any other reason The appointment of non-executive directors including the chairman is that the Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
handled through the Nominations Committee and board processes.
The current fee levels are set out in the Implementation Report.
All MSP awards granted prior to 2013 have vested.
Details of each element of remuneration paid to the chairman and nonChairman and non-executive directors remuneration executive directors are set out in the Implementation Report in table 1b on Chairman page 94.
It is Rio Tintos policy that the chairman should be remunerated on a The chairmans letter of appointment from the Company stipulates his duties competitive basis and at a level which reflects his contribution to the Group, as as chairman of the Group.
His appointment may be terminated without liability assessed by the board.
on the part of Rio Tinto in accordance with the Groups constitutional The Committee determines the terms of service, including remuneration, of documents dealing with retirement, disqualification from office or other thechairman.
Otherwise, his appointment may be terminated by giving has no part in the setting of his fees and is not present at any discussion at the 12 months notice.
There are no provisions for compensation payable on Committee about his fees.
termination of his appointment, other than if his appointment as chairman is terminated by reason of his removal as a director pursuant to a resolution of The chairman receives a fixed annual fee and does not receive any additional shareholders in general meeting in which case the Company shall be liable to fee or allowance either for committee membership or chairmanship, or for pay any fees accrued to the date of any such removal.
The chairman does not participate in the Groups incentive plans.
The non-executive directors letters of appointment from the Company The chairman is provided with a car and driver.
Any use for transport stipulate their duties and responsibilities as directors.
Each non-executive between home and the office and other personal travel is a taxable benefit director is appointed subject to their election and annual re-election by to the chairman, and the Company pays any tax arising on the chairmans shareholders.
Non-executive directors appointments may be terminated by behalf.
The chairman pays a fixed annual fee to the Company for the giving three months notice.
There are no provisions for compensation personal travel element.
payable on termination of their appointment.
The letters of appointment are Other benefits provided include private healthcare cover, accident insurance available for inspection at Rio Tinto plcs registered office, and at its annual note this is neither contractual nor a taxable benefit, other minor benefits general meeting.
including modest retirement gifts in applicable circumstances, occasional In accordance with the provisions of the Groups constitutional documents, the spouse travel in support of the business and any Rio Tinto business maximum aggregate fees payable to the non-executive directors including expenses which are deemed to be taxable where the Company has paid the the chairman in respect of any year, including fees received by the nontax on his behalf.
Rio Tinto does not pay retirement or post-employment executive directors for serving on any committee of the boards, and any travel benefits to the chairman.
allowances received by the non-executive directors for attending meetings, will not exceed 3,000,000.
Non-monetary benefits are not included in this limit.
