Diamonds & Minerals Financial performance Review of operations The Diamonds & Minerals groups underlying earnings of US$401 million were 2014 2013 15 per cent higher than 2013.
Excluding Simandou exploration and evaluation US$ million US$ million costs, underlying earnings of US$456 million were 16 per cent higher than Revenue 4,150 4,193 2013.
This reflected favourable exchange rates, higher diamond prices, lower Net cash generated from operating activities 1,201 842 exploration and evaluation costs, higher sales volumes of titanium dioxide Underlying earnings 401 350 feedstock, borates and zircon and cash cost improvements, partly offset by Underlying earnings excluding Simandou 456 393 lower prices for titanium dioxide feedstocks, borates and zircon.
In absolute terms, cash operating costs were US$223 million lower than 2013 including a Capital expenditure 508 1,009 US$152 million benefit from exchange rate movements.
Net cash generated Net operating assets 7,308 7,900 from operating activities of US$1,201 million was 43 per cent higher than 2013, reflecting higher EBITDA and improved working capital management.
Strategy and strategic priorities The Diamonds & Minerals product group has an attractive portfolio of Rio Tinto Diamonds RTD businesses that connect customers and consumers all around the world with RTD is a leading producer of rough diamonds, with a product portfolio that products that enhance their quality of life.
Demand growth for diamonds and provides a presence in all major markets and market segments.
Rio Tintos industrial minerals typically comes mid-to-late in the economic development diamonds assets comprise the Argyle Diamond Mine in Australia Rio Tinto: cycle, following peak requirements for commodities such as iron ore and 100 per cent, the Diavik Diamond Mine in Canada Rio Tinto: 60 per cent, copper.
The product groups strategy is focused on operating safe, low-cost, Murowa Diamonds in Zimbabwe Rio Tinto: 78 per cent and the Bunder demand-led businesses.
Through its integrated marketing strategies and diamond project in India Rio Tinto: 100 per cent.
RTD markets its share of insight, the product group creates and grows global markets for its products in rough diamond production through its centralised sales and marketing office order to deliver value for Rio Tinto and its shareholders.
and has a niche cutting and polishing factory in Australia for its high-end branded pink polished diamonds from the Argyle mine, which it sells to an The product groups strategy is focused on: international customer base.
Operating demand-led, integrated operations that can respond quickly to the changing external environment.
RTD produced 13.9 million carats of rough diamonds in 2014, 13 per cent lower than in 2013.
Argyle production was negatively impacted by the move Creating and growing global markets through technical research and from open pit to underground mining, the processing of lower grade tailings as development and market insight.
underground production ramped up, and a maintenance shutdown impacting Improving operating performance by reducing costs, driving productivity both underground crushers.
Diavik production was in line with 2013 despite and streamlining the organisation.
lower grades, thanks to improved mining rates and processing plant Strengthening its position in traditional segments and entering attractive improvements.
Murowa production was seven per cent higher than in 2013. new markets.
Revenue in 2014 was six per cent higher than in 2013, reflecting higher sales Safety volumes at Diavik and increased prices.
Earnings of US$104 million were US$51 million higher than 2013.
The second crusher at Argyle was Diamonds & Minerals continues to focus on fostering a culture of commissioned during the year and the ramp-up of the Argyle underground accountability and awareness among employees and improving contractor mine to full operation is on schedule to be completed by 2015.
Diavik has safety in our pursuit of zero harm.
The product groups all injury frequency been operating as a fully underground mine since 2012. rate AIFR fell to 0.48 in 2014 from 0.75 in 2013.
The product group faces some unique challenges in health and safety.
The Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium RTIT workforce spans multiple nationalities, ethnicities, languages and cultures in RTIT is the largest producer of high-grade titanium dioxide feedstocks.
In response, management employs innovative strategies mines ilmenite at its wholly-owned Rio Tinto Fer et Titane RTFT operation in and visible safety leadership to train the workforce.
Diamonds & Minerals is Canada: its managed operation Richards Bay Minerals RBM in South Africa focused on eliminating fatality risks by placing an emphasis on critical controls Rio Tinto: 74 per cent : and its QIT Madagascar Minerals QMM operation and robust process safety.
RTIT produces high-grade titanium dioxide feedstocks at its world-class metallurgical complexes at RTFT and RBM as well as Ebola, which has had tragic human consequences, is a critical issue for the valuable co-products including high purity iron, steel, metal powders, zircon product group.
The priority for Diamonds & Minerals has been to ensure the and rutile.
health and safety of employees, contractors and their families.
In addition, Diamonds & Minerals has supported the Government of Guinea and In 2014, titanium dioxide feedstock production fell by 11 per cent year-on-year international organisations by donating more than US$3.4 million worth of to 1.44 million tonnes Rio Tinto share.
Due to challenging market conditions equipment and in-kind donations to facilitate the response to this disease.
for high grade titanium dioxide feedstock, production continues to be aligned with market demand.
One of nine furnaces remains offline at RTFT pending a Greenhouse gas emissions rebuild which has been deferred until market conditions improve.
RTITs Overall greenhouse gas GHG emissions intensity increased slightly in 2014. revenues fell by four per cent due to lower prices for titanium dioxide This was largely due to lower production at Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium RTIT, feedstocks and zircon, partly offset by higher sales volumes.
Earnings fell by where a reduction in capacity utilisation of its smelters led to an increase in six per cent to US$248 million.
GHG emissions per tonne of product.
This was reflected in a four per cent increase in emissions intensity for RTIT compared with 2013.
GHG emissions Rio Tinto Minerals RTM per tonne of product were marginally higher at Rio Tinto Minerals, but RTM Rio Tinto: 100 per cent supplies over 30 per cent of the worlds refined improved across Rio Tinto Diamonds operations.
The product group continues borates from its world-class deposit in Boron, California.
RTM also has borates to invest in the implementation of more efficient equipment and technology, refineries and or shipping facilities in China, France, Malaysia, the Netherlands, such as the wind farm at Diavik.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Borates production of 508,000 tonnes boric oxide equivalent was three per In 2011, Diamonds & Minerals re-entered the potash business through an cent higher than in 2013 in response to higher sales demand.
Global demand exploration joint venture with North Atlantic Potash Inc. NAPI, a subsidiary of for RTM refined borates improved slightly with revenue three per cent higher JSCAcron.
Earnings of US$121 million were eight per cent lower than 2013 potash exploration permits in Saskatchewan, Canada.
Rio Tinto has completed due to a decrease in product prices and the absence of prior year tax benefits.
an extensive exploration programme on the joint venture properties, with During the year, Rio Tinto Minerals completed the modified direct dissolving of promising results and is in discussions with NAPI and Acron regarding the kernite MDDK project, which allows for more efficient orebody utilisation.
future of the joint venture.
Higher nutritional standards, population growth and limited arable land make potash a critical factor in maintaining global food Dampier Salt DSL security, and a natural complement to RTMs existing borate fertiliser business.
DSL Rio Tinto: 68 per cent, the worlds largest solar salt exporter, produces industrial salt by solar evaporation of seawater at Dampier and Port Hedland, Outlook and from underground brine at Lake MacLeod, all in Western Australia.
Salt is Diamonds & Minerals businesses serve a range of different industries, but sold principally to base chemical industry markets in Asia.
Salt production of have in common a track record of creating and defining new and profitable 6.8 million tonnes Rio Tinto share was one per cent higher than 2013. markets for the groups products.
Demand softened in these markets in 2013 and 2014 in response to broader economic trends.
The groups key markets Development projects are beginning to stabilise, although the pace of recovery is slower than The feasibility study to develop the A21 kimberlite pipe at Diavik was previously thought and unlikely to fully manifest during 2015.
However, the completed and approved in 2014.
This development will provide an important mediumto long-term outlook continues to be positive across all products as source of incremental production to maintain existing production levels.
A21 is urbanisation and rising standards of living, particularly in China, drive higher estimated to cost US$350 million Rio Tinto share US$210 million, with first levels of demand.
RTM will continue to seek to capture profitable growth in emerging economies Work continued on the feasibility study for the Zulti South mine expansion at and maintain its position in its established markets.
Ongoing supply chain RBM, which will maintain the low-cost RBM smelter capacity post-2017.
If the improvements will facilitate speed and flexibility in shifting supply to promising project is approved in 2015, commissioning is scheduled for 2017.
The mineral sectors and regions.
Demand for borates is expected to remain stable in the sands exploration programme in Mozambique and other brownfield studies at near term, and the long-term industry fundamentals remain attractive.
RTM the groups operations also continued throughout the year.
will focus on increasing refined borates capacity to meet higher-than-GDP demand growth while achieving world-class safety performance and improving The Simandou iron ore project in Guinea is one of the largest-known its cost position.
undeveloped high-grade iron ore resources in the world.
The concession will enable the development of the largest mine and infrastructure project ever Demand for titanium dioxide feedstock is expected to continue to grow in the undertaken in Africa.
This will include the progressive development of a medium to long term, in line with improving global economic conditions, 100 million tonne per annum mine, a 650-kilometre trans-Guinean railway and urbanisation and demand growth in emerging markets supported by rising per a new deep-water port.
In response to weak demand and excess inventory in the feedstock supply chain, and in order to reduce operating costs and inventory, In May 2014, Rio Tinto and its partners, Chinalco and the International Finance RTIT has taken action at a number of its operations, including temporary Corporation, signed the Investment Framework with the Government of closures of the QMM mine and the upgraded slag UGS plant and deferral of a Guinea for the development of the Simandou iron ore project.
This provides furnace rebuild at RTFT.
Pigment and feedstock inventories within the supply the legal and commercial foundation for the project and formally separates chain are now returning towards historical levels.
the infrastructure from the mine development.
The Investment Framework was approved for ratification by the Guinean National Assembly in June 2014, The medium to long-term fundamentals for the diamond industry are positive followed by Presidential promulgation and Supreme Court review and took and expected to support sustainable future price growth.
The global mineral effect in August 2014. resource base is steadily declining, compounded by limited exploration investment and success, and expected reductions in supply over the medium The project partners are continuing to work towards the completion of a to longer term.
Demand in India and China is expected to continue to grow, bankable feasibility study and the establishment of a funding consortium to and to represent nearly 50 per cent of global diamond consumption by 2025. build the infrastructure.
These two elements will provide the basis for Demand in mature markets is expected to continue to grow in line with GDP.
The Bunder diamond project is progressing its prefeasibility study, which began in July 2010.
These studies have confirmed the economic potential of the orebody and work is under way on the mine plan, environmental and forestry approvals required to execute a Mining Lease.
The Jadar Project in Serbia is potentially a world-class lithium-borate deposit discovered by Rio Tinto in 2004.
If developed, the deposit could supply a significant proportion of global demand for lithium and borates.
Findings so far are encouraging and feasibility assessments are ongoing to build an economic business case and advance the environmental and social-economic impact assessments for the project.
Lithium carbonates fastest-growing application is in batteries that provide clean power to industrial systems and electric and hybrid vehicles.
