com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS a Gross sales revenue includes 100 per cent of subsidiaries sales revenue and the Groups share of the sales revenue of equity accounts units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries b Underlying earnings is an additional measure of earnings, which is reported by Rio Tinto with its IFRS as defined in note 1 results to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations.
It is defined in note 2 to the Financial Statement.
Underlying profit before interest and tax PBIT is similar to underlying earnings except that it is stated before tax and interest.
c Finance costs include net interest and amortisation of discount.
d Under IFRS, as defined in note 1, certain gains and losses on exchange and on revaluation of derivatives are included in the Groups Net earnings.
These items are excluded from underlying earnings.
e Dividends per share are the amounts declared in respect of each financial year.
These usually include an Interim dividend paid in the year, and a Final dividend paid after the end of the year.
The Special dividend of 90 US cents per share paid in 2006 is not included in the table.
2005 to 2008 ordinary dividends per share have been restated using a number of shares which reflects the discounted price of the July 2009 rights issues the bonus factor.
f Fixed assets include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, goodwill, and investments in and long term loans to equity accounted units.
g Capital expenditure is presented gross, before taking into account any disposals of property, plant and equipment.
h Net cash generated from operating activities represents the cash generated by the Groups consolidated operations, after payment of interest, taxes, and dividends to noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries.
i Cash flow before financing activities is stated before deducting dividends payable to owners of Rio Tinto.
j Operating margin is the percentage of underlying PBIT, after excluding tax on equity accounted units, to Gross sales revenue.
k Total capital comprises equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto plus net debt and non-controlling interests.
l Underlying earnings: owners equity represents underlying earnings expressed as a percentage of the mean of opening and closing equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
m Interest cover represents the number of times interest payable less receivable excluding the amortisation of discount but including capitalised interest is covered by Underlying operating profit, less amortisation of discount, plus dividends from equity accounted units.
Underlying operating profit is similar to underlying earnings but is stated before tax, interest and share of profit after tax of equity accounted units.
n 2009 earnings per share from continuing operations and underlying earnings per share have been calculated using a number of shares which reflects the discounted price of the July rights issues the bonus factor.
2004 to 2008 comparatives have been restated accordingly.
