STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Technology & Innovation Rio Tintos Technology & Innovation group T&I partners with the product Productivity groups to achieve operating excellence.
T&I has a recognised track record of T&Is Productivity team continues to help operations attain the best operating value creation and protection, while embedding fundamental changes that will performance from an asset.
Key initiatives in 2014 included: keep Rio Tinto competitive for the long term.
Gross costs in 2014 were Productivity programmes to improve the performance of mines and US$340 million, compared with US$370 million in 2013 and US$415 million in processing plants: For example, improving throughput in a number of 2012.
The total number of employees in T&I increased from 730 at year-end operations, improving haul truck payloads and reducing train loading 2013 to 919 at year-end 2014, primarily attributed to the transfer of Iron Ore times in the Pilbara, increasing concentrator throughput at Oyu Tolgoi, project teams into T&I.
improving recoveries at Escondida through process modelling and fidebottlenecking the beneficiation plant at Weipa.
T&Is Integrated Value Strategy Chain Engagement IVCE programme undertaken by the Brockman iron T&I delivers value through three levers: ore mine since 2012 has delivered seven million tonnes of additional Project shaping and delivery: ensuring the Group does the right projects saleable ore and an additional 45 million tonnes of material movement and does the projects right.
Many other operations have benefited from the IVCE programme.
Productivity: focusing on asset performance, technology deployment and global processes to sustainably improve operations, maximise margins and Asset management: Including maintenance tactics, shutdown strategies capture value.
and defect elimination protocols to enhance the reliability, utilisation and life of operating assets.
Innovation: creating step-change improvements to address the significant challenges facing the mining industry.
Process development: Using sophisticated laboratory and pilot plant facilities, and world-class modelling capabilities, to provide support to Safety operations and projects.
Examples include a step-change in leach T&I is committed to the safe operation of its managed facilities and the safe extraction from copper sulphides and low-cost tailings fide-watering.
The all injury frequency rate for T&I in 2014 was Technical risk mitigation: Supporting projects like Pilbara 360, the 0.57 compared with 0.63 in 2013.
The improvement resulted from several Kennecott landslide recovery, and tailings dam design and operations.
changes, including improved supervision and leadership in the field, improved HSE resourcing of construction projects, focus on specific construction injury Innovation risks and work planning, and attention to critical controls in the workplace.
In Automation programmes continued to progress under the Mine of the 2014, the Cornerstone project at Rio Tinto Kennecott, US under the leadership Future programme with 57 autonomous trucks in operation in the Pilbara at of Rio Tinto Projects, won the Chief Executive Safety Award for the best year end and the worlds first autonomous heavy-haul railway Autohaul project.
This annual award recognises the project that has achieved under construction.
In 2014, T&I deployed three new technologies under the outstanding safety performance and embodies a strong safety culture.
Mine of the Future programme: Processing Excellence Centre PEC : Following successful trials that Performance delivered significant value at Rio Tinto copper process plants, the PEC was Project shaping and delivery officially opened in March.
This state-of-the-art facility provides advanced The Strategic Planning team works with product groups to identify valuable remote technical support to operations.
The excellence centre platform development options.
In 2014, the team developed and successfully piloted a will be further developed across the Group.
This considers the full spectrum of options and RTVis : This visualisation software allows novel analysis of in-ground data, stakeholder interests early in the capital project life cycle, so that attractive improving understanding of the orebody at an operation.
Application of projects get the best start and non-economic ones are culled early.
The RTVis at the Yandicoogina mine has seen a reclassification of more than process will continue to be rolled out across the Group in 2015. one million tonnes of material to a high silica ore product for blending.
At Rio Tinto Projects was established in 2014 by combining the T&I and Iron Ore West Angelas, the high-grade recovery programme enabled by RTVis project teams.
Rio Tinto now has a single projects organisation, responsible for created a two per cent increase in high-grade ore recovery.
executing capital development projects and using a consistent accountability Autonomous drilling system ADS : West Angelas is now the worlds first model.
In 2014, Rio Tinto Projects worked on delivering the following: full-time autonomous drill mine, with six rigs in operation.
Functionality of Pilbara 360 project, Australia continuing in 2015 the system is being extended to allow use by Rio Tinto Energy.
ADS has demonstrated a ten per cent increase in use of equipment availability and Concentrate expansion project at the Iron Ore Company of Canada significant improvement in labour productivity at West Angelas.
Exploration decline at Energy Resources of Australia In addition, the Rio Tinto Chinalco Innovation Joint Venture RTCI was Modernisation of the ISAL aluminium smelter, Iceland established in November.
Combining Rio Tintos global leadership in mining AP60 project at the Arvida aluminium smelter, Canada innovation with the resources and expertise of Chinalcos world-class research Modified direct dissolving of kernite project at Boron Operations, US and development and engineering teams will provide a solid basis to develop Cornerstone project continuing in 2015 and or commercialise next-generation technologies.
Kitimat modernisation project, Canada continuing in 2015 Outlook Rio Tinto Projects also contributed to studies for the South of Embley bauxite In 2015, T&I will continue to build on its 2014 successes by: project, Mount Pleasant coal project, Hail Creek mine expansion, Zulti South implementing the project shaping process and improving capital mine expansion, Simandou iron ore project and Oyu Tolgoi copper expansion project performance: project phase 2. ramping up the delivery of industry-leading productivity improvements: The Technical Assurance team provides independent assessments to the moving to the next phase of Mine of the Future by harnessing big data Rio Tinto Investment Committee and board to ensure investment decisions are and predictive analytics, further equipment automation, further thoroughly reviewed and technically sound.
Technical Assurance has implementation of operation centres, excellence centres and developed and applied more rigorous project review, due diligence, and postimplementation of other step-change innovations.
investment review processes to Rio Tintos governance.
This has been effective in helping prioritise 2014s reduced capital spend and will continue to support future capital allocation.
