World-class portfolio External pressures continue At the heart of Rio Tinto is a portfolio of world-class assets from our Pilbara The mining industry is cyclical.
Following a decade-long growth phase, it has iron ore business, to our Queensland bauxite ore reserves, hydro-powered now firmly entered a period of lower prices, driven by a subdued global macro aluminium smelters, our global suite of copper mines and sector-leading environment combined with strong supply.
We expect the current phase of energy, diamonds and minerals assets.
We use a clear strategic framework to margin compression to continue as previously committed supply enters our assess our existing assets and new opportunities taking into account the markets and the key drivers of demand growth taper off.
Meanwhile, volatility industry attractiveness and the competitive advantage of each asset, and its a feature of the macroeconomic environment since the global financial crisis capacity to deliver best-in-class returns.
is expected to continue, bringing with it further short-term risk.
Quality growth Our response to this has been to continue to focus on productivity, cost We have a compelling pipeline of near-term and longer dated projects across reductions and capital discipline squeezing maximum returns out of our the portfolio.
By reinforcing capital discipline and reshaping our projects, we existing businesses while ensuring only the best growth projects attract have retained significant, high quality growth despite significantly reducing our capital.
Others in the sector have embarked upon similar paths.
Our project pipeline has a compelling internal rate of are being exposed, and so reductions in costs and capital expenditure, return and is expected to deliver strong compound annual growth.
productivity improvements, and project deferrals and cancellations have become widespread across the mining industry.
Operating and commercial excellence The safety of our people is core to everything we do, and we remain at Despite the uncertain conditions that we currently face, the long-term outlook the forefront of the industry in safety performance.
A well-run operation is for our sector remains positive.
These factors drive demand for the minerals a safe operation.
and metals we produce, as essential ingredients of modern life.
They make our business a sustainable and valuable one to be in.
We have established a leading position in the development and use of technology and innovation allowing us to increase productivity and reduce Consistent strategy underpinned by six value drivers risk.
As the industry faces increasingly complex geological, environmental and In todays challenging market conditions it is all the more important to have a cost pressures, our technology advantage will be an increasingly important clear and effective strategy.
We remain convinced that our longstanding and value driver.
consistent strategy is the right one: to invest in and operate long-life, low-cost, Our commercial activities aim to ensure we reap the maximum value from expandable operations in the most attractive industry sectors.
Our marketing teams work hand-in-hand with our Sustainable shareholder returns operations, so that our resource management is fully aligned to the market.
In 2014 we reaffirmed our commitment to deliver sustainable returns to Over the years we have leveraged our understanding of customer needs to shareholders.
Six critical value drivers underpin this commitment, and create new markets for our products, including high temperature Weipa combine to create a platform for our ongoing success.
bauxite, and champagne and pink diamonds.
We deploy industry-leading capabilities in supply chain optimisation and a variety of logistics solutions across the Group and have in-house centres of excellence for value-in-use analysis, pricing and contracting strategies.
Together, these activities allow us to manage risk and capture value in all market conditions.
Balance sheet strength portfolio In a cyclical and capital intensive industry such as mining, a strong balance sheet is essential in order to preserve optionality and generate shareholder wealth at all points in the cycle.
We target a net gearing ratio of 20 to 30 per cent in order to maintain our robust balance sheet and aim to stay at Free cash Quality growth the lower end of this range at the current point in the cycle.
This positions us flow generation favourably to withstand current industry pressures, protect shareholders and seize on any opportunities these market conditions create.
Capital allocation discipline shareholder We have a consistent and disciplined approach to capital allocation.
Our first allocation is to essential sustaining capital for our operations.
Next, we fund returns our primary contract with our shareholders the progressive dividend.
Finally, we assess the best use of the remaining capital between alternatives of Capital Operating compelling growth, debt reduction and further cash returns to shareholders.
allocation and commercial At each stage, we apply stringent governance and assessment criteria as we discipline excellence seek to maximise return on every dollar spent.
Free cash flow generation Balance sheet Over recent years we have made improvements to our business increasing strength our productivity, reducing operating and capital costs and delivering incremental volume expansions from high quality projects.
Together with the quality of our asset base, these actions enhance our capacity to generate free cash flows, and underpin our confidence in our ability to deliver sustainable returns to shareholders.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Progress against strategy What we said we would do in 2014 What we did World-class portfolio Continue reshaping our portfolio Announced or completed asset sales of US$3.9 billion since 2013 see page 19 Curtail the Gove alumina refinery during the first half of 2014 Production at Gove curtailed in May 2014 seepages28to29 Keep sustaining capital expenditure at 2013 levels of around US$3 billion Reduced sustaining capital expenditure to US$2.7 billion see page 13 Quality growth Reduce total capital expenditure to less than US$11 billion in 2014 and to around Reduced capital expenditure from US$13.0 billion in 2013 to US$8.2 billion, US$8 billion in 2015, while delivering steady growth completing two major projects which enabled us to bring on significant new volumes see page 18 Continue to progress key evaluation projects at a pace that matches our overall Progressed studies at South of Embley bauxite, La Granja and Resolution view of investment priorities copper, Zulti South titanium dioxide, Mount Pleasant thermal coal and Ranger 3 Deeps uranium seepages28to37 Ramp up the Pilbara operations to reach an annual production rate of 290 Mt a Annual production rate of 290 Mt a from the Pilbara reached in May 2014, before the end of the first half of 2014 two months ahead of schedule.
Increase Pilbara mine production capacity by 60 Mt a between 2014 and 2017, by 40 Mt a of low-cost, brownfield growth in implementation.
Investment focusing predominately on brownfield expansions and low-cost productivity gains decision on Silvergrass mine not required in 2015. seepages36to37 Continue to discuss the pathway forward for Oyu Tolgoi underground expansion Continued discussions with the Government of Mongolia over the with the Government of Mongolia development pathway.
Finalised underground feasibility study and technical report seepages30to31 Operating and commercial excellence Target, above all, the elimination of workplace fatalities Regrettably, our Group had two fatalities at our managed operations during 2014 see page 22 Achieve year-on-year improvement in AIFR and lost time injuries Our all injury frequency rate AIFR improved from 0.65 per 200,000 hours worked in 2013 to 0.59 in 2014 see page 22 Improve how we manage critical risks and learn from serious potential accidents Updated our safety strategy to confirm our focus on injury reduction and strengthen our emphasis on fatality elimination and catastrophic event prevention see page 22 Deliver further savings to reach US$3 billion full-year improvement in 2014 Achieved a further US$1.3 billion of operating unit cash cost improvements in versus 2012 in operating cash costs 2014, delivering total operating cash cost savings of US$3.6 billion versus 2012 see page 40 Maintain the reduced exploration and evaluation spend achieved in 2013 Reduced exploration and evaluation spend by a further US$0.2 billion see page 38 Increase sales volumes at Oyu Tolgoi Increased mined copper and gold production at Oyu Tolgoi by 94% and 275% respectively compared with 2013, with copper sales increasing seven-fold seepages30to31 riotinto.
com 9 Group strategy continued What we said we would do in 2014 What we did Balance sheet strength Pay down debt to a more sustainable level Reduced net debt from US$22.1 billion in June 2013 to US$12.5 billion at 31 December 2014.
The gearing ratio at the end of 2014 was 18.6%, compared with 25.2% at the end of 2013 see page 13 Capital allocation discipline Continue to apply our enhanced capital allocation systems and controls Maintained cash generation offices to strengthen the focus on cash and improve visibility for senior managers in this area Continued to reinforce Investment Committee approvals process seepages18to19 Allocate capital in the following order of priority: essential sustaining capital Disciplined capital allocation framework adhered to, resulting in: sustaining expenditure: progressive dividends: iterative cycle of compelling growth, debt capital of US$2.7 billion, progressive dividend of US$3.7 billion, compelling reduction, and further cash returns to shareholders growth of US$5.5 billion and net debt reduction of US$5.6 billion seepages18to19 Free cash flow generation Reduce working capital Released US$1.5 billion of working capital see page 1 Materially increase returns to shareholders Increased our progressive dividend by 12 per cent and announced on 12 February 2015 a share buy-back of US$2.0 billion a combined increase of 64 per cent compared with 2013 seepages18to19 Our 2015 strategic priorities We will continue to focus on our critical value drivers in 2015, in order to meet our commitment to deliver sustainable returns to shareholders.
As always, we will maintain our relentless focus on safety, as measured by both the elimination of fatalities and minimising all injury frequency rates and lost time injuries.
We will continue to shape our world-class portfolio ensuring that we focus on only the highest returning assets in our preferred industry sectors, and that our capital is deployed in the most efficient way.
We will further enhance our portfolio as we complete a number of key growth projects, including the infrastructure for our 360 Mt a iron ore expansion and our new Kitimat smelter.
Beyond this, we will progress our South of Embley bauxite project and will continue our work on creating the conditions necessary to further advance the underground expansion of Oyu Tolgoi.
Importantly, we will deliver measured, value-adding growth while reducing our capital expenditure to less than US$7.0 billion in 2015.
Our strong focus on costs will continue in 2015, as we target further operating cash cost savings of US$750 million and continue to optimise our working capital.
We will further leverage our strength in technology and innovation, and our leading commercial capabilities, to ensure we remain the supplier of choice to our customers and maximise the cash generated from every business.
Maintaining our balance sheet strength will remain a core priority.
We aim to maintain our gearing ratio at the low end of the 20 per cent to 30 per cent range.
