Exploration Rio Tinto has had a sustained commitment to exploration since 1946, with an and Australia.
In addition, Exploration divested part of its interest in the exceptional track record in mineral discovery.
Mature operations such as Tamarack project in Minnesota, US thereby securing funding to increase the Weipa, the Pilbara and Rssing were Tier 1 greenfield discoveries by Rio Tinto pace of the multi-year drilling programme required to continue testing for Exploration where value is still being realised after more than 40 years of extensions to the  metal resource.
Resource knowledge of the Roughrider uranium project in Saskatchewan has increased, with further drilling and resource modelling.
In 2015 the Exploration Strategy group will focus on identifying potential for additional resources in the orbit The goal of Exploration is to create value for Rio Tinto through the discovery or surrounding the project.
In addition, Rio Tintos Saskatchewan regional tenure acquisition of well-located, high-grade Tier 1 resources to supplement the has been prioritised and rationalised following further drilling.
At the Sanxai Groups existing high-quality resource base.
The Exploration group performs bauxite project in Laos, ongoing exploration provided greater certainty around both greenfield and brownfield exploration programmes and undertakes resource size whilst infrastructure studies targeting a range of options have focused research and development to aid the exploration effort.
The Amargosa bauxite project in Brazil has progressed, with exploration aims to establish completely new operating business units, drilling and mapping advancing a number of brownfield areas in the Amargosa involving, among other objectives, geographic or commodity diversification.
orbit as well as adding new prospects in the region.
Brownfield exploration is directed at sustaining or growing existing Group businesses in the orbit of existing operations, providing significant value to the Brownfield projects generated good drilling results at iron ore projects in product groups.
the Pilbara, coking coal projects in the Bowen Basin, and in the Weipa orbit in Australia.
In the Bingham orbit, drilling continued to extend the Additionally, Exploration is supporting an increasing array of projects across mineralisation envelope.
This includes providing orebody knowledge expertise to the product groups, helping business development groups to evaluate merger and Exploration activities are underpinned by data and information management.
acquisition opportunities and assisting the Economics team with industry The focus on data accuracy and availability has continued to drive analysis and intelligence to support supply forecasts.
In 2014, Exploration also efficiency improvements.
reviewed the orebody knowledge content for all projects that were progressed Research and development projects have progressed, with new analytical to the Investment Committee.
techniques for mineral geochemistry supporting exploration targeting.
Progress The exploration process can take over 20 years to progress from target continued on the development of the VK1 airborne gravity gradiometer, with a generation to development decisions, due to community, sustainability and significant improvement in detection levels achieved in 2014. investment requirements.
Rio Tintos core exploration capability and rigorous In addition to Explorations projects, the Groups major evaluation projects in global prioritisation process has consistently delivered Tier 1 discoveries.
2014 were: Tier 1 discoveries over the past decade include: Project Commodity Country Year Discovery Commodity Location La Granja Copper Peru 2005 La Granja Copper Peru Resolution Copper US 2005 Caliwingina Iron ore Australia Pilbara Iron ore Australia 2008 Sulawesi Nickel Indonesia Bowen Basin Coking coal Australia 2008 Mutamba Titanium Mozambique Hunter Valley Thermal coal Australia 2009 Jadar Lithium borates Serbia Zulti South Mineral sands South Africa 2011 Amargosa Bauxite Brazil Simandou Iron ore Guinea 2013 KP405 Potash Canada Weipa Bauxite Australia 2014 Yandi Braid Iron ore Australia In 2014, the Group reduced its exploration and evaluation expenditure to At the end of 2014, the Exploration group was active in 19 countries and a US$747 million.
This represented a 21 per cent decrease compared with assessing opportunities in other countries across a range of commodities 2013 expenditure of US$948 million.
Of the 2014 spend, US$209 million including copper, nickel, iron ore, bauxite, coking coal, uranium, diamonds and relates to centrally-controlled exploration and evaluation activity.
Exploration activities in China were conducted through CRTX, Rio Tintos exploration and evaluation activity covered ten commodities in the joint venture between Chinalco 51 per cent and Rio Tinto 49 per cent.
2014, across a range of greenfield and brownfield environments.
The Exploration group is organised into regional multi-commodity teams Outlook headquartered in Melbourne, London, Salt Lake City, Perth, Brisbane and Beijing: supported by a team of technical and commodity professionals.
This structure In 2015 the Exploration group will continue to work on a prioritised portfolio of provides a global reach with a local presence that allows for effective community greenfield and brownfield projects.
The downturn in commodity prices is engagement and development of the Groups social licence to operate.
expected to produce further cost-effective commercial opportunities, by providing access to high quality projects.
However, challenges around Safety timeframes to access ground, the need to increasingly explore for orebodies At the end of 2014 the Exploration groups all injury frequency rate was 0.47, a beneath cover rocks, and the decreasing grade and quality of potential further improvement on the 0.49 rate at the end of 2013.
A multi-year change orebodies are expected to continue.
The Exploration group will focus on project programme rolled out across the Exploration group has helped to sustain the generation in a number of key geographies, as well as testing of targets within significant safety improvement gained in 2013 and as a result Rio Tinto the portfolio.
For 2015, exploration projects at a more advanced stage include: Exploration was awarded the 2014 Chief Executive Safety Award most Project Commodity Country Type Stage improved.
This programme also contributed to measureable improvements in Tamarack Nickel US Greenfield Project of Merit operational performance across all regions.
Roughrider Uranium Canada Greenfield Order of Magnitude Performance Sanxai Bauxite Laos Greenfield Project of Merit Amargosa orbit Bauxite Brazil Greenfield Order of Magnitude During 2014, commercial activities provided access to quality projects and supported the progression of projects through the Exploration project pipeline.
Bowen Basin Coking coal Australia Brownfield Project of Merit Exploration joint ventures were established in Canada, the US, Chile, Mexico Pilbara Iron ore Australia Brownfield Project of Merit a An additional US$18m loss on an undeveloped evaluation project was recorded separately in Loss relating to interests in undeveloped projects.
