Group overview Unrivalled hydropower position, which delivers significant cost and Introduction to Rio Tinto other advantages in an energy intensive industry and todays carbonRio Tinto is a leading global mining group that focuses on finding, mining and constrained world.
processing the Earths mineral resources.
Our goal is to deliver strong and Rio Tinto has a first-quartile cost position for aluminium smelting, with sustainable shareholder returns from our portfolio of world-class assets and industry-leading smelting technology.
our compelling pipeline of projects.
We take a long-term, disciplined approach, developing and running long-life, Key production locations Key sales destinations low-cost, expandable operations that are capable of delivering value Canada Asia throughout the cycle.
Supported by our Exploration and Technology & Europe Americas Innovation groups, our five product groups represent a diversity of Australia Europe commodities that give us exposure to demand across the economic a development spectrum.
Full operating review on page 28.
Supporting our world-class assets is a company of world-class people who are the foundation of our success.
This 60,000-strong workforce, across more Copper product group than 40 countries, pulls together as a powerful team committed to getting the Rio Tintos Copper group is made up of four world-class operating assets and best out of our operations.
Their safety is always our first concern.
We also two attractive development projects.
We are managing the portfolio to bring foster a culture of innovation, where our people are proud to achieve and are on new production when the market demands it.
Products Our vision is to be a company that is admired and respected for delivering Copper superior value, as the industrys most trusted partner.
Our operations give us Copper is a malleable, corrosion resistant, antimicrobial metal and a highly the opportunity to create mutual benefit with the communities, regions and effective conductor of heat and electricity.
It is an essential component of countries in which we work, and our metals and minerals are transformed into nearly all modern electrical systems, including renewable energy sources such end products that contribute to higher living standards.
Find out more on as solar, wind, geothermal and hydro-electric technologies.
Global information page 11. and communication technologies rely on it, as do hybrid and electric cars and Underpinning everything we do are our values: respect, integrity, teamwork hospitals and medical facilities, where it is used to prevent the spread of and accountability.
They are fundamental to the way we operate and engage diseases and infections.
We produce gold, silver and molybdenum as cowith those around us, and form the foundation of a long-term, reliable products of our copper production.
business that generates sustainable returns for shareholders.
Gold Gold is used as a store of value.
It is also highly conductive, malleable and Aluminium product group inert, making it a key component in the electronics, chemical production, Building on more than a century of experience and expertise, Rio Tinto is a jewellery, aerospace and medical industries.
global leader in the aluminium industry.
Our business includes high-quality bauxite mines, large-scale alumina refineries, and some of the worlds lowestSilver cost, most  primary aluminium smelters.
Silver has applications in art, science, and industry.
It is used in many electronic devices, in aerospace applications and semiconductors.
A precious Products metal, silver is used to make jewellery and as an investment.
Bauxite Bauxite is the natural ore used to make aluminium.
It is refined into alumina Molybdenum which is smelted into aluminium metal.
Our whollyand partly-owned bauxite Molybdenum is a metallic element frequently used to produce stainless steel mines are located in Australia, Brazil and Guinea.
It enhances the metals toughness, high-temperature strength and corrosion resistance.
Alumina Alumina aluminium oxide is extracted from bauxite via a refining process.
Strategic advantages Approximately four tonnes of bauxite are required to produce two tonnes of A portfolio of high-quality assets and growth opportunities.
alumina, which in turn makes one tonne of aluminium metal.
Our whollyand Attractive growth options that can be delivered when the market requires.
partly-owned alumina refineries are located in Australia, Brazil and Canada.
Clear pathway to deliver superior profitability.
Aluminium Industry-leading technology and innovation.
Aluminium is a unique and versatile modern metal.
Light, strong, flexible, Key production locations Key sales destinations corrosion-resistant and infinitely recyclable, aluminium is one of the most widely-used metals in the world.
Its largest markets are transportation, US US machinery and construction.
Our smelters are mainly concentrated in Canada.
Chile China We also have plants in France, Australia, New Zealand, Iceland, the UK and Mongolia Japan Oman.
Full operating review on page 30.
Strategic advantages Access to the largest and best-quality bauxite ore reserves in the industry, strategically located to serve growing Chinese bauxite demand.
One of the lowest-cost bauxite producers.
a On 27 February 2015, Rio Tinto announced that it would be streamlining its portfolio of assets into four product groups: Aluminium, Copper & Coal, Diamonds & Minerals and Iron Ore, with immediate effect.
The coal assets of the former Energy product group became part of a new Copper & Coal product group, and the uranium assets of the former Energy product group became part of the Diamonds & Minerals product group.
In this Annual report, references to Copper, Diamonds & Minerals and Energy refer to the product groups as they existed in 2014.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Products Diamonds & Minerals product group Coal The Diamonds & Minerals product group comprises a suite of industryCoal is a cost effective and abundant energy source and we are a leading leading, demand-led businesses, which include mining, refining and marketing supplier to the seaborne thermal coal market.
Thermal coal is used for operations across four sectors.
Rio Tinto Diamonds is one of the worlds electricity generation in power stations.
We also produce higher-value coking leading diamond producers, active in mining, manufacturing, selling, and or metallurgical coal, which produces steel when mixed in furnaces with iron marketing diamonds.
Rio Tinto Minerals is a world leader in borates, with ore. We have five operating mines in Australia and one in South Africa.
mines, processing plants, and commercial and research facilities.
Dampier Salt is one of the worlds largest producers of seaborne salt.
Rio Tinto Iron & Uranium Titanium is an industry leader in high-grade titanium dioxide feedstocks.
The Uranium is one of the most powerful known natural energy sources, and is Diamonds & Minerals group also includes the Simandou iron ore project in used in the production of clean, stable, base-load electricity.
After uranium ore Guinea, one of the largest known undeveloped high-grade iron ore resources is mined, it is processed into uranium oxide.
This is the product that is sold for in the world.
processing into fuel rods for use in nuclear power stations.
We have uranium operations in Australia and Namibia, and an exploration project in Canada.
Products Diamonds Strategic advantages Diamonds are an important component in both affordable and higherPremium Australian coal assets located close to existing infrastructure and end jewellery.
We are able to service all established and emerging growing Asian markets.
markets as we produce the full range of diamonds in terms of size, quality Successfully transforming the business by reducing costs, increasing and colour distribution.
productivity and improving our position on the cost curve.
Titanium dioxide Strong product stewardship strategy, including investment in technologies The minerals ilmenite and rutile, together with titanium dioxide slag, can be to reduce emissions from our products.
transformed into a white titanium dioxide pigment or titanium metal.
The Key production locations Key sales destinations white pigment is a key component in paints, plastics, paper, inks, textiles, food, sunscreen and cosmetics.
Titanium metals key properties of light weight, Australia Japan chemical inertness and high strength make it ideal for use in medical Namibia South Korea applications and in the aerospace industry.
Taiwan Borates Full operating review on page 34.
Refined borates are used in hundreds of products and processes.
They are a vital ingredient of many home and automotive applications, and are essential Iron Ore product group nutrients for crops.
They are commonly used in glass and ceramic applications Rio Tinto operates a world-class iron ore portfolio, supplying the global including fibreglass, television screens, floor and wall tiles, and heatseaborne iron ore trade.
We are well positioned to benefit from continuing resistant glass.
demand across China and the developing world.
In Western Australia, the majority of our production continues to achieve industry-leading margins Salt through effective cost saving measures, automation and a relentless focus on Salt is one of the basic raw materials for the chemicals industry and is optimising operational efficiencies and marketing expertise.
indispensable to a wide array of automotive, construction and electronic products, as well as for water treatment, food and healthcare.
Other products Products include high purity iron, metal powders and zircon.
Iron ore Strategic advantages Iron ore is the key ingredient in the production of steel, one of the most fundamental and durable products for modern-day living, with uses from Portfolio of industry-leading businesses operating in attractive markets.
Our iron ore mines are located in Australia and Canada.
Demand-led, integrated operations that are responsive to the changing external environment.
Strategic advantages Poised to benefit from mid to late-cycle demand growth as consumption Proximity of the expanded Pilbara operations in Australia to Asian markets.
Position as lowest cost major iron ore producer in the Pilbara, with a Key production locations Key sales destinations Pilbara cash unit cost of US$19.50 in 2014.
North America North America World-class assets comprising a seamless supply chain with Australia South East Asia unencumbered optionality.
SouthAfrica India A premium product suite driving strong customer relationships supported by technical and commercial marketing expertise.
Full operating review on page 32.
Key production locations Key sales destinations Energy product group Australia China Canada Japan Energy is essential for modern life and the demand for energy continues to SouthKorea grow.
Rio Tintos Energy product group produced coal and uranium, two important sources of energy from mining.
The thermal coal and uranium we Full operating review on page 36. produce is used to generate electricity and our uranium is subject to strict safeguards and non-proliferation conditions to ensure it is only used for peaceful purposes.
We also produce coking or metallurgical coal, which is an important ingredient in steel and cement production.
We have operations, exploration and development projects in Australia, Namibia, South Africa and Canada.
