Energy Energys focus has been on safely creating value, reducing costs, eliminating Financial performance waste and improving asset and labour productivity.
This work coupled with the 2014 2013 agility to adjust production mix in response to changing market conditions, is US$ million US$ million protecting value in very challenging times.
Revenue 4,308 5,454 The product groups extensive operational and marketing expertise enabled Net cash generated from operating activities 355 919 further volume, cost and margin improvements to be secured.
Energy retains Underlying earnings loss 210 33 deep and enduring relationships with its customers, built upon a foundation Capital expenditure 224 732 of high-quality products supplied reliably and consistently, over long periods Net operating assets 3,794 4,872 of time.
On average over the past three years, Energys marketing team has delivered a price premium to spot market benchmarks of approximately Strategy and strategic priorities eight per cent for coking coal, ten per cent for thermal coal and 35 per cent for uranium.
The Energy product group aimed to safely deliver superior margins and growth from a strong existing resource base to serve growing global energy demand.
In April 2014, the groups two uranium operations Rssing and Energy Resources of Australia each entered into a new marketing and sales Its strategic priorities were: agreement with Rio Tinto Uranium RTU.
Under the new agreements, RTU will Extract full value from the groups assets.
purchase uranium oxide from both operations and market the combined pool Leverage technology and deliver competitive projects.
This new arrangement provides Energys uranium Maintain the groups licence to operate.
customers with the benefit of multi-sourced supply.
Build and steer a resilient, high-return portfolio.
In 2014 Rio Tinto sold its 50.1 per cent share in the Clermont coal mine in Queensland to GS Coal Pty Ltd for US$1.015 billion, and its coal operations in Safety Mozambique to International Coal Ventures Private Limited for US$50 million, The Energy product groups 2014 all injury frequency rate was 0.74 compared both before net debt and working capital adjustments.
to 0.67 in 2013 with a large number of hand injuries recorded during the year.
Rio Tinto Coal Australia Rio Tinto: 100 per cent Energy strives to foster a culture of shared and personal accountability for In Queensland, Rio Tinto Coal Australia RTCA manages the Hail Creek health and safety, and to create a workplace where everyone goes home safe Rio Tinto: 82 per cent and Kestrel 80 per cent coal mines.
As stated above, and well at the end of every shift.
Throughout 2014, the groups health and Rio Tinto sold its interest in the Clermont Mine in May 2014. safety efforts focused on: In New South Wales, RTCA manages Coal & Allieds coal mines which include Strengthening the management of critical risks, specifically in areas of Hunter Valley Operations 80 per cent, Bengalla 32 per cent, Mount Thorley process safety, underground operations, and vehicles and driving.
64 per cent and Warkworth 44.5 per cent.
Improving contractor safety performance through active engagement and interaction with contract partners.
Lower prices for all types of coal saw RTCAs net earnings decline from US$367 million in 2013 to US$21 million in 2014.
In very difficult markets Comprehensively refreshing the safety culture and systems at all sites to RTCA has worked hard to improve its operational performance.
Its coal mines raise personal awareness and commitment to improve hazard remain cash flow positive with the majority placed in the lowest quartile of the management processes, and to strengthen the implementation of lessons cost curve.
Reducing high frequency incidents such as hand injuries.
Significant productivity gains across the Australian coal business delivered annual site production records at Hail Creek, Hunter Valley Operations and Greenhouse gas emissions Bengalla.
Excluding production from the Clermont Mine which was divested The Energy groups greenhouse gas emissions decreased to approximately during the year, thermal coal production increased by 15 per cent Rio Tinto 3.3 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2014, compared with share in 2014 compared with 2013.
This reduction was mainly due to the divestment of The product group declared a significant increase in its Hunter Valley the Clermont Mine and the closure of the Blair Athol Mine, and the continued managed thermal coal reserves in November 2014, compared with the efforts of the group to increase the energy efficiency of its operations through a previous estimates reported in Rio Tintos 2013 Annual report.
range of initiatives including equipment optimisation and engine improvements.
RTCA is using technology and innovation to boost its competitive edge.
The Over the past 15 years, Rio Tinto has spent more than US$100 million on Rio Tinto Processing Excellence Centre located in Brisbane is helping improve research and development into technologies that will reduce emissions from yields at its sites: an Integrated Operations Centre planned to open in 2015 in coal-fired power plants.
In 2014, the Energy product group continued its Singleton is supporting the optimisation of mine performance: and automated sponsorship of The Otway Project, Australias first industrial-scale drilling is being piloted at Hunter Valley Operations.
demonstration of geological carbon dioxide capture and storage.
RTCA is also demonstrating operational and commercial excellence by Review of operations adjusting semi-soft coal production to deliver improved margins at its Hunter 2014 was another challenging year for the Energy product group as the Valley sites.
In response to deteriorating coking coal markets its Hail Creek business environment for both coal and uranium remained very difficult.
The Mine began producing a thermal coal product for targeted customers.
groups underlying loss of US$210 million compared with underlying earnings RTCA has been working for nearly five years to secure a long-term future for of US$33 million in 2013.
In 2014, it continued to seek approvals to Annual site production records at Hail Creek, Hunter Valley Operations and maintain operations at the 30 year old mine, on land it owns within the Bengalla, cost improvements and benefits from a weaker Australian dollar footprint of existing mining leases.
Approval is critical for the future of the were more than offset by lower prices, which reduced earnings by operation and its 1,300 employees and contractors as existing approvals US$434 million, and lower uranium production.
Energy continued to focus on only allow the mine to maintain production and employment at current positioning its assets further down the cost curve through a range of cost, levels until the end of 2015.
Two separate planning applications have been productivity and revenue enhancements.
An aggressive programme of cost submitted for the integrated operation and the NSW Department of Planning and productivity improvements delivered US$795 million of pre-tax cash and Environment has recommended approval.
A decision on both applications savings in 2014 and 2013 compared with 2012, contributing to the product is expected in 2015. groups cash flow generation in 2014.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Zululand Anthracite Colliery RioTinto:74percent Development projects ZAC is an anthracite coal mine in South Africa which was held for sale until Rio Tintos premium coal assets in Australias Hunter Valley present a number 1 April 2014 when it became a Rio Tinto managed operation.
of low-capital, high-quality growth options.
Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique formerly Rio Tinto: 100 per cent The Mount Pleasant project is the largest undeveloped deposit in the Hunter Valley and has high quality coal, a low strip ratio, existing consents and In October 2014, Rio Tinto completed the sale of RTCM, which includes the committed rail and port facilities.
Located adjacent to Bengalla mine, Mount Benga coal mine in the Tete province of Mozambique, to International Coal Pleasant is an attractive, low-capital expansion option and is in the advanced Ventures Private Limited.
It has a capital intensity of between A$100 and A$150 per Energy Resources of Australia Rio Tinto: 68.4 per cent saleable tonne with an expected capacity of 8.5 million tonnes per annum of ERA is a publicly-listed company which operates the Ranger Mine in the saleable product.
No uranium oxide was produced in the first In late 2014, the Hunter Blend project was launched.
The project aims to half of 2014 due to a leach tank failure on 7 December 2013 which triggered enable Rio Tinto to operate its Hunter Valley coal mines, plants and logistics the suspension of processing operations and a series of investigations.
A infrastructure as one integrated system to deliver greater value and synergies Government-appointed taskforce was established to oversee the regulatory than through the present standalone operations.
response to the leach tank failure.
A progressive restart of the Ranger processing plant began on 5 June 2014, with the mill processing lowerThe Mount Pleasant and Hunter Blend projects are both opportunities to grade stockpiled material, following receipt of written approval from the further improve the overall efficiency of Rio Tintos operations in the Hunter Commonwealth Minister for Industry and the Northern Territory Department Valley and to maximise the synergies that exist across the business.
Whilst the of Mines and Energy.
groups world class resource base offers a range of further brownfield opportunities, these two projects, when combined with the existing business ERA produced a total of 1,757 thousand pounds Rio Tinto share of uranium transformation programme, effectively deliver 67 per cent volume growth and oxide in 2014.
Its 2014 full-year earnings were unfavourably impacted by costs a 40 per cent cost reduction against 2012 levels.
associated with the leach tank failure and subsequent suspension of processing plant operations.
Uranium oxide was purchased to fulfil higher Rio Tinto is continuing to assess options for open cut mining on the eastern price contracted sales, partly mitigating effects of the suspension.
side of Hail Creek Mine in Queensland.
It is also exploring the potential for underground mining.
Government approvals and a prefeasibility study are in Progressive rehabilitation over the Ranger Project Area advanced during 2014. progress.
A decision on the timing and nature of future development at Hail A total of more than 33 million tonnes of material has been returned to Pit 3, .
and rehabilitation of Pit 1 is well advanced.
Other options in the Australian coal portfolio include the Valeria and Winchester The Ranger 3 Deeps project remains in prefeasibility.
On 3 October 2014 ERA South projects.
Valeria is a large, predominantly semi-soft and thermal coal lodged a Draft Environmental Impact Statement for the proposed Ranger 3 deposit in central Queensland.
It is close to existing infrastructure, with 40km of Deeps underground mine with the Northern Territory Environmental rail needed to reach Kestrel Mine.
Winchester South is a coking coal deposit in Protection Authority and the Commonwealth Department of the Environment.
During 2014 ERA achieved cash savings of more than A$23 million, surpassing Outlook its objective of saving a cumulative A$150 million in operating costs during the period 2011-2014.
Whilst the short-term outlook for coal and uranium remains challenging, the long-term outlook is more positive.
Energy demand continues to grow.
Rssing Uranium Limited Rio Tinto: 68.6 per cent Globally, it grew by 50 per cent between 1990 and 2011 and the International Rio Tintos share of uranium production at Rssing was 2,333 thousand Energy Agency expects it to grow by a further 40 per cent to 2035. pounds in 2014.
Production was impacted by a leach tank failure in late 2013 All energy sources will be needed to meet increased demand.
However, much and the introduction of a new operating model in mid-2014.
Under this new of it is expected to be met by coal the cheapest and most readily available model Rssing is tailoring production to meet only existing long-term source of energy.
High quality thermal coal is likely to be in demand for customer requirements.
efficiency and air quality reasons, which aligns with Rio Tintos premium In June, a planned shutdown of the processing plant allowed for major resource and product profile.
maintenance work to be carried out.
The work was completed without any Demand for uranium is expected to grow steadily in the longer term, and safety incidents and plant operations were successfully restarted on nuclear power remains the only base-load energy source that does not 1 July 2014. produce greenhouse gases.
In light of continued low prices for uranium, Rssing embarked on an Geologically, coking coal remains a relatively scarce commodity found in a aggressive cash generation programme in 2014.
The business exceeded its small number of discrete locations of which the Bowen Basin in Australia is one savings target for the year, delivering US$14 million against a target of of the most significant.
Long-term demand appears to be firm, underpinned by US$12 million from a range of initiatives.
urbanisation and industrialisation in the major developing economies of China and India, causing steady growth in steel output.
Rio Tinto Canada Uranium Rio Tinto: 100 per cent Rio Tinto Canada Uraniums Roughrider project is an exploration site located in Rio Tinto is ideally positioned to continue supplying premium energy products Canadas Athabasca Basin in north-east Saskatchewan.
The basin supplies to traditional markets in Japan, Taiwan and Korea, which are dependent on approximately 20 per cent of the worlds uranium.
imports for all of their primary energy needs, while capturing growth opportunities in emerging markets.
Indias coal imports have been increasing In 2014, the Canadian Government and the European Union signed a and are rapidly becoming as significant as China, while a number of ASEAN Comprehensive Economic Trade Agreement which provides an exemption to Association of Southeast Asian Nations countries are also looking to secure eligible companies from the Non-Resident Ownership Policy as it applies to reliable international coal supplies.
foreign ownership of uranium mines.
Once ratified, this change means Rio Tinto could, if economical to do so, develop a uranium operation without the need to first find a Canadian majority partner.
Exploration and development studies on the project progressed during 2014. riotinto.
