Iron Ore Greenhouse gas GHG intensity of saleable production at the Iron Ore Financial performance Company of Canada marginally improved during 2014 despite a product mix 2014 2013 that saw a greater fraction of total concentrate production converted to the US$ million US$ million more GHG-intensive pellet product.
Although being more GHG intensive to Revenue 23,281 25,994 produce than concentrate, pellet ultimately provides a lower GHG intensity Net cash generated from operating activities 10,274 14,008 route to finished steel for the end user.
Underlying earnings 8,107 9,858 Review of operations Capital expenditure 4,211 6,814 Rio Tinto operates a world-class iron ore portfolio.
Operations in the Pilbara Net operating assets 20,987 21,062 region of Western Australia comprise 15 mines, four independent port terminals, the largest privately-owned heavy freight railway in Australia and Strategy and strategic priorities supporting infrastructure, including the Operations Centre in Perth.
The Iron The Iron Ore product groups vision is to remain the best iron ore producer in Ore Company of Canada IOC operates a mine, concentrator and pelletising the world by focusing on three strategic goals: plant in the province of Newfoundland and Labrador, together with port Production at the right cost, delivered through high-performing teams with facilities in Sept-les, Quebec.
Rio Tinto Marine delivers shipping services to the support of unrivalled technology.
the wider Rio Tinto Group, including Iron Ore. Value-driven growth through disciplined phasing and low-cost growth In 2014 Iron Ore achieved underlying earnings of US$8,107 million.
sales volumes, continued cash cost savings and lower taxes following the Maximising portfolio value through specialist sales and marketing expertise.
repeal of Mineral Resources Rent Tax in September 2014 were offset by weaker iron ore prices, down 30 per cent on average year-on-year, reducing Safety earnings by US$3.8 billion on 2013.
In 2014, Iron Ores all injury frequency rate was 0.73 compared with 0.70 in the Iron Ore met global production guidance in 2014, producing 295.4 million previous year.
This result was reached amidst a challenging environment in tonnes globally.
Rio Tintos share of production was 233.6 million tonnes an which Iron Ore completed 80 per cent of the infrastructure component of the increase of 12 per cent on 2013.
Pilbara 360 million tonne per annum Mt a expansion programme and recovered from a severe tropical cyclone.
Sadly, there was one fatality in Quarterly production and sales records were consistently achieved through November 2014 at the Iron Ore Company of Canada.
Train driver Enrick the year.
This strong performance was delivered despite interruptions caused Gagnon lost his life as a result of a train derailment on the Quebec North by severe weather conditions in both the Pilbara and Canada.
In January 2014, Shore and Labrador railway QNS&L that was caused by a landslide.
all Pilbara coastal and some mine operations were suspended as a result of tropical cyclone Christine and heavy rainfall that continued into February.
During 2014 Iron Ore initiated a health, safety and environment system review North Americas extreme weather in Q1 also significantly affected IOCs and continued with the roll-out of improvements to safety interactions, production and shipments in the first half of 2014. pre-start safety meetings and safety training programmes.
The group has continued the implementation of its innovative THINK safety programme, Pilbara production improved as the year progressed, contributing to the early which is focused on increasing employee engagement and leadership in achievement of a 290 Mt a run rate.
Production at IOC stabilised as phase two safety management.
of the Concentrate Expansion Project CEP was successfully completed, delivering 8.7 million tonnes of pellets and 6.0 million tonnes of concentrate In Western Australia the group maintained a strong focus on the mental health for sale for the year.
of employees, including the development of a three-year wellbeing strategy.
This focuses on building both mental and physical wellbeing, raising awareness Steel demand in China, while robust, did not grow at the strong rates and better equipping leaders to provide support and recovery assistance when witnessed for most of the past decade.
Combined with strong growth in required.
Implementation of the strategy will commence in 2015. seaborne iron ore supply, this put downward pressure on the iron ore price, with the Platts 62 per cent iron fines index averaging US$96.70 per dry metric The Pilbara Utilities team received the 2014 Group-wide Chief Executive Safety tonne, a landed price in China that excludes moisture content.
Iron Ores Award, which recognises the sites and teams with the best annual safety global shipments in 2014 were 303 million tonnes at an average realised free performance over the prior three years.
on board FOB price of US$84.30 per wet metric tonne for Pilbara volume.
Greenhouse gas emissions Rio Tinto Marine shipped 238 Mt of dry bulk cargo on behalf of the wider During 2014 there was a significant change in the external legislative Group, an increase of 25 per cent on 2013.
Rio Tinto is now the largest dry environment for energy and climate change.
The Australian Government bulk shipping business in the world in terms of volume, with a contract fleet of repealed both the Energy Efficiency Opportunities EEO Act and the Clean more than 200 vessels at any given time, including 17 vessels owned by Energy Act, effective 1 July 2014, introducing a review of the renewable energy Rio Tinto.
Average freight rates in 2014 tracked below 2013 and forward target and commissioning a white paper on energy issues.
voyage rate curves are flat, reflecting vessel oversupply and a drop in bunker fuel prices.
Throughout 2014, Iron Ore continued to implement high value opportunities identified in the final round of EEO, establishing more than 35 initiatives across In the Pilbara, a new nameplate capacity of 290 Mt a capacity was achieved in mines, rail and ports.
For example at Yandicoogina, greenhouse gas emissions May 2014, two months ahead of schedule.
Effective coordination between the have been reduced by approximately 8,700 tonnes of carbon dioxide per year expansion and operations teams enabled an almost seamless transition to the through the use of a Le Tourneau 2350 loader, which uses regenerative increased nameplate capacity, overseen by the Operations Centre to ensure technology to achieve a low fuel burn rate.
Iron Ore met all legislative requirements in 2014, including reporting, under the Production at the Right Cost improvement initiatives focused heavily on National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Scheme, the Clean Energy Act, the reducing costs and driving productivity gains, contributing US$710 million in Clean Energy Repeal Bill, and the EEO Act, until it was repealed in July.
pre-tax savings to the wider Rio Tinto Group since 2012.
These included reducing the use of contractors, external service providers and consultants, The product groups total greenhouse gas emission intensity has improved finding low-cost production improvements, increasing the utilisation of assets 6.7 per cent on the baseline target set in 2008. and maximising the value of new technologies.
People remained a key driver in reducing costs and increasing productivity throughout 2014.
An example of this was the Training Transformation strategy, which returned an overall 36 riotinto.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 376,000 productive hours to the business and delivered an overall saving of growth pathway from existing mines such as West Angelas deposit B, US$48 million through a focus on future innovation and technology solutions, Paraburdoo, Brockman 2, Nammuldi and Yandicoogina is well advanced, with and real-time field training.
around 40 Mt a approved and in implementation.
This will enable a target production rate of more than 330 Mt a in 2015 and support delivery towards TheMineoftheFuture programme continued to deliver efficiencies in 2014 350 Mt a in 2017.
An investment decision regarding development of the across production, health, safety and environmental performance.
In greenfield Silvergrass mine has been deferred until 2016. conjunction with the Technology & Innovation group, Iron Ore successfully converted four drills at the West Angelas mine to an Autonomous Drilling The brownfield mine growth is being achieved at an average mine production System, adding to the two units already in operation.
The autonomous capital intensity of approximately US$9 per tonne and the full expansion from haulage system AHS continued to be deployed across the Pilbara, delivering 220 Mt a to 360 Mt a is expected to be delivered at an industry-leading capital lower load and haul operating costs, increased productivity and safer operating intensity of US$110-120 per tonne.
At the Hope Downs 4 mine, autonomous haulage exceeded the Iron Ores Pilbara expansion programme remains the largest integrated mining Iron Ore Pilbara site with the highest manned effective utilisation by 14 per project in Australian history and has a proven record of delivering project cent, and decreased load and haul operating costs by approximately 13 per stages on time and budget.
Hope Downs 4 and Nammuldi mines became the first fully-operational AHS sites, with 19 Komatsu 830E AHS haul trucks at Hope Downs 4 and 25 Milestones from 2014 include first ore delivered from a new 21-kilometre Komatsu 930E AHS trucks at Nammuldi.
A further 13 930E AHS trucks are conveyor system at Western Turner Syncline to Tom Price in the first quarter.
also in operation at Yandicoogina.
Iron Ore continues to be the worlds largest Completion of this project contributed to the 360 Mt a expansion plan and operator of AHS trucks and a proud leader in automated mining technologies.
provides a safer, more efficient alternative to the previous road haul operation.
Rio Tinto has also approved development of Western Turner Syncline phase Progress was also made towards AutoHaul, the worlds first autonomous two, which will increase production by an additional 7 Mt a. heavy-haul rail system, with the project moving through a number of testing phases and the first autonomous train journey piloted in the fourth quarter.
The Nammuldi Below Water Table process plant delivered first ore to the stockyards in November and is expected to be in full production by the end of Throughout the year, the US$300 million Wickham town upgrade project, the first quarter of 2015. supporting the Cape Lambert rail and port operations workforce, was largely completed.
It included construction of more than 240 houses, the Wickham First ore was also delivered through the new fines circuit and stacker at West Lodge fly-in, fly-out accommodation and the Julutharndu Maya central Angelas deposit B in mid-November, five weeks ahead of plan.
Development of facilities building as well as new parks, roads and other town infrastructure.
deposit B included a new pit, fines circuit, stacker, and a haul road connecting to deposit A.
All other non-processing infrastructure is scheduled for In 2014, a key focus for Iron Ore remained on supporting local communities, completion in the first quarter of 2015. businesses and people within the companys operational footprint.
Sixty three per cent of expenditure outlayed to businesses located in the Pilbara, was with Marandoo phase two, which includes construction of a new wet processing Pilbara Aboriginal businesses and their joint venture partners, providing plant to access ore reserves below the water table, was completed in 2014 and integral services to various operations and projects, and saw millions of dollars will extend the life of Marandoo operations.
Iron Ore remains one of the largest private At IOC, the completion of stage two of the Concentrate Expansion Project in sector employers of Aboriginal people, with more than 1,100 workers in 2014. the first half helped remove pit-to-plant bottlenecks and aided extra capacity Iron Ore continued to actively implement key participation agreements with to grow production.
The project commissioned an additional ball mill and Traditional Owners in the Pilbara, which secures land access for the life of mining equipment, and upgraded power distribution infrastructure providing mining operations.
These agreements incorporate mutual obligations to an additional 1.3 Mt concentrate capacity.
deliver outcomes in employment, financial compensation, education and Outlook training, heritage surveys and practices, environmental care and land use.
The demand outlook for iron ore remains sound with expected contestable IOC Rio Tinto share 58.7 per cent continued to be an important operation iron ore demand growth in excess of 100 Mt a by 2020.
In the longer term, within Iron Ores portfolio, maintaining a strong position as a supplier of high there is significant potential for growth in demand in emerging markets such quality, premium pellets and high quality, low contaminant concentrate.
The as ASEAN and India due to population growth, urbanisation and rising company is poised to realise the full potential of an enviable orebody and incomes.
additional capacity brought online through recently completed expansions, Supply growth is expected to outpace demand growth, with approximately while the operation remains dedicated to the journey towards zero harm.
300 Mt a of additional seaborne capacity currently under construction or in Development projects ramp-up.
These volumes will be spread out across the remainder of this In May, Iron Ore announced that the Pilbara network of mines, rail and ports decade and, as a consequence, supply-side exits from Chinese domestic had reached a run rate of 290 Mt a, two months ahead of schedule, following suppliers and some high-cost seaborne suppliers will continue.
Approximately completion of first-phase port and rail expansion works in late 2013.
This 125 Mt of high-cost supply from China and non-traditional seaborne suppliers major milestone signalled a step change in production performance and paved exited in 2014. the way for second-phase developments to 360 Mt a.
With its low-cost position, proximity to China and emerging markets, and suite Infrastructure to support the 360 Mt a expansion is 80 per cent complete, with of iron ore products, Rio Tinto is well placed to take advantage of demand all marine and wharf works commissioned.
A new shiploader at Cape Lambert growth for seaborne iron ore through its expansion options.
Port B has been installed along with the early commissioning of a new stacker and reclaimer.
First ore through a new car dumper was achieved ahead of schedule in the third quarter and all rail works for the expansion to 360 Mt a have been completed, including AutoHaul wayside rail works.
Iron Ores breakthrough pathway to match the upgraded port and rail capacity will see Pilbara mine production capacity increase towards 350 Mt a through a series of low-cost brownfield expansions.
US$400 million of capital expenditure was also approved for plant equipment and modification, as well as additional heavy machinery for use at various mines in the Pilbara.
