STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Business model and minerals allows us to respond to demand across the development cycle: we How we create value supply basic raw materials and refined products that are the building blocks of Rio Tinto owns a portfolio of world-class assets, the result of investment added-value goods.
Most of our customers are industrial companies that process decisions made in line with our longstanding strategy.
The way we find, our products further and supply numerous sectors including construction and develop and operate these assets: the way we market the minerals and metals infrastructure, automotive, machinery, energy and consumer goods.
we produce: and the legacy we leave at the end of these assets lives enables us to create value and deliver sustainable shareholder returns.
Our marketing teams work closely with our operations, so that our resource management is fully aligned to the market, and we innovate and improve our Through productivity improvements, cost reductions and prudent growth we products and services to maximise value to customers.
preserve and enhance value from our portfolio.
We commit to finding ever safer, smarter and more sustainable ways to run our businesses, and our We are constantly adding to our knowledge of our markets and our customers competitive advantages which spring from a combination of our assets, our requirements, allowing us to improve our investment decisions.
In many people, our capabilities and our values keep us strong throughout the cycle.
cases, we are responsible for delivering product to our customers, and do so efficiently, reliably and cost-effectively.
We have capabilities across a variety Explore and evaluate of logistics solutions, including our own networks of rail, ports and ships.
Our experienced in-house exploration team has a proven track record of discovering Tier 1 orebodies: the highest-value deposits that are profitable Close down and rehabilitate throughout the commodity cycle.
We maximise opportunities by exploring for We integrate closure planning throughout an assets life cycle, from the and evaluating deposits in new geographies and in our preferred commodities.
earliest stages of project development, and aim to progressively rehabilitate as We also explore the orbits of our current operations, like Weipa in Australia or much land as possible before closure.
When a resource reaches the end of its Bingham Canyon in the US, which sustains the value of our existing life, we seek sustainable and beneficial future land uses, to minimise financial, businesses.
So that we can keep our focus on targets that are important to social and environmental impact.
We work together with our stakeholders to Rio Tinto, we operate the majority of exploration programmes ourselves, rather identify post-closure options that take into account their concerns and their than outsourcing.
We will, however, partner with others if it gives us access to priorities for the use of the land.
By partnering with external conservation attractive opportunities, or skills, that we do not possess in-house, and which organisations, we access expertise that helps us improve our rehabilitation support the quality of our exploration pipeline.
Our approach helps us to maintain a positive reputation and uphold our licence to operate.
Our orebody knowledge allows us to find value-enhancing ways of developing our resources and positioning our products in the marketplace, and helps Read more about how we embed sustainability throughout our business on support the Groups investment decision-making.
gives us the confidence to keep hunting for the most elusive discoveries.
And Delivering value for our stakeholders we have a strong tradition of developing and applying innovative technologies to resolve specific exploration challenges.
Rio Tintos primary focus is on the delivery of value for our shareholders.
We balance disciplined investment with prudent management of our balance Develop sheet and cash returns to shareholders.
We offer a long-term investment We develop orebodies for long-term value delivery.
We have strengthened our opportunity, and commit to sustainable growth in returns to shareholders investment assessment criteria, our levels of independent review of through our progressive dividend policy.
As we work, fixed on this core aim, opportunities and our investment approval processes.
We approve investment our activities also give us the opportunity to create value for our other only in opportunities that, after prudent assessment, offer attractive returns stakeholders, in a variety of ways.
that are well above our cost of capital.
Customers During the development phase, we plan the most efficient configuration We supply our customers with the right products at the right time.
They then for mining the orebody and for getting the products to market.
We work add further value, by turning them into the end products that society needs to closely with our customers, to create demand for the optimal suite of make modern life work.
products, thus maximising value over the deposits lifetime.
Once the value of the resource is confirmed, and internal and external approvals are received, Communities the project moves into implementation and construction.
We aim to deliver Our operations create employment and career development opportunities for projects on time and on budget such as reaching our targeted 290 Mt a our local communities, as well as business opportunities for local suppliers.
annual production rate from the Pilbara iron ore operations in May 2014, Communities often benefit from the infrastructure we put in place to serve our two months ahead of schedule.
facilities and, once our operations are closed, we restore the sites often for community use, new industry, or back to native vegetation.
Mine and process We create value by safely and efficiently operating assets that fit with our Our people strategy.
By focusing on operating excellence we will sustain our low-cost We invest in our people throughout their careers, offering diverse employment leadership position and drive our operations even further down the cost curve.
prospects, opportunities for development, and competitive rewards and Our global operating model allows us to implement standard processes and benefits that have a clear link to performance.
systems across the Group, for instance in procurement, operations and Governments maintenance.
This increases the life of our equipment and optimises the We are often a major economic contributor to the local, state and national extraction of ore.
In turn, we enjoy higher production and reduced costs, and jurisdictions in which we operate.
Our tax and sovereign equity contributions we maximise value.
enable governments to develop and maintain public works, services and Our commitment to technology and innovation sets us apart from our peers institutions.
We work together to facilitate growth of diverse and sustainable and allows us to take advantage of opportunities that may not be available to economies that endure far beyond the active life of our operations.
Our world-class technologies bring us ongoing productivity benefits, and help us tailor our products to our customers needs.
Through our network of Suppliers partnerships with academia, technology suppliers and other experts, we gain By seeking a balance of global, national and local supply capability, and access to knowledge and technical prowess that augment our own capabilities.
supporting local supplier development, we drive value for our shareholders and deliver economic benefits for the communities in which we operate.
Market and deliver Supplying high-quality products, which have been developed to meet our customers needs, is the basis of our business.
Our diverse portfolio of metals riotinto.
