STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Strategic context While the macroeconomic environment provides a common demand context, Global economy supply-side factors can result in stark structural differences between The positive momentum in developed economies in late 2013 fuelled commodities.
In principle, commodity prices will tend to have a relationship expectations of an acceleration in global growth, but that faded in early 2014. with the cost of developing and extracting metal and mineral resources.
In the end, the US remained one of the few bright spots in the global economy However the exact nature of that relationship depends on barriers to entry and in 2014 while Chinas slowdown became more entrenched.
Europe failed to exit, which are specific to each sector and evolve over time.
emerge meaningfully from imposed austerity, Japans growth was negatively impacted by a consumption tax hike and emerging economies suffered from The long-term nature of mining investment, combined with high capitalthe delayed recovery in global trade.
As a result, the global economy grew by intensity and long project lead-times, tends to result in cyclical investment only just over three per cent in 2014, in line with growth in the previous two patterns in the industry as a whole, which also translates into cyclical years, and below the International Monetary Funds forecast of 3.7 per cent commodity prices.
growth at the start of the year.
Across many commodity sectors, the general supply trends in recent years Despite most economies continuing to deal with consequences from the have pointed towards fewer discoveries, falling ore grades and maturing existing 2008 09 global financial crisis GFC, volatility in financial markets fell to low operations as well as greater complexity of projects.
In a context of accelerating levels during the first part of 2014.
Equity markets reached record levels, demand from China, a period of higher prices and margins was required to supported by sustained loose monetary policies.
Nervousness however incentivise the necessary supply-side response.
With supply finally catching up returned to the markets towards the end of year on the back of rising with demand for most commodities, focus has naturally switched towards geopolitical tensions, a very sharp drop in oil prices and reminders of fragilities managing margin compressions and extracting productivity gains from recent in the eurozone.
investment instead of committing significant capital into new projects.
In China, growth in 2014 came just below the governments target of 7.5 per Commodity markets cent.
The new leadership attempted to bring the credit boom of the past five The subdued global macro environment combined with strong supply resulted years under control while preventing a contagion from weak property and in significant downturns for most commodity prices in 2014 and into 2015. export sectors to the broader economy.
This balancing act is likely to continue into 2015 and we expect Chinas GDP growth to slow further to around seven Prices for iron ore, which had been one of the most resilient commodities in per cent.
The economy is in the middle of a long-signalled transition away 2013, were down 30 per cent on average year-on-year in 2014.
The addition of from the investment-led and commodity-intensive growth model of the past seaborne iron ore capacity exceeded demand growth, tipping the markets into couple of decades towards a stronger focus on consumption and services as oversupply.
Pressured by falling prices, about 125 million tonnes of high cost well as a cleaner environment.
This new normal implies still-significant but production from China and non-traditional seaborne suppliers exited the market slower GDP growth and maturing commodity demand.
The continued ramp-up of committed supply is expected to once again exceed the growth in iron ore demand in 2015.
However, with further exits of Among developed economies, monetary policies are moving on divergent high-cost producers anticipated, the market will be more in balance.
The US managed to shrug off severe winter disruptions at the start of 2014 to sustain a robust pace of growth.
Manufacturing activity was strong Thermal and metallurgical coal had already experienced large price falls in throughout the year and the labour market strengthened appreciably.
As a 2013 and continued on a declining trend in 2014, reaching fiveand sevenresult, the Federal Reserve unwound its Quantitative Easing QE programme year lows respectively.
Production has been slow to react to the new price and the focus has now shifted towards the timing of the first interest rate hike environment, in particular in China where State Owned Enterprises account for in the US since the financial crisis, expected in 2015.
In contrast, the European a large share of output, which, combined with further cost reductions across Central Bank has embarked on a new QE initiative in an attempt to kick-start a the industry, led to lower prices.
recovery in Europes periphery countries, stimulate growth in the core beyond Aluminium was one of the few commodities to see an increase in prices in Germany and counter growing deflation risks.
With the Bank of Japan also 2014 when considering rising regional premiums.
A combination of continued extending its QE programme in October 2014 there is an increasingly stock financing and more disciplined supply contributed to the improved pronounced dual track in the post-GFC recovery process within Organisation market environment.
Indonesias bauxite ore export ban remained in place for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD economies.
throughout 2014, resulting in higher Chinese demand for alumina and bauxite The divergent monetary policies are putting upward pressure on the US dollar, from alternative sources.
Lower bauxite inventories in China should support which rallied strongly against most currencies in the later part of 2014. imports of Australian bauxite into China in 2015.
Meanwhile, the euro fell to a nine-year low against the US currency by the In copper, despite the stronger ramp-up in new mine supply, low reported start of 2015.
The broad US dollar strength, combined with weaker metals and inventories moderated the price decline in 2014.
Concerns over near-term minerals prices, also put downward pressure on commodity-dependent demand have weighed more heavily on copper prices so far in 2015. currencies such as the Australian and Canadian dollars, both of which depreciated by around eight per cent in the course of 2014.
Unlike foreign Titanium dioxide prices remained under pressure in 2014 as inventories exchange, the US bond market was resilient to the anticipated shift in continued to be absorbed.
This could reflect concerns that even as developed Outlook economies finally emerge from post-GFC adjustment, they might only return to a growth trajectory that is lower than that of the early-2000s.
Economic growth is likely to remain modest and only mildly supportive for commodity demand in the near term.
The start of 2015 suggests it will be a Drivers of commodity prices challenging year with continued industry-wide margin compression.
The falls Long-term structural economic trends are important drivers of future in oil prices and applicable exchange rates will provide some relief for miners, commodity prices through their effects on commodity demand.
The economic but could also delay the exit of higher cost producers.
It is therefore likely that development and urbanisation of emerging countries goes through an initial the industry will continue to put strong controls over capital budgets and investment-led growth phase, which is particularly commodity-intensive.
This further focus on productivity, costs and margins.
benefits commodities such as steel and copper used in construction and Although the outlook for our operating environment remains tough, Rio Tinto infrastructure.
As economies evolve, other commodities such as light metals, is positioned to perform better than many competitors in challenging energy products and industrial minerals tend to take over as the main conditions.
Our strong balance sheet and world-class portfolio are competitive enablers of consumption-led growth models.
advantages that equip us to generate sustainable returns through the cycle.
