Directors report Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 59 OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CONTENTS CREST shares i Registration of CREST shares can be Pages 38 to 61 inclusive together with the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by refused in the circumstances set out in the reference form part of the Directors Report.
Other information, which forms part of the Directors Report, can be found in the following ii Transfers cannot be in favour of more than sections of the Annual Report: four joint holders.
Location SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS Acquisitions Financial statements Note 26 Based on notifications received, the holdings Audit Committee report Page 43 of 3% or more of the issued share capital of Board and committee membership Page 38 the Company as at 13 June 2014 the latest Corporate governance report Page 40 practicable date before approval of the Directors biographies Page 38 financial statements are as follows: Directors responsibility statement Page 61 Financial risk management Financial statements Note 24 % Future developments Page 14 BlackRock, Inc. 10 Greenhouse gas emissions Page 36 AXA Investment Managers, S. A.
5 Nomination Committee report Page 45 Baillie Gifford & Co. 5 Other statutory disclosures Page 59 Our people Page 31 Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Ltd 4 Pension schemes Financial statements Note 23 Legal & General Group PLC 3 Post balance sheet events Financial statements Note 29 Results and dividends Page 22 Details of directors interests in the Share capital Financial statements Note 20 Companys ordinary share capital and in Social responsibility Page 28 options over that share capital are given in the Remuneration report on pages 46 to 58.
Details of all shares subject to option are given in the notes to the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006, members on page 84.
Share capital and are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need major shareholders not be a member of the Company, to exercise Change of control provisions Details of the Companys share capital are all or any of their rights to attend and speak in loan agreements given in Note 20 to the financial statements.
and vote on their behalf at a general meeting A change in control of the Company defined, or any class of meeting.
A member may ACqUISITION OF OWN SHARES inter alia, as a person or a group of persons appoint more than one proxy provided that At the 2013 annual general meeting, the acting in concert gaining control of more than each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights Company was authorised to make market 30% of the Companys voting rights leads attached to a different share or shares held purchases of up to 75,451,260 ordinary to an immediate event of default under the by that member.
The Company has not acquired any Companys asset-based senior lending appoint one or more individuals to act on shares under this authority during the year.
In such circumstances, the agent for its behalf at a general meeting or any class This authority will expire on the earlier of the the lending group may, and if so directed by of meeting as a corporate representative.
next annual general meeting of the Company more than 50% of the lenders shall, declare The deadline for the exercise of voting or 4 March 2016. the amounts outstanding under the facility rights is as stated in the notice of the A special resolution will be proposed at this immediately due and payable.
years annual general meeting to authorise Such a change of control also leads to an TRANSFER OF SHARES the Company to make market purchases obligation, within 30 days of the change in Certified shares of up to 75.5m ordinary shares.
control, for the Group to make an offer to the i Transfers may be in favour of more than vOTING RIGHTS holders of the Groups $900m senior secured four joint holders, but the directors can Subject to the Articles of Association, notes, due 2022, to redeem them at 101% of refuse to register such a transfer.
every member who is present in person at their face value.
ii The share transfer form must be a general meeting shall have one vote and delivered to the registered office, or any on a poll every member who is present other place decided on by the directors.
in person or by proxy shall have one vote The transfer form must be accompanied for every share of which he or she is the by the share certificate relating to the holder.
The Trustees of the Employee shares being transferred, unless the Share Ownership Trust ordinarily follow transfer is being made by a person to the guidelines issued by the Association whom the Company was not required to, of British Insurers and do not exercise and did not send, a certificate.
The their right to vote at general meetings.
directors can also ask acting reasonably for any other evidence to show that the person wishing to transfer the shares is entitled to do so.
60 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES cOnTInUEd directors and the directors pass a resolution Appointment and removal Policy on payment of suppliers removing the director from office: vii a Suppliers are paid in accordance with the of directors bankruptcy order is made against him or he individual payment terms agreed with each Unless determined otherwise by ordinary makes any arrangement or composition with of them.
The number of Group creditor days resolution, the Company is required to have a his creditors generally: viii he is prohibited at 30 April 2014 was 63 days 30 April 2013: 67 minimum of two directors and a maximum of from being a director under the legislation: days which reflects the terms agreed with 15 directors disregarding alternate directors.
or ix he ceases to be a director under the individual suppliers.
There were no trade legislation or he is removed from office under The directors are not required to hold any creditors in the Companys balance sheet the Articles of Association.
shares in the Company by the Articles at any time during the past two years.
Powers of the directors Political and charitable The Board can appoint any person to be a Subject to the legislation, the Articles of director.
Any person appointed as a director donations Association and any authority given to the by the Board must retire from office at Charitable donations in the year amounted to Company in general meeting by special the first annual general meeting after 127,641 in total 2013: 80,625.
No political resolution, the business of the Company is appointment.
A director who retires in this donations were made in either year.
managed by the Board of Directors that can way is then eligible for reappointment.
use all of the Companys powers to borrow Post balance sheet events The Articles state that each director must money and to mortgage or charge all or any retire from office if he held office at the of the Companys undertaking, property and Details of post balance sheet events are time of the two preceding annual general assets present and future and uncalled included in Note 29 of the consolidated meetings and did not retire at either of them.
capital of the Company and to issue financial statements.
In accordance with the UK Corporate debentures and other security and to give Governance Code, all directors are subject security, either outright or as collateral Going concern to annual election by the shareholders.
security, for any debt, liability or obligation After making appropriate enquiries, the of the Company or of any third party.
directors have a reasonable expectation that In addition to any power to remove directors the Company and the Group have adequate conferred by legislation, the Company can Directors and directors resources to continue in operation for the pass a special resolution to remove a director insurance foreseeable future and consequently, that from office even though his time in office has it is appropriate to adopt the going concern not ended and can appoint a person to replace Details of the directors of the Company are basis in preparing the financial statements.
a director who has been removed in this way given on pages 38 and 39.
The policies related by passing an ordinary resolution.
to their appointment and replacement are Auditor detailed on pages 41 and 42.
Each of the Any director stops being a director if i he directors as at the date of approval of this Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness gives the Company written notice of his report confirms, as required by section 418 to continue in office and in accordance with resignation: ii he gives the Company written of the Companies Act 2006 that to the best section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, notice in which he offers to resign and the of their knowledge and belief: a resolution concerning its reappointment directors decide to accept this offer: iii all and authorising the directors to fix its the other directors who must comprise at i there is no relevant audit information of remuneration, will be proposed at the least three people pass a resolution or sign a which the Companys auditor is unaware: Annual General Meeting.
written notice requiring the director to resign: and iv a registered medical practitioner who is ii each director has taken all the steps that Annual General Meeting treating that person gives a written opinion he ought to have taken to make himself to the Company stating that that person has The Annual General Meeting AGM will be aware of such information and to establish become physically or mentally incapable of held at 2.30pm on Wednesday, 3 September that the Companys auditor is aware of it.
acting as a director and may remain so for 2014 at Wax Chandlers Hall, 6 Gresham more than three months: v by reason of Street, London EC2V 7AD.
An explanation The Company has maintained insurance that persons mental health, a court makes of the business to be transacted at the throughout the year to cover all directors an order which wholly or partly prevents AGM has been circulated to shareholders against liabilities in relation to the Company that person from personally exercising any and can be found on the website, and its subsidiary undertakings.
powers or rights which that person would www.
otherwise have: vi he has missed directors Amendment of Articles By order of the Board meetings whether or not an alternate of Association director appointed by him attends those Unless specified to the contrary in meetings for a continuous period of six The Articles, the Articles of the Company months without permission from the may be amended by a special resolution.
ERIC WATKINS COMPANY SECRETARY 16 June 2014
