38 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS CHRIS COLE GEOFF DRABBLE SUZANNE WOOD Non-executive chairman Chief executive Finance director Chris Cole has been a director since Geoff Drabble was appointed as chief Suzanne Wood was appointed as a director January 2002 and was appointed as executive in January 2007, having served as in July 2012 and is a member of the Finance non-executive chairman in March 2007. chief executive designate from October 2006 and Administration Committee.
Suzanne Chris is chairman of the Nomination and as a non-executive director since joined Sunbelt as its chief financial officer Committee and a member of the Finance April 2005.
Geoff was previously an executive in 2003.
Suzanne is a qualified accountant, and Administration Committee.
He is director of The Laird Group plc where he was having trained with Price Waterhouse.
non-executive chairman of WSP Global Inc. responsible for its Building Products division.
She is a US citizen and lives in Charlotte, a company formed from the merger of Prior to joining The Laird Group, he held a North Carolina but also maintains GENIVAR Inc. and WSP Group plc.
Prior to number of senior management positions at a London residence.
the merger he was chief executive of WSP Black & Decker.
Geoff is chairman of the Group plc.
He is also the non-executive Finance and Administration Committee and chairman of Tracsis plc and Applus and a member of the Nomination Committee.
senior independent director of Infinis Energy plc.
OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS MICHAEL BURROW Independent non-executive director Michael Burrow was appointed as a nonexecutive director and member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees effective from March 2007 and chairman of the Remuneration Committee in September 2010.
Michael was formerly managing director of the Investment Banking Group of Lehman Brothers Europe Limited.
Details of the directors contracts, emoluments and share interests can be found in the Directors remuneration report.
Key: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Finance and Administration Committee Directors report Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 39 BRENDAN HORGAN SAT DHAIWAL HUGH ETHERIDGE Chief executive, Sunbelt Chief executive, A-Plant Senior independent non-executive director Brendan Horgan was appointed chief Sat Dhaiwal has been chief executive of Hugh Etheridge has been a director, chairman executive of Sunbelt and a director in January A-Plant and a director since March 2002. of the Audit Committee and a member of the 2011.
Brendan joined Sunbelt in 1996 and Sat was managing director of A-Plant East, Remuneration and Nomination Committees has held a number of senior management one of A-Plants four operational regions, since January 2004.
He was appointed as positions including chief sales officer and from May 1998 to March 2002.
Before that senior independent non-executive director chief operating officer.
Brendan is a US citizen he was an A-Plant trading director from in March 2007.
Hugh is chairman of William and lives in Charlotte, North Carolina.
1995 and, prior to 1995, managed one of Sinclair Holdings plc.
He was formerly chief A-Plants stores.
financial officer of the Waste and Resources Action Programme WRAP, a non-profit organisation established by the UK Government to promote sustainable waste management.
Before joining WRAP, he was finance director of Waste Recycling Group plc and prior to that, of Matthew Clark plc.
Hugh will be retiring as a director on 30 June 2014.
BRUCE EDWARDS IAN SUTCLIFFE WAYNE EDMUNDS Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Bruce Edwards was appointed as a Ian Sutcliffe was appointed as a nonWayne Edmunds was appointed as a non-executive director in June 2007 and executive director and member of the Audit, non-executive director and member of the a member of the Nomination Committee Remuneration and Nomination Committees Audit Committee in February 2014.
Wayne and Remuneration Committee effective in September 2010.
Following the retirement will become chairman of the Audit Committee from February 2009 and September 2010 of Hugh Etheridge, Ian will be appointed as and a member of the Remuneration and respectively.
Bruce was formerly the global senior independent non-executive director Nomination Committees with effect from chief executive officer for Exel Supply Chain with effect from 1 July 2014.
He was formerly chief executive at Deutsche Post World Net.
Bruce is also executive chairman of Countryside Properties officer of Invensys plc.
Wayne is a US citizen a non-executive director of Greif Inc. plc.
He was formerly chief executive officer and lives in New Jersey but also maintains a NYSE-listed packaging and container of Keepmoat and managing director, UK a London residence.
Bruce is a US citizen and Property, at Segro plc.
Prior to joining lives in Columbus, Ohio.
Segro he held senior executive positions with Taylor Wimpey plc and Royal Dutch Shell plc.
