6 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 OUR BUSINESS MODEL H OW WE cREATE S USTAInABLE VALUE We create value through the short-term rental of equipment that is used for a wide variety of applications to a diverse customer base.
Our rental fleet ranges from small hand-held tools to the largest construction equipment and is available through a network of stores in the US and the UK.
WHAT WE DO We purchase equipment from leading manufacturers We rent on a short-term basis, a full range of construction and maintain it through its useful life and industrial equipment HOW WE DO IT DIFFERENTIATING OUR ENSURING OPERATIONAL INvESTING IN OUR PEOPLE MAxIMISING OUR RETURN FLEET AND SERvICE ExCELLENCE Highly skilled team ON INvESTMENT Broad fleet mix Optimal fleet age Effective management Devolved structure and monitoring of fleet Highly responsive no job Nationwide networks in US Maintaining significant investment too small and UK staff continuity Optimisation of utilisation Scale to meet size and Long-term partnerships Strong focus on rates and returns range of requirement with leading equipment recruitment, training manufacturers Flexibility in local pricing and incentivisation structures Focused, service-driven approach Focus on higher-return equipment Strong customer relationships Appropriate incentive plans consistent with Industry-leading application improved returns of technology MANAGING THE CYCLE Planning ahead Adapting our fleet and cost position Careful balance sheet management Taking advantage of opportunities vALUE CREATION vALUE CREATION THROUGH the provision of cost effective rental solutions to a diverse developing long-term relationships with customers and customer base: suppliers: and enhancing the communities in which we operate, generating sustainable returns for shareholders through the cycle, through job creation and community involvement ahead of our cost of capital.
for more on community contribution see page 35 : Strategic report Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 7 MANAGING THE CYCLE What we do is simple.
We describe ourselves as being a late cycle How we do it is not.
business in that our main end market, At its most basic, our model is simple we non-residential construction, is usually one purchase an asset, we rent it to customers of the last parts of the economy to be affected and generate a revenue stream each year we by a change in economic conditions.
This own it on average, seven years.
Then we sell means that we have a good degree of visibility it in the second hand market and receive a on when we are likely to be affected, as the proportion of the original purchase price in signs will have been visible in other parts of disposal proceeds.
Assuming we purchase an the economy for some time.
We are therefore asset for $100, generate revenue of $60 each able to plan accordingly and react in a timely year equivalent to 60% dollar utilisation and manner when necessary.
Key to the execution receive 35% of the original purchase price of our model is the planning we undertake as disposal proceeds, we generate a return to capitalise on the opportunities presented of $455 on an initial outlay of $100 over an by the cycle.
The opportunities are for both average seven year useful life.
We incur organic growth, through winning market costs in providing this service, principally share from less well positioned competitors, employee, property and transportation costs and positioning ourselves to be able to fund and fleet depreciation.
However, this simple acquisitive growth if suitable opportunities overview encompasses a significant number arise.
See content on our strategy on of moving parts and activities.
Our ability to pages 10 to 16. excel in these areas enables us to generate DIFFERENTIATING OUR SERvICE strong margins and deliver long-term, AND FLEET sustainable shareholder value, whilst The differentiation in our service and fleet managing the risks inherent in our means that we provide equipment to many business refer to pages 20 and 21. different sectors.
The commercial and institutional construction markets represent our largest markets but an increasing proportion of our business 30% is in specialty areas such as pump and power, temperature control, oil and gas and CHART 1: MANAGING THE CYCLE scaffolding.
Residential construction is a small proportion of our business 5% as it is not a heavy user of equipment.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2013 Strong Rightsizing Running Benefitting Improving market of the tight from market Our customers range in size and scale from Preparation business business structural multinational businesses, through strong for downturn change local contractors to individual do-it-yourselfers.
Our diversified customer base includes 2,189 construction, industrial and homeowner 1,820 1,626 1,507 1,450 customers, as well as government entities 1,308 1,225 1,081 and specialist contractors.
Our core market Revenue $m is the small to mid-sized local contractor.
The nature of the business is such that it 46 44 38 36 consists of a high number of low value 34 32 30 27 transactions.
In the year to April 2014, Fleet age months Sunbelt dealt with over 450,000 customers, who generated average revenue of $4,500.
8 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 OUR BUSINESS MODEL cOnTInUEd The individual components of our fleet are We purchase equipment from well-known Our local management teams are similar to our peers.
However, it is the breadth manufacturers with strong reputations experienced and incentivised to produce and depth of our fleet that differentiates us for product quality and reliability and strong financial returns and high quality from them and provides the potential for maintain close relationships with them standards.
We believe that the autonomy given to management teams to take higher returns.
The size, age and mix of to ensure certainty of supply and good decisions locally ensures that, despite our rental fleet is driven by the needs of our after-purchase service and support.
our size, we retain the feel of a small, customers, market conditions and overall We work with vendors to provide early local business for our employees.
The equipment we provide to each visibility of our equipment needs which customer is diverse and we are often involved enables them to plan their production We invest heavily in our computerised in supplying various types of equipment over schedules and ensures we receive the fleet point of sale and service systems as well an extended period at each distinct stage of a when we need it.
However, we believe we as the software and online capabilities projects development.
Our equipment is also have sufficient alternative sources of required to deliver efficient service as used in a wide range of other applications supply for the equipment we purchase well as high returns.
We capture and including industrial, events, repair and in each product category.
record the time of delivery and the maintenance and facilities management.
We also aim to offer a full service solution customers signature electronically, for our customers in all scenarios.
allowing us to systematically monitor and HOW WE OPERATE Our specialty product range includes report on on-time deliveries.
We also use Our operating model is key to the way we equipment types such as pump and power, electronic tracking systems to monitor the deliver operational excellence: temperature control, scaffolding and traffic location and usage of large equipment.
In the US we achieve scale through a management systems, which involve clustered market approach of grouping INvESTING IN OUR PEOPLE providing service expertise as well general tool and specialist rental locations On pages 31 to 34 we discuss the importance as equipment.
in each of our developed markets.
of our staff and corporate culture in more This approach allows us to provide a Our large and experienced sales force detail.
We aim to recruit good people and then comprehensive product offering and is encouraged to build and reinforce invest in them throughout their careers.
Our convenient service to our customers customer relationships and to concentrate exceptional staff and focus on service give us wherever their job sites may be within on generating strong, whole-life returns a huge competitive advantage in what we do.
When combined with our from our rental fleet.
Our sales force works purchasing power, this creates a virtuous closely with our customers to ensure we circle of scale.
Through the application of technology, it is equipped with real-time In the UK, our strategy is focused on having access to fleet availability and pricing sufficient stores to allow us to offer a full information enabling it to respond rapidly range of equipment on a nationwide basis.
to the needs of a customer while We have migrated our network towards optimising returns.
fewer, larger locations which are able to address all the needs of our customers in We guarantee our service standards and their respective markets.
This difference in if we fail to meet those standards, the first approach from the US reflects the nature of days rental is free.
We believe that our the customer base more national accounts focus on customer service and the and the smaller geography of the UK.
guarantees we offer help distinguish our businesses from competitors and assist Across our rental fleet, we seek generally us in delivering superior financial returns.
to carry equipment from one or two Our responsiveness to customer needs is suppliers in each product range and to limit critical in a business where around 70% the number of model types of each product.
of orders are placed for delivery within We believe that having a standardised fleet 24 hours.
We have worked with a lot of our results in lower costs.
This is because we customers for many years.
Our customer obtain greater discounts by purchasing retention is high due to the scale and in bulk and reduce maintenance costs quality of our fleet and our speed through more focused and, therefore, of response.
reduced training requirements for our staff.
We are also able to share spare parts between stores which helps minimise the risk of over-stocking.
We can also easily transfer fleet between locations which helps us achieve leading levels of physical utilisation, one of our KPIs see page 18.
Strategic report Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 9 STEvE LOWDER Sunbelt WE gET cOmmUnITIES gOIng AFTER A dISASTER Sunbelts national disaster response team getting our customers moving again.
of volunteers like Steve Lowder are proud Our yard is cleared of snow before the to take the strain when disaster strikes.
competition has turned up for work.
We can It could be a flood, hurricane or snow storm, mobilise significant resources within hours but whole communities can grind to a halt.
of major storms like Ike or Sandy.
First we Its our job to get them moving again, supply power and then remediation crews coordinating efforts across our national to sort out the damage.
We take pride in network, sourcing the right people and kit making a difference.
Our first priority after any disaster is the safety of our own people.
We make sure they and their families are alright before we ask them to focus on Hurricane Sandy New York
