14 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REvIEW cOnTInUEd but disciplined manner.
Whether we achieve Our strategic priorities these goals this cycle or next cycle is We are operating in a market full of potential dependent on various factors, many of which and accordingly our strategy is to grow the are outside our control such as the duration 17 % business aggressively but responsibly.
However, the important factor is medium to long term we aim to double our increase in Sunbelt fleet on rent that we implement our strategy consistently, market share in the US and grow it by 50% across the economic cycle to ensure that we in the UK.
Given the way the rental market is are in a strong position at all times to take evolving and the way we do business, we think advantage of the opportunities presented this is realistic.
We have demonstrated where by our markets.
The risks that we face in we think we are in the economic cycle.
implementing this strategy are discussed Our challenge now is to make the most of that on pages 20 and 21. position and the growth which comes with sustained economic recovery in an aggressive STRATEGIC PRIORITIES KEY INITIATIvES UPDATE RELEvANT KPIs BUILD OUR MARKET SHARE Double our US market Organic fleet growth 25% increase in cost of US rental fleet Fleet on rent share Greenfield expansion 17% increase in US fleet on rent Bolt-on M&A 23 greenfield openings in the US Increase UK market share Develop specialty products $93m spent on US acquisitions by 50% 45m spent on UK acquisitions FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL FLExIBILITY RoI above 15% for the Group Driving improved dollar RoI increased to 18.6% 2013: 16.2% RoI utilisation Sunbelt dollar utilisation increased Dollar utilisation Maintain fall through rates to 61% 2013: 60% Underlying EBITDA margins Increasing US store maturity Sunbelt fall through of 65% A-Plant dollar utilisation increased to 56% 2013: 49% Sunbelt EBITDA margin improved Leverage Maintain leverage Maintaining financial to 45% 2013: 41% Net debt predominantly below two discipline Leverage reduced to 1.8x EBITDA times net debt to EBITDA Fleet age remains stable and Ensure financial firepower Optimise fleet profile and age appropriate at this stage of the cycle: at bottom of cycle for next during the cyclical upturn Sunbelt 27 months step change 2013: 30 months A-Plant 37 months 2013: 40 months OPERATIONAL ExCELLENCE Improve operational Operational improvement Initial phase of improvement Underlying EBITDA margins capability and effectiveness Delivery cost recovery programmes designed to deliver RoI Fleet efficiency improved dollar utilisation and Fleet on rent Continued focus on service EBITDA margins Staff turnover Safety Strategic report Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 15 TOP 100 DESIGNATED MARKETS Present in 83 of top 100 Market share 10% in 52 of top 100 Present in 48 of top 50 Significant opportunity in both existing and new geographies 0% 10% 15 % 15 % Organic fleet investment will also be required Organic growth in our existing US BUILDING MARKET SHARE as the market should support double our geographies, together with greenfields, will We aim to achieve our ambitious targets in existing fleet.
We believe this blend of remain our primary growth driver.
The mix the US through a combination of organic bolt-ons, usually of small independent tool of organic growth and small bolt-ons is a low fleet growth, a mix of new greenfield sites shops, and greenfield sites is one we can risk, high return strategy and plays to our and small bolt-on acquisitions and the roll out successfully across a number of operational strengths.
It is also a strategy development of our specialty offering.
The precise mix will be driven for the long term.
has been the source of a lot of our growth in by our existing presence and the quality of previous cycles.
The map above shows the Markets are tougher for A-Plant but opportunities available.
We announced our nature and scale of the opportunity.
In the UK we have been focused store expansion strategy a year ago and have in green on the map is where we already have on higher physical utilisation of our fleet to executed it in a balanced way.
It has been our target 12% market share.
Areas in dark drive revenue growth and improve returns.
achieved through a mix of greenfields and green are where we have over 15%.
It is only During 2013 14 we started to gain traction bolt-on acquisitions and includes both general a matter of time before we achieve similar on pricing and, moving forward, this remains tool and specialty businesses Chart 8. results across a broader geography because a prerequisite to improving returns further.
Although each greenfield step and bolt-on is we now have the scale, competitive advantage If current trends continue we will start to small, the potential is great.
In an 18 month and balance sheet strength to reach our increase growth capital expenditure and period we have opened locations and acquired targets.
There are 17 out of the top 100 perhaps reduce physical utilisation of the small businesses which will generate markets in the US where we have no locations fleet a little to allow us the flexibility to gain revenue in the region of $250m in 2014 15 and a further 30 where our share is less than further market share while seeking to with a return on investment of 2025%.
So we believe there is improve pricing.
significant opportunity for expansion in both We anticipate adding around 50 stores in the existing and new geographies.
Our scale, combined with our good reputation and the brand presence we now enjoy, mean that new locations start to generate a profit inside six months.
This also helps fuel the expansion of the business.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL The maturity of our stores also has a big in the near future at much higher prices FLExIBILITY impact on RoI.
This is because the more particularly because of the new The scale of growth we are planning requires mature and bigger the store, the greater requirements for Tier 4 engines.
We get a great deal of financial and operational the operating profit margin and RoI.
So even significant competitive advantage from our flexibility.
As mentioned elsewhere, we are within our existing stores there is scope for young fleet and our purchasing power.
Our a cyclical business and we aim to perform at higher returns as they increase in size and strong balance sheet allows us to capitalise all stages of the economic cycle.
This means move up the maturity scale.
We have more on this advantage in both the US and the UK.
looking ahead and preparing for both the top stores and larger stores than at the peak OPERATIONAL ExCELLENCE and the bottom of the cycle.
It means having of the last cycle which is driving our strong Our third strategic priority is improving our the financial strength to enable growth margins and returns Chart 9. operational capability and effectiveness, when appropriate and make our returns We also seek to maintain financial doing what we do to the very best of our sustainable.
Having a strong balance sheet ability.
Last year we began the initial phase discipline and are always mindful of our is fundamental to our success at all stages of improvement programmes designed to leverage commitment to maintain our ratio in the cycle.
enhance our operational efficiency and hence of net debt to EBITDA at below two times.
The key focus of these A big part of our financial stability comes From this position of strength at the peak initially is improving delivery cost recovery from our strategy of ensuring that, averaged of the cycle, we can ensure we have and increasing fleet efficiency.
This looks at across the economic cycle, we always deliver sufficient financial resources at the bottom all aspects of how we fulfil our customers RoI well ahead of our cost of capital.
RoI of the cycle to prepare for the next step requirements, ranging from how we organise through the cycle is the key measure for any change in the market and capitalise on our stores, load our delivery trucks, optimise rental company and the best medium-term growth opportunities in the early stages our delivery and pick-up routes and how we indicator of the strength of the business.
of the next cyclical recovery.
Integral to spend time at the customer location.
As with We do this in a variety of ways at different financial strength is our ability to generate any multi-location business, all locations are stages of the cycle, all focused on the cash.
Traditionally, rental companies have good at some of this, some locations are good effective management of invested capital only generated cash in a downturn when they at all of it our goal is for all locations to be and maintaining financial discipline.
reduce capital expenditure and age their fleet.
We are looking for continuous In the upturn, they consume cash as they Our current strategy is to focus on improvement across the business and, as we replace their fleets and then seek to grow.
maximising dollar utilisation the rental achieve success in these areas, we will move As our business matures, we are reaching revenue return over the original cost of any of on to other areas of the business.
These the point where we expect to generate free our equipment and on maintaining our fall initiatives will help to drive a continued cash flow before acquisitions and returns through rates the proportion of incremental improvement in our EBITDA margins and to shareholders throughout the cycle and rental revenue that falls through to EBITDA.
assist in sustaining them through the cycle.
Last year our fall through rate at Sunbelt was 65%.
This is how we measure the We have focused on ensuring our fleet profile Backing up our other strategic priorities is efficiency of our growth.
and age is optimised for the cyclical upturn to our ongoing focus on customer service which ensure we make the most of the opportunity.
we believe is crucial to our success.
Without Our strategy of fleet fide-aging since 2010 it, our strategy would only get us so far.
In our has resulted in nearly half of our fleet being report on Responsible Business we show how under two years old.
Fleet coming up to we look after our staff to ensure they look replacement in the next few years is about a after our customers.
Everyone is focused on third of the total.
Our young fleet means that delivering for customers at Ashtead.
This is we no longer need to reduce fleet age further what we do every day.
and can devote a greater proportion of our capital expenditure to growth.
The typical fleet age profile of our customers and some of our smaller competitors means that at least 60% of their fleet needs to be replaced Strategic report Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 17 John Moore A-Plant We are making things happen A-Plant has built a 106 unit accommodation the Indonesian flag.
Meanwhile our village in Barrow-in-Furness.
This will accommodation units are home for the house the Indonesian Navy and staff from workers during the project.
The units are James Fisher Marine Services who are modular buildings with multiple uses.
They working on ships nearby until September will be offices, catering and dining rooms, 2015.
John Moore is our Project Manager sleeping accommodation, launderettes and for the site which has been purpose-built prayer rooms.
We have provided everything to be convenient, comfortable and energy the workers could need, just where it needs efficient.
The new residents of the village to be.
will be refurbishing and upgrading three offshore patrol vessels berthed alongside.
When their work is complete, the ships will set sail as fully-fledged naval vessels under Barrow-in-Furness accommodation village
