Strategic Report INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY Technology and innovation are at the heart of Rolls-Royce.
We anticipate technology then create products and services that our customers need ahead of market requirements.
In 2014, we spent 1.2 billion gross in R&D and filed for 600 patents.
20 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report ENGINEERING STRENGTH innovative ideas at our Sir Henry Royce OUR VISION APPROACH Our 15,500 engineers, along with our Technology Awards.
We look at innovation supply chain, commercialise and deploy in terms of technology and services and the continuous stream of science developed also in the way we conduct engineering WE LOOK AT TECHNOLOGY ACQUISITION by our university partners into technology and manufacturing.
This ensures that OVER A 5, 10 AND 20-YEAR HORIZON.
Competitive technology we continuously simplify and improve comes from combining great people, tools processes in order to be efficient and VISION 5 and processes.
These fundamental building remove waste.
Vision 5 describes near-term technologies blocks are used across our two Divisions, that are ready to introduce into our products.
We also RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT For instance, this year we have successfully continually invest in new talent and in 2014 The strength of our current product portfolio demonstrated our low observability we recruited 354 graduates 254 of which results from consistent and long-term propulsion and exhaust system integration went into engineering and 357 apprentices.
investment in R&D and our ability to bring capability on the BAE Systems Taranis Technical people are the lifeblood of the technology to industrial applications.
Our investment in technical and In addition to our extensive in-house engines our dual-fuel injector design enables leadership training allows us to continuously technology capability, we have partnerships pre-mixed high pressure gas combustion develop world-class professionals.
with world-leading universities in order to and allows the operator to switch from create new technology.
We continuously gas to liquid fuel during operation.
INNOVATION invest in our global network of 31 world-class VISION 10 We have a track record over many years University Technology Centres UTCs where Vision 10 describes leading-edge, validated of creating new products and services and we build the foundation for the next technologies for application in the medium we continue to strive to be leading edge in generation of products.
Most of these are at demonstration everything we do.
Innovation cannot be left feed into our demonstration programmes, level today and will feature in the next to chance.
It needs to be encouraged, where robust validation takes place before generation of products.
For example, the managed, selected and pulled through into proceeding in a structured and controlled lean burn combustion system for aero gas products and services.
Harnessing the total way into new production.
turbines has been in development for some intellectual power of our people takes years and offers a 60% reduction in the enthusiasm and effort.
Our new Innovation pollutant NO Portal, Big Ideas Forums and Open 1.2bn and particulate matter smoke x Innovation challenge have been successful R&D INVESTMENT compared to year 2000 levels.
It will reach and each year we reward the most flight test in 2015 and is supported by the European Clean Sky Programme.
DEMONSTRATOR PROGRAMMES During 2014, progress was made on our VISION 20 many new technologies, for example, the Vision 20 describes emerging, or as yet carbon titanium fan has flown for the first unproven, technologies which may be time this year in the advanced low-pressure applied across our product range in both systems ALPS demonstrator, a modified Aerospace and Land & Sea.
The composite fan system has been we are developing concepts for autonomous developed with the help of four UTCs and ships to reduce operating costs and radically five AMRCs and will offer over 750lbs of simplify onboard facilities.
weight saving on our future large engines.
We have demonstrated a new mobile MTU Our partnership in seven Advanced gas engine which has been in development Manufacturing Research Centres AMRCs since 2013.
This high-speed gas engine offers bridges the gap between research and a fuel alternative whilst maintaining the industrial application: providing facilities level of performance expected from our for industrial partners and academics to high-speed diesel engines.
At our Dahlewitz develop new manufacturing technology.
site in Germany, we are building a new test facility for power gearboxes.
These For example, innovative manufacturing gearboxes will be used on the next techniques developed in our AMRC in generation UltraFan engine and should offer Sheffield, UK, are now deployed in our a 25% improvement in fuel efficiency when state-of-the-art disc facility in compared to the Trent 700.
