Strategic Report BETTER POWER FOR A CHANGING WORLD 4 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Our world is changing, the climate is altering and populations are increasing.
We need more power but not at any cost to society.
The world needs better power.
Rolls-Royce is committed to research and technology in order to develop innovative and advanced power systems that can help.
Our vision is to deliver better power for a changing world.
The following pages illustrate how we are doing this in the air, on land and at sea.
5 Strategic Report BETTER POWER IN THE AIR WORLDS MOST EFFICIENT LARGE AERO ENGINE Launch customer Qatar Airways took delivery of the first Trent XWB-powered Airbus A350 XWB at the end of 2014.
The Trent XWB is the worlds most efficient large aero engine and is 10% more fuel efficient than the legacy engines it is designed to replace.
This first delivery signifies the start of a major engine production programme for the Group.
Customers have ordered over 1,500 Trent XWB engines, representing 49% of the Civil aerospace order book.
6 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report FURTHER AND FASTER ON LESS FUEL Rolls-Royce continues to be a market leader in powering large corporate jets.
The latest version of Cessnas flagship aircraft, the Citation X, entered service in June 2014, further cementing our position in this important market sector.
The improved version of our AE 3007 engines on the Citation X delivers an increase in thrust at take-off, coupled with a reduction in fuel burn helping people to fly further and faster but using less fuel to do it.
In addition, we strengthened our long-standing relationship with Gulfstream when we were selected in 2014 to power its new G650ER corporate jet.
LEADING IN LATEST TRANSPORTER POWER Rolls-Royce is the market leader in powering military transport aircraft with 8,000 engines in service.
The new Airbus A400M transporter continued to enter service successfully during 2014.
The A400M is powered by the TP400 turboprop engine in which Rolls-Royce is a major partner.
We also secured a landmark agreement during the year with Lockheed Martin for up to 600 engines to power its C-130J transporter.
Our fleet of T56 engines has accumulated over 200 million operating hours having first entered service in 1954.
We recently introduced an upgrade for the T56 that a US Air Force study predicts could deliver US$240 million in fuel savings for its fleet through to 2040.
7 Strategic Report BETTER POWER LOCAL ENERGY NATURALLY Efficient, low-emission power systems are in demand across the world for effective solutions to local energy needs.
Through MTU Onsite Energy, Rolls-Royce is providing ON LAND reliable power for applications such as healthcare, data centres, airports, farms and independent power stations.
In Chile for example, two MTU Onsite Energy units powered by Series 4000 engines are AND AT SEA now generating 6,400MWh of electricity a year from biogas produced by a local pig farm.
These units are the first in the country to generate electricity from a biogas plant.
For our customer they provide eco-friendly and profitable power to 2,500 families in the area.
POWERPACKED ON THE RAILWAYS Power Systems is a major player in engines for the rail industry.
To date, over 20,000 MTU engines have been sold for use in drive systems and electrical generation in this global market.
2014 marked the 90th year of MTU engines being supplied for rail traction.
As well as the anniversary, this year also saw an agreement reached with Polish rail vehicle manufacturer PESA for the supply of up to 940 MTU PowerPacks to be used in railcars operated by Deutsche Bahn.
These PowerPacks are among the most advanced in the industry, meeting all the latest European Union requirements on emissions.
8 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 40 YEARS OF OFFSHORE FLAGSHIPS The UT-Design series from Rolls-Royce is recognised worldwide as the benchmark for the offshore industry.
Todays vessels employ our wave-piercing hull which improves efficiency and reduces fuel consumption.
All major propulsion systems are fully integrated with the hull design to give optimum performance.
Rolls-Royce UT-Design vessels have been helping pioneer oil & gas exploration and providing offshore support for 40 years.
So far, more than 800 have been built or are currently under construction.
