Strategic Report BUSINESS MODEL CONNECT TECHNOLOGY TO CUSTOMER NEEDS Our deep understanding of customer needs drives the development of new technologies and products.
We bring advanced technology to market through integrated power and propulsion systems and services for use in the air, on land and at sea.
Engineering excellence is a fundamental source of competitive advantage across the Group.
Our methods, processes and experience enable us to deliver complex, high-value programmes.
Our ability to optimise and integrate entire systems is a core competence informed by a close understanding of customer AEROSPACE needs and decades of domain knowledge.
Addressing complementary markets from a shared capability and technology base brings breadth and scale, diversity and balance, enabling us to invest efficiently, and providing the resilience Gas turbines required to offset new project risk.
Our manufacturing model Large & global is consistent across the Group: we only produce parts ourselves where we can create and sustain a competitive advantage.
High The balance of our supply chain is built around close and High long-standing relationships with key partners and suppliers, a model that provides flexibility of capacity and secures access 5-20 years to world-class capability.
Some partners, as well as supplying parts, share in the risks and rewards of the whole programme 40 years from research and development to manufacture, through risk and revenue sharing arrangements.
Substantial and growing Services are an essential part of our business, building customer relationships and providing revenue stability by moderating the effects of new equipment order cycles.
Services offer strong growth potential and the opportunity to align incentives through long-term service contracts, providing visibility of costs to our customers and helping us secure future revenues.
This is particularly the case in Civil aerospace where contractual and air safety considerations mean that we have rights that secure a large part of the aftermarket spare parts business even where we do not have ALLOCATE CAPITAL TO a TotalCare agreement.
NEW GROWTH We operate a disciplined capital allocation The operation of our business model over decades has resulted process across the Group.
We invest only in a substantial and growing installed base of engines at all stages where we believe we can create and of the product life cycle.
Cash flows today from investments made, sustain a competitive advantage and in some cases many years ago, support investment for the future.
achieve a good return for shareholders.
We are focused on making this proven business model more effective through relentless focus on costs to generate the funds to sustain the investment necessary to remain competitive.
24 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report INVEST IN R&D AND DESIGN AND MAKE SKILLED PEOPLE WORLD-CLASS PRODUCTS Developing and protecting leading-edge We differentiate on performance.
We win technology and deploying it across our and retain customers by developing and businesses allows us to compete on a global delivering products that provide more basis and creates high barriers to entry.
capability and offer better through-life value than those of our competitors.
AEROSPACE LAND & SEA POWER SOURCE Reciprocating engines Nuclear CUSTOMER BASE Large & global Global BARRIERS TO ENTRY Medium high High INVESTMENT REQUIRED Low medium Low medium DEVELOPMENT TIME 2-8 years 20 years PRODUCT LIFE 20 years 40 years SERVICE OPPORTUNITY Growing Growing SECURE AND MAXIMISE GROW MARKET SHARE SERVICE OPPORTUNITY AND INSTALLED BASE Our equipment is in service for decades.
Our substantial order book for both Our deep design knowledge and in-service original equipment and services provides experience ensures that we are best good visibility of future revenues and placed to optimise product performance provides a firm foundation to invest and availability.
