Other Information OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION SHARE CAPITAL issued, or on the acquisition or capital restructuring of On 31 December 2014, 1,882,517,856 ordinary shares of 20 pence theCompany.
each, 22,005,007,762 C Shares of 0.1 pence each and one Special Share of 1 were in issue.
The ordinary shares are listed on the On a return of capital on a winding-up, the holders of C Shares shall London Stock Exchange.
be entitled, in priority to any payment to the holders of ordinary shares, to the repayment of the nominal capital paid-up or credited PAYMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS as paid-up on the C Shares held by them, together with a sum equal The Company issues non-cumulative redeemable preference shares to the outstanding preferential dividend which will have been C Shares as an alternative to paying a cash dividend.
accrued but not been paid until the date of return of capital.
Shareholders can choose to: The holders of C Shares are only entitled to attend, speak and vote redeem all C Shares for cash: ata general meeting if a resolution to wind up the Company is to redeem all C Shares for cash and reinvest the proceeds in the be considered, in which case they may vote only on such resolution.
C Share Reinvestment Plan CRIP : or keep the C Shares.
SPECIAL SHARE Certain rights attach to the special rights non-voting share Special The CRIP is operated by Computershare Investor Services PLC the Share issued to HM Government Special Shareholder.
The Registrar will purchase ordinary shares in the market to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Treasury Solicitor for shareholders electing to reinvest their C Share proceeds.
may redeem the Special Share at par at any time.
The Special Share Shareholders wishing to participate in the CRIP or redeem their confers no rights to dividends but in the event of a winding-up it C Shares must ensure that their instructions are lodged with the shall be repaid at its nominal value in priority to any other shares.
Registrar no later than 5.00pm on 1 June 2015.
Redemption will take place on 3 July 2015.
Certain Articles in particular those relating to the foreign shareholding limit, disposals and the nationality of directors that At the AGM, the directors will recommend an issue of 141 C Shares relate to the rights attached to the Special Share may only be altered with a total nominal value of 14.1 pence for each ordinary share.
The with the consent of the Special Shareholder.
The Special Shareholder C Shares will be issued on 1 July 2015 to shareholders on the register is not entitled to vote at any general meeting or any other meeting on 24 April 2015 and the final day of trading with entitlement of any class of shareholders.
Together with the interim issue on 2 January 2015 of 90 C Shares for each ordinary share with a total RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SHARES AND LIMITATIONS nominal value of 9.0 pence, this is the equivalent of a total annual ONHOLDINGS payment to ordinary shareholders of 23.1 pence for each There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding ordinary share.
ofthe ordinary shares or C Shares other than under the Articles asdescribed here, under restrictions imposed by law or regulation Further information for shareholders is on page 166. for example, insider trading laws or pursuant to the Companys share dealing code.
The Articles provide that the Company should SHARE CLASS RIGHTS be and remain under United Kingdom control.
As such, an The full share class rights are set out in the Companys Articles individual foreign shareholding limit is set at 15% of the aggregate of Association Articles, which are available on the Groups website, votes attaching to the share capital of all classes taken as a whole and are summarised below.
and capable of being cast on a poll and to all other shares that the directors determine are to be included in the calculation of such ORDINARY SHARES holding.
The Special Share may only be issued to, held by and Each member has one vote for each ordinary share held.
Holders transferred to the Special Shareholder or his successor or nominee.
ofordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Annual Report: attend and speak at general meetings of the Company: SHAREHOLDER AGREEMENTS AND CONSENT REQUIREMENTS to appoint one or more proxies or, if they are corporations, corporate There are no known arrangements under which financial rights representatives: and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of ordinary carried by any of the shares in the Company are held by a person shares may receive a bonus issue of C Shares or a dividend and on other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
between the holders of shares with restrictions on the transfer of shares or exercise of voting rights.
No disposal may be made C SHARES to a non-Group member which, alone or when aggregated with the C Shares have limited voting rights and attract a dividend of 75% same or a connected transaction, constitutes a disposal of the ofLIBOR on the 0.1p nominal value of each share, paid on a twicewhole or a material part of either the Nuclear business or the assets yearly basis.
The Company has the option to redeem the C Shares of the Group as a whole, without consent of the Special Shareholder.
compulsorily, at any time, if the aggregate number of C Shares inissue is less than 10% of the aggregate number of all C Shares 162 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Other Information AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SHARES specific individuals, the general policy of the trustees, in accordance At the AGM in 2014, authority was given to the directors to allot with investor protection guidelines, is to abstain from voting in new ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 125,353,891 respect of those shares.
equivalent to one-third of the issued share capital of the Company.
CHANGE OF CONTROL In addition, a special resolution was passed to effect a CONTRACTS AND JOINT VENTURE AGREEMENTS disapplication of pre-emption rights for a maximum of 5% of the There are a number of contracts and joint venture agreements issued share capital of the Company.
These authorities are valid which would allow the counterparties to terminate or alter those until the AGM in 2015, and the directors propose to renew these arrangements in the event of a change of control of the Company.
It is proposed to seek a further authority, These arrangements are commercially confidential and their atthe AGM in 2015 to allot up to two thirds of the total issued share disclosure could be seriously prejudicial to the Company.
capital, but only in the case of a rights issue.
BORROWINGS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Board believes that this additional authority will allow the The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various Company to retain the maximum possible flexibility to respond banks.
These facilities generally include provisions which may to circumstances and opportunities as they arise: and to allot new require any outstanding borrowings to be repaid or the alteration CShares up to a nominal value of 500 million as an alternative ortermination of the facility upon the occurrence of a change to acash dividend.
Such authority expires at the conclusion of the of control of the Company.
At 31 December 2014 these facilities AGM in 2015.
The directors propose to renew the authority to allot were less than 24% drawn 2013 35%.
The Group has entered into a series of financial instruments AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES to hedge its currency, interest rate and commodity exposures.
At the AGM in 2014, the Company was authorised by shareholders These contracts provide for termination or alteration in the event to purchase up to 188,030,836 of its own ordinary shares that a change of control of the Company materially weakens the representing 10% of its issued ordinary share capital.
The Company announced on 19 June 2014 that, as there were no EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS material acquisitions planned, and reflecting the strength of the In the event of a change of control of the Company, the effect balance sheet, the Company would return the proceeds of the sale on the employee share plans would be as follows: of the Energy gas turbines and compressor business to shareholders PSP awards would vest pro rata to service in the performance by way of a 1 billion share buyback.
The buyback commenced on period, subject to Remuneration Committee judgement of 10 December 2014.
Group performance: APRA deferred shares the shares would be released from As at 31 December 2014, 8,215,000 ordinary shares of 20p each had trust immediately: been purchased at a total aggregate consideration of 68.96 million ShareSave options would become exercisable immediately.
representing 0.44% of the called-up share capital.
The purchased The new company might offer an equivalent option in exchange shares have been cancelled.
for cancellation of the existing option: and Share Incentive Plan SIP consideration received as shares would The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares expires be held within the SIP, if possible, otherwise the consideration at the conclusion of the AGM in 2015 or 18 months from 1 May would be treated as a disposal from the SIP.
A resolution to renew it will be proposed at that meeting.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS At 12 February 2015, the following companies had notified an VOTING RIGHTS interest in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company in DEADLINES FOR EXERCISING VOTING RIGHTS accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure Electronic and paper proxy appointments, and voting instructions, and Transparency Rules: must be received by the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before a general meeting.
% of issued ordinary share Company Date notified capital VOTING RIGHTS FOR EMPLOYEE SHARE PLAN SHARES Invesco Limited 7 July 2014 4.99 Shares are held in various employee benefit trusts for the purpose Harbor International Fund 22 October 2014 4.02 of satisfying awards made under the various employee share plans.
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 30 October 2014 4.99 For shares held in a nominee capacity or if plan trust rules provide Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 7 November 2014 5.16 the participant with the right to vote in respect of specifically allocated shares, the trustee votes in line with the participants instructions.
For shares that are not held absolutely on behalf of 163 Other Information OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED DIRECTORS The PAC is independent of the Group and independent of any The names of the directors who held office during the year are political party.
The PAC funds are contributed voluntarily by set out on pages 54 and 55, with the exception of Iain Conn who employees and the Company cannot affect how they are applied, retired on 1 May 2014, and Mark Morris who left the Company although under US Law, the business expenses are paid by the on 4 November 2014.
Such contributions do not require authorisation by shareholders under the Companies Act 2006 and therefore do not DISCLOSURES IN THE STRATEGIC REPORT count towards the limits for political donations and expenditure The Board has taken advantage of Section 414C 11 of the for which shareholder approval will be sought at this years AGM Companies Act 2006 to include disclosures in the Strategic to renew the authority given at the 2014 AGM.
Report: GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS page s Our greenhouse gas emissions reporting excludes data from our disabled people and employee involvement 44 Power Systems business for 2013 and 2014, as detailed on page 46. the future development, performance and position of the Group 1 to 53 In 2014, our total greenhouse gas GHG emissions from our facilities, the financial position of the Group 26 to 31 processes, and product test and development was 565 kilotonnes R&D activities 20 and 21 carbon dioxide equivalent ktCO e. This represents an increase of 2 the principal risks and uncertainties 50 to 53 2% compared with 554 ktCO e in 2013 see table below.
2 GOING CONCERN Total GHG emissions ktCO2e 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 As described on page 161, the Group meets its funding Direct emissions facilities, requirements through a mixture of shareholders funds, bank processes, product test and borrowings, bonds and notes.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had development Scope 1 221 218 219 241 231 borrowing facilities of 3.5 billion and total liquidity of 4.1 billion, Indirect emissions facilities, processes, product test and including: cash and cash equivalents of 2.9 billion and undrawn development Scope 2 349 327 313 313 334 facilities of 1.3 billion.
67 million of the facilities mature in 2015.
Total for facilities, processes, product test and development 570 545 532 554 565 The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account Direct emissions power reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show generation to grid Scope 1 153 155 that the Group has sufficient financial resources.
The directors Indirect emissions power have reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group generation to grid Scope 2 12 14 are well placed to manage their business risks and to continue Total for facilities, processes, in operational existence for the foreseeable future, despite the product test and development, current uncertain global economic outlook.
and power generation to grid 719 734 Normalised by revenue emissions ration for facilities, Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis processes, product test and in accordance with the guidance Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: development ktCO e m 0.058 0.056 0.049 0.048 0.047 2 Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 issued by the FRC in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
We engaged KPMG LLP to undertake a limited assurance engagement, reporting to Rolls-Royce Holdings plc, using the assurance standards ISAE 3000 and ISAE 3410 over the GHG and TRI data that have been highlighted in this report with and as set out POLITICAL DONATIONS on page 46 and in the table above.
Their full statement, as well as our methodology for reporting and the criteria used as set out in our Basis of Reporting document, is The Groups policy is not to make political donations and therefore available on our website at www.
The level did not donate any money to any political party during the year.
of assurance provided for a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than a reasonable assurance agreement.
In order to reach their opinion they performed a range of procedures over the GHG and TRI data including: evaluating the work However, it is possible that certain activities undertaken by the performed and conclusions reached by the Rolls-Royce Internal Audit team: agreeing Group may unintentionally fall within the broad scope of the a selection of the data to the corresponding source documentation: and reviewing the data collation and validation processes at the head office level, including formulae used provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The and manual calculations performed.
A summary of the work they performed is included resolution to be proposed at the AGM is to ensure that the Group within their assurance opinion.
Non-financial performance information, greenhouse gas quantification in particular, is subject to more inherent limitations than financial does not commit any technical breach of the Act.
It is important to read the energy, GHG and TRI data in the context of the full limited assurance statement provided by KPMG LLP and the reporting criteria as set out in the Rolls-Royce Basis of Reporting document.
During the year, expenses incurred by Rolls-Royce North America Inc. in providing administrative support for the Rolls-Royce North America Political Action Committee RRNAPAC was US$52,690 The figures in the table do not include emissions associated with 2013: US$69,430.
PACs are a common feature of the US political our Power Systems business.
We are in the process of integrating system and are governed by the Federal Election Campaign Act.
our Power Systems business into our HS&E management system.
The figures presented have been adjusted to reflect the disposal of our Energy gas turbines and compressor business in December 2014.
164 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Other Information Entities that were part of the Energy business that were not part of DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS the disposal have been included.
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: Power generation relates to the operation of commercial gas-fired power stations and the figures have been adjusted to include i so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit emissions associated with Trigno Energy S. r. l. information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and ii the director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any Reporting Standard revised edition as of 31 December 2014 data relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys gathered to fulfil our requirements under the Carbon Reduction auditor is aware of that information.
Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency scheme, the UK Governments GHG reporting guidance and Department for Environment, Food & This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in accordance Rural Affairs Defra emissions factors for company reporting for with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
2014 as the basis of our methodology.
Through our active participation in the International Aerospace Environment Group we have helped to introduce new guidance on greenhouse gas emissions reporting in June to enable consistent communications and reporting for aerospace industry companies.
The Guidance is a voluntary consensus standard designed to supplement the World Resources Institutes WRI GHG Protocol.
Itearned the WRI Built on GHG Protocol mark after public comment consultation.
BRANCHES We are a global company and our activities and interests are operated through subsidiaries, branches of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates which are subject to the laws and regulations of many different jurisdictions.
Our principal subsidiaries and joint ventures are listed on page 152 and 153.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS There have been no events affecting the Group since 31 December 2014 which need to be reflected in the 2014 Financial Statements.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Details of the Groups financial instruments are set out in note 17 to the Financial Statements.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Related party transactions are set out in note 24 to the Financial Statements.
INFORMATION REQUIRED BY UK LISTING RULE 9.8.
4 There are no disclosures to be made under the above listing rule.
MANAGEMENT REPORT The Strategic Report and the Directors Report together are the management report for the purposes of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 4.1.
