Strategic Report BUSINESS REVIEW LAND & SEA As the worlds population According to the World Bank, approximately 200 million people per year will join the expands and becomes middle classes in the decades ahead, more affluent, as trade requiring the type of power that we deliver to support their rising living standards increases and we travel and to transport the goods they will buy.
more, the requirement Our Land & Sea Division provides power for the technology produced for a wide range of vehicles and vessels.
by our Land & Sea Division On land we supply engines to power vehicles as varied as locomotives, battle tanks and will grow.
mining trucks, applying world-leading technology to set new standards of fuel LAWRIE HAYNES efficiency.
We also deliver distributed power President Land & Sea generation and support the worlds civil nuclear power industry.
At sea we supply OVERVIEW POWER SYSTEMS POWER SYSTEMS POWER SYSTEMS POWER SYSTEMS Underlying revenue m UNDERLYING UNDERLYING REVENUE MIX REVENUE BY SECTOR KEY HIGHLIGHTS 2,831 2,720 Nearly 1,000 MTU rail PowerPacks contracted by PESA Launch of new efficient Bergen B33:45 medium-speed engine New MTU Onsite Energy 4000 natural gas engine MTU and Weir agree to develop power systems for hydraulic fracking industry 2013 2014 OE revenue 70% Marine 39% Services revenue 30% Industrial 20% 10,700 Employees Energy 28% Defence & other 13% MARINE MARINE UNDERLYING MARINE UNDERLYING MARINE Underlying revenue m REVENUE MIX REVENUE BY SECTOR KEY HIGHLIGHTS 2,037 Largest ever UT vessel designed 1,709 40 years of leadership in offshore vessels celebrated Naming of HMS Queen Elizabeth and launch of USS Zumwalt Service network further expanded OE revenue 63% Naval 22% Services revenue 37% Merchant 19% 2013 2014 6,400 Employees Oshore 59% NUCLEAR NUCLEAR NUCLEAR UNDERLYING NUCLEAR UNDERLYING Underlying revenue m REVENUE MIX REVENUE BY SECTOR KEY HIGHLIGHTS 684 667 New propulsion plant design submitted for Vanguard class replacement submarine US regulatory approval granted for Spinline I&C technology Business developed across US, Europe including UK Following the creation of programme and Asia the Land & Sea Division in 2014, information on a OE revenue 37% Submarines 73% comparable basis is not Services revenue 63% Civil Nuclear 27% 2013 2014 available prior to 2013.
3,900 Employees 36 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report engines, propulsion and advanced Although the long-term requirement for power for industrial applications.
We engineering products for craft ranging from our technology is certain, a number of the continue to invest in skills and capability submarines to complex anchor handlers and markets that we address are volatile.
During in our Civil Nuclear business ahead of seismic vessels used in the offshore oil & gas 2014, sharp falls in oil and other commodity significant growth in the worlds nuclear industry.
This broad portfolio of products prices caused a number of our customers power capacity.
Although this business is and services has direct relevance to the to delay or cancel orders.
In particular this currently relatively small for Rolls-Royce, long-term demand for better power in our has affected parts of our Power Systems and we already provide components, systems fast-changing world.
Power Systems was or services to more than half the worlds also affected by the trade sanctions imposed 435 operating reactors, enabling safe and Whereas the power supplied from our by the European Union on Russia.
Aerospace Division is based on gas turbine technology, our Land & Sea Division is to On land, business has grown across our At sea, our Naval business has done well a large degree focused on reciprocating defence, power generation and services despite continued pressure on defence engines.
Our high-speed reciprocating markets and we have had success in budgets.
Nuclear reactors designed and engines go to market under the MTU brand launching innovative products in our MTU manufactured by us have been powering and medium-speed engines are from Bergen.
Onsite Energy range to provide secure, clean the Royal Navys nuclear submarine fleet for the last 55 years and our engineers are currently designing the next generation LAND & SEA LOCATIONS for the fleet of the future.
LAND & SEA LOCATIONS The Division is firmly focused on cost reduction and the management of cash in all areas.
We have rationalised a number of our Marine facilities and this work will continue in the year ahead.
We will also drive improvement in cost through better supply chain management and continuing to move more of our production to lowercost countries.
We will see further benefits from this during the coming year.
During 2014, we acquired the remaining interest in Rolls-Royce Power Systems from Daimler.
Power Systems extends our portfolio and adds deep technical knowledge of high-speed engines and fuel injection systems.
It also extends the scale and scope of our market presence.
We have strong long-term relationships with customers, deep product knowledge, powerful and clean engines, efficient propulsion system designs and an established global network.
These linked to a truly experienced workforce provide Key Multiple Land & Sea locations: remarkably strong roots, from which the Land & Sea locations Finland 2 Netherlands 2 Land & Sea Division can grow.
Corporate locations France 2 Norway 8 Land & Sea and Corporate Germany 10 Poland 2 Italy 2 Spain 2 1 in 5 of the worlds United Kingdom 4 shipping vessels has Rolls-Royce equipment installed 37 Strategic Report BUSINESS REVIEW LAND & SEA CONTINUED POWER SYSTEMS KEY FINANCIAL DATA Two projects further highlighted the synergies between our Marine and Power 2013 2014 Change Systems businesses: as part of a Rolls-Royce Order book m 1,927 1,971 2% UT ship design, we supplied MTU dieselUnderlying revenue m 2,831 2,720 -4% electric propulsion systems and onboard Underlying OE revenue m 2,004 1,893 -6% power generators for two platform supply Underlying services revenue m 827 827 vessels for Chinese shipbuilder COSCO: and, Underlying profit before financing m 294 253 -14% in Brazil, MTU engines were specified for Rolls-Royce UT 535E oil-spill response vessels.
Following the creation of the Land & Sea Division in 2014, information on a comparable basis is not available prior to 2013.
Sales in the European construction, commercial marine end markets, offset by industrial and agriculture sectors were POWER SYSTEMS lower revenue from defence customers, substantially lower in 2014 compared with particularly naval marine.
We expect profit the high volumes ordered in 2013.
Sharp BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW headwinds from a deteriorating mix.
We falls in commodity prices led customers are taking actions to improve the operating in the mining and oil & gas industries to WHO WE ARE performance and cost controls at Bergen.
delay or cancel orders for OE.
The business consists of the MTU, MTU Our guidance is based on 2014 average Onsite Energy, Bergen and LOrange product exchange rates.
The Energy business for high-speed engines ranges.
MTU high-speed engines and showed stronger growth in the higher power propulsion systems power ships, railway OUR YEAR ranges and in the market for packaged MTU locomotives, defence and heavy off-highway Slower growth in Eurozone countries and Onsite Energy power systems, for example vehicles.
They are also used for applications emerging economies presented challenges in data centres and other industrial in the oil & gas industries.
Diesel and gas to our business in 2014.
We introduced an upgraded genset systems from MTU Onsite Energy breadth of our portfolio presented Series 4000 L64 natural gas engine with deliver heat and power.
Bergen mediumopportunities for growth in some parts improved efficiency.
speed engines are used in both marine and of the business.
In the medium-speed market served by the LOrange is a world-leading specialist Our Naval marine business benefited from Bergen range, sales decreased.
Nevertheless company that designs and manufactures stronger defence budgets in Asia and an we see an ongoing trend towards gas fuel.
complex fuel injection systems for large increased demand for security at sea in One example is a 100MW power plant in engines.
the region: this resulted in orders to power Mozambique where Bergen will deliver several types of military vessels.
FINANCIAL REVIEW The Power Systems order book grew 2%.
The market for the commercial marine 2014 saw an improvement in our land Order intake was 2.6 billion.
application of both our medium and defence business.
This was helped by a high-speed diesel engines recovered in 2014. production increase for the German infantry Underlying revenue declined 4% mainly due The demand for mega-yachts weakened in fighting vehicle, the MTU-powered Puma.
to adverse foreign exchange effects.
Growth 2014 due to fewer vessels being built, in defence and power generation was offset particularly in Europe.
Growth in the market for injection systems by substantially lower sales to European made by LOrange continued in 2014, driven construction, industrial and agricultural 2014 saw the launch of a new family of by increased demand for injection systems customers.
Marine revenue also declined, medium-speed engines for the marine used by dual-fuel engines.
driven by weaker yacht markets.
As in market, with future variants for land-based previous years, revenue was biased towards power generation.
The Bergen B33:45 uses LOOKING AHEAD the second half.
diesel or gas fuel and features a new We will invest in future technologies such modular design that can be developed to suit as gas engines for commercial marine Underlying profit declined 14% due to a wide range of ship types.
It uses less fuel, applications and are configuring our adverse foreign currency effects and losses has lower emissions and produces 20% more different engine series to meet tougher in the Bergen business.
Profit benefited from power per cylinder than the previous Bergen emissions standards in Europe and North lower C&A and bonus costs.
Together with our Marine colleagues, America.
At the same time, we will continue we secured orders for it to power two ships, to improve efficiency and maintain our In 2015, we expect revenue between with the first entering operation in 2015, focus on costs and cash in all areas.
2.5 and 2.75 billion and profit between there is also strong interest from the 200 and 250 million.
We expect growth merchant vessel market.
in the industrial, power generation and 38 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report MARINE KEY FINANCIAL DATA Improving competitiveness remains a key priority for the Marine business and we took 2013 2014 Change important steps in the year, including the Order book m 1,622 1,567 -3% announcements of facility restructuring Underlying revenue m 2,037 1,709 -16% or closures in South Korea, US, UK, Norway Underlying OE revenue m 1,288 1,070 -17% and Sweden to consolidate our Underlying service revenue m 749 639 -15% manufacturing activities at fewer locations.
Underlying profit before financing m 233 138 -41% We made strong progress in improving the external supply chain management and 2013 figures restated due to transfer of Submarines to Nuclear business.
Excluding foreign We are narrowing our product portfolio by MARINE exchange translation and a one-off charge focusing on the products that provide the of 30 million to cover the resolution of a most return to the business and add most BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW quality issue, profit declined 25% as a result value to our customers.
We have exited of lower revenue and an adverse mix, non-core product lines such as well WHO WE ARE reflecting pricing pressure and lower intervention equipment used for extracting Marine supplies complex propulsion and services revenue.
The business also incurred oil from mature wells.
handling systems to the maritime market, restructuring costs as it continued to across three distinct sectors: Offshore, streamline its global footprint, reduce We continue to focus on efficiency and cost Merchant and Naval.
We have more than indirect headcount, and consolidate reduction, addressing areas including our 4,000 customers, and our equipment is manufacturing activity.
Profit benefited supply chain, operational footprint and installed on around 25,000 vessels.
from lower C&A and bonus costs.
We have reduced the number of suppliers to Marine by almost We have an extensive range of technology In 2015, we expect revenue between 40% in the last four years half of that in for propulsion and cargo handling that 1.45 and 1.65 billion and profit between 2014 and reduced indirect headcount allows us to provide fully integrated systems 90 and 120 million.
We anticipate that the by more than 500 people over the past for a variety of ship types.
market will remain challenging in the short two years.
term, reflecting external factors, particularly Our capability in ship design means we can in Offshore.
We will accelerate our cost also combine our technology into complex reduction focus on our footprint, our supply vessels, where Rolls-Royce technology can chain, and our overhead costs in order to A ship fit for a queen account for around 40% of the total value drive a more competitive business while of a typical offshore vessel and up to 10% also adapting to volume risks.
Our guidance was how First Sea Lord, Sir George of a high specification naval combatant.
is based on 2014 average exchange rates.
Zambellas, described the new aircraft carrier for the Royal Navy at its naming As part of the Land & Sea Division, we now OUR YEAR ceremony held at Rosyth, UK, in July 2014. also offer MTU high-speed diesel engines as 2014 saw continuing challenges in the part of our propulsion systems, particularly global maritime market, and there is a HMS Queen Elizabeth has two Rolls-Royce for naval craft, ferries and offshore vessels.
mixed picture across the market segments MT30 gas turbines as main power units in which we operate.
In the offshore support and they drive Rolls-Royce propellers that FINANCIAL REVIEW sector, demand was encouraging for each weigh 33 tonnes and measure seven The Marine order book declined 3% in 2014, sophisticated anchor handling vessels, metres in diameter.
with a 1% reduction in order intake to including our own UT ship designs, which 1.82 billion.
At constant exchange rates, incorporate a wide range of Rolls-Royce the order book increased 6%.
However, the rapid decline in the price of oil in the second half of the year Underlying revenue decreased 16% down dented confidence in the oil & gas industry, 9% at constant foreign exchange, reflecting slowed demand and order intake as we a 17% decline in OE and a 15% decline in approached year end, a trend we expect services.
OE reduction was driven by a to continue into 2015. combination of pricing and the expected decline in Offshore, driven by 2013s weak In merchant shipping, many owners order intake.
Service revenue declined in continued to delay investment in new Offshore and Merchant, as ship owners ships and equipment, or are extending deferred overhaul and maintenance.
39 Strategic Report BUSINESS REVIEW LAND & SEA CONTINUED We are streamlining our global footprint Naval continued to perform well.
We are Offshore, which accounts for around twoand have consolidated manufacturing of contracted to a number of key international thirds of our business, responding to the some key products either into fewer programmes which to date have been largely uncertainties caused by the significant locations or into the external supply chain.
unaffected by defence budget cuts.
These decrease in oil prices over recent months.
include the UK Type 26 frigates and the US Our programmes to improve competitiveness Navys Littoral Combat Ship and ship-towill continue throughout 2015 and beyond, shore-connector hovercraft programmes.
NUCLEAR as we aim to manage the impact of a We also delivered the first MT30 to the slowdown in the oil & gas sector.
Further Republic of Korea Navy for the first of its BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW changes to the structure of the business eight new frigates.
Other highlights were are planned.
the naming of the US Navys sophisticated WHO WE ARE multi-mission destroyer USS Zumwalt and Rolls-Royce manages all aspects of In the commercial market, our UT-Design launch of the Royal Navys aircraft carrier nuclear plant design, safety, manufacture, celebrated its 40th successful year it is the HMS Queen Elizabeth, both of which are performance and through-life support benchmark ship design for the offshore oil & powered by our MT30 gas turbine.
for the UK Submarine Programme.
gas industry, with almost 800 now in service or on order.
We continue to lead ship Our services business continues to adapt In the civil nuclear market, we provide innovation in this sector and this year we to support our customers needs and nuclear reactor vendors and utility operators contracted to supply the largest ever vessel, this year we expanded our global workshop with integrated, long-term support services the UT 777 for Island Offshore.
This vessel is network with a new facility in Bergen, and solutions spanning the whole reactor being built in Japan to a high specification Norway.
life cycle, from concept design through to and will be deployed on drilling operations obsolescence management and plant-life in the Arctic.
Ship efficiency, and ship intelligence, where the smart use of data in more complex ships We have been a key player in the nuclear will improve efficiency, will be key market industry for over 50 years, with expertise AT SEA drivers in the future, as will the demand for in component manufacturing, licensing, For 55 years we have been designing more  power and project and supply chain management, and manufacturing the reactors that propulsion systems to drive down the costs as well as world-class engineering.
power the Royal Navys fleet of nuclear of operating ships.
In 2014, we submitted FINANCIAL REVIEW designs to our customer for the next We are strongly positioned to provide efficient The order book for the continuing business generation of propulsion plant.
solutions and have the necessary integration declined 4%, reflecting lower order intake capability as ships become more complex in following the receipt of a multi-year ON LAND the future.
Our Nuclear business currently provides components, systems and services Our unified bridge, which entered service Underlying revenue increased 3%, driven to over half the worlds 435 operating recently, is one example of the type of by good growth in the Civil Nuclear services civil nuclear reactors.
intelligent control system that we believe will business, which has been the focus of recent become commonplace on new vessels over acquisitions.
Our services capabilities the next five years.
include remote inspection, plant-life extension and obsolescence management In the near term, we expect the market to and these performed well in 2014. remain challenging especially in the Offshore sector where we may see project deferrals Underlying profit increased 38 million, and temporary lay-ups of vessels as they come including 20 million from better operating off-charter.
performance, lower C&A and bonus costs and a non-repeat of 2013 one-time charges.
We have begun to transform our business to improve our competitiveness in all areas and In 2015, we expect revenue between this programme will continue, again focusing 670 and 730 million and profit between on consolidation of manufacturing, our 40 and 50 million.
This is based on 2014 external supply chain and reducing our average exchange rates.
We will adapt to the market conditions in our biggest market sector, 40 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report NUCLEAR KEY FINANCIAL DATA successful in China, as an important supplier to the worlds largest nuclear 2013 2014 Change programme.
Order book m 2,617 2,499 -4% Underlying revenue m 667 684 3% We introduced equipment obsolescence Underlying OE revenue m 236 254 8% services and engineering support to new Underlying services revenue m 431 430 0% customers in the UK, France, Belgium, Underlying profit before financing m 10 48 380% and South Africa.
We also provided reactor inspection services to EDF Energys UK operations.
European Union In 2014, we made progress on our long-term Commission approval in 2014 of the LOOKING AHEAD projects for the UK Submarine Programme.
investment contract for the first new reactor Our priorities will be focus on customers, We submitted the design of the new to be built at Hinkley Point C in Somerset winning new orders and high-quality propulsion plant for the Vanguard class was a significant milestone.
A key feature will be continuously replacement submarine for customer improving operational efficiency and approval.
Construction of the Core During the year we were awarded a contract performance as we expand our products Manufacturing Facility in Derby, UK, has by Fortum, the owner and operator of the and services, and the markets in which progressed well and we successfully Loviisa nuclear power plant in Finland, to we operate.
We will build on our introduced several innovations to the modernise the safety and non-safety manufacturing capability, engineering programme which brought cost savings instrumentation and control I&C systems.
excellence and supply chain relationships for our customer as part of the foundation We also received US Nuclear Regulatory to ensure that we contribute positively to contract designed to deliver savings of Commission licensing of Spinline, our new build programmes in the UK and other 200 million over ten years.
Our support to safety-critical I&C technology, and this international markets.
the Royal Navy submarine flotilla is mission will help us access new markets.
critical and contributes to maintaining the We will focus on further extending the suite UKs continuous at sea deterrent.
We won a contract to supply and of products and services that we offer to commission pressure transmitter operational reactor utilities to enable them During 2014, we performed well against technology for the Flamanville 3 reactor to achieve safe, efficient and reliable lifetime our strategic intent of growing a global in France and continued to deliver against operations while enabling us to further civil nuclear business as a technologyour customer commitments on the worlds grow our nuclear services presence.
independent partner to the industry.
largest I&C upgrade of the 20-strong French fleet of reactors.
We continued to be Civil nuclear power is increasingly important to the energy policy of a growing number of countries and regions such as China, India, Middle Eastern countries and Central and Eastern Europe.
Increased focus on lowcarbon electricity generation and security of energy supply, continued to drive demand for the upgrade, plant-life extension and replacement of nuclear capacity.
More ENERGY BUSINESS countries are considering adopting nuclear power for the first time, with governments PERFORMANCE REVIEW seeking to develop a nuclear industrial and supply chain strategy designed to benefit On 1 December, we concluded the sale of consideration, and a further 200 million local economies and capability Turkey and our Energy gas turbines and compressor for a 25-year licensing agreement.
business to Siemens for a 785 million cash For the UK civil nuclear new build ENERGY KEY FINANCIAL DATA programme, we continued to carry out early 2013 2014 works to support developers and operators Order book m 1,226 and we continue to recruit and develop Underlying revenue m 871 724 capability in line with market growth Underlying OE revenue m 329 302 projections for future years.
The UK has one Underlying service revenue m 542 422 of the largest new build programmes in the Underlying profit before financing m 64 3 western world with 11 reactors expected to 41
