Directors Report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee consists of Non-Executive Directors and met five times in 2014.
Members Attendance in 2014 Lewis Booth CBE Chairman 5 5 Iain Conn retired 1 May 2014 3 3 Warren East CBE 3 5 John Neill CBE 5 5 Lewis Booth has recent and relevant financial experience.
SECTOR AUDIT COMMITTEES In support of the committees work, each of the Groups businesses now has its own sector audit committee.
We felt that this would be helpful in building in a level of detailed executive oversight which would strengthen further accountability for the quality of financial reporting and internal control at the divisional and sector level.
All I am pleased to present the 2014 report of the Audit Committee.
the sector committees are chaired by the director of internal audit to introduce a degree of independence from management and to Our key aim is to review and report to the Board on financial support their effective organisation and operation.
reporting, internal control and internal audit, and to ensure the relationship with the external auditors is open and effective.
The sector committees meet twice a year to consider the accounting Our work to deliver this objective during 2014 is summarised later policies, judgements and estimates and the internal control in this report.
I would like to thank the members of the committee, environment of each business.
We receive formal reports and the executive management team and KPMG for the open discuss the results of these meetings.
This gives us further insight discussions that take place at our meetings and the importance into the extent of management control and accountability, broadens they all attach to its work.
our reach within the Group and informs areas for further consideration at our meetings.
Over the next year, their focus on The terms of reference for the committee were reviewed during the internal control and risk management systems will develop further.
year as part of the wider governance review.
This has clarified some aspects of the committees responsibilities, primarily around OUR WORK DURING 2014 oversight of risk management.
From 2015, we will be working to FINANCIAL REPORTING this revised version, which is available on the Groups website.
In meeting our responsibilities over the past year, we have devoted a lot of time to discussing accounting policies and judgements and Responsibilities our work and conclusions are discussed in detail below.
Coming out Financial reporting of these discussions, we fully recognise the need for the Group to reviewing the financial results announcements and financial statements communicate clearly to shareholders and to give them confidence and monitoring compliance with relevant regulations that our accounting policies are sound and subject to thorough reviewing the appropriateness of accounting policies and the supporting review by the committee as well as the auditors and management.
key judgements and estimates Internal control and internal audit We review financial announcements and financial statements assessing the scope and effectiveness of the systems to identify, manage with both management and KPMG.
In 2014, we focused on: and monitor financial and non-financial risks reviewing the procedures for detecting, monitoring and managing the compliance with financial reporting standards and governance risk of fraud reporting requirements: reviewing the scope, resources, results and effectiveness of internal audit the appropriateness of accounting policies, focusing on areas External audit requiring significant judgements: overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, reviewing the the procedures and controls around estimates that are key in effectiveness of the external audit process and making recommendations applying accounting policies: to the Board regarding the external auditors appointment the response of senior executives to their perception of the increased risk relating to the pressure on, and incentives for, management to achieve financial targets: whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: and any relevant correspondence from regulators.
69 Directors Report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED We place considerable emphasis on making sure that the As reported last year, we monitored the enquiry from the FRCs accounting policies are appropriate so that the financial statements Conduct Committee on the accounting for risk and revenue sharing faithfully represent the results and financial position of the Group arrangements RRSAs.
I joined management and KPMG in meeting and its underlying contractual arrangements.
This is particularly so with the Conduct Committee to hear first-hand and to participate in for the Civil aerospace business, where our business model includes the debate.
We considered carefully the Conduct Committees views a number of unique features.
The Audit Committee concurred with managements view that the revised policy adopted As described in the business model on page 24, the development in 2013 best reflects the nature of the transactions.
of gas turbine engines for use in civil aircraft applications involves large upfront investments, which may be shared with suppliers, and We also monitored an enquiry from the Conduct Committee which are expected to be recovered over long periods from the sale regarding the accounting for long-term contractual arrangements of OE: and subsequently from the aftermarket from the sale of in Civil aerospace.
No adjustments resulted from this.
However, the spare parts and engine maintenance work.
Much of the aftermarket discussions did lead us to conclude that we had been insufficiently repair and overhaul is provided through long-term service clear in explaining how the different ways we do business with our agreements.
Given this long exposure, which may extend for Civil aerospace customers lead to our accounting policies.
In decades from the initial concept, the amount of revenue and profit response to this and the views of investors, the Group has taken two recognised during any period requires a significant number of principal steps.
Firstly, an investor day was held in June, at which accounting judgements and estimates.
Consequently, one of our management explained the different commercial arrangements primary responsibilities is to ensure that the bases for these that apply and how we account for each.
Secondly we have made judgements and estimates are robust.
enhancements to this years Annual Report, primarily: ACCOUNTING POLICIES: SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES Given the long-term nature of the Groups businesses it is inevitable that most of the accounting policies subject to significant accounting judgement will remain the same from year to year, though the facts and circumstances on which those judgements are based will vary.
In 2014, our discussions were principally on whether: Key issue Activity the key accounting judgements set out on The Group finance department presented to the committee the key accounting judgements and the pages 101 to 103 are appropriate.
reasons why these judgements had been made.
We were satisfied that these are the appropriate key judgements.
For 2014, two new areas of judgement were identified.
The first related to the disposal of the Energy business see below.
The second related to whether the leaseback of spare engines that the Group has sold to joint ventures should be classified as operating leases when the profit on sale is recognised immediately or finance leases when it is spread over the lease term.
We concluded that certain arrangements should be treated as finance leases and, accordingly, the profit has been deferred.
there are any indications of impairment of We considered the business plans for the relevant engine programmes, including the key assumptions on the carrying values of the intangible assets which they are based, and which support the value in use assessments for the intangible assets.
We were in Civil aerospace.
satisfied that no impairments were required.
For 2014, we focused particularly on the intangible assets related to the Trent 900 programme.
the estimates used in accounting for We reviewed the forecasts of future contract performance on which the accounting is based.
We also long-term contractual arrangements in considered performance to date against these forecasts and the results of a detailed review of certain Civil aerospace are appropriate.
aspects of the processes supporting these forecasts.
Where the accounting results in a contract asset, we assessed the recoverability of the asset against agreed criteria.
We were satisfied that the forecasts have been prepared on an appropriate and consistent basis.
the provisions for customer financing We considered the likelihood of the liabilities crystallising, based on an assessment of customers fleet liabilities in Civil aerospace are adequate.
We also considered the value of any security held, based on third-party valuations.
We were satisfied that provisions have been made on an appropriate basis.
For 2014, we considered in particular the release of previously established provisions relating to unexpired guarantees under which the Groups obligations are judged to have been terminated.
the disposal of the Energy business has We considered the estimates made in determining the amounts of the proceeds deferred in respect been appropriately accounted for.
of the Groups continuing obligations for transitional commitments to provide future goods and services to Siemens.
We were satisfied that the disposal has been accounted for appropriately.
the disclosures of contingent liabilities, in We considered legal advice in respect of the SFO enquiries.
We were satisfied that the disclosures particular those in respect of the possible appropriately reflect the current position.
outcome of the SFO enquiries are adequate.
70 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Report The description of the Civil aerospace business now emphasises From 2015 onwards, as a result of a broad ranging review of that whenever we sell engines, we secure contractual rights to our risk governance approach, our overall assessment will combine profitable aftermarket business even where there is no TotalCare oversight of the principal risks management activities undertaken agreement.
Consequently, the description of the resulting by each board committee or the Board as explained in the intangible asset previously referred to as recoverable engine Chairmans Introduction on page 56 : the Audit Committee will costs has been changed to contractual aftermarket rights.
consider financial control and reporting, fraud and IT risks together The accounting policies include a plain English description of with an assessment of the integrated control and risk management the rationale for the accounting we apply and the detailed approach covering all financial and non-financial risks.
In this descriptions have been enhanced see page 101. way we aim to make sure that the Boards oversight of risks and risk management is rigorous in its coverage and depth, making sure that principal risks are assessed in detail and that one committee has an integrated review of how the internal control We place considerable emphasis framework is operating.
on making sure that the Groups In line with this, during 2014, we carried out an assessment of accounting policies are appropriate.
financial controls, primarily based on a self-assessment of these controls by each of the businesses.
A priority for 2015 is to standardise and, where necessary, enhance the Groups financial Following these two enquiries, we instigated a review of all the internal control framework, against which this assessment is made.
Groups significant accounting policies as described in note 1 This will create greater consistency, particularly in the Groups small of the Financial Statements and the key judgements and estimates operations, and reinforce ownership and accountability for effective supporting them.
internal control throughout the organisation.
These reviews were undertaken by management and involved We also schedule detailed reviews with the management of each analysis of the relevant accounting standards and guidance, of the Groups businesses and with key functions.
The objective of comparative analysis with other companies with similar or these reviews is to have the opportunity to discuss and challenge analogous transactions to the extent available, consideration key accounting judgements and estimates, and to assess the of the pros and cons of options in the context of achieving the most internal control and risk management systems.
They also provide faithful representation of the transactions in the Groups accounts, the committee members with the opportunity to meet and and informal discussions with accounting firms other than KPMG.
evaluate the financial and risk management personnel deeper KPMG also provided the committee with its views.
We were satisfied with the results of these reviews, which At our meetings during 2014, we received presentations from: concluded that the accounting policies adopted by the Group were The Civil aerospace business we discussed: the key business the most appropriate available and that enhancements and risks including possible competitor actions, ensuring profitable revisions in note 1 should be made to add clarity to the accounting delivery of the increased engine volumes, ensuring on-time policies and the rationale on which they are based.
delivery of new programmes, business continuity risks including supply chain disruption and market shock due to external events Since the year end, we have reviewed the form and content of the or factors reducing air travel : accounting policies: key accounting Groups 2014 Annual Report together with the production process judgements, estimates and controls: credit risks associated with used to develop and verify the report.
We have reported to the customers: and, CorporateCare and TotalCare accounting.
Board that, taken as a whole, we consider the Annual Report to The Marine business we discussed: key challenges for the be fair, balanced and understandable.
business slower than anticipated recovery of the businesss markets, cost reduction initiatives, and delivering critical systems INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT changes : key business risks competitor actions linked with failure To support the Board in carrying out its review of internal controls to address our own cost base, market shock to which the offshore and risk management, we reviewed the process by which the Board sector is particularly vulnerable, failure to invest in the right reaches its conclusion.
This involved consideration of the key technologies, and failure to maintain customer satisfaction findings from the ongoing oversight, monitoring and reporting through poor quality or late delivery : the control environment processes, management representations and independent in a widely dispersed business: ERP systems: and key accounting assurance reports.
policies and judgements including warranty reliability issues, with a focus on an emerging product quality issue.
We are currently assessing how we will develop our approach to The chief information officer we discussed: current trends in meeting the revised Code standards requiring the monitoring of cyber security including inherent risks and vulnerabilities and the internal control and risk management as an ongoing process as well current landscape: the Groups defence in depth approach to as evaluating effectiveness at least annually.
cyber security: the Groups recent experience of attacks: and plans 71 Directors Report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED for the future.
The committee asked for KPMGs views on the I meet the director of internal audit in private before each meeting Groups approach.
We agreed that committee members would and on an ad-hoc basis throughout the year, and the committee as visit the Groups key cyber-security centre in 2015 to see the a whole has a private meeting with him at least once a year.
These approach being applied in practice.
discussions cover the activities, findings, resolution of control The director of tax we discussed: the approach to managing weaknesses, progress against the agreed plan and the resourcing the Groups tax affairs: the role of the tax function and its of the department.
interaction with other areas of finance and external suppliers: key tax risks and how they are managed: the profile of tax We were satisfied that the scope, extent and effectiveness of payments over the last five years: the effective tax rate: the UK internal audit work are appropriate for the Group and that the tax position in particular the impact of R&D expenditure, director of internal audit has a sound plan for ensuring that this pension contributions and the timing of tax payments on continues to be the case as our business progresses and the risks we TotalCare profits : and key tax-related accounting policies and face change.
judgements including accounting for advance corporation tax.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR These reviews provide the committee with invaluable insights into The audit cycle is continuous.
In April, following the completion of the risks facing the Group and the management of them, and the the 2013 audit, the lead audit partner presented the audit strategy application of key accounting policies, judgements and estimates.
for 2014, identifying KPMGs assessment of the key audit risks and the proposed scope of audit work.
In addition to those described in We were also notified of any matters raised through the Groups the auditors report pages 154 to 159, these risks were: valuation of whistle-blowing arrangements or otherwise that related to financial derivatives: accounting for RRSAs: warranties and guarantees: reporting, the integrity of financial management or fraud.
There valuation of derivative financial instruments: valuation of pension were no cases of fraud that were significant or that demonstrated liabilities: recoverability of tax assets and adequacy of tax weaknesses in internal controls.
Additionally we monitor provisions: litigation and claims: and the form and content of the compliance with the Groups policies in respect of expenses Annual Report.
incurred by the directors and other senior executives: no significant As part of the reporting of the half and full-year results, in July 2014 issues were identified.
and February 2015, KPMG reported to the committee on their assessment of the Groups judgements and estimates in respect INTERNAL AUDIT of these risks and the adequacy of the reporting.
The new director of internal audit has been working closely with the committee in undertaking a full review of our audit structure and The 2013 Annual Report included, for the first time, an extended approach.
This has given us an opportunity to review internal audits auditors report under new auditing standards.
We agreed to assist effectiveness.
The discussions on his conclusions and suggestions for KPMG in their trialling of a report that went beyond the minimum changes have formed the basis of the committees review of internal requirements.
We were pleased to note the positive comment that this audit effectiveness over the course of 2014. report generated and have agreed to continue with this approach.
We are very pleased with the progress that has been made.
A number I meet the lead audit partner before each meeting and the whole of changes have been made to improve the structure of audit reports committee meets with KPMG in private at least once a year.
In 2014, and we are satisfied that the approach to reporting to the committee I met senior members of the KPMG team to discuss key accounting is now working well.
A process for mapping risks, controls and policies, judgements and estimates in depth and, upon his assurance is underway and this will help ensure that our audit appointment to the committee, Warren East was briefed by KPMG.
In addition, I met with a small group of KPMGs senior partners to discuss emerging and leading audit committee practices in Twice a year, we review detailed updates on significant findings and comparable UK listed companies as well as other topical matters.
In particular, we review the nature and number of issues raised by internal audit and the time to complete the related NON-AUDIT SERVICES PROVIDED BY KPMG actions, which during 2014 we considered to be reasonable.
We were In order to safeguard auditors independence and objectivity, we pleased to see that the responsiveness of management across all do not engage KPMG for any non-audit services except where it is areas of the business to audit findings has improved and we consider work that they must, or are clearly best suited to, perform.
Fees paid that audit findings are being followed through effectively and to KPMG for audit, audit related and other services are set out in promptly.
Between these six-monthly updates, we review a note 8 to the Financial Statements.
dashboard which identifies key trends.
72 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Report All proposed services must be pre-approved in accordance with an The new EU Directive requires that audits be tendered at least every agreed policy which is approved annually.
We also review the ten years and that an incumbent auditor can only be re-appointed non-audit fees charged by KPMG quarterly.
Under the transitional arrangements, we will be required to appoint a different auditor no later than the audit of the 2020 AUDIT FEES 2014 AUDIT FEES 2013 financial statements.
Audit 5.7m Audit 5.8m The Group is a complex and technologically advanced business Non-audit 2.2m Non-audit 2.9m with a long cycle from the development of an engine to its eventual retirement.
We believe that KPMGs knowledge of this, built up over a number of years, enhances the effectiveness of the audit and that the existing professional requirements, such as the rotation of audit personnel, maintain independence.
Non-audit related fees paid to KPMG during the year were 39% of the audit fee, principally in respect of assurance work requested In accordance with the requirements of the EU Directive, we plan by Siemens in respect of the disposal of the Energy business, grant to recommend a tender of the audit during the tenure of the claims and tax compliance.
The nature and level of all services current lead partner which, subject to KPMGs annual reprovided by the external auditor is a factor taken into account by appointment, would end following the 2017 audit.
Before we make the Audit Committee in its annual review of the external auditor.
such a recommendation, we will satisfy ourselves that: i it will not be unnecessarily disruptive, taking account of any other activities: As described in last years Annual Report, we took the decision to and ii appropriate plans are in place to ensure audit effectiveness allow Power Systems to complete engagements already in progress.
We do not propose to tender the audit in 2015.
Non-audit related services provided to Power Systems in 2014 amounted to 0.9 million, a reduction of 57% compared to 2013.
LOOKING FORWARD The work of an audit committee is increasingly broad and complex.
Based on our review of the services provided by KPMG and We are very conscious of the need to keep on top of developments discussion with the lead audit partner we concluded that neither in financial accounting and reporting and to stay alert to regulatory the nature nor the scale of these services gave any concerns changes around external audit.
There is also considerable change regarding the objectivity or independence of KPMG.
in our responsibilities to make sure that the internal control framework is working well and to give the Board confidence that RE-APPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR AND AUDIT TENDERING the business is under control and risks are appropriately mitigated.
Following the completion of the audit, we reviewed the effectiveness and performance of KPMG with feedback from The external review undertaken in 2014 gave particular attention committee members, senior finance personnel and internal audit.
to the committees work and how, as a Board and committee, we are A wide range of factors were considered including: independence approaching internal control and risk management.
This risk governance assessment, along with the wider governance review and objectivity: business understanding: technical knowledge: conducted by the Board, has helped me consider how we will quality, continuity and experience of the audit personnel, in develop further the committees work.
particular the lead audit partner: responsiveness: planning and risk identification: working with management: the quality of reporting The reviews have highlighted areas where oversight and risk to, and discussions with, the committee: cost effectiveness: and the management need more structured review by the committee quality of the report to shareholders.
We also considered the reports so that we receive an integrated picture of the effectiveness of on KPMG by the FRCs audit quality review team.
The audit of the control framework in addition to our usual active oversight Rolls-Royce was not subject to their review in 2014.
We also of financial controls.
As described in this report, we have made reviewed the fees of the external auditor.
good progress during the course of this year, very ably and actively supported by the management team.
I look forward to seeing that Our conclusions were that the external audit was carried out progress continue with the implementation of the new risk effectively, efficiently and with the necessary objectivity and management framework and other initiatives during 2015. independence.
The committee and the Board have recommended their re-appointment at the 2015 AGM.
LEWIS BOOTH CBE Chairman of the Audit Committee KPMG were appointed as auditors in 1990 and this appointment has not been subject to a tender process since that date.
No contractual obligations restrict our choice of external auditors.
The lead audit partner is required to rotate every five years and other key audit partners are required to rotate every seven years.
Jimmy Daboo took over as lead audit partner in 2013.
