STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2014 was another successful year for Rotork.
We continued to Financial Highlights grow by implementing our strategy of broadening our product Currency remained a headwind throughout the portfolio, end-market exposure and geographic coverage year.
On an organic constant currency basis, order intake grew by 4.0% and revenue grew by whilst remaining focused on our targeted segments of the 3.8%.
Adjusted operating profit was 5.7% flow control market.
higher resulting in a record margin of 26.7%, 50 basis points higher than 2013.
We still showed growth on a reported basis on all these measures as the positive contribution from the acquisitions made in the year went someway to offset the impact of currency.
Rotork has a strong track record of making acquisitions and then taking these businesses to their next phase of growth.
This year we acquired the Korean based Young Tech Co. YTC in March and a UK subsidiary of Xylem Inc, which we have renamed Rotork Midland, in July.
Both of these businesses now sit within the Instruments division and bring additional products that enhance Rotorks product portfolio.
Integration of both businesses is progressing as planned and they made a good contribution in their first year in Roger Lockwood Rotork.
In December we acquired Masso Ind s. p. a.
Chairman a small Italian designer and manufacturer of pneumatic and hydraulic actuators and control systems for use in the marine industry and in February 2015 the sales and service operations of our former agent in T urkey.
I would like to thank all of our employees for their continued high level of commitment and professionalism.
It is as a result of their hard work that we have been able to deliver a record set of results once again.
Board Composition I am announcing today that I intend to retire as Chairman at the close of the Annual General Meeting in April after working with Rotork for 27 years, 17 of which as Chairman.
It has been a great privilege to play a part in the Groups strong progress over that period and see it truly flourish.
We are also announcing today that Martin Lamb will take over as Chairman when I retire.
Martin was appointed a non-executive director in June 2014 and brings a wealth of relevant experience from his 33 years at IMI plc.
I wish him every success in the role.
We were pleased to welcome two new non-executive directors during the year.
As mentioned above Martin Lamb joined in June and Lucinda Bell joined the Board in July.
Lucinda is the Finance Director of The British 30.9p Land Company plc and her financial experience in an unrelated industry brings a different PER SHARE FINAL DIVIDEND perspective to the Board.
MAKING A 4.3% INCREASE IN THE TOTAL DIVIDEND 16 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information Last April we announced that Graham Ogden, Reviewing the strategy for achieving growth in Outlook Group Research & Development Director, would the current economic climate, the evolution of In the year ahead we will continue to invest for retire at the end of this month.
I would like to the internal control environment, risk growth, increasing our international sales thank Graham personally for his contribution assessment processes, succession planning network and expanding our product portfolio since joining Rotork in 1985 and his and talent development within the executive both organically and by acquisition to appointment as an executive director in 2005. management are among the key areas for the strengthen our presence in the wider flow During this period Graham has been closely coming year.
Overall, I am satisfied that there is control market.
involved and latterly led the team in many key an appropriate balance of skills, experience, product developments including all three independence and knowledge of the Company Whilst our end-markets in the upstream oil & evolutions of the award-winning IQ series.
to enable the directors to discharge their duties gas sector may become more challenging in the and responsibilities effectively.
near term, our other global markets remain The Board is compliant with the Corporate active.
Our geographic reach, end-market Governance Code at the present time and will Corporate Governance exposure and diverse product portfolio provide remain so following the changes noted above.
The Board is committed to high standards of the Board with confidence of achieving further At the close of the AGM there will be three governance, which we view as central to delivering progress in the coming year.
executive directors, four independent nonincreasing shareholder value over the long-term.
executive directors and Martin Lamb as The Board considers all the aspects of the Chairman.
In addition, 25% of the Board are business necessary to provide good governance women compared with 11% at the same time and these are set out in the Corporate Roger Lockwood last year.
I am pleased to be able to Chairman confirm that Rotork complies with all aspects of 2 March 2015 Board Performance the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The evaluation of Board effectiveness was once again conducted by a third party this year.
The Dividend process of appointing new non-executive The Board recommends a final dividend of 30.9p References to adjusted profit throughout this document are defined as the IFRS profit, whether directors, a new Chairman and new auditors per share, a 3.0% increase over the 2013 final operating profit or profit before tax, with 14.9m were all considered in the evaluation and overall dividend.
Taken with the 2014 interim dividend, 2013: 12.1m of amortisation of acquired comments received were generally positive.
The the total dividend is 50.1p per share 2013: intangibles added back.
strong feeling of mutual respect and trust which 48.05p, representing a 4.3% increase in the OCC Organic constant currency results are the 2014 have been consistent characteristics of the total dividend on 2013.
The final dividend will be figures restated at 2013 exchange rates and with the Board was found to be undiminished.
The payable on 18 May 2015 to shareholders on the incremental contribution from acquisitions removed.
directors remain aware of the challenges the register on 10 April 2015. growth of the business brings and the importance of managing the change carefully in order to preserve the strengths of the business and to continue to deliver shareholder value.
The Board was broadly united in its views on all the matters raised in the process and, crucially, in its focus for 2015 and beyond.
Water treatment plant in Spain ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 17
