STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Overview The Group considers it important to contribute to and engage positively with stakeholders in the communities in which we operate and to be a good community neighbour around the world.
We regard this as part of our ongoing responsibilities as a corporate entity.
The Group seeks to be regarded as a good corporate citizen.
This links into our corporate values which include producing a positive and beneficial impact in the areas in which we operate.
One of the ways the Group does this is by having local charity committees at each of our sites which donate to local charitable causes.
This empowers local employees to decide how to distribute the funds in their local communities.
The Group aims to contribute 0.1% of profits to local charitable causes.
Local community involvement highlights from the year include: Langenzenn Germany donated towards new equipment at their local primary school: Falun Sweden donated to local charity Makalosa Foraldrar, who actively support single parents in Falun by organising fun activities to give both the children and parents a break from everyday life: Employees from our Rochester and WinstonSalem USA offices raised significant funds to support the charity United Way who focus on education, income, and health of the local communities they engage in: Shanghai China donated to the Educational Development Fund of South China University CASE STUDY of Science & T echnology: and SIGHTSAVERS Tulsa USA employees produced overwhelming responses to clothing and food drives in 2014.
Rotork is supporting Sightsavers work to eliminate river The food drive, hosted prior to Thanksgiving, blindness, lymphatic filariasis LF and trachoma in Ghana and resulted in turkeys and side dishes being help them achieve their goal of eliminating Neglected Tropical donated to 10 families through the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma.
Apprenticeships are increasingly being Joseph Baidoo is a 64 year old cocoa farmer Joseph has been taking Mectizan for the developed throughout Rotorks global network who lives in Brekrom in the Juabeso district past four years to prevent and control river of subsidiaries.
Baths apprenticeship scheme of the Western Region of Ghana.
has run since the Company began nearly 60 close to the Bia River and during October and years ago and similar established programmes November, when the rain is the heaviest, now exist at several Rotork locations.
Rotork black flies come in droves.
values its apprentices and believes in investing in its own talent in order to succeed.
For example, in Melle Germany, it is the combination of technical training at a local college, with the valuable experience within commercial departments that makes the apprenticeship programme unique.
As a result, the apprentices will emerge from the apprenticeship as all-rounders with the capability to pursue several different career paths within Rotork.
Other Rotork locations that have run an apprenticeship programme during 2014 include: Bayswater and Ballarat Australia, Langenzenn Germany, Losser The Netherlands, and Bilbao Spain.
50 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information In addition to local charitable and educational activities, the Group has supported two major charities in 2014, WaterAid and Sightsavers.
A specific WaterAid project is supported and the Group receives regular updates throughout the year on the progress of this project.
WaterAid uses the Groups support to help fund the Metu-Hurumu Woreda WaSH Project in Ethiopia, situated in the same area of Ethiopia as the completed Jeldu Woreda Project previously supported by the Group.
This project targets 10 villages and provides over 128,000 people with safe water and sanitation.
The project is a combination of water supply provision, water resource management and livelihood improvement and it has been identified that this approach is of critical importance to improve the wellbeing of the communities in the Keber watershed.
Since work commenced in August 2014, the project has provided 3,422 people with water, 4,196 people with toilets, and 1,913 people with hygiene education.
Rotork will continue to support the development of this key project throughout 2015.
In addition to our ongoing support for WaterAid, the Group also supports Sightsavers, an international charity that works with partners in the developing world to combat avoidable blindness.
Sightsavers is part of a high profile CASE STUDY global initiative to eliminate the world of neglected tropical diseases NTDs in the next 10 years, WATERAID diseases which currently affect over 1.4 billion of Rotork continues to support WaterAid and the donation made in the worlds poorest people.
Rotorks support is 2014 has helped local communities in ten villages with clean focused on Ghana, and is split between the trachoma and lymphatic filariasis LF river water, improved sanitation and hygiene wash WASH. blindness programmes that helped to protect millions of people against these devastating Working in seven Kebeles villages of the through conservation of the areas wetlands.
Rotorks support has aided Hurumu Woreda district, in the Oromia This has helped to combat the severe Sightsavers to take another step towards their aim Region of Ethiopia, WaterAid and their local degradation of wetlands in the most of eliminating NTDs in Ghana by 2020. partner followed an integrated approach to ecologically important area of Ethiopia, WASH services - capacity building at both where many rivers contributing to the Nile Progress community and institutional level and water Basin originate.
60,000 contributed by the Group to resource and natural resource management WaterAid: 60,000 contributed to Sightsavers: and Variety of donations made to charitable Contacts and feedback causes relevant to the local communities of The Group welcomes and values feedback.
If you Rotorks operating sites.
have any comments regarding this CSR report or any aspect of the Groups CSR programme, 2015 Targets please contact Stephen Jones, Company To increase donations to charitable causes.
The Secretary, by writing to him at the Rotork plc Group will: registered office, full details of which can be Donate 0.1% of Group profits to Rotorks found in the corporate directory on page 131. nominated international charity: Donate 0.1% of Group profits to charitable causes local to Rotorks operating sites: and To continue to support WaterAid and in particular the Metu-Hurumu Woreda WaSH Project.
