STRATEGIC REPORT MARKET OVERVIEW Rotorks products are used in many structural growth markets with long-term investment cycles which provide infrastructure to the global economy.
Growing populations require water, food and energy all of which require new infrastructure, with an increased focus on automation, to drive improved productivity and better decision-making systems to protect and secure assets.
OUR MARKET SHARE Rotork addressable market 3.6bn Flow control market 40bn Controls Fluid Systems Gears Instruments Addressable Market 1,754m 960m 300m 553m Market Share by Division 18.5% 18.8% 15.3% 7.9% Water, power and Marine market Increased R&D Global manufacturing Opportunities industrial markets New product investment expansion for Growth Eastern Europe and introduction Product range Sales channel Latin America Geographic expansion expansion development Midstream and New facility in Italy Geographic expansion Rotork synergies downstream oil & gas market Rotork Site Services Market share based on competitors revenue, published market reports and Rotork internal data.
06 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information MARKET DRIVERS SHARE OF END-USER MARKET Growth may be driven by investment in new Oil & Gas Water infrastructure to support urbanisation, automation or refurbishment of existing plants.
Population growth, the exploitation of new technologies and the desire to extract natural resources from ever more challenging locations are also drivers in some of our markets.
Urbanisation Rapid urbanisation in emerging markets, and growth of urban areas in developed economies, will be the biggest driver of infrastructure spending over the next few decades.
That Onshore & offshore production Sludge & sewage treatment growth is, in turn, creating huge demand for Refining & petrochemicals Water treatment, desalination & re-use private and public sector infrastructure Distribution & storage Environmental control development such as power stations, electricity Pipelines Dams, reservoirs & irrigation grids, water supply and water treatment plants.
LNG liquefaction & regasification Automation Automation advances in industry continue to demand high-value customer alerts and 10.4% real-time monitoring, to provide greater efficiency with improved safety and performance.
Group Group 56.9% Revenue Revenue Population growth The worlds population is growing and placing stress on the worlds supply of water, food and energy.
We need water to grow food and generate energy and we need energy to move and treat water and process food.
New technologies The new normal requires efficiency built on Industrial & Other Power technological innovations enabling businesses and organisations to simultaneously drive cost savings, improve productivity and reliability.
Fossil fuels Chemicals HVAC Nuclear energy Pulp & paper Industrial Concentrating solar power Mining Tunnels Geothermal and other renewables Marine Food & beverage 16.3% 16.4% Group Group Revenue Revenue ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 07
