STRATEGIC REPORT OUR DIVISIONS KEEPING THE ROTORK ROTORK ROTORK ROTORK WORLD CONTROLS FLUID SYSTEMS GEARS INSTRUMENTS FLOWING Rotork is a leading, global designer and manufacturer of actuators and flow control equipment.
We pride ourselves on keeping the world flowing.
The production of virtually everything that contributes to our lifestyle and improved Rotork Controls design and Rotork Fluid Systems design and Rotork Gears design and manufacture Rotork Instruments design and environment from clean water to petrol, electricity and manufacture electric actuators for manufacture pneumatic, hydraulic and gearboxes, adaptations and accessories manufacture products for flow control, pollution free beaches relies on Rotorks innovative flow valve applications and network control electro-hydraulic actuators and control to the international valve and actuator pressure control, flow measurement control products somewhere in the process.
systems serving a wide variety of endsystems.
Our manufacturing facilities industry with manufacturing facilities in and pressure measurement wherever markets.
Rotork Controls has are located in Germany, Italy, Sweden, the UK, Netherlands, Italy, China, USA there is a need for high precision and manufacturing facilities in the UK, China, UK and USA.
It has manufacturing facilities Rotork is active in all the main strategic markets power, oil USA, Germany, Spain, China, Malaysia in the USA, Italy, Korea and UK.
& gas, water and waste water, marine, mining and process and India.
However, Rotork operates in any market where the flow of liquids or gases needs to be controlled.
Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit 104.7m -0.7% 31.2m 0.5% 13.0m 0.3% 14.4m 84.3% Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue REVENUE 324.5m 180.3m 57.8m 46.0m BY DIVISION 0.8% -3.6% 3.2% 84.4% Controls Fluid Systems OUR END-USER MARKETS Gears Controls Instruments Fluid Systems OIL & GAS WATER POWER INDUSTRIAL & OTHER 2014 2013 Gears Instruments Oil & Gas REVENUE 2014 2013 BY END-USER MARKET Water Power Oil & Gas Industrial & Mining Rotork products are used on upstream, Clean and dirty water treatment and As well as traditional power stations, Other industries served by Rotork Water midstream and downstream activities distribution are major markets for applications for Rotork products are include surface and underground Other ranging from offshore production Rotork.
With climate change affecting found on renewable energy generation processing applications for the mining Power facilities through refining and the availability of water in many areas such as thermal solar plants and on industry, the ship building industry, 2014 2013 processing to transportation of finished of the world, there is an increasing need CO emission reduction processes heating, ventilating and air Industrial & Mining 2 products via pipelines or vessels.
for processes which will maximise such as flue gas desulphurisation, conditioning, pulp and paper, food Other existing resources such carbon capture and storage.
and beverage, medical equipment as desalination plants and water and tyre manufacturing.
References to adjusted profit throughout this document are defined as the IFRS profit, whether operating profit or profit before tax, with 14.9m 2013: 12.1m of amortisation of acquired intangibles added back.
02 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ROTORK ROTORK ROTORK CONTROLS FLUID SYSTEMS GEARS INSTRUMENTS Rotork Controls design and Rotork Fluid Systems design and Rotork Gears design and manufacture Rotork Instruments design and manufacture electric actuators for manufacture pneumatic, hydraulic and gearboxes, adaptations and accessories manufacture products for flow control, valve applications and network control electro-hydraulic actuators and control to the international valve and actuator pressure control, flow measurement systems serving a wide variety of endsystems.
It has manufacturing facilities USA, Germany, Spain, China, Malaysia in the USA, Italy, Korea and UK.
Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit 104.7m -0.7% 31.2m 0.5% 13.0m 0.3% 14.4m 84.3% Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue 324.5m 180.3m 57.8m 46.0m 0.8% -3.6% 3.2% 84.4% OIL & GAS WATER POWER INDUSTRIAL & OTHER Rotork products are used on upstream, Clean and dirty water treatment and As well as traditional power stations, Other industries served by Rotork midstream and downstream activities distribution are major markets for applications for Rotork products are include surface and underground ranging from offshore production Rotork.
With climate change affecting found on renewable energy generation processing applications for the mining facilities through refining and the availability of water in many areas such as thermal solar plants and on industry, the ship building industry, processing to transportation of finished of the world, there is an increasing need CO emission reduction processes heating, ventilating and air 2 products via pipelines or vessels.
for processes which will maximise such as flue gas desulphurisation, conditioning, pulp and paper, food existing resources such carbon capture and storage.
