Cash Generation Credit Management The Group uses financial instruments where Net cash balances finished the year at 46.8m, The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable appropriate to hedge significant currency 22.1m lower than the start of the year.
The three to trade receivables, with the risk spread over a transactions, principally forward exchange largest categories of cash expenditure were, large number of countries and customers, and contracts and swaps.
These financial instruments 81.3m on acquisitions, 43.0m of tax paid and no significant concentration of risk.
Credit are used to reduce volatility which might affect 42.7m of dividends paid.
The increase in worthiness checks are undertaken before the Groups cash or income statement.
In acquisition spend, from 43.5m last year, was the entering into contracts or commencing trade assessing the level of cash flows to hedge with largest increase and was partly funded by a with new customers.
The majority of our trade forward exchange contracts, the maximum cover 19.4m net increase in loans during the year.
receivables are insured, so the authorisation taken is 75% of forecast flows.
The Board Capital expenditure was higher than the previous process operates in conjunction with the receives monthly treasury reports which year with the completion of the Leeds UK site insurer, taking advantage of their market summarise the Groups foreign currency hedging project and the purchase of a new factory in Lucca intelligence.
Where appropriate, we use trade position, distribution of cash balances and any Italy being the two largest items.
The Lucca finance instruments such as letters of credit to significant changes to banking relationships.
factory cost 3.4m and will be developed during mitigate any identified risk.
2015 for the business to move into late in the year.
During the year we spent 81.3m on Treasury acquisitions.
In order to fund these acquisitions Our cash generation KPI shows a conversion of The Group operates a centralised treasury we restructured our borrowing facilities.
We 97.4% of operating profit into operating cash.
function managed by a Treasury Committee started the year with one facility for up to 75m Control of working capital is key to this chaired by the Group Finance Director and also although only 15m of the facility was being performance and this year working capital comprising the Chief Executive, Group Legal utilised at that time.
Mid-year this facility was increased to 28.5% of revenue compared with Director, Group Financial Controller and Group renewed and the expiry date extended from 24.7% in December 2013.
The Committee meets regularly to January 2015 to June 2016.
An additional one revenue to the last quarter of the year, which consider foreign currency exposure, control year committed facility for 20m was also culminated in December 2014 being a record over deposits, funding requirements and cash entered into in May 2014. monthly revenue, led to a 22.5m increase in management.
The Group Treasurer monitors trade receivables between balance sheet dates compliance with the treasury policies and is of which acquisitions accounted for 6.0m.
responsible for overseeing all the Groups Looking at this as days sales outstanding, this banking relationships.
A Subsidiary Treasury measure increased by 4 days to 60 days.
The Policy restricts the actions subsidiaries can take high revenue had a positive impact on inventory and the Group Treasury Policy and Terms of which only increased 2.2m on an OCC basis Reference define the responsibilities of the but with a further 4.8m from acquisitions Group Treasurer and Treasury Committee.
year-end inventory was 81.1m which represented 13.6% of annual revenue compared with 13.0% in 2013.
32 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information References to adjusted profit throughout this Dividends Retirement Benefits document are defined as the IFRS profit, whether The Board is proposing a 3.0% increase in the The Group accounts for post-retirement operating profit or profit before tax, with 14.9m final dividend to 30.9p per share.
When taken benefits in accordance with IAS19 Employee 2013: 12.1m of amortisation of acquired together with the 19.2p interim dividend paid in Benefits.
The balance sheet reflects the net intangibles added back.
September, this represents a 4.3% increase in deficit of these schemes at 31 December 2014 OCC Organic constant currency results are the 2014 figures dividends over the prior year.
This gives dividend based on the market value of the assets at that restated at 2013 exchange rates and with the cover of 2.4 times 2013: 2.4 times.
Our date, and the valuation of liabilities using year incremental contribution from acquisitions removed.
dividend policy is to grow core dividends in line end AA corporate bond yields.
We have closed with earnings and supplement core dividends both the main defined benefit pension schemes with additional dividends when the Board to new entrants: the UK scheme in 2003 and the considers it appropriate to do so having US one in 2009, in order to reduce the risk of considered the near-term expected cash volatility of the Groups liabilities.
The most recent triennial valuation for the UK Share Capital scheme took place as at 31 March 2013 and was Given the rise in the Companys share price over adversely affected by the lower yield on recent years, the Directors consider that it is long-dated gilts at that date, which is the key now appropriate to sub-divide the shares into driver behind the value of the schemes smaller units.
At the forthcoming AGM in April liabilities.
As a result, despite better than the Board is proposing a sub-division of the expected investment returns and the agreed Companys share capital to make the past deficit contributions, the funding level was Companys shares more accessible, particularly lower than at the previous valuation.
A recovery to small shareholders and our own employees.
A plan has been agreed with the Trustees which sub-division may also improve the liquidity and will see past service contributions from the reduce the bid offer spread of the Companys Company of 5.2m during 2014, 5.5m in 2015 ordinary shares.
Therefore a 10 for 1 share split and 5.5m in 2016, at which time the next will be proposed at the AGM which will mean the valuation will take place.
existing 5 pence ordinary shares will become 0.5 pence ordinary shares.
During the year the deficit on the schemes increased from 20.2m to 36.1m and the funding level reduced from 87% to 81%.
Although the company paid a total of 8.1m in contributions, the gain on scheme assets and the lower inflation rate were not enough to offset the effect from the reduction in the discount rate.
