STRATEGIC REPORT Based on a customer-centric approach and STRATEGIC understanding, we seek to deliver a high return on capital with strong and sustainable margins and consistent year-on-year growth in revenues and profit PRIORITIES which combined with our asset-light model will continue to deliver strong cash generation.
To provide short-term focus, we agree an annual set of key objectives.
The progress against these during the year and objectives for the coming year are shown below.
GROWTH Strategic Priorities Achievements 2014 Objectives 2015 Organic Sales Growth Deliver profitable sales growth by focusing on Moved into the new factory in Leeds UK and Introduce a regional management structure to the customer, increasing our international opened new offices in Chile, Denver USA, explore market opportunities including the coverage, continuing to broaden our Russia, China, Australia and Poland and establishment of a direct presence.
Drive end-markets and growing the global sales of expanded existing offices in Singapore and revenue synergies from recent acquisitions our recent acquisitions.
Acquisitions Acquisitions are a core part of our growth Acquired YTC March, Rotork Midland July, Execute acquisition plan of identified strategy.
Each acquisition will deliver a new which expands Instruments product portfolio, opportunities.
product, a new geographic market or a new and Masso December which adds to Fluid market sector or some combination of these.
Systems product range and brings access to the marine market.
Service Growth Expand our global service coverage and Launched the CSP which offers tailor-made Continue to develop the sales channels for capability including the Client Support service of planned preventative maintenance delivering service support and further expand Programme CSP.
aimed at the prevention of breakdowns and the service team.
New workshops were opened in Poland where there is customer demand.
and Chile and we increased the number of service engineers by 7%.
Introduced a regional service management team.
SUSTAINABILITY Strategic Priorities Achievements 2014 Objectives 2015 Employee Development We will invest in our people and encourage We have increased gender diversity at all levels Continue the rollout of the leadership training internal development to support our future of the organisation through the year.
We have programme and further expand the training growth plans.
We recognise the benefits of introduced a new leadership training programme opportunities throughout the Group.
diversity amongst our employees and will and expanded our online training courses Continue to promote diversity.
promote this both through external delivered through the Group.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Communicate best practice throughout the Our CSR sub-committees continued to promote Continue to drive safety improvement and Group, training those responsible and, where improvements in health and safety, monitor deliver the CSR strategy.
The CSR report is on appropriate, verifying adoption in each initiatives to reduce CO emissions and provide pages 40 to 51 of this report.
training on ethical behaviour and our employees gave their time and money to many charities around the world.
10 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Strategic Priorities Achievements 2014 Objectives 2015 Manufacturing Excellence Continue to develop world-class Significant progress was made throughout the In conjunction with the development of a manufacturing.
course of the year in implementing new business manufacturing version of our global business processes to achieve improved delivery, system, we will carry out a review of our reliability and productivity.
procedures in order to share best practice within the Group.
Supply Chain Management Rotorks outsourced manufacturing model Sourcing initiatives succeeded in both improving Continue to look for opportunities to take means that material costs are the most the performance of local suppliers and driving cost out of all our products through sourcing significant component of direct costs.
Managing down costs of components during the year.
Our proven sourcing these costs has been a key driver to improve capabilities will be supported with increased margins across all our manufacturing sites.
resources as we focus on recently acquired businesses.
Global Business Systems We are moving from having a wide range of Rollout and enhancement of our sales and service Continue the rollout through the sales and systems around the world to adopting a global office system progressed during the year and services offices and continue development of standard ERP system.
development of the manufacturing system has the manufacturing system.
moved to the next phase of the project.
INNOVATION Strategic Priorities Achievements 2014 Objectives 2015 New Product Capitalise on our industry knowledge to There were a number of product launches and A number of product launches are scheduled develop and introduce solutions to customer expansion of product ranges certifications this year in-line with the product roadmap problems.
during the year in all divisions.
Spend on R&D established for each division.
Development increased 18% in the year to 9.9m.
continues in other areas, including nuclear and within the recently acquired businesses.
ROTORK STRATEGY Providing high quality and innovative products and Achieving consistent, sustainable and profitable growth services to control the flow of fluids and gases Being the employer of choice Meeting customer needs through global expertise delivered locally ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 11 STRATEGIC REPORT A REPUTATION FOR INNOVATION INNOVATION At every stage in the Companys history, Rotorks engineers have focused on solving customer challenges, and developing new solutions - with levels of engineering skill and creativity that satisfy our customers requirements.
Our products are often missioncritical devices that require high quality and reliable solutions.
Customer approval and industry certification is also necessary for some applications.
12 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information CASE STUDY Pakscan wireless is perfect fit for tank farm automation The Rotork Pakscan wireless network control system establishes a secure wireless mesh network used to control actuators and other field devices throughout the plant, gathering important operating data for asset management and preventative maintenance.
To provide robust on-site communications, the wireless option operates a meshing system which ensures that all nodes have the facility of at least two routes back to the master station.
This means that if the normal traffic route is blocked, the network will find another way to route the messages.
The security of data is ensured by using encryption facilities.
In 2011, a client began building a single product tank farm consisting of six 100,000 barrel tanks and four booster pumps to serve nearby truck and ship loading terminals.
Originally, the facility was designed for a single hydrocarbon product and the specification did not require any automated valves to isolate the individual storage tanks.
The client then decided to upgrade and introduce Shelley Pike, Rotorks Systems Sales Manager, the capability to handle a second product, which explains: The customer didnt want to add a lot necessitated the requirement of isolating the of new conduit and wiring to control the tanks to avoid cross-contamination.
T o achieve actuators, so the wireless Pakscan system was a this, they specified Rotork electric valve perfect fit.
The explosionproof Rotork IQ non-intrusive The installation consists of 16 Rotork IQ40 intelligent actuators were supplied and are non-intrusive intelligent actuators, one Pakscan monitored and controlled by a Rotork Pakscan P3 P3 wireless master station and three network digital system.
This Rotork proprietary system is repeaters, which are used to overcome radio designed specifically for valve actuation duties black spots and ensure the redundancy of the and the environments associated with hazardous network.
As far as start-ups go, this was by far area petrochemical plants.
the easiest of any type of control system.
For this project, the client was able to take Some pre-commissioning of the wireless advantage of additional functionality and system was performed at the Rotork factory benefits through the introduction of Pakscan prior to delivery and, once in the field, the with a wireless field network.
Wireless Pakscan engineer installed the wireless antennas on eliminates virtually all the costs associated with each actuator and gave each unit its unique the installation of network cabling, whilst address.
The master station was powered up enabling an increased level of information from and all sixteen actuators populated the network the actuators to be communicated over the within a few minutes.
The customer was very wireless network.
