STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS VISION Rotorks vision is to be the leader in our targeted MODEL segments of the global flow control market.
& STRATEGY SITE INDUSTRY SERVICES KNOW-HOW QUALITY INNOVATE CONTROL SALES PRODUCT PROJECT ASSEMBLY MANAGEMENT SOURCING PARTNERSHIPS BUSINESS MODEL As a recognised leader in the flow control pioneer new markets and identify business tender packages against which the valvemakers market, Rotork is committed to continuing to opportunities.
Our global network of offices quote.
We talk with the end-user, design harness the collective strength of our global and manufacturing sites expands each year to consultant and EPC all through this process presence to satisfy the growing global demand ensure our support is local to our customers.
selling the benefits of a Rotork solution.
In these for innovative products: offering improved The Rotork culture of respect and excellence is larger projects actuators are usually sold in performance and reducing environmental a core philosophy which we share with new combination with the valve and Rotork sells to impact to support our customers needs around offices and acquired businesses, which the valvemaker.
Whilst Gears and Instruments the world.
Rotorks products are employed in themselves have often been purchased from an have some project sales, they more often sell mission-critical environments where safety is owner-manager, to ensure our customers direct to end-user or in some cases through paramount and so we constantly strive to receive consistently high quality service distribution channels.
In each case, only when we improve quality and performance.
In pursuit of throughout the world.
We operate an receive an order which is a contractual excellence, Rotork continues to innovate asset-light business model, with most of our commitment do we report this as order intake.
through its products, technology and people manufacturing sites purchasing components in Our orderbook at any point in time represents seeking to enhance our core capabilities and a finished form and then assembling to order.
the sum of order intake which has not yet been expand market leadership.
satisfied by a delivery of the required product or The majority of our business in Controls and service.
Once the product or service is delivered Rotork has a family culture where we seek to Fluid Systems is focused on winning projects.
it is recognised as revenue and then removed pursue excellence together, working as a global These projects are tracked, sometimes for from the order book.
team to respond rapidly to changing business years, as they evolve from an outline plan environments, introduce new technologies, through to a fully detailed and costed set of 08 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 INNOVATION Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information Innovation Work with our customers and provide them with the benefits of innovative, Growth technically advanced, high quality Further develop our global sales and products and associated services.
service network providing local support to Read more on page 11 our customers around the world.
Grow the Company both organically and through acquisitions, whilst maintaining the focus on profitability and return on sales.
Read more on page 10 OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE GROWTH SUSTAIN BILITY Sustainability Operational Excellence Be a fair, equal opportunities employer Rotork has operated an outsourced with high ethical standards aiming to manufacturing model for many years.
provide safe working conditions across In our newly acquired businesses our our businesses worldwide.
Be a good preference is also to outsource the corporate citizen, supporting the local low value add processes but we community, acting with integrity and review each situation and decide on a honesty whilst always considering ways of case-by-case basis.
improving our operational impact on the Read more on page 11 environment.
Read more on page 10 COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS Technological Leadership Rotork Site Services work with our customers Asset-Light Business Model Our innovative company is built on talented by installing and commissioning our actuators Over 85% of our products are built using an people who drive our technological leadership and by meeting their service requirements.
outsourced manufacturing model, with our with passion to ensure we continue to workforce assembling components and reinforce our core competencies in technical Diverse End-Market Exposure configuring products to match customer and performance standards, and develop new Our broad market exposure and participation orders.
We have developed a global network of technologies to provide solutions to our in diverse industries means that wherever suppliers who manufacture the components customers most pressing needs.
fluids or gases are being moved and the to our designs.
Leveraging our agile and process requires automation, or to operate international supply chain allows us to achieve Global Footprint failsafe controls, Rotork actuators and flow and maintain profitable growth while Rotorks worldwide geographic footprint control products are required.
Our actuators supporting new market entry.
and flow control instrumentation are used Expanding our brands global presence and most intensively in the oil & gas, power and Quality strengthening our local partnerships with water markets, but we are proud to serve Rotork stands for technological excellence, customers are key to our continued business many other markets.
quality and reliability: meeting or exceeding success.
In many countries around the world, international technical and performance Rotork is considered a local company by our Breadth of Product Portfolio standards.
Our products are used in customers.
Local relationships with customers Through product development and demanding environments and can be not only means that Rotork has clear sight of acquisitions we have built up the broadest employed in mission-critical applications value generation in the long-term, but also the range of actuators on the market.
We are also where consistency of performance and safety ability to recognise customers evolving expanding our range of flow control devices.
Our global footprint allows us to This ensures we have the appropriate product products to be reliable and our demanding closely follow and manage complex global for the widest range of applications within a quality control procedures, which extend to projects, which account for the majority of our site or project.
cover our supply chain, are central to sales and to support customers in the field.
