Our Board of Directors Donald Brydon, CBE Moya Greene Orna Ni-Chionna Matthew Lester Chairman Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Chief Finance Officer Non-Executive Director Mark Higson John Allan Jan Babiak Nick Horler Managing Director, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Operations and Modernisation Details of membership of the various Board committees can be found in the Corporate governance section.
Cath Keers Paul Murray Les Owen Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Board composition Experience Gender balance Public utilities, including state-owned mail Non-Executive Directors Male delivery service 15% 64% 64% Finance 24% Executive Directors Female Logistics 15% 27% 36% Accounting 23% Chairman 9% Retail and marketing 23% Jan Babiak resigned from the Board with immediate effect on 29April 2014.
The above statistical analysis is inclusive of her being a Director during the year ended 30March 2014.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 38 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Donald Brydon, CBE Chairman, age 69 Moya Greene Chief Executive Officer, age 60 Orna Ni-Chionna Non-Executive Director, age58 1 1 Appointed to the Board 6September 2013 Appointed to the Board 6September 2013 Appointed to the Board 20 September 2013 Skills and experience Donald had a 20-year Skills and experience Moya started her career with Barclays Group, during which time career in public service in 1979 and held Skills and experience Orna is a former he was Chairman and Chief Executive of various posts in a variety of departments, Partner at McKinsey & Company, where BZWInvestment Management and acting culminating in the position of Assistant Deputy shespecialised in serving retail and Chief Executive of BZW, followed by 15 years Minister for Transport Canada.
withthe AXA Group, including holding the in the financial sector includes Managing External appointments current and posts ofChairman and Chief Executive of Director, Infrastructure Finance, at TD former Currently Chair of the Advisory AXAInvestment Managers and Chairman Securities Inc. and Senior Vice President, and Board at Eden McCallum LLP, a NonofAXA Framlington.
He has since chaired Chief Administration Officer, Retail Products, Executive Director of Saga Plc and a Trustee several FTSE 100 companies, in addition to at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.
Formerly Senior his experience of a wide range of domestic Heroperating experience includes Senior Independent Director of HMV plc, Northern and international industries.
VicePresident for operational effectiveness Foods plc and BUPA, and a Non-Executive atBombardier.
Moya became President External appointments current and Director of Bank of Ireland UK Holdings plc andChief Executive Officer of Canada Post former Currently Chairman of The Sage and Bristol & West plc.
She has been Chief Group plc.
He is Chair of the Medical Research Executive Officer of Royal Mail since 2010.
Committee membership Chair of the Council and Patron of the British Postal Remuneration Committee, member of Museum and Archive and was previously External appointments current and theAudit & Risk Committee and the Chairman of Smiths Group retired former Currently Director of Tim Hortons in Nomination Committee.
November2013, the London Metal Exchange, Canada, Member of both Audit Committee and Amersham plc, Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, the Human Resources and Compensation IFS School of Finance and EveryChild, an Committees at Tim Hortons Inc. Chairman of international childrens charity.
He is a former the Remuneration Committee at Purolator Inc. Director of Allied Domecq plc, Scottish Power Formerly she was Vice-Chairman of Purolator plc and AXA UK plc.
Courier Ltd, a Canadian express parcel company.
Committee membership Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Committee membership Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Matthew Lester Chief Finance Officer, age50 Mark Higson Managing Director, Operations John Allan Non-Executive Director, age 65 and Modernisation, age 58 1 Appointed to the Board 6 September 2013 Appointed to the Board 20 September 2013 Appointed to the Board 20September Skills and experience Matthew was Skills and experience John is currently 2013.
Mark will resign from the Board previously Group Finance Director of ICAP plc Chairman of Dixons Retail plc and Ship Midco following the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
for five years and has held a number of senior Limited trading as WorldPay Limited.
He is to finance roles at Diageo plc, including Group Skills and experience Mark was previously become a Non-Executive Director and Financial Controller and Group Treasurer.
Divisional Chief Executive and Group Chairman designate of Barratt Developments Operations Director of BPB plc.
He has plc from 1 August 2014 and will become External appointments current and alsoheld senior positions at Courtaulds plc, Chairman following Barratt Developments plcs former Matthew is a Non-Executive Director HJHeinz and British Aerospace.
AGM on 12 November 2014. of Man Group plc and a main committee member of the 100 Group of Finance External appointments current and External appointments current and Directors, where he is Chairman of its former Currently President of the World former John is Chairman of the Board of InvestorRelations and Markets Committee.
Class Manufacturing Association WCMA Trustees of the DHL UK Foundation and a anda member of the IPA Advisory Council.
senior adviser to Alix Partners.
He is a former Committee membership Member of the CEC senior executive and corporate board and the PensionsCommittee.
Committee membership Member of member of Deutsche Post World Net.
Previously, amongst other senior executive roles, John wasa CFO and corporate board member of Deutsche Post DHL.
He was CEO of Exel plc, a supply chain logistics company.
John was also previously Chairman of Care UK Health & Social Care Holdings Limited and a Non-Executive Director of the Home Office Supervisory Board.
He has also been a Non-Executive Director at PHS Group plc, ISS A S, National Grid plc, Wolseley plc, Hamleys plc, 3i plc and Connell plc.
His early career was with Lever Brothers, Bristol-Myers Company Ltd and Fine Fare Ltd. Committee membership Member of the Audit & Risk Committee.
1 The Director was appointed on 6 September 2013 to the Board of Royal Mail Limited, which changed its name to Royal Mail plc on 19 September 2013.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 39 Our Board of Directors continued Jan Babiak Non-Executive Director, age 56 Nick Horler Non-Executive Director, age55 Cath Keers Non-Executive Director, age 49 Appointed to the Board 20 September Appointed to the Board 20 September 2013 Appointed to the Board 20 September 2013 2013.
Jan resigned from the Board with Skills and experience Nick was previously Skills and experience Cath was previously immediate effect on 29April 2014.
Chief Executive Officer of Scottish Power Customer Director and Marketing Director Skills and experience Jan previously held andhas held senior strategic roles in major of0 UK and has held various marketing, 2 managing partner and executive board level companies, both in the UK and abroad, strategy and business development roles roles at EY.
including being Managing Director Retail atNext, Sky TV, Avon and Thorn EMI.
andBoard member of E. ON UK plc and External appointments current and External appointments current and MDPowergen Energy Trading Limited.
former Currently on the Board of Walgreens former Currently a Non-Executive Director and is Chair of its Audit Committee and a External appointments current and of Telefnica Europe, Home Retail Group plc member of its Finance Committee.
She is also former Currently a Non-Executive Director and the insurance group Liverpool Victoria a Board member of the Bank of Montreal, of The Go-Ahead Group plc member of Audit, Friendly Society Limited LV.
Cath has amember of its Audit and Conduct Review Remuneration and Nomination Committees chaired the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and of the Risk Committee.
She and a Non-Executive Director of Thames Committee at LV since May 2011 and has has also been an independent board member Water Utilities Limited.
Nick is also Chairman chaired the Remuneration Committee at and Audit Committee Chair for Logica plc.
of Alderney Renewable Energy Ltd and Home Retail Group since July 2012.
Inaddition, Jan is a Council Member on the Chairman of MeterProvida Ltd. Committee membership Member of governing body of the Institute of Chartered Committee membership Member of theAudit & Risk Committee and the Accountants in England and Wales.
theAudit & Risk Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Committee membership Member of the Nomination Committee.
Nomination Committee, the Pensions Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Paul Murray Non-Executive Director, age52 Les Owen Non-Executive Director, age 65 Directors who left during the year Appointed to the Board 20 September 2013 Appointed to the Board 20 September 2013 During the year no Directors have left the Royal Mail plc Board or the Royal Mail Group Skills and experience Paul has been Skills and experience Les is a qualified Limited Board except those Directors Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee actuary with 35 years experience in the appointed to the Royal Mail plc Board on sinceAugust 2009 and is Audit Committee financial services industry.
From 2000 to 2006, 20September 2013 who left the Royal Mail Chairman at Qinetiq plc.
He was Group he was the Group Chief Executive Officer of Group Limited Board on the same day.
Finance Director of Carlton Communications AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited.
He was also plc and of LASMO plc.
CEO of AXA Sun Life plc, a member of the Directors original appointment dates to Global AXA Group Executive Board and the Board of a Royal Mail parent company External appointments current and responsible for AXAs Asian Life Insurance former Currently Non-Executive Director The table below shows the dates that the andWealth Management operations.
ofIndependent Oil and Gas plc, Naked Energy Directors were appointed to the Board of Ltd, Qinetiq Group plc and Ventive Ltd.
External appointments current and Royal Mail Holdings plc, the parent Company Inaddition, Paul is a Treasurer of Pilotlight.
former Currently Non-Executive Chairman until 1 April 2012, and the Board of Royal Mail Formerly Senior Independent Director of of Jelf Group plc and Non-Executive Director Group Limited, the parent Company until Taylor Nelson Sofres plc and Non-Executive of Computershare, CPP Group plc, Just 12September 2013.
Director of Thomson SA and of Tangent Retirement Group plc and of Discovery Communications plc.
Holdings, a South African listed health and life insurer.
He was previously a Non-Executive Committee membership Chairman of Director of Post Office Limited.
theAudit & Risk Committee, member ofthePensions Committee and the Committee membership Chairman Remuneration Committee.
ofthePensions Committee, member oftheAudit& Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Director Royal Mail Holdings plc Royal Mail Group Limited 1 Donald Brydon, CBE 27 January 2009 1 April 2012 Moya Greene 15 July 2010 1 April 2012 2 Orna Ni-Chionna 1 June 2010 1 April 2012 Matthew Lester 24 November 2010 1 April 2012 Mark Higson 5 November 2007 1 April 2012 John Allan 14 January 2013 Jan Babiak 1 March 2013 Nick Horler 1 April 2010 1 April 2012 Cath Keers 1 June 2010 1 April 2012 Paul Murray 1 August 2009 1 April 2012 Les Owen 27 January 2010 1 April 2012 1 Appointed Chairman on 26 March 2009.
2 Appointed Senior Independent Director on 1 April 2011.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 40
