Our business model Our business model aims to deliver shareholder value and support a sustainable Universal Service.
It demonstrates how we create value, from revenue generation through to initiatives aligned with our Customer, People and Financial KPIs.
Our model provides growth potential, sustained profitability and cash generation.
At the heart of our business model is a Networks and Customers focus on leveraging our core strengths.
They include: UKPIL Our leading position in UK letters and parcels: Royal Mail Core Network The Royal Mail brand: Key products and services Our high quality of service: and USO letters and parcels The geographical and earnings Customer points diversification provided by GLS.
Stamped and meter mail 115,000 No business model is without its challenges.
Airmail Pillar Boxes In our case, 49 per cent of our revenue Redirections letters comes from a market that is in 1,400 Special Delivery structural decline.
In the UK, the combination Delivery Offices of unfettered direct delivery, mandated access and the continued structural decline in letters over 11,500 Non USO letters and parcels is a threat to the fundamental economics of branches the Universal Service.
In parcels, more Royal Mail Tracked competition, more capacity and the Partnership with Post Offices Royal Mail 24 48 e-substitution of smaller items, are an ongoing reality.
Business and Advertising Mail 60,000 We focus on tight cost control, including International Business Tracked delivery routes andSigned people and non-people costs.
We seek to optimise our UK and international networks, Network access mail including the coverage provided by the Post Office.
Leveraging the benefits of our UK modernisation is about driving up our Parcelforce Worldwide productivity, standardisation, pace and flexibility.
Transforming our IT architecture to Key products and services Customer points address legacy systems issues and partnering with customers to provide more flexible Domestic and International 53 solutions for them is key to our model.
So too expressparcels Depots are postmen and women delivering first time, consistently, to the door.
Domestic and International over 11,500 deferredparcels branches Partnership with Post Offices GLS Key products and services Customer points 1 Deferred parcels 700 Depots Express parcels 1 GLS and partners.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 14 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Customer Providing high quality service everywhere in the UK and Europe Flexing our propositions products and services to meet People the needs of the rapidly changing e-retailing market Working with our people and unions to deliver a collaborative, Adding value to letters through can-do culture as we transform initiatives like Mailmark and to our business parcels by barcoding more items Becoming an even more See our Customer KPIs, pages 18 to 19 customer focused company in thehighly competitive markets in which we operate See our People KPIs, page 18 Revenue Customer Generating Investing Be recognised as the sustainable People in our best delivery shareholder business company in the UK and across Europe value Financial Financial Revenue Leveraging our ongoing transformation.
Being more productive and efficient in everything we do Tightly managing our people and non-people costs Investing to continue to transform the business, particularly in IT and automation See our Financial KPIs, page 19 Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 15
