Our strategy We have a clear vision to be recognised as the best delivery company in the UK and across Europe.
Our three-part strategy aims to deliver our vision by: Sustaining the continued provision of the Universal Service in the UK: and Generating sustainable shareholder value.
Key challenges The markets by category and geography in Strategic priorities which we operate are changing quickly.
E-retail is driving growth in parcels.
Royal Mail, Parcelforce Parcels Adding barcodes to UK parcels to improve customer information, and Worldwide and GLS are well positioned to benefit Strategic priority 1 operational efficiencies: from domestic and cross-border growth.
In the UK, we will continue to grow Investing in technology: from making it easier for customers to access our There is growing competition in parcels delivery.
account parcels and to maintain our strong position in the consumer, micro networks through to tracking and management information: In the UK, where Royal Mail is a market leader, SME and SME market segment, deliver significant IT upgrades, introduce our competitors are improving their service new products and maximise the proportion of UK traffic we can handle Detailed planning for parcels systems upgrades and automation in the core levels: some e-retailers are providing their own profitably.
In Europe, GLS will continue to expand and grow, and improve Royal Mail network: delivery solutions.
Market capacity has increased: its offering, for example, by increasing the number of B2C delivery options.
Rolling out FlexDelivery to more European markets, offering customers more there is growing price pressure too.
Consumers choice about how and when their parcels are delivered: and SMEs now have many choices, including alternatives to the Post Office, our retail partner.
Upgrading the core GLS operating system to ensure continued market-leading IT capabilities: and Disruptive technologies, long a feature of our markets, are on the increase.
Items traditionally Expanding the geographic footprint depth and range of GLS through delivered physically as parcels such as books, organic growth and selective acquisitions.
CDs and DVDs are in competition with downloads and streaming.
Inletters, e-substitution is a major structural factor Letters Adding value to customer mailings through the rollout of initiatives like Strategic priority 2 underpinning continued volume decline.
Mailmark: Managing the decline in letters.
We have launched Mailmark, which Combined with unfettered direct delivery and Promoting the value of advertising mail in customer retention and acquisition provides business customers with tracking information and significant mandated access, this threatens the fundamental on its own and in combination with other media: operational benefits for us.
MarketReach promotes the value that physical economics of the Universal Service in the UK.
mail brings to advertising campaigns and maintains our marketing mail Calling on Ofcom to address the potential threat to the economics of the Key priorities volumes in the face of competition from digital channels.
Unfettered direct Universal Service created by uncertainty caused by its Competition Act Our strategy aims to maintain our market leading delivery competition is a threat to the Universal Service.
We are asking investigation, access pricing policy review and the unfettered growth of direct positions and target new segments and channels Ofcom to undertake a full review of direct delivery now.
delivery competition: and where we can grow.
We also focus on being a more efficient and flexible company.
Our ongoing Leveraging benefits of our investments in letter automation by increasing transformation programme one of the largest the number of letters sorted into delivery order and optimising mail of its kind in the UK continues.
consistency in execution and tight cost control are key.
So too, is a greater focus on anticipating our customers needs and responding flexibly to Customer Improving our first time delivery rates, increasing use of Delivery Strategic priority 3 them.
Underpinning that focus is a major to Neighbour and Local Collect: Being customer-focused.
Customers have more and more choices.
Our emphasis on technology renewing or replacing Refreshing our enquiry offices and training our customer-facing colleagues strong brand means we are well positioned in our core markets.
The legacy systems and investing in new IT to improve customers experiences when collecting their parcels: rollout of new delivery methods is now almost complete.
Coupled with the architecture, providing barcoding and tracking full deployment of handheld scanners, it is transforming how we deliver forparcels, and greater connectivity with Re-engineering our key customer journeys to remove sources of parcels.
Our focus on first time delivery gives our customers what they ourcustomers.
dissatisfaction, reducing the time between account set up and first posting want and drives greater operational efficiency.
Important initiatives in this for businesses: and Our key strategic priorities are underpinned by a respect include the launch of Local Collect, our click and collect solution Driving down customer complaints with a focus on first time resolution focus on managing our business successfully, with the Post Office, and longer opening hours.
through both financial and non-financial initiatives.
We aim to keep a tight grip on costs and become more efficient.
Embedding a more collaborative culture will support the rollout of standardised processes and consistent execution across our operations.
Further investment in our people lays the foundation for even better customer service and culture change.
Transforming our technology provides the tracking capability to compete in an even more competitive marketplace.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 16 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic priorities Key initiatives Parcels Adding barcodes to UK parcels to improve customer information, and Strategic priority 1 operational efficiencies: Being a successful parcels business.
In the UK, we will continue to grow Investing in technology: from making it easier for customers to access our account parcels and to maintain our strong position in the consumer, micro networks through to tracking and management information: SME and SME market segment, deliver significant IT upgrades, introduce new products and maximise the proportion of UK traffic we can handle Detailed planning for parcels systems upgrades and automation in the core profitably.
In Europe, GLS will continue to expand and grow, and improve Royal Mail network: its offering, for example, by increasing the number of B2C delivery options.
Rolling out FlexDelivery to more European markets, offering customers more choice about how and when their parcels are delivered: Upgrading the core GLS operating system to ensure continued market-leading IT capabilities: and Expanding the geographic footprint depth and range of GLS through organic growth and selective acquisitions.
Letters Adding value to customer mailings through the rollout of initiatives like Strategic priority 2 Mailmark: Managing the decline in letters.
We have launched Mailmark, which Promoting the value of advertising mail in customer retention and acquisition provides business customers with tracking information and significant on its own and in combination with other media: operational benefits for us.
MarketReach promotes the value that physical mail brings to advertising campaigns and maintains our marketing mail Calling on Ofcom to address the potential threat to the economics of the volumes in the face of competition from digital channels.
Unfettered direct Universal Service created by uncertainty caused by its Competition Act delivery competition is a threat to the Universal Service.
We are asking investigation, access pricing policy review and the unfettered growth of direct Ofcom to undertake a full review of direct delivery now.
delivery competition: and Leveraging benefits of our investments in letter automation by increasing the number of letters sorted into delivery order and optimising mail handling techniques.
Customer Improving our first time delivery rates, increasing use of Delivery Strategic priority 3 to Neighbour and Local Collect: Being customer-focused.
Our Refreshing our enquiry offices and training our customer-facing colleagues strong brand means we are well positioned in our core markets.
The to improve customers experiences when collecting their parcels: rollout of new delivery methods is now almost complete.
Coupled with the full deployment of handheld scanners, it is transforming how we deliver Re-engineering our key customer journeys to remove sources of parcels.
Our focus on first time delivery gives our customers what they dissatisfaction, reducing the time between account set up and first posting want and drives greater operational efficiency.
Important initiatives in this for businesses: and respect include the launch of Local Collect, our click and collect solution Driving down customer complaints with a focus on first time resolution with the Post Office, and longer opening hours.
See pages 29 to 31 for more information about the links between our strategic objectives and key business risks.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 17
