4 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 We will benefit from our extensive product range Bringing Packaging to Life Kitchen Bathroom Healthcare RPCs expertise in food packaging is well RPC combines design and technical skills to In the personal care and pharmaceutical markets, established, combining design skills and a wide devise packs that are as good as they look, the RPCs renowned design skills and specialist choice of materials and technologies to create perfect fusion of function and aesthetics to help manufacturing techniques create packs that the ideal packaging solution, tailored to precise consumers feel good.
combine convenience and ease of use with requirements and delivering effective protection, essential safety features for both standard Our packs provide attractiveness to maximise maximum convenience and premium branding.
containers and bespoke designs to ensure brand image and on-shelf impact along with complete consumer confidence.
We are market leaders in barrier packaging functionality and user-friendliness to ensure that solutions to give products extended ambient their appeal is never diminished.
RPC produces sturdy, durable, practical and DIY user-friendly packaging, vital for consumers Garden In the DIY sector, RPCs design and manufacture with a job to do, with design and decoration How does your garden grow?
Beautifully, thanks capabilities in paint packaging and DIY containers options which create the required brand image to RPCs practical and stylish packaging solutions are unmatched.
Our containers are practical, and on-shelf appeal.
We offer a huge range that ensure products are appropriately packed, safe and easy to use, while our design skills of standard containers and create bespoke promoted and dispensed.
and decoration options help to maximise onpacks to meet customers precise brand and shelf appeal.
Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5 RPC sales 2013 14 2013 global rigid plastic Foodservice bn packaging market US$bn Quality, convenience and style are the essential elements for packaging in markets that also demand totally hygienic and safe products to 1.0bn 7% US$135bn meet many government and industrial regulations.
Market knowledge and technical expertise ROW characterise RPCs leadership in the foodservice US$10bn sector, with a wide choice of packaging solutions and disposable products that satisfy the many Non-food different needs of the busy catering environment.
Asia 45% Europe US$37bn US$49bn 1.0bn US$135bn Food 55% South & Central America US$4bn North America US$35bn Source: Smithers Pira, 2013
