e c n e s e r p e l u p f o g r n u i n E a e e m d i a s t g C u n o i o t n a t o e i r r n g C u a i n 12 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our strategy Vision 2020...
Vision 2020 is gaining momentum with good organic growth, the acquisitions of M&H Plastics and Helioplast in the financial year 2013 14 Focused and the recent acquisition growth ofAce.
Focused on growth Vision 2020: Focused Growth strategy Strategic Action In November 2013 the Group announced 1.
Continued focused organic growth its Vision 2020: Focused Growth strategy, The Groups strategy is to achieve further growth in the selected markets it operates designed to build on RPCs strong market in by continuing to invest in product and process innovation, particularly in sectors for higher added value products and in developing technologies which generate growth positions, leading innovation capabilities byaccelerating the ongoing conversion of other packaging types to plastic.
and the success of its investments in recent years.
There are three core elements to Vision2020, which are: continuing our focused organic growth 1 2.
Selective consolidation in Europe strategy in selected areas ofthe There are value accretive acquisition opportunities in Europe which will further enhance packaging markets: the growth in profitability of the Group.
The focus will be on acquisitions which either complement the existing businesses by extending product ranges within existing market 2 selective consolidation in the still niches and provide access to new geographical markets, or provide opportunities to fragmented European packaging market participate in new rigid plastic packaging products and markets within Europe where enhanced returns can be achieved.
through targeted acquisitions: and 3 creating a meaningful presence outside Europe.
Alongside the targeted Focused Growth 3.
Creating a meaningful presence outside of Europe strategy, the Group established fide minimis Further opportunities to increase value to shareholders exist through accessing new markets outside of Europe, where growth rates in demand for consumer packaging are through the cycle key financial targets: higher and RPC can leverage its innovation capabilities to gain a competitive advantage over incumbent packaging suppliers.
RONOA Return on sales at least 20% at least 8% through the cycle fide minimis through the cycle fide minimis n i c g g f r o o c w u t h n s o i o t a n d i l e o p s o n r o u c e E v i n t i c e l e S Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13...
Driven forward by our highly experienced Executive team Total experience in plastic packaging 213 years Pim Vervaat Simon Kesterton Frank Doorenbosch Darin Evans Tom Saunderson Corporate Development Chief Executive Group Finance Director Business Improvement Group Purchasing Ren Valentin Alfons Bckmann Thomas Wahlmeyer Alistair Herd Jack Yeung Bruce Margetts Superfos Cluster Bramlage-Wiko Cluster UKIM Cluster Manager Bebo Cluster Manager Blow Moulding Ace Cluster Manager Manager Manager Cluster Manager from 2 June 2014 Rationale Progress to date Rigid plastic packaging market is forecast to grow by 5.5% globally in the next five The Group was able to achieve further growth by continuing to invest in product and years with 2.7% growth in Europe.
RPC can leverage its strong market positions, process innovation, particularly in sectors for higher added value products and in scale and geographical reach, innovation capabilities, extensive product range and developing technologies which generate growth by accelerating the ongoing conversion operational excellence.
of other packaging types to plastic.
Sales grew in the year by 4% excluding the impact of acquisitions, with overall activity levels higher than in the previous year and with proportionately higher levels of sales made in personal care, pharmaceuticals, single serve beverage systems and high barrier foods, all of which enhance profitability.
The Group invested the majority of its 70m capital expenditure in the year on growth projects which will contribute to the future profitability of the existing businesses.
Plastic packaging, whilst concentrated in selective niches, remains a largely The Group made two acquisitions in the year, which consolidate and strengthen its market fragmented market.
There are relatively few large rigid plastic packaging converters positions in Europe and extend its presence in the USA.
Maynard & Harris Group M&H in Europe and opportunities to consolidate the market and leverage from the Groups Plastics, with an annual turnover of circa 80m and over 700 employees, operates in existing competitive advantages will accelerate growth.
the Groups core geographic and product markets and complements the Groups existing market positions very well.
Pre-tax purchasing synergies of at least 1m are expected to be realised in 2014 15 with additional synergies to be achieved going forward.
Helioplast, based in Bosnia-Herzegovina, and generating circa 7m of annual sales, is a leading supplier of injection moulded rigid plastic packaging within consumer food segments.
It extends the Groups geographic reach into the south eastern European region whilst providing a modern, high quality manufacturing base.
Rigid plastic packaging is forecast to grow by 6.5% outside of Europe whilst 94% The Group commenced an investment programme of US$9m during the year in ofRPCs sales are currently in Europe.
expanding its facility at Morgantown, PA, USA and the acquisition of M&H Plastics brought with it a manufacturing facility in Winchester, VA, USA.
Together these sites have created a stronger platform for the Group to grow in the USA, with total enlarged Group US turnover of circa US$85m p. a.
In June 2014 the Group completed the acquisition of Ace, a China based and Hong Kong headquartered award-winning manufacturer of complex plastic injection moulded components and injection moulding tools for the packaging, lifestyle, medical, power and automotive end markets.
Operating from five factories in China and with turnover of around 104m, this provides a platform for growth in Asia The acquisition of Ace provides a high quality platform for growth in Asia.
