Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 Directors report The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014.
This Annual Report and Accounts 2014 has been prepared solely for RPC Group Plcs shareholders.
The Company, its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept responsibility to any other person and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Report and Accounts contains forward-looking statements, which t have been made by the directors in good faith based on the information available to them up to the time of their approval of the Report and Accounts: and t should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors, underlying such forwardlooking information.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements and nothing in the Report and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
Acquisitions and Disposals On 9 December 2013 the Group acquired effective control of 100% of the share capital of Helioplast d. o. o. based in Bosnia-Herzegovina from its owner managers for a consideration of 8.4m.
Helioplast is a supplier of injection moulded rigid plastic packaging for the consumer food markets in the Balkan region with an annual turnover of approximately 7.0m.
On 16 December 2013 the Group acquired effective control of 100% of the share capital of UK based Maynard & Harris Group Ltd M&H Plastics for a consideration of 102.9m from investment funds advised by Caird Capital LLP and the companys management.
The goodwill arising was 76.4m and the acquisition was funded from the Groups existing debt facilities.
M&H is a supplier of injection moulded and blow moulded rigid plastic packaging to the personal care, healthcare and selected food segments with manufacturing facilities in the UK and USA.
The annual turnover of the M&H Group is approximately 80.0m.
On 1 May 2014 RPC announced the proposed acquisition of Ace Corporation Holdings Ltd Ace for an initial consideration of US$301m 178m and a total consideration of up to US$430m 255m to be finance by a placing of 12.5m shares, the issue of 8.5m Consideration Shares and bank debt.
The acquisition was approved by the Companys shareholders at a General Meeting held on 19 May 2014 and was completed on 2 June 2014.
Ace is one of the Far Easts industry leaders in the manufacture of plastic injection moulded components and injection moulding tools for niche segments within the packaging, lifestyle, medical, power and automotive end markets.
It is headquartered in Hong Kong with five plants in mainland China.
Turnover for the year ended 31 December 2013 was HK$1,355.0m 104.0m.
Further information on acquisitions is given in the Strategic Report and in note 25 to the financial statements.
Details of the initial and final phases of the Groups Fitter for the Future business optimisation programme, including the closure of operations at Antwerp Belgium, Beuningen Netherlands and Troyes France, the proposed closure of the factory at Tenhult Sweden, the sale of Offenburg Germany and the intended sale of the Cobelplast cluster are given in the Strategic Report.
Share Capital The Company had 166,566,789 ordinary 5p shares in issue at 31 March 2014.
On 1 May 2014 the Company issued 12,500,000 ordinary shares by way of a placing at a price of 600p per share.
The proceeds of the placing net of costs were 73.5m.
On 2 June 2014, 8,509,841 ordinary shares Consideration Shares were issued as part of the consideration for the acquisition of Ace.
The Consideration Shares are subject to restrictions such that the 50% may not be sold or transferred within 12 months of completion and the remainder may not be sold or transferred within 24 months of completion.
In all other respects the placing and Consideration Shares rank pari passu with the other shares in issue.
Full details of the Companys issued share capital together with the rights, obligations and restrictions attaching to the shares are set out in note 24 to the financial statements.
Dividends An interim dividend of 4.5p per ordinary share was paid on 24 January 2014.
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 11.0p per ordinary share to be paid on 5 September 2014, subject to approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company, to shareholders on the register on 8 August 2014 making the total dividend for the year 15.5p per share 2013: 14.9p.
Full details of dividends in respect of the year ended 31 March 2014 are given in note 8 to the financial statements.
68 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors report continued Financing The Groups policy is to finance its operations through a mixture of retained profits, equity and borrowings.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments.
The main risks arising from the Groups borrowings are market risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and credit risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks.
The policies, which have been applied throughout the year, are set out in note 22 to the financial statements.
Directors The directors of the Company who served during the financial year were as follows: J R P Pike I Haaijer S J Kesterton S Rojahn M G Towers P R M Vervaat R J E Marsh retired 10 July 2013 On 1 April 2013 S J Kesterton was appointed as a director initially as Group Finance Director designate and taking up the role of Group Finance Director of the Company from 1 May 2013.
On 1 May 2013 R J E Marsh stepped down as Chief Executive and P R M Vervaat acceded to the role.
R J E Marsh did not seek re-election and retired from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM held on 10 July 2013.
On 3 June 2014 the Board announced the appointment of L Drummond and G S Wong as non-executive directors with effect from 16 July 2014.
There have been no further changes to the Board since 31 March 2014 up to the date of this report.
The rules regarding the appointment and replacement of directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Articles require that any director who has been appointed by the Board since the last AGM must retire from ofce but is eligible to submit themself for election by the shareholders.
Accordingly, resolutions to elect L Drummond and G S Wong as directors will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM on 16 July 2014.
The Companys Articles also require that all directors are subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
However, the Board has adopt a policy of annual re-election of all directors in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Consequently, all the current directors will retire from ofce and, being eligible, submit themselves for re-election on an individual basis at the AGM and annually thereafter.
Biographical details of the directors are given on pages 40 and 41 and the Boards recommendations for their election and re-election are given in the explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM.
A performance evaluation is conducted for all directors prior to recommendation for reappointment or re-election.
Further information on the appointment, re-election and performance evaluation of directors is given in the Corporate governance report.
Details of the directors remuneration, notice periods under their service contracts or terms of appointment and their interests including any interest of a connected person in the share capital of the Company are shown in the Directors remuneration report.
The service contracts for executive directors and terms of appointment for non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce and at the AGM.
Non-executive directors appointments may be terminated with immediate effect.
None of the directors had any interest in any contracts of signicance, other than their service contracts, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Powers of Directors The powers of the directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association which may only be amended by resolution passed by the shareholders at a general meeting in accordance with the relevant legislation.
The Articles give powers to the directors to authorise the issue of shares and for the Company to buy back its shares, subject to authority being given to the directors by the shareholders in general meeting and the relevant legislation.
Resolutions to authorise the directors to exercise these powers are put to shareholders at each AGM.
Directors Indemnities The Board has provided qualifying third party indemnities to the Companys directors and agreed to provide funds to meet costs incurred defending civil or criminal proceedings in accordance with legislation and the Articles of Association.
The directors are not indemnified against damages awarded to the Company itself, defence costs where the defence is unsuccessful in the case of liabilities owed to the Company, criminal fines, fines by regulators or the legal costs of successful criminal proceedings against the directors.
Defence costs arising from actions brought by third parties, may, subject to certain exclusions, be paid by the Company even if judgement goes against the director.
The indemnities provided to the directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce and at the AGM.
Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69 Substantial Shareholdings The Company has received notication under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority of direct and indirect interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital and voting rights in the Company from the following financial institutions at 6 June 2014.
The number of shares and the percentage of issued share capital given are as disclosed at the date of the notication.
Date of notication Number of shares % of issued share capital 1 AXA Investment Managers SA 28 October 2013 16,101,068 9.68 1 Ameriprise Financial Inc 17 March 2014 9,160,283 5.50 Standard Life Investments Ltd 8 May 2014 8,896,723 4.97 Aberforth Partners LLP 16 May 2014 8,232,273 4.94 1 SVG Investment Managers Ltd 14 April 2011 7,375,919 4.57 1 Legal & General Group PLC 1 May 2013 6,013,470 3.62 1 Aviva plc 2 May 2014 5,725,775 3.44 1 The date of notication was prior to the issue of 12,500,000 shares following the placing on 7 May 2014. significant Agreements The Company is required to disclose any significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
Some commercial agreements with customers and suppliers allow the counterparties to alter or terminate the agreement in these circumstances.
The Companys 200m multicurrency revolving credit facility agreement RCF contained a change of control clause whereby a participating bank may cancel its commitment and require the Company to prepay outstanding loans and interest.
The 200m RCF was replaced by a new 350m RCF at 30 April 2014.
The same change of control terms apply to the new RCF and in respect of a 60m bilateral term loan.
In addition, a holder of the US$216m or 60m seven year or ten year notes issued in the US Private Placement market under the terms of the note purchase agreement has the option to redeem any note at 100% of its principal amount together with interest accrued and other charges in the event of a change of control.
There are no change of control provisions in directors service contracts.
There are provisions for the vesting of share options and awards in certain circumstances in the event of a change in control under the rules of the Companys employee share-based payment schemes.
Qualifying Pension Scheme Indemnity An associated company, RPC Containers Limited, has granted a qualifying pension scheme indemnity in a form permitted by the Companies Act 2006 to the directors of RPC Containers Pension Trustees Limited, which is the Trustee of the RPC Containers Limited Pension Scheme.
The indemnity was in force during thenancial year and up to the date of this report.
Research and Development The Groups research and development activities ensure that it stays at the forefront of rigid plastic packaging technology and innovation with regards to design, functionality, aesthetics and specication with particular attention to weight reduction and the incorporation of recycled materials.
Expenditure on research and development for the year ended 31 March 2014 can be found in note 3 to the financial statements.
Employees The Group continues to recognise the benefit of both effective communication with employees and achieving a common awareness on the part of employees of the financial performance and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Both individual site and Group wide meetings are held at which employees and management are present and at which key aspects of the Groups activities, performance and other matters of interest to employees are reviewed.
Employee participation is further encouraged through share ownership and share option schemes which provide employees with a direct stake in the growth andprosperity of the business.
The Group aims to provide clear and fair terms and conditions of employment and remuneration wherever it operates.
The Board does not tolerate any sexual, physical or mental harassment of its employees.
It promotes equal opportunities for all present and potential employees and does not discriminate on grounds of colour, ethnic origin, age, gender, race, religion, political or other opinion, disability or sexual orientation.
Information on gender diversity within the Group can be found in the Strategic report on page 39.
The Groups policy is to recruit disabled workers for those vacancies they are able to ll.
When existing employees suffer disablement, every effort is made to retain them in the workforce wherever reasonable and practicable.
Disabled staff have the same opportunities as other employees so far as training, career development and promotion are concerned.
Further information on ethics, communication, training and development in respect of the Groups employees is included in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
70 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors report continued Corporate Governance Statement The corporate governance statement on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, and information on how the Company has applied the Main Principles of the Code in accordance with the Listing Rules and sections 7.1 and 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and other corporate governance matters, can be found in the Corporate governance report on pages 42 to 48 which is incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
Strategic Report and Corporate Responsibility Information concerning likely future developments, greenhouse gas emissions, environmental matters, business ethics, health and safety, employees, customers, suppliers and the community is contained in the Strategic report on page 23 and the Corporate responsibility report on pages 32 to 39.
Directors Statement on Disclosure of Information to the Auditor The directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make him herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Operating Review on pages 20 to 27 and the principal risks and uncertainties on pages 18 and 19.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 28 to 31.
In addition, note 22 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-standing commercial arrangements with a number of customers, suppliers and funding providers across different geographical regions and industry sectors.
The Groups forecasts and projections show that it is able to operate within the level of its current banking and private placement facilities.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.
International Financial Reporting Both the Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
Directors and Auditors Responsibilities A statement by the directors on their responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements is given on page 72 and a statement by the auditor on their responsibilities is given on pages 73 to 75.
Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71 Purchase of Own Shares The Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association permit shareholders to give authority to the Company to purchase its own shares.
The current authority, approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM, permits the Company to purchase 16.6m of its own shares 10% of the issued share capital.
No shares have been purchased or contracts made to purchase shares by the Company during the year or since 31 March 2014 up to the date of this report.
The directors are seeking to renew this authority to purchase up to 18.8m of the Companys own shares 10% of the issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM.
Annual General Meeting The Notice of the Companys AGM to be held on 16 July 2014 and related explanatory notes are included after the financial statements.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the directors are submitting themselves for election or re-election.
Further information is given under the Directors heading in this report.
The Board is recommending proposals to renew the directors authority to allot shares up to one third of issued share capital and for authority to allot an additional one third of issued share capital in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of rights issue to existing shareholders.
The Board is also recommending special resolutions to renew the directors power to disapply pre-emption rights and the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares.
The Board is proposing a special resolution to continue to enable the directors to call a general meeting that is not an annual general meeting on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Further information on these resolutions is given in the explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM.
Auditor In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006 and the recommendation of the Audit Committee, a resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment of KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD R K Joyce Company Secretary 09 June 2014
