14 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our business model Our business model is centred around creating Choice Design significant shareholder value by satisfying our customers needs.
We achieve this Shareholder through excellence value in choice, design, product innovation and customer service.
Customer Product service innovation Creating significant Shareholder Value 1 4 3 Choice Design 2 Product Customer innovation service t We have expertise across all t Where possible we offer a t We create and grow markets for t We operate through an three conversion processes, one-stop-shop approach to rigid plastic packaging through autonomous but connected offering unparalleled choice in design that achieves product technical innovation, supported business structure that meets both standard and customised requirements across brand by the continuing substitution the diverse needs of global and products.
Therefore we can image, functionality and of glassand metal for plastic local customers across a wide provide the widest range of rigid packaging performance.
With more plastic packaging solutions to than 55 operations spanning t Our extensive facilities, t We are a leader inplastic our customers.
19 countries, we have close including tool and mould packaging innovation, proximity to our customers making, mean that we can developing technically advanced and access to a wide range provide customers with a production processes to of markets.
complete service from initial enhance the functionality and concept to nished pack, economy of our products t We develop long and mutually thereby reducing and the efficiency of our dependent relationships with the packaging development operations, for the benefit of our customers by providing lead time, places us in a our customers, shareholders excellent quality and service.
Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Case study An extensive A RPC is a specialist in the design and Dose Inhalers PMDIs tailored to the he choice of standard c manufacture of inhalation systems to treat requirements of each product that ensure ensure pharmaceutical and ph illnesses such as chronic obstructive pulmonary precise delivery of the drugs.
Our innovative ovative healthcare containers hea disease COPD and asthma.
We work closely Dose Counter and Dose Indicator enable ble have also contributed to RPCs strong with individual customers to create bespoke patients to accurately and reliably track the position in the market with in-house design solutions, meeting their precise specications.
number of doses taken from their inhalers.
expertise ensuring that packs combine easy Our wide range of inhalers can handle many opening with effective child-resistance.
different drug types, both blisterand capsuleRecent innovations have included our unique based, offering accurate dosing, ease of use postal pack to meet growing demand for and reliable operation.
Our technical expertise and advanced manufacturing processes create the mouthpieces for Pressurised Metered How this links to our strategy Core to our strategic delivery is our continuing focus on organic growth and gaining entry into new, profitable and high growth markets.
t Increasing our added value offering through innovation t Following our customers globally t Supporting customer growth through operational excellence t Growth through the ongoing substitution of glass and metal for plastic t Developing niche positions through continued investment t Continued growth in North America and gaining further exposure to the BRIC countries
