8 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Continue to expand and grow our marketplace With over 55 operations in 19 countries, mainly within Europe but also in the USA and now China, the Groups broad geographic footprint allows it to operate close to its customers and provide them with multi-plant security of supply.
Markets we serve RPC operates in the rigid plastic packaging market which has the highest growth rates in the global packaging industry.
RPC manages its business mix to focus on plastic packaging end markets which exhibit both stability and growth.
With 55% of RPCs revenue coming from the relatively stable food sector, a strong focus on non-cyclical end markets such as pharmaceuticals, and the development of a number of higher value added and higher growth niches such as barrier foods and coffee capsules, the Group is able to achieve strong and stable returns for its stakeholders from its investments in these markets.
Growth drivers The global packaging industry is predicted to grow t In emerging economies, growing urbanisation, t Particularly robust growth in the demand for by US$177bn between 2013 and 2018 to reach investment in housing and construction and cosmetics, toiletries and household & personal over US$1,000bn.
Rigid plastic is forecast to be increasing disposable incomes are driving care products is stimulating consumption the fastest growing packaging material.
demand for consumer products and the of rigid plastic packaging.
Suppliers are packaging of these goods.
developing profitable niche applications in t Demand in both industrial and emerging Western markets as well as in the fastereconomies is driving technological t Corresponding growth in healthcare, the growing markets in Asia, Central and eastern developments and enhanced value adding demand for convenience foods and the need Europe and South America.
opportunities for more sophisticated packaging for packaging to maximise shelf-life for with functional and barrier properties, as well perishable products is driving the consumption as enhanced decoration.
of rigid plastic as well as other forms of consumer goods packaging.
Long Phamaceutical shelf-life 4% 7% Other non-food Other food Surface 20% 20% coatings Dairy 9% products 7% NON-FOOD FOOD 45% 55% Spreads 10% Single serve Personal care and cosmetics beverage systems 15% 11% Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 9 Where we manufacture Where we sell Our recent acquisition, Ace Acquisition in China The Group has recently acquired on 2 June z Platform to create a 2014 Ace, a China based and Hong Kong Locations meaningful presence in Asia headquartered award-winning manufacturer of complex plastic injection moulded components Plants throughout z RPC will enhance Aces and injection moulding tools for the packaging, 5 mainland China attractive standalone lifestyle, medical, power and automotive end growth strategy markets.
Operating from five factories in China and with an annual turnover of around 104m, this is the Groups first major acquisition Number of employees outside Europe.
It will provide a strong platform to support RPCs international customer base with high quality packaging of European 3,300 standards in China, as well as the benefit from the high and sustained growth of this profitable Creating a meaningful presence niche manufacturer of injection moulded parts outside Europe.
