10 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Selective consolidation in Europe Acquisitions in the year and creating a meaningful presence outside Europe.
The latest arrivals into the RPC Group: M&H Plastics and Helioplast, underline the Groups commitment to continue to strengthen its business in its particular areas of expertise and to expand its global footprint in order to be able to deliver a localised service to its growing worldwide customer base.
M&H Plastics Helioplast Helioplast is based in Bosnia-Herzegovina M&H is a major supplier of added-value packs for the personal care, healthcare and selected food and operates from a new state-of-the-art sectors.
The company offers an exceptionally wide range of personal care standard designs, using both manufacturing facility.
It is a leading supplier injection moulding and blow moulding technologies.
This is supported by a bespoke design service, of injection moulded rigid plastic packaging high quality decoration capabilities and an extensive in-house tool library.
M&H supplies customers to the food industry and itswide range of throughout the UK, mainland Europe and the USA as well as further aeld.
As an independent business designs is supported by an in-house tool within the RPC Bramlage cluster, M&H will enhance RPCs comprehensive personal care product offering.
shop and further enhanced by the companys Along with its main manufacturing site in Beccles in the UK, M&H is enjoying a growing presence in the expertise in in-mould labelling for high US through its operation in Winchester, Virginia, and this will contribute to a stronger platform for RPC quality decoration.
Helioplast joins the RPC Superfos cluster toextend its geographical reach to Helioplasts long-established customers in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Croatia and its recently established a presence throughout the Balkan and wider south eastern European regions.
This will also allow the introduction of Superfos industrial product range into the market while extending Helioplasts foodproduct range.
