Strategic Review Strategy and Business Model Market Position RPS is an international consultancy strategically positioned to provide independent advice upon: n the exploration and production of oil and gas and other natural resources: n the development and management of the built and natural environment and n the development of infrastructure to ensure the supply of energy resources to market and to enable the worlds population to have available appropriate transport, water and power resources.
Strong Long Term Demand The long term drivers of our business model are fundamental to the development of the global economy: n the worlds growing need to secure adequate supplies of energy and other natural resources as a result of population and economic growth: n the commercial and technical expertise required to support sustainable development of land and buildings: n the need to provide adequate infrastructure such as airports, power stations, public transport, water treatment plants and to deliver energy to market: n the need to ensure regulatory compliance and to manage environmental, health and safety risks, including climate change, against a background of increasingly complex legislation and regulation.
Strategic Objectives Our strategic objectives are to: n build on our existing reputation in being recognised as a market leader in the energy and environment markets: n focus on delivering value added services which generate good fee levels and margins: n grow our existing businesses organically: n extend our range of services and geographical cover by bringing high quality specialist companies into the Group and then support them to achieve further growth and: n achieve the above with manageable balance sheet risk, whilst continuing to provide a growing return to shareholders.
Acquisitive Growth Acquisitions broaden and deepen the services that we offer our clients.
They have played an important part in our growth and will continue to be a key element of our strategy.
We acquire businesses that are well managed, deliver sound results and enjoy good reputations in their markets.
They may be in sectors where we are already operating or offer services that are closely related to our own.
We view non-dilutive, acquisitive growth, funded by cash, as being as valuable as organic growth.
Our acquisition model is structured to operate on a low risk basis.
This is achieved through an incremental approach focusing on small to medium sized enterprises which are adjacent and complementary to our existing areas of operation.
The emphasis placed upon retention of directors and employees as well as the extent of due diligence undertaken and a clear single brand integration process are also important in keeping risks to a minimum.
During 2014 we successfully completed acquisitions in Australia, USA and the United Kingdom.
We are seeking to acquire further high quality small to medium sized businesses in North America, Australia and Europe.
The Board occasionally considers larger acquisitions and acquisitions in countries in which we do not currently operate if they are consistent with our overall strategy.
Increasing Group scale and diversity by means of acquisitions leads to greater resilience in the Groups performance, as demonstrated in 2014. rpsgroup.
com 3 Key Competences As a result of implementing our strategy over the last three decades we have developed the following strong core competences: n managing complex, intellectual consultancy businesses: n identifying high value, premium margin markets: n developing and operating businesses internationally: n recruiting and retaining high quality staff: n managing client relationships: over 85% of work derives from long term clients: n maintaining strong cash flow and n Identifying, delivering and successfully integrating bolt on acquisitions.
The development of this expertise has been possible through a strong and stable central management team supported by developing senior managers within our businesses.
Strategic Opportunities The Board sees its strategy as providing significant opportunities for growth across the Group.
In respect of Energy these derive from: n strategic long term demand for oil and gas: this results each year in substantial spend on exploration and production by our clients: n pressure on international oil companies to replace and develop reserves: n pressure on national oil companies to realise assets in order to be able to invest in the social infrastructure necessary to support their populations and domestic economic growth: n the need our clients have for high quality technical advice: n the increasing scale and frequency of asset based transactions and financing: n increased awareness of health and safety and risk management issues.
In respect of BNE they derive from: n long term demand for improvement to and extension of the urban fabric of towns and cities: n long term demand for urban, inter urban, transport, water energy power and communications infrastructure: n the increasing importance of stakeholder consultation and engagement in the planning and design phases of these projects: n the increasing importance of environmental and climate change issues in the decision making around these projects.
Our significant market profile and presence in both these markets enables us to take advantage of these opportunities.
Shareholder Value Since the Groups IPO in July 1987 we have raised only 60 million from our shareholders and distributed 100 million in dividends.
Our last fund raising, of 40 million, was in 2001: since then we have paid 80 million in dividends.
