The Board Brook Land he led Hydrosearch as the company Brunswick Group LLP, the international developed into one of the worlds largest corporate communications group of Non-Executive Chairman energy sector consulting groups.
Phil was which she was a co-founder.
Brook Land was formerly a appointed to the Board in 2005. serves on the Board of Brunswick Arts, senior partner of and is now a consultant an international strategic communications to Nabarro.
He is a director of a number consultancy specialising in the cultural of private companies.
Until 2008 he was Robert Miller-Bakewell sector and Merchant Cantos, a leading Senior Independent Director of Signet Independent Non-Executive Director creative communications agency.
He was appointed to the also served as a Director and Trustee Aged 62.
Robert joined the Board in Board in 1997 and is a member of the of the Natural History Museum.
She 2010 and is serving a second three-year Nomination Committee.
is a member of the Remuneration and term.
Robert was a Senior Director of Nomination Committees.
Investment Research at Merrill Lynch from Dr Alan Hearne 1998 to 2008 and prior to this worked as an investment analyst with NatWest Chief Executive Tracey Graham Markets and its predecessor companies.
Alan Hearne holds a degree Independent Non-Executive Director Over the previous twenty years his focus in economics and a doctorate in was on analysing and advising water, Aged 49.
Tracey Graham joined the Board environmental planning.
Following waste, transport and environmental in 2011 having been Chief Executive of a period of academic research into infrastructure companies both in the UK Talaris Limited, an international cash environmental planning he joined RPS in and internationally.
He has also served as management business, until 2010.
Tracey 1978, becoming a Director in 1979 and a member of OFWATs Future Regulation led the management buy-out of Talaris Chief Executive in 1981.
Robert is a member of the Audit from fide La Rue Plc, backed by private Entrepreneur of the Year in 2001, was and Chairman of the Nomination equity house Carlyle in 2008.
Tracey is also made a Companion of the Institute of Committee as well as being Senior an independent Non-Executive Director of Management in 2002.
He also became a Independent Director.
Dialight Plc and the Royal London Group.
member of the Board of the Companions She is serving a second three year term in 2007, a fellow of Aston Business School and continues to chair the Remuneration in 2006 and an honorary Doctor of the John Bennett Committee as well as being a member of University of Kent in 2011.
Independent Non-Executive Director the Audit Committee.
John was appointed to the Gary Young Board in 2006.
He is a Chartered Andrew Page Accountant with 30 years experience Finance Director Independent Non-Executive Director in the house building industry.
Gary Young graduated from Aged 56.
Andrew Page joined the Board Finance Director of Westbury plc, until Southampton University in 1982 and in September 2014.
He retired as Chief it was acquired early in 2006.
He has qualified as a Chartered Accountant in Executive Officer of the Restaurant Group wide experience of financial management, 1986 with Price Waterhouse.
Before plc in September 2014 having spent over capital and debt raising, acquisitions and joining RPS he held a number of finance thirteen years with that company.
Prior to investor relations having played a leading director roles including positions within that he held a number of senior positions role in the strategic development of Rutland Trust plc and AT&T Capital.
He in the leisure and hospitality industry, Westbury into a top ten volume house joined RPS in 2000 and was appointed including Senior Vice President with builder in the UK.
John is serving a third to the Board later that year.
Andrew qualified three-year term and will be stepping as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG down from the Board at this years annual and then spent several years with general meeting.
He is Chairman of the Dr Phil Williams Kleinwort Bensons Corporate Finance Audit Committee and a member of the Executive Director division.
He is currently a non-executive Remuneration Committee.
Phil Williams joined the director at Carpetright plc, Northgate plc, Group in 2003 through the acquisition The Schroder UK Midcap Fund plc and JP of Hydrosearch Associates Limited Louise Charlton Morgan Emerging Markets Investment where he held the position of Managing Independent Non-Executive Director Trust plc.
Andrew is a member of the Director.
Phil had joined Hydrosearch Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Louise was appointed to the in 1981 and was appointed Managing Board in 2008 and is serving a third Director in 1983.
Over the next 20 years three-year term.
She is Vice-Chairman of 18 Report and Accounts 2014
