46 Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Board of directors 5.
Mark Armour Alan Clark was appointed as Chief Executive John Manser was appointed as Chairman in Mark Armour joined the board in 2010.
He joined The South African December 2013, having been a non-executive Chief Financial Officer of Reed Elsevier from Breweries Ltd in 1990 and held a number of director since 2001.
He brings financial and strategic management roles in South Africa, both in beer understanding of the SABMiller group and of the expertise to the board and has considerable and soft drinks.
He became Managing Director, global beverage industry.
He has an extensive experience of managing an international group.
SABMiller Europe, in 2003 before being knowledge of the banking and financial services Prior to joining Reed Elsevier in 1995, he was appointed as an executive director and Chief industries, following a career with Robert Fleming a partner of Price Waterhouse inLondon.
He has an extensive Holdings, and is an experienced chairman, He is a non-executive director and member knowledge of the global beverageindustry.
having previously chaired the boards of a of the audit committee of Tesco plc and a number of listed companies.
Before joining the group, he received his non-executive director of the Financial Reporting Doctorate of Psychology degree from the He is currently the Chairman of Trustees for Council.
He is a fellow of the Institute of University of South Africa.
Marlborough College and Deputy Chairman Chartered Accountants.
Jamie Wilson, Chief Financial Officer 6.
Guy Elliott, Deputy Chairman and Jamie Wilson was appointed as Chief Financial Senior Independent Director Geoffrey Bible joined the board in 2002 as a Officer in 2011.
He joined SABMiller in 2005 nominee of Altria Group, Inc. Altria following and has held a number of senior positions in Guy Elliott joined the board in July 2013.
He was completion of the Miller Brewing Company the group, including Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Rio Tinto plc and Rio transaction.
A former President and CEO of the Market Development and Strategy, Miller Tinto Limited Australia until April 2013, and Philip Morris group of companies and a former Brewing Company: Managing Director, previously held a variety of marketing, strategy Chairman of both Altria and Kraft Foods Inc, he SABMiller Russia: Managing Director for and general management positions.
He has has a wealth of experience of global consumer SABMillers Central European businesses: extensive experience of operating in both products businesses.
andFinance Director for SABMiller Europe.
Dinyar Devitre Before joining SABMiller he held a number of He is a member of the UK Takeover Panel and senior roles in the global beverage industry.
Chairman of the Panels Code Committee.
He is Dinyar Devitre joined the board in 2007 as a a non-executive director of Royal Dutch Shell plc nominee of Altria.
He is a member of the board and chairman of its audit committee, and was and a former Chief Financial Officer of Altria and Senior Independent Director of Cadbury plc brings both financial expertise and strategic between 2008 and 2010. counsel to the group.
He has extensive experience of managing global fast-moving consumer goods corporations.
He is a director of Western Union Company and a special advisor to General Atlantic LLC.
He is a director of Pratham USA, serves as a Trustee of the Brooklyn Academy of Music and is a Trustee Emeritus of the Asia Society.
Corporate accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC Executive committee Nomination committee Remuneration committee Audit committee Committee chairman 1.
Alejandro Santo Domingo Dvila Lesley Knox joined the board in 2011.
She brings Dambisa Moyo joined the board in 2009.
She is Alejandro Santo Domingo joined the board in a wealth of strategic and financial experience an international economist and commentator on 2005, as a nominee of the Santo Domingo Group across a range of businesses and is an the macro-economy and global affairs.
She has following completion of the Bavaria transaction.
He experienced remuneration committee chair.
wide-ranging expertise in economic and has a detailed knowledge of the global beverage business trends in the African continent, with a industry and of the Latin America region.
She is a non-executive director of Centrica plc particular focus on socially responsible business.
and is a Trustee of the Grosvenor Estates and He is a Managing Director at Quadrant Capital Chairman of Grosvenor Group Limited.
She is She is a non-executive director of Barclays PLC Advisors, Inc. and serves on the boards of involved with a number of arts and charitable and Barrick Gold Corporation.
Valorem S. A. Comunican S. A. Caracol organisations.
Television S. A. Millicom International Cellular S. A.
Carlos Prez Dvila and D. E Master Blenders B. V. He is the treasurer 9.
John Manzoni Carlos Prez joined the board in 2005 as a of Aid for AIDS Charity, a member of the board of nominee of the Santo Domingo Group following trustees of The Metropolitan Museum of Art and John Manzoni joined the board in 2004.
Formerly completion of the Bavaria transaction.
A former is also a member of the board of the US-based the President and Chief Executive Officer of investment banker, he has extensive experience DKMS Americas Foundation, WNET Channel Talisman Energy Inc. and an executive director of the global beverage industry and of operating Thirteen and the Wildlife Conservation Society.
at BP plc, he has extensive experience of leading in the Latin America region.
global operations and delivering complex 14.
Helen Weir He is a Managing Director at Quadrant challenging projects.
CapitalAdvisors, Inc. Chairman of the Board of Helen Weir joined the board in 2011.
She is Group In February 2014 he was appointed as Chief Caracol TV S. A. and serves on the board and Finance Director of the John Lewis Partnership Executive of the UK Governments Major Projects executive committee of Valorem S. A. Heis also a and has previously held a number of senior Authority a partnership between the Cabinet Director of Comunican S. A. CineColombia S. A. positions in both Lloyds Banking Group and Office and HM Treasury.
He is the chairman and the Queen Sofia Spanish Institute.
She brings significant financial of Leyshon Energy Limited and is also a member and retail expertise to the board.
of the Accenture Energy Advisory Board.
She is a member of the Said Business School 10.
Miles Morland Advisory Council and was previously a member of the Accounting Standards Board.
Miles Morland joined the board in 1999.
He has considerable experience of the global beverage 15.
Howard Willard industry and of operating in emerging markets.
Howard Willard joined the board in 2009 as a He is founder and Chairman of two companies nominee of Altria.
He is Executive Vice President investing in Africa, Blakeney Management and and Chief Financial Officer of Altria and also Development Partners International, and is a oversees the financial services business of Philip director of a number of companies investing in Morris Capital Corporation and the Strategy and the emerging world.
He served as chairman of Business Development organisation.
He has the remuneration committee until July 2013 considerable global business experience and and will retire from the board at the annual an extensive knowledge of the fast-moving general meeting in 2014. consumer goods industry.
He serves on the Executive Advisory Council for the Robins School of Business at the University of Richmond.
