02 Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Business overview Global operations in beer and soft drinks We have a balanced spread of regional businesses with a significant presence in developing markets.
Latin America Europe North America Where we operate Where we operate Where we operate Regional office: Miami, USA Regional office: Zug, Switzerland Regional office: Chicago, USA Our primary brewing and beverage Our primary brewing operations cover MillerCoors is a joint venture with operations cover six countries across eight countries the Czech Republic, Molson Coors Brewing Company which South and Central America Colombia, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Romania, was formed in 2008 bybringing together Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Slovakia, Spain Canary Islands the US and PuertoRican operations of Panama and Peru.
What we do What we do What we do In each of these countries we are the In the majority of these countries Headquartered in Chicago, number one brewer by market share.
we are the number one or two brewer MillerCoors is the second largest We are also the third largest brewer by market share.
brewer in the USA, with 28% of the inArgentina, and we export to Chile We cover a further 16 countries beer market.
including Russia, Turkey and Ukraine Our wholly-owned Miller Brewing We produce soft drinks across the in a strategic alliance with Anadolu International business is based in region including products for The Efes through brewing, soft drinks Milwaukee, USA and exports our Coca-Cola Company in El Salvador or export operations.
brands to Canada and Mexico and Honduras.
We export significant volumes to and throughout the Americas.
a further seven European markets, of which the largest are the UK andGermany.
1 1 1 Contribution to group EBITA Contribution to group EBITA Contribution to group EBITA 33% 11% 12% Latin America operations review page 20 Europe operations review page 22 North America operations review page 24 1 Excluding corporate costs.
Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 03 20.6% 95% 72% 20.6 18.6 Soft drinks volumes as The proportion of our The proportion of group 17.3 17.0 16.6 a percentage of total total lager volume from EBITA from developing group volumes.
markets in which we have economies.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Africa Asia Pacific South Africa Where we operate Where we operate Where we operate Regional office: Johannesburg, Regional office: Hong Kong Regional office: Johannesburg, SouthAfrica SouthAfrica Our brewing interests across Asia Pacific Our brewing and beverage operations cover four countries: Australia, China, The South African Breweries Pty Ltd in Africa cover 15 countries.
SAB is South Africas largest producer 21 are covered through our associate and distributor of lager and soft drinks.
What we do interests in the Castel groups African CR Snow, our 20-year partnership What we do beverage businesses and we also have with China Resources Enterprise, SAB also exports our brands across an associated undertaking in Zimbabwe.
Limited, is the largest brewer in China.
2 What we do Carlton & United Breweries CUB is Our soft drinks division is South In most of these countries we are the a leading Australian brewer, which Africas leading bottler of products number one brewer by market share.
we acquired in December 2011. for The Coca-Cola Company.
We bottle soft drinks for The CocaWe are the second largest brewer We also have hotel and gaming Cola Company in 21 of our African inIndia.
interests through our associate, Tsogo markets with Castel in 14 of these We have an operation in Vietnam and Sun Holdings Ltd, the largest hotel markets and through our associated we export to various markets including and gaming group in South Africa.
1 1 1 Contribution to group EBITA Contribution to group EBITA Contribution to group EBITA 14% 13% 17% Africa operations review page 26 Asia Pacific operations review page 28 South Africa operations review page 30 1 Excluding corporate costs.
2 Carlton & United Breweries is the Australian beverage business of Fosters.
