Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 85 Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their report to Annual general meeting shareholders, together with the audited annual financial Our 2014 annual general meeting will be held at the statements for the year ended 31 March 2014.
InterContinental London Park Lane, One Hamilton Place, London W1V 7QY, UK at 11.00am on Thursday 24 July 2014.
Much of the information previously provided as part of the Copies of the notice of this meeting may be obtained from directors report is now required to be presented as part of ourwebsite.
the strategic report, which includes a description of the principal risks and uncertainties we face, our development Dividends and performance during the year, our position at the end An interim dividend of 25.0 US cents per share was paid to of the year, key performance indicators, and information shareholders on 13 December 2013 in respect of the year relating to environmental matters, employee matters and ended 31 March 2014.
Details of the final dividend proposed social, community, and human rights issues.
by the board for the year ended 31 March 2014 are set outbelow: The directors report includes information required under the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Amount of final dividend proposed by the board: and Transparency Rules.
For the purposes of compliance with the Disclosure and Total proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2014: Transparency Rules, the strategic report and this directors 105 US cents per share.
report, including those sections of the annual report incorporated by reference, constitute a management report.
If approved, the final dividend will be payable to shareholders on either section of the register on 8 August 2014 in the Directors following way: The names and biographical details of the current directors are set out on pages 46 and 47.
All the current directors Dividend payable on: served throughout the period, except Mr Elliott, who was 15 August 2014. appointed as a director on 1 July 2013.
Mr Mackay served Currency of payment: as a director until his death on 18 December 2013, and Mr South African rands to shareholders on the RSA section Ramaphosa served as a director until his retirement on 25 July of the register: 2013.
MrMorland will retire from the board at the conclusion US dollars to shareholders shown as having an address of the 2014 annual general meeting.
Details of the interests in in the USA and recorded on the UK section of the register shares and options of the directors who held office during the unless mandated otherwise : and year and any persons connected to them are set out in the Pounds sterling to all other shareholders on the UK directors remuneration report on pages 62 to 84. section of the register.
Corporate governance Ex-dividend dates: The directors approach to corporate governance and 4 August 2014 for shares traded on the JSE Limited, statements of our application of the UK Corporate Governance SouthAfrica.
Code are set out in the corporate governance report, which 6 August 2014 for shares traded on the London Stock forms part of this directors report, on pages 49 to 58, in Exchange LSE.
theaudit committee report on pages 59 to 61 and in the directors remuneration report on pages 62 to 84.
The rate of exchange for conversion from US dollars will be calculated on 23 July 2014 and published on the RNS of the Share capital LSE and the SENS of the JSE Limited on 24 July 2014.
Details of the issued share capital and movement in it during the year are provided in note 25 to the consolidated financial Since the introduction on 1 April 2012 of a dividend statements.
withholding tax in South Africa dividends paid to shareholders registered on the RSA section of the register will, unless a During the year 1,576,935 ordinary shares were purchased shareholder qualifies for an exemption, be subject to a by the trustee on behalf of the EBT at an average price of dividend withholding tax at a rate of 15%.
The dividend 31.96 per share which amounted to 0.09% of the issued withholding tax is only of direct application to shareholders ordinary shares of the company, in order to ensure that the registered on the RSA section of the register, who should EBT continued to hold sufficient ordinary shares to meet direct any questions about the application of the dividend expected future obligations in respect of performance shares withholding tax to Computershare Investor Services Pty conditionally awarded under the Performance Share Limited, tel: 27 11 373 0004.
The total consideration paid amounted to US$79,330,236.
Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements discloses dividends waived.
86 Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Directors report continued Purchase of own shares Employment, environmental and social policies At the last annual general meeting, shareholder authority was Our aim is to be the employer of choice in each country in obtained for us to purchase our own shares up to a maximum which our group companies operate.
To achieve this, each of 10% of the number of ordinary shares in issue as at 3June operating company designs employment policies which 2013.
This authority is due to expire at the earlier of the next attract, retain and motivate the highest quality of staff.
We annual general meeting or 24 October 2014, and remains are committed to an active equal opportunities policy, from exercisable provided that certain conditions relating to the recruitment and selection, through training and development, purchase are met.
The notice of annual general meeting appraisal and promotion to retirement.
Within the constraints proposes that shareholders approve a resolution updating of local law, it is our policy to ensure that everyone is treated and renewing the authority allowing us to purchase our equally, regardless of gender, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, ownshares.
race, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, religion or trade union affiliation.
We value the benefits of employing We did not repurchase any shares during the year for people of different races, genders, creeds and backgrounds.
the purpose of cancellation, holding in treasury, or for any If employees become disabled, efforts are made to allow them other purpose.
to continue in their role, or a suitable alternative role, through Political donations making reasonable adjustments.
Full consideration is given to In March 2013 the board announced that the group would applications for employment from disabled persons, having provide funding to political parties in the May 2014 South regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Donations of ZAR8,904,000 in total were We are committed to the 10 principles of the United Nations made in May 2013, distributed across the six largest parties in Global Compact, which sets out universally accepted proportion to their seats in the National Assembly.
The group principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment made contributions of ZAR5 million in the run up to the 1999, and anti-corruption.
Our website sets out these principles and 2004, and 2009 elections and has not made any other political our progress towards achieving them.
donations in South Africa outside the national election cycle.
This years higher donation value in South African rand follows We are committed to regular communication and consultation a number of years of double digit inflation in South Africa.
with our employees and we encourage employee involvement in our performance.
We have global distribution of real time Our Carlton & United Breweries CUB business paid news through our global intranet, which is available to all of membership fees to registered political parties and incurred the groups businesses to help inform employees about what expenditure in attending public policy events by registered is happening in our global operations.
Further information is political parties.
The total value of the fees and expenditure provided to employees at regional and country level by way incurred was US$42,852.
All CUB expenditure related to of newsletters and electronic communication.
participation and attendance at public policy events.
CUB does not provide stand-alone cash or in kind donations to Certain employees throughout the group are eligible to any political party.
Donations of this nature in Australia are participate in the groups share incentive plans.
an accepted part of the socio-political environment.
The sustainable development review on pages 40 to 43 To support democracy in Colombia, our subsidiary gives an overview of the progress against our 10 sustainable Bavaria SA made donations totalling US$1,604,021 to a development priorities and of the impact of our business on number of political parties and movements participating the environment.
More detailed information is provided in in the congressional elections.
our sustainable development report 2014, available on our website.
To support the democratic process in El Salvador, our subsidiary Industrias La Constancia, SA fide CV made Research and development donations totalling US$404,000 allocated across seven To ensure improved overall operational effectiveness, we place political parties participating in the 2014 presidential elections considerable emphasis on research and development in our in accordance with rules laid down by the electoral authorities.
This enables us to develop new In addition it donated soft drinks to the value of US$39,000 to products, packaging, processes and manufacturing those parties for the benefit of volunteers assisting during technologies.
Continued progress was made in our research theelections.
in the key areas of raw materials, brewing, flavour stability, packaging materials and energy and water saving.
To support the democratic process in Honduras, our subsidiary Cerveceria Hondurena, donated soft drinks to the Greenhouse gas emissions value of US$45,881 to eight parties for the benefit of volunteers Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required assisting during the 2014 general elections.
by law are included in the strategic report, on page 42.
It remains our policy not to make donations to political Overseas branches organisations in the European Union.
Other political SABMiller plc does not have any branches registered overseas.
donations are only made by exception, and where permitted by local laws, and must be consistent with building multi-party democracy.
Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 87 Substantial shareholdings As at 2 June 2014, we had received the following notifications of interests in voting rights of the issued share capital of the company pursuant to Rule 5.1.
2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Percentage Date of Number of issued notification of shares share capital Altria Group, Inc. 29 June 2012 430,000,000 26.99 BevCo Ltd 2 June 2014 225,000,000 13.99 Public Investment Corporation 13 January 2009 67,663,248 4.49 The Companies Act 2006 requires disclosure of persons with significant direct or indirect holdings of securities as at the year end.
At the year end we were aware of the following shareholdings of 3.00% or more: Percentage of issued share capital Altria Group, Inc. 26.77 BevCo Ltd 14.01 Public Investment Corporation 3.17 BlackRock Inc. 3.02 Directors indemnities Other disclosures required by the Companies Act The company has granted rolling indemnities to the directors, and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules uncapped in amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities We do not have any contractual or other arrangements that which they may incur in the course of acting as directors of the individually are essential to the business of the company or company or of one or more of its subsidiaries and associates.
The company secretary and deputy company secretary have The structure of our share capital, including the rights also been granted indemnities, on similar terms, covering their and obligations attaching to each class of share and the roles as company secretary and deputy company secretary percentage of the share capital that each class of share respectively of the company, and as directors or as company comprises, is set out in note 25 to the consolidated financial secretary of one or more of the companys subsidiaries and statements.
There are no securities of the company that associates.
The board believes that it is in the best interests grant the holder special control rights.
of the group to attract and retain the services of the most At 31 March 2014 our employees benefit trusts held able and experienced directors and officers by offering 6,833,632 ordinary shares in the company.
By agreement with competitive terms of engagement, including the granting the company, voting rights attached to these shares are not of such indemnities.
exercised unless shares are beneficially owned by a participant These indemnities are categorised as qualifying third-party and that participant has instructed the underlying shareholder indemnity provisions as defined by Section 234 of the to vote.
As at 31 March 2014 there were no shares beneficially Companies Act 2006.
They will continue in force for the benefit owned by a participant in our employees benefittrusts.
of directors and officers in respect of their periods of office.
The directors are responsible for the management of the Substantial shareholdings business of the company and may exercise all the powers of Details of notifications received by the company in accordance the company subject to the articles of association and relevant with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules as at 2 June 2014 statutes.
Powers of the directors relating to the issuing and and of persons with significant direct or indirect holdings buying back of shares are set out in the articles of association.
known to the company at the year end are set out in the These powers are subject to renewal by our shareholders each tableabove.
year at the annual general meeting.
Financial instruments Our articles of association give the board of directors power to Information on our financial risk management objectives and appoint directors.
The articles of association may be amended policies and details of our exposure to price risk, credit risk, by special resolution of the shareholders.
liquidity risk and cash flow risk are contained in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
Future developments Details of likely future developments in the business of the group are included in the strategic report.
88 Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Directors report continued Directors appointed by the board are required to submit Transfers of shares listed on the JSE in uncertificated form themselves for election by the shareholders at the next annual must be made in accordance with, and subject to, the general meeting.
Additionally, as disclosed in the corporate Securities Services Act 2004, the Rules and Directives of the governance report on pages 49 to 58, Altria Group, Inc. Altria JSE and STRATE Ltd. Certificated shares may be transferred and BevCo Ltd BevCo have power under their respective prior to dematerialisation, but share certificates must be relationship agreements with the company to nominate dematerialised prior to trading in the STRATE environment.
directors for appointment to the board and certain Pursuant to our code for securities transactions, directors committees.
These relationship agreements also regulate and persons discharging managerial responsibilities, and orderly marketing processes applicable in relation to any employees may in certain circumstances, require approval disposal of shares by Altria and BevCo.
to deal in the companys shares.
We have a number of facility agreements with banks which Unless the directors otherwise determine, no shareholder contain provisions giving rights to the banks upon a change of is entitled in respect of any share held by them to vote either control of the company.
A change of control of the company personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to would also give The Coca-Cola Company certain rights under exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation its bottling agreements with various subsidiaries of the to shareholders meetings if any call or other sum presently company, and in certain limited circumstances may give China payable by them to the company in respect of that share Resources Enterprise, Limited the ability to exercise certain remains unpaid.
In addition, no shareholder will be entitled rights under a shareholders agreement in relation to the to vote if they have been served with a notice after failing to companys associate CR Snow.
A change of control may provide the company with information concerning interests in also give the Molson Coors Brewing Company the ability to those shares required to be provided under Section 793 of the exercise certain rights under the MillerCoors operating Companies Act 2006.
Restrictions on the rights of the holders agreement, and would result in certain minority protection of convertible shares and deferred shares are set out in note rights contained in our relationship agreement with the 25 to the consolidated financial statements although there Anadolu Group and Anadolu Efes ceasing to apply.
are no convertible shares currently in issue.
The company does not have any agreements with any Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation director or officer that would provide compensation for loss to corporate members, by a corporate representative.
The of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
deadline for delivering proxy forms is 48 hours before the Our articles of association allow directors, in their absolute time for holding the meeting.
discretion, to refuse to register the transfer of a share in Going concern certificated form which is not fully paid or the transfer of a The directors have reviewed the groups performance for the share in certificated form on which the company has a lien.
year and the principal risks it faces, together with the budget If that share has been admitted to the Official List, the board and cash flow forecasts, in particular with reference to the may not refuse to register the transfer if this would prevent period to the end of September 2015, and the application dealings in our shares from taking place on an open and of reasonably possible sensitivities associated with these proper basis.
The board may also refuse to register a transfer forecasts.
On the basis of this review, and in light of the current of a share in certificated form unless the instrument of transfer financial position and existing committed borrowing facilities, is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the address at which the directors are satisfied that the group has adequate our register is held or at such other place as the directors may resources to continue in operational existence and therefore appoint, and except in the case of a transfer by a financial have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing institution where a certificate has not been issued in respect the consolidated financial statements.
of the share is accompanied by the certificate for the share to Directors responsibility statement which it relates and such other evidence as the directors may The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the directors remuneration report and the financial statements the transfer, is in respect of only one class of share and is in in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
favour of not more than four transferees jointly.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Transfers of shares in uncertificated form must be made in statements for each financial year.
The directors have prepared accordance with, and subject to, the Uncertificated Securities the consolidated financial statements in accordance with Regulations the Regulations, the facilities and requirements International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted of the relevant CREST system and such arrangements as the by the European Union, and the parent company financial board may determine in relation to the transfer of certificated statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally shares subject to the Regulations.
Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 89 Under company law the directors must not approve the the management report contained in this annual report consolidated financial statements unless they are satisfied includes a fair review of the development and performance that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the of the business and the position of the group, together with group and company and of the profit or loss of the group for a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it thatperiod.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are The directors in office at the date of this report have each required to: confirmed that: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit consistently: information of which the groups auditors are unaware: and make judgements and accounting estimates that are he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to reasonable and prudent: have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, the groups auditors are aware of that information.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained Post balance sheet events in the group and parent company financial statements There are no material post balance sheet events.
respectively: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis John Davidson unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary company will continue in business.
For and on behalf of the board of SABMiller plc The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 2 June 2014 records that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of the company and group and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and group and enable them to ensure that the company and consolidated financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the consolidated and company financial statements is placed on the companys website.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the statutory and audited information on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 46 and 47 of this annual report, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and 90 Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Directors report continued In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R the table below gives the location of information required to be included in the 1 annual report and accounts.
Listing Rule Information Location LR 9.8.
4 1 Amount of interest capitalised and amount and Not applicable: no interest capitalised.
4 2 Information required by Listing Rule 9.2.
18 regarding the Not applicable: no relevant information published in prior publication of unaudited financial information.
advance of this annual report and accounts.
4 4 Long-term incentive schemes where the only participant Not applicable: no such arrangements exist.
is a director or prospective director of the company and the arrangement is established specifically to facilitate the recruitment of retention of the director.
4 5 Arrangements under which a director has waived or In accordance with our agreement with Altria, agreed to waive emoluments from the company or any Howard Willard, as an executive director of Altria, does subsidiary undertaking.
not receive a directors fee from SABMiller see page 73.
4 6 Agreements with a director to waive future emoluments.
Not applicable: no such agreement exists.
4 7 Details of shares allotted during the period under review Not applicable: the only shares that have been allotted which have not been allotted to existing shareholders in during the period have been to satisfy the exercise of proportion to their shareholdings and which have not been options under various share incentive plans as approved specifically authorised by the company shareholders.
by the companys shareholders, see note 25 to the consolidated financial statements for further details of these allotments.
4 8 Shares allotted in major subsidiary undertakings during Not applicable: no individual subsidiary is a major the period under review which have not been allotted to subsidiary undertaking as defined by the Listing Rules.
existing shareholders in proportion to their shareholdings.
4 9 Details of any parent undertakings participation in any Not applicable: SABMiller does not have a placing during the period under review.
4 10 Details of any contract of significance as defined by Not applicable: no such contract of significance exists.
the Listing Rules existing between SABMiller, or any of its subsidiaries, in which either a director is materially interested or one of the parties is a controlling shareholder of SABMiller.
4 11 Details of any contract for the provision of Not applicable: SABMiller does not have a controlling services to SABMiller, or any of its subsidiaries, shareholder.
4 12 Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder The trustees of the two employee benefits trusts have has waived or agreed to waive any dividends.
elected to waive dividends, except in circumstances where they may be holding shares beneficially owned by participants.
See notes 9 and 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
4 13 Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder As noted above the trustees of the two employee benefits has agreed to waive future dividends.
trusts have elected to waive dividends, except in circumstances where they may be holding shares beneficially owned by participants.
4 14 Agreements with any controlling shareholder.
Not applicable: SABMiller does not have a controlling shareholder.
1 Although this disclosure is only required to be included for accounting periods ending on or after 1 September 2014, we have elected to include the information for shareholders ease ofreference.
