22 Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Operations review Focus areas Win at the front line, partnering with customers and Europe creating new experiences Strengthening brand portfolios across all price points Sustaining core brands and investing in global premium brands Strong innovation pipeline, broadening the portfolio Moving to a new, more cost-effective operating model In Europe, reported group NPR increased by 6%, which included the benefit of the full consolidation of Coca-Cola Icecek in Anadolu Efes results.
On an organic, constant currency basis, group NPR was in line with the prior year, while group NPR per hl grew by 1%, driven by price increases.
Total volumes were down 1% on an organic basis, with lager volumes down 4% and soft drinks volumes up 13%.
Volume performance improved in the second half of the year following a first half performance which was impacted by poor weather in the first quarter with a subsequent impact on our seasonal innovations.
Across the region, economic uncertainty and weaker consumer sentiment persisted, along with increased competitive pressure in our key markets.
Reported EBITA was down 10% including the benefit of the full consolidation of Coca-Cola Icecek in Anadolu Efes results.
Organic, constant currency EBITA was down 15% compared with the prior year and margin declined by 280 bps driven by volume declines in Poland and lower profitability of Anadolu Efes.
In the Czech Republic, lager volumes were down 4% with an improved performance in the second half of the year compared with the first half, following better execution and focus on the on-premise channel where prices remained unchanged.
Adverse weather at the start of the year resulted in outlet closures and affected distribution across the market, and particularly impacted the performance of our mainstream core brand, Gambrinus 10, and seasonal innovation launches.
The premium segment was boosted by the successful launch of unpasteurised Gambrinus together with the continued growth of Kozel 11.
With effect from 1 May 2014 our Czech and Slovak operations were consolidated for management purposes into a multi-country operation with one leadership team.
In Poland, lager volumes were down 9%, while the beer market declined low single digits, further intensifying competitive conditions.
In addition, we cycled a strong prior year comparative associated with the Tyskie brand activation during the Euro 2012 football tournament and were additionally impacted by the planned stock build in the trade at the end of the prior year ahead of our global template deployment.
ubr, supported by promotional activity, performed well within a declining mainstream segment.
The decline of Lech volumes, despite the growth of Lech Shandy, and decreased Redds volumes owing to an expansion of competitors brands in the flavoured segment resulted in adverse brand mix.
Channel mix was unfavourable as discounters continued to grow.
These mix effects together with the volume performance resulted in a significant margin decline.
In Italy, domestic volumes were down 1%, outperforming a Significant business with production operations declining market, impacted by low consumer confidence Selling operations and major export markets resulting from continued economic instability.
This performance Associates was primarily driven by Peroni, with a particularly strong Sue Clark Managing Director, SABMiller Europe Volume performance improved in the second half of the year.
Strategic report 23 Sales of Kozel 11 surpassed 550,000 hls for the first time, continuing the premiumisation of the Czech Republics second largest brand and European power performer, Velkopopovick Kozel.
Kozel 11 is a premium variant of Kozel offering a fuller but still refreshingly smooth taste, with a higher margin per hl in both the off-trade and the on-trade.
performance in our southern strongholds, supported by on-premise expansion.
Nastro Azzurro volumes declined, impacted by increased promotional pressure in the off-premisechannel.
In the United Kingdom, domestic volume growth of 5% was the result of the continued growth of Peroni Nastro Azzurro through on-premise expansion and effective execution, along Lager volumes were up 2% in Romania, outperforming a with solid growth of our Polish brands, partly offset by a declining market, predominantly through the continued growth decline in Miller Genuine Draft volumes due to reduced of our economy brand Ciucas in large PET packs.
EBITA grew ahead of the prior year with NPR grew by 6% in Slovakia benefiting from the launch of Birell per hl improvements, volume increases and optimisation of and Saris radlers.
In Hungary, volumes grew by 2% compared distribution costs.
with the prior year, in a declining market, driven by the strong performance of premium brand Dreher, in part due to the Domestic lager volumes in the Netherlands grew by 2% with successful introduction of seasonal variants.
Volumes in the improved execution in the on-premise channel and successful Canaries declined by 3% with intense price competition in the promotional activities in a highly competitive environment.
economy segment, partly offset by growth of our on-premise Performance was boosted by Grolsch premium extensions business ahead of the market through outlet expansion and innovations.
On an organic basis, Anadolu Efes total volumes grew, driven SABMiller Europes by strong soft drinks performance, while lager volumes declined 88,000 operations support 88,000 predominantly in Turkey and Russia.
The beer markets in both jobs in the hospitality Turkey and Russia were impacted significantly by the tightening sector.
Research from of regulatory environments.
Volume performance in Russia jobs the Brewers of Europe was additionally affected by delisting in key accounts which found that the hospitality were fully restored during the second half of the year.
In Turkey, Download the report, The sector, in turn, supports beer volume performance was also affected by competitive Contribution Made by SABMiller around one in every to the European Economy, pressures particularly in the first half of the year.
On a reported 13 jobs in Europe.
com reports basis, Anadolu Efes soft drinks volumes benefited from the full consolidation of Coca-Cola Icecek.
Organic, constant Reported Restated Net acquisitions Currency Organic Reported currency growth growth Financial summary 2013 and disposals translation growth 2014 % % Group revenue including share of associates US$m 5,767 269 16 25 6,045 5 Group NPR including share of associates US$m 4,300 269 4 1 4,574 6 1 EBITA US$m 784 33 7 121 703 15 10 EBITA margin % 18.2 15.4 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 45,331 1,741 43,590 4 4 Soft drinks 7,581 6,144 991 14,716 13 94 In 2014 before exceptional charges of US$11 million 2013: US$64 million being capability programme costs.
