48 Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Executive committee 2.
The executive committee excom is appointed With effect from 1 July 2014, SABMillers South 7.
Tony van Kralingen, Director, by the Chief Executive.
It comprises the Chief African and African regions will be consolidated Supply Chain & Human Resources, Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, regional into one region for management purposes, and SABMiller plc managing directors and directors of group Mark Bowman will become Managing Director Tony van Kralingen was appointed Director: functions.
Its purpose is to support the Chief of the enlarged SABMiller Africa region.
Supply Chain & Human Resources, SABMiller plc Executive in carrying out the duties delegated in October 2008.
Sue Clark, Managing Director, to him by the board.
In that context, excom has held a number of senior positions in the SABMiller Europe executes the strategy and budget approved by group, including Chairman and Chief Executive Sue Clark was appointed Managing Director, the board.
It also ensures that regular financial Officer, Plzensk Prazdroj a. s. and, most recently, SABMiller Europe in June 2012.
She has been reports are presented to the board, that effective Chairman and Managing Director: SAB Ltd.
He is a member of the SABMiller executive committee internal controls are in place and functioning, accountable for Group Procurement, Distribution, since 2003 when she joined as Corporate Affairs and that there is an effective risk management Supply & Operational Planning, Technical and Director.
Before this, she held a number of senior process in operation throughout the group.
roles in UK companies, including Director of 1.
Norman Adami, Chairman, Corporate Affairs for Railtrack Group and 8.
Karl Lippert, President, SABMiller Beverages South Africa Scottish Power plc.
SABMiller Latin America Norman Adami was appointed as Chairman, Karl Lippert was appointed President, SABMiller She is a Trustee of the Clore Social Leadership SABMiller Beverages South Africa in January Latin America in 2011.
He joined the Group in Programme.
2013 with overall strategic responsibility for 1992 and has extensive experience in the global SABMillers beverage businesses in South Africa.
John Davidson, General Counsel and brewing industry.
He has held a number of senior From 2008, he was Chairman and Managing Group Company Secretary, SABMiller plc positions in the group including President of Director of the South African Breweries Limited John Davidson joined the group as General Bavaria S. A. and Managing Director of Kompania SAB Ltd, having previously served in a number Counsel and Group Company Secretary in 2006.
A. of senior positions in the group including Before joining SABMiller, he spent his entire legal 9.
Catherine May, Corporate Affairs Director, President and Chief Executive Officer, Miller career at Lovells, a leading international law SABMiller plc Brewing Company, and President and Chief firm, where he had been a partner since 1991, Catherine May was appointed Corporate Affairs Executive Officer, SABMiller Americas.
specialising in international corporate finance, Director, SABMiller plc in October 2012.
She cross border mergers and acquisitions, and Having served the group since 1979 and been joined SABMiller from Centrica plc, where she corporate governance advisory work.
He was the a member of the executive committee for over 20 served as Corporate Affairs Director from 2006 Chairman for 2010 and 2011 of the GC100 group years, he will stand down as Chairman, SABMiller until December 2011, having previously been the association of general counsel and company Beverages South Africa from 1 July 2014 and Group Director of Corporate Relations at the secretaries of companies in the FTSE 100, and will be retiring from the group with effect from global information publishing business Reed he is a director of Tsogo Sun Holdings Limited 31July 2014.
He is an independent non-executive director She is a non-executive trustee of the English 5.
Domenic fide Lorenzo, Director, of Allied Electronics Corporation Limited.
National Opera and of the UK National Corporate Finance and Development, FundingScheme.
Mark Bowman, Managing Director, SABMiller plc SABMiller Africa Domenic fide Lorenzo was appointed Director, 10.
Ari Mervis, Managing Director, Mark Bowman was appointed Managing Director Corporate Finance and Development, SABMiller SABMiller Asia Pacific and Chief Executive of SABMiller Africa in 2007 and has been plc in 2010.
He joined SABMillers corporate Officer, Carlton & United Breweries instrumental in developing SABMillers beer and finance team in 1996 from UAL Investment Bank Ari Mervis was appointed Managing Director Asia soft drinks operations on the African continent in South Africa.
He became Director, Corporate Pacific and Chief Executive Officer of Carlton & since then.
He joined SABMillers beer division in Finance and Development for Europe and the United Breweries in 2011, having been Managing 1993 and has held various senior positions in the Americas in 2000 and the Director of the global Director of SABMiller Asia since 2007.
He joined group including Managing Director of Kompania team in 2010.
SAB Ltds soft drinks division, Amalgamated Piwowarska S. A.
Managing Director of Beverages Industries Ltd, in 1989 and has held 6.
Nick Fell, Marketing Director, Amalgamated Beverage Industries Ltd now the various senior positions in sales, marketing, SABMiller plc soft drinks division of SAB Ltd and Chairman finance and general management.
He has been Nick Fell was appointed Marketing Director, ofAppletiser.
Managing Director of Appletiser and of SABMiller SABMiller plc in 2006.
He has extensive operations in Russia and Australia.
He is an independent non-executive director experience in developing global commercial of Tiger Brands Limited.
strategy and previously held senior roles in He is a director of the Melbourne Business Cadbury Schweppes Plc and Diageo plc.
School, and Chairman of China Resources Snow Breweries.
