26 Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Operations review Africa Focus areas Driving volume growth across the price ladder: Affordable: continue to expand, particularly traditional beers Mainstream: build core lager brands Premium: keep momentum behind Castle Lite Expanding portfolio, extending distribution and outletservice Investing in capacity expansion Increasing cost efficiencies and local sourcing In Africa, group NPR grew by 4% 5% on an organic, constant currency basis, driven by total volume growth following effective in-trade execution and share gains across most of our subsidiary markets.
Lager volumes grew by 6% supported by growth in a number of markets, although growth was hampered by poor economic fundamentals in South Sudan and Zimbabwe.
Our portfolio continued to be relevant to our consumers with Castle Lite volumes up 31%, supported by strong performance across our local mainstream brands, as well as Eagle lager in the affordable segment.
We continue to invest in capacity and capability, with brewery expansion projects having commenced during the year in Nigeria and Ghana.
Soft drinks volume growth of 6% reflected good performances in Ghana and Zambia, and by our associates Castel and Delta in Zimbabwe.
Other alcoholic beverage volumes were 2% lower than the prior year, primarily as a result of lower sales in Zambia.
Chibuku Super, a traditional beer offering in PET packs which has a longer shelf life, is now available in five markets, having been launched in Mozambique during the year and in Tanzania and Malawi recently.
EBITA growth of 12% 13% on an organic, constant currency basis was underpinned by this volume growth, pricing in numerous markets, and a strong focus on cost management.
We continued to invest in our mainstream brands across the region, while variable costs benefited from production efficiencies, increased local sourcing of raw materials across a number of markets, and improved distribution networks.
This resulted in EBITA margin advancing by 190 bps compared with the prior year, despite increased fixed costs related to incremental capacity.
In Tanzania, lager volumes grew by 4% aided by strong premium segment growth driven by Castle Lite, together with growth in Kilimanjaro in the mainstream segment and Eagle in the affordable segment, partially offset by poor weather in the fourth quarter.
The volume growth was further supported by share gains in the market.
The price point for Castle Lager impacted volumes, but this was more than offset by the growth in mainstream volumes.
Our market execution continued to achieve results with improvements in our outlet footprint and route to market.
Tanzania delivered strong earnings growth for the year.
Political tensions in Mozambique negatively impacted consumer demand and resulted in our lager volumes declining by 2%, mainly impacting mainstream brand Manica.
Castle Lite continued its robust growth, while Impala, our cassava-based Significant business with production operations affordable beer offering, performed to expectations.
Growth in Associates Mark Bowman Managing Director, SABMiller Africa Lager volumes grew by 6% supported by growth in a number of markets.
Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 27 After becoming Ghanas number one mainstream beer during 2013, Club lager extended its market leadership during the traditional beer volumes of 90% was aided by increased year.
Club had a 34% share of the total beer capacity.
On 2December 2013 we acquired a local wines and market for the year ended 31 March 2014, spirits business which is in the process of being integrated.
Double digit lager volume growth was delivered in Nigeria Clubs continued growth was driven by a underpinned by 23% volume growth in Trophy Lager, while consistent focus on delivering the brand Hero lager volumes more than doubled as we progressively promise of a crisp, refreshing taste and increase capacity at the Onitsha brewery.
Non-alcoholic malt through communication that resonated with beverage volumes continued to grow strongly.
consumer pride in national identity, epitomised In Zambia, a decline in lager volumes in the fourth quarter through its Truly Ghanaian tagline.
due to the excise-related pricing taken in January 2014 resulted in full year growth being moderated to 6%.
During the year improved availability aided strong growth in Mosi and Castle Lite.
In the soft drinks category, the prior year price repositioning drove continued double digit volume growth.
Utility-related disruptions to production in Kitwe N o.
1 and pricing taken during the year contributed to a decline in traditional beer volumes.
Now the top selling beer Total alcoholic beverage volumes in Botswana declined owing brand to the impact of the zoning legislation coupled with lower in Ghana.
consumer demand caused by another alcohol levy price increase.
Soft drinks volumes declined by 4% compared with the prior year owing to intense competition.
Despite challenging market conditions, lager volumes in Ghana grew by 12% aided by market share gains with Club lager performing particularly well.
Our cassava-based beer has been launched in a number of regions with good success.
Soft drinks volumes grew by 12% driven by growth in water as a result of improved availability following capacity upgrades.
Soft economic conditions led to a slow start to the year in Uganda, but we saw an improved trend in the fourth quarter and market share gains, following utilisation of additional capacity at Mbarara.
Lager volumes were down 3%, driven by mainstream brands Nile Special and Club, partially offset by growth in the affordable segment.
Profitability was assisted by lower manufacturing costs, despite the incremental costs associated with the new Mbarara brewery.
The economic environment in Zimbabwe hampered the performance of our associate, Delta, with lager volumes declining by 18%.
However, traditional beer volumes grew strongly at 12%, supported by the innovative Chibuku Super, and soft drinks volumes also grew in the year.
In Uganda, Nile Breweries 20,000 buys from and supports Our associate, Castel, delivered lager volume growth of 6%, 20,000 sorghum farmers.
with strong growth in Angola, Gabon, Burkina Faso, Ethiopia and the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Castels reported farmers group NPR growth was lower than the volume growth due to country mix, an excise increase in Cameroon and lower Read more about our local sourcing programmes on page 43 inflation-led pricing.
Organic, constant Reported Reported Net acquisitions Currency Organic Reported currency growth growth Financial summary 2013 and disposals translation growth 2014 % % Group revenue including share of associates US$m 3,853 16 71 260 4,058 7 5 Group NPR including share of associates US$m 3,290 9 55 180 3,424 5 4 1 EBITA US$m 838 10 111 939 13 12 EBITA margin % 25.5 27.4 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 18,445 1,078 19,523 6 6 Soft drinks 12,963 808 13,771 6 6 Other alcoholic beverages 5,726 236 133 5,829 2 2 In 2014 before net exceptional credits of US$25 million 2013: US$79 million being profit on disposal of a business.
