12 Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Market overview A dynamic environment External view of the market the evolving beer drinker.
The global beer industry has more than doubled operating profits in the last 10 years, generating some US$40 billion by Premium beer as percentage of total beer consumption 2013E % December 2013.
Worldwide beer consumption has grown at a healthy 3% per annum over this period, driven by developing markets.
However, in 2013 total beer consumption was flat 41 for only the second time in the last 20 years.
29 29 There is still significant opportunity to increase beer 25 consumption in many countries in Africa, Latin America and Asia, especially as drinkers trade up from informal 13 8 8 alcohol to branded products.
There are still further cost efficiencies to come from the implementation of global IT North Western Australasia Eastern Latin Africa Asia America Europe Europe America platforms and through better economies of scale.
But as per capita consumption reaches more mature levels in an Source: Canadean increasing number of big markets, portfolio mix is integral to future value creation for the beer industry.
Thankfully, Retail sales value by region and category 2013E US$m consumer trends are supportive of thisevolution.
The core beer drinker is evolving and becoming more experimental.
For young men and women of legal drinking RTD Cider Low No alcohol Dark beer Lager age in the 21st century, or millennials, lager is no longer their 100% default choice, which is both a major challenge and a major opportunity for brewers.
Other drinks are increasingly available 80% and appealing, while drinking occasions are becoming less male-centric, more co-ed, and thereby further influencing 60% branddecisions.
Heritage, craftsmanship and innovation 40% Drinkers in mature and developing markets alike are trading up in their choice of beer, wines and spirits.
In developed markets, 20% where premium beer already represents 29-41% of total beer consumption, there is the potential to stretch the category 0% North Western Australasia Eastern Latin Africa Asia World price points much further, as we see in other analogous America Europe Europe America consumer categories.
In developing markets, there remains Source: Euromonitor large scope for consumer trading up into, and up within, the beer category.
Volume CAGR 2008-13E by segment % Mainstream lager still represents more than four out of every five beers drunk globally and, in many developing markets, Speciality offers a safer, affordable and more acceptable alternative to Near beer informal alcohol.
Premium 18 17 All beer Beyond lager, looking to the broader market of long alcoholic drinks, there are some significant regional variances: the higher share of cider in Western Europe and Australasia: a greater 7 2 2 5 5 4 4 1 preference for dark beers in Western Europe and Africa: and 3 the success of the ready to drink RTD category in Australia.
-1 Emerging Mature Global Lager remains the primary beer style, although brewers are Source: Canadean innovating with increasingly broad ranges of flavoured beers, radlers and ales.
Leading beverage analyst Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 13 Our view of the beer market a growth opportunity.
Were the leading or number two brewer in 95% of our markets.
We deliver industry-leading growth and drive thesuccess of our diverse brand portfolios by combining global skills with local insight.
We believe that beer markets around the world can be developed further and are showing an appetite for new beer styles and prices.
Beer is an aspirational product and per capita consumption in developing markets is substantially lower than in mature markets.
As these economies continue to grow we expect to see a natural momentum in increased demand for beer.
Brewers are producing a wider range of high quality brands and package formats, positioned and marketed with differentiation to diversify the beer category and compete particularly with local spirits on more consumeroccasions.
In Latin America, consumers tastes are evolving towards lighter, easy drinking beers and a wider variety of beer flavours in the premium and affordable segments.
In Africa and Asia Pacific, innovation and category expansion are also delivering more premium and affordable options, often using locally grown crops such as cassava and sorghum.
Across our developing markets, the extension of our distribution reach and increased support for our retail customers is broadening our footprint and contributing to sales growth.
In the more mature markets of the USA, Europe and Australia, the fragmentation of consumer tastes and preferences seen over the past decade has become a defining feature of the market for alcoholic beverages.
This is both broadening the field of competition and re-igniting consumer interest in beer.
Mainstream traditional lagers still dominate beer industry volumes and are being bolstered with innovative packaging and marketing.
There is also much new product development, across styles ranging from richer, more deeply flavourful beers to sweeter or fruit-flavoured beers and ales, all appealing to more variety-seeking adult consumers on more occasions.
In many developed markets, retail consolidation is both challenging established practices and providing new opportunities for category management, retail merchandising and consumer interactions.
In all these respects, brewers are building deep sales and category management capability.
Across all beer markets, our interactions with national and local government regulators, supranational bodies and NGOs continue to support responsible consumption efforts.
Brewers continue to work in the interests of consumer health and safety and to support the development of local communities and local enterprises up and down the beer value chain.
