30 Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Operations review South Africa Focus areas Strong brand campaigns, pack and brand innovation Effective trade sales execution Brand and retail execution improving segment mix Addressing soft drinks through portfolio expansion, market penetration, retail execution and productivity improvements Optimising our fixed cost base Beverages The South Africa: Beverages business reported a 6% increase in group NPR on an organic, constant currency basis declining by 11% on a reported basis, with group NPR per hl growing by 6% driven by price increases and positive lager brand mix.
Organic, constant currency EBITA grew by 7%, with improved EBITA margin, driven by the strong performance of our beer operation, amid a weak consumer environment and the timing of Easter.
Reported EBITA declined by 9% due to the depreciation of the South African rand against the US dollar.
Lager volumes were level with the prior year but we continued to take both beer volume and value market share, driven by successful brand campaigns, pack and brand innovation and effective execution in the trade.
The local premium portfolio performed strongly, benefiting from our efforts in brand and retail execution, with Castle Lite and Castle Milk Stout delivering combined growth of more than 10%.
Castle Lite continued to build on its Extra Cold brand positioning and continued to take market share in the premium segment.
In the mainstream segment, Castle Lager grew and Carling Black Label continued to stabilise, while we targeted investment in Hansa Pilsener to address the volume decline.
Castle Lager grew through leveraging the It all comes together with a Castle campaign and its association with national sports in South Africa.
There was noticeable activity towards the end of the year in relation to Hansa Pilsener, with the introduction of the Celebrating 20 years of freedom campaign and new packs across the range.
The year also saw the introduction of a number of innovations, including Flying Fish, the first fruit-flavoured beer in the premium segment in South Africa.
Brand campaigns were underpinned by improved sales execution and customer service, with particularly pleasing results in the growing convenience channel.
Initiatives included innovative channel specific incentive schemes and targeted trade campaigns.
Our focus on social investment and tackling alcohol abuse remains a priority.
Kickstart, an entrepreneurship programme which has created more than 21,000 jobs over the past two decades, shifted its focus to transforming start-up youthowned businesses into high growth businesses.
It was profiled as a best practice programme by Harvard Kennedy School.
The next phase of the You Decide programme, to raise awareness of underage drinking, was launched with a 13 part TV reality show.
Significant business with production operations Read more on page 41 Selling operations and major export markets Norman Adami Chairman, SABMiller Beverages South Africa Organic, constant currency EBITA grew by 7%, with improved EBITA margin, driven by the strong performance of our beer operation.
Strategic report 31 Castle Milk Stout extends its reach Castle Milk Stout is a distinctive premium brand, appealing to both urban and rural Soft drinks volumes, consumers in South Africa.
including Appletiser, were also level with the prior year, A draught offering, mass sampling and amid challenging economic conditions and particularly innovative glassware increased the number bad weather in the last quarter of the financial year, and of different occasions for consumers to the impact of the growing intensity of sparkling B-brand enjoy the brand, which helped drive sales competition in the marketplace.
The business remained volumes by 5% in the year.
focused on portfolio expansion, market penetration, retail execution, and productivity initiatives with the use of market logistics partners and incentive structures.
However, increased Hotels and Gaming competition in the category resulted in a decline of returnable glass bottle sales which offset the growth in PET packs.
The SABMiller currently has an effective 39.6% shareholding in Tsogo Sun Holdings Limited, a company listed on the still drinks portfolio continued to show growth with strong contributions from the water brands and the Play brand.
This investment is not considered to be core to our beverage operations and Implementation of our strategy strengthened our competitive therefore we are reviewing our strategic options for the advantage in our soft drinks business.
However, there can be no certainty that the a key focus as we expanded into new outlets and transformed review will result in any action being taken.
We invested in market logistics partners to Our share of Tsogo Suns reported group NPR decreased distribute our brands, allowing for greater flexibility and the ability to tailor delivery services.
The continued transformation by 8% compared with the prior year up 7% on an organic, constant currency basis.
Trading during the second half of of the supply chain, including the implementation of new technology and improved processes, resulted in elevated the year was generally weaker than the first half, with tough economic conditions putting pressure on the consumer.
customer service, reliability and responsiveness, and drove productivity as well as an increase in demand fulfilment.
In the gaming business, growth was varied across the major Further, all support functions have been centralised through provinces with Gauteng, the largest in terms of gaming win, improved IT infrastructure and reporting tools.
reporting 3% growth and KwaZulu-Natal growing by 4%.
Tsogo Suns four large casinos in these provinces Driven by increased volumes, our associate Distell reported double digit EBITA growth on an organic, constant currency outperformed market growth.
basis, after adjusting for the one-off excise charge included The South African hotel business recorded positive revenue in the prior years results.
per available room growth in local currency, largely driven We continued to focus on productivity while increasing by growth in average room rates.
Although demand is still investment in market-facing activities across the whole constrained, occupancies ended the year at 64%, in line with business.
Input costs came under significant pressure due the prior year and above the South African industry average to the weakening South African rand and rising fuel rates.
Group-wide occupancies ended the year at 64% a result, EBITA margin contracted in the soft drinks business compared with 65% in the prior year.
where competitor activities continued to inhibit pricing.
Reported EBITA for the full year decreased by 8%, as a result However, both the beer and soft drinks businesses continued of the depreciation of the South African rand, with growth of to leverage the noticeable progress to date in optimising the 8% on an organic, constant currency basis driven by higher fixed cost base to deliver further productivity during the year.
gaming and hotel revenues together with cost savings.
Beverages Organic, constant Reported Restated Net acquisitions Currency Organic Reported currency growth growth Financial summary 2013 and disposals translation growth 2014 % % Group revenue including share of associates US$m 5,540 20 938 329 4,951 6 11 Group NPR including share of associates US$m 4,475 17 757 262 3,997 6 11 1 EBITA US$m 1,119 2 188 82 1,015 7 9 EBITA margin % 25.0 25.4 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 27,280 35 27,245 Soft drinks 18,368 59 18,309 Other alcoholic beverages 1,613 4 180 1,789 11 11 In 2014 before exceptional charges of US$33 million being Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment related charges 2013: US$22 million being Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme charges of US$17 million, integration and restructuring costs of US$17 million, net of business capability programme credits of US$12 million.
Hotels and Gaming Organic, constant Reported Restated Net acquisitions Currency Organic Reported currency growth growth Financial summary 2013 and disposals translation growth 2014 % % Group revenue share of associates US$m 466 7 80 32 425 7 9 Group NPR share of associates US$m 404 7 69 28 370 7 8 EBITA US$m 134 2 23 10 123 8 8 EBITA margin % 33.1 33.2 Revenue per available room Revpar US$ 66.2 n a n a n a 61.4 n a 7
