10 Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Business model Our business model is built on our passion forbeer Our success is rooted in deep local insights, global skills, talented people and local community investment.
Local insights and global Refreshing our success Global scale and skill reach, serving all tastes with innovation to drive better local performance We understand and share our To continue to be successful we need Our teams around the world learn from consumers passion for local beer that to reflect changing demographics, each others experiences as we share reflects their tastes, which is why we cultural and societal shifts and evolving best operating practices including have more than 200 brands, mostly sold consumer tastes.
So we are adding to innovation, marketing, technical in a single country or region.
Our deep our rich heritage and enduring brands standards, sourcing and training.
Our local knowledge also means we with innovation across a vibrant insights help us to see emerging trends understand which beers have broad spectrum of beer styles.
Many that echo developments we have seen appeal beyond national boundaries.
operations have introduced variants of in other markets and develop strategies Combining these insights with our global existing brands as well as new styles, to take advantage of new opportunities.
reach, we have a selected number of from fruit-flavoured ales in North While commercial decisions about the flagship brands to market internationally, America to sorghum and cassava beers right products for the market are taken which complement our local portfolios.
We continue to locally, we support our country We operate right across the price update and refresh national icon brands operations with broader shared service spectrum, from affordable to super to keep our strength in core lager, and operations.
These centres of expertise premium, and in many markets we we are developing products for more help us to derive economies and also offer soft drinks.
efficiencies of scale and drive duplicative costs out of local businesses.
Strategic report 11 Producing beers that taste great every time our consumers drink them demands a mix of traditional craftsmanship, ultra-modern science and fresh, natural ingredients.
Group Chief Brewer Professor Katherine Smart and her team are experts in the skilled art of brewing, making distinctive beers for different palates all over the world.
Creating sustainable local We invest in talent for growth and long-term competitive advantage partnerships Beer is a natural product and most of our We are proud to attract and retain a beers are brewed, sold and consumed highly talented, passionate group of within the same local community.
We people who are experts in producing, often use local ingredients that are special branding and marketing the finest quality to the area and create unique flavours.
We enjoy an unusually low turnover in our leadership In developing markets, working closely team, and place emphasis on investing with small businesses including local in their skills and careers.
As leaders suppliers, farmers and shopkeepers is move from one part of the business to fundamental to our success.
This has another, they take their insights to new also led to the creation of sustainable markets, making the global mobility value chains that contribute to local of our leadership team one of our economic and social development.
In many of these markets, our brewing We incentivise our management at every interests are run in partnership with level through a rigorous goal-setting other businesses whose local process that aligns the need for knowledge is an important asset.
consistent improvement in profitability with the longer term ambition of achieving sustainable best practice.
