14 Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic focus Beer is our source of greatest competitive advantage and offers significant value growth.
We aim to redefine beer for future generations, keeping our products relevant and differentiated.
We will do this by refreshing our core lager brands, developing a wider range of beer styles, appealing to consumers who might otherwise choose wines or spirits, and finding new consumer occasions for beer.
Reinforcing Poker in prime position Poker consolidated its position as the leading mainstream beer in Colombia, hitting sales volumes of more than 8,500,000hls in the year and increasing its share of the legal alcohol beverage market to 26.5%, and of the beer market to 41.4%, making it SABMillers most profitable brand in LatinAmerica.
A decade ago Poker was a regional brand with a beer market share of under 20%.
Its transformation has been based on a brand positioning that reinforces values of friendship and trust and by bringing its narrative to life in a fresh and consistent manner.
This continued during 2013 with promotional platforms based on a range of friendship rituals that encouraged low income consumers to opt for Pokers new and affordable sharing packs 750 ml returnable bottles.
Meanwhile, we maximised Pokers role in creating an annual official Friends Day in the national calendar and started to replicate elements of Friends Thursday to develop new consumer occasions.
This is an initiative that has been successfully used by our business in Peru to meet consumers desires to enjoy beer during the week.
More than 8.5 million hls Sales volume in the year ended 31 March 2014.
Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 15 Extending Fruits of success for Redds Redds Apple Ale became the fastest-growing brand in the Redds Apple Ale quickly gained high awareness US beer category, following its launch at the start of 2013. amongkey consumers aged between 21 and 34, who responded positively to its Crisp like an apple, brewed It gave MillerCoors a significant foothold in the United likean alepositioning.
States promising flavoured malt beverage segment, whichwas previously dominated by three established A total of 977,000 hls of Redds were sold during the competitor brands.
year, showing MillerCoors ability to expand its portfolio intonew markets and drinking occasions.
Redds Pick Different integrated marketing campaign, including TV advertising, social and digital engagement, Following the success of Redds Apple Ale, strawberry resonated with consumers and drove sales volumes for andiced tea variants were also launched, building on Redds Apple Ale that doubled initial forecasts.
itsappeal to target adult millennial consumers, some ofwhom were new to the beer category altogether.
16 Strategic report Strategic focus continued 700,000 Innovating hls Sales volume in the year Chibuku Super benefits in Africa ended 31 March 2014.
Chibuku Super, a modern packaged version of the opaque beers traditional in many African countries, made using modern brewing science, achieved sales of over 700,000 hls in the year.
Chibuku Super commands a 50% premium compared with the long-established Chibuku Shake Shake.
It has been rolled out in Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Zambia with launches in Tanzania and Malawi during April 2014.
Chibuku Super benefits from brewing innovation that delivers it in a pasteurised form in a bottle, which can bechilled to keep it fresh.
This transformation is the most significant development in the traditional beer category for 50 years.
It has led togreater distribution opportunities, particularly in supermarkets and mainstream restaurants.
With its fresh, modern image boosted by its first-ever TV advertising campaign, Chibuku Super is proving popular with younger, less traditional consumers, who previously had not been attracted to traditional beers.
Contributing 4e Path to Progress In Latin America, small-scale shopkeepers tenderos are a vital part of our value chain, accounting for 40% of our sales volumes.
Close to 50% of these retailers live in poverty and 60% are women who are heads of households.
These micro-enterprises face significant challenges, not least access to finance and securing the necessary permits to operate.
In collaboration with the Multilateral Investment Fund of the Inter-American Development Bank, we have launched a four-year, US$17 million programme, 4e, Camino al Progreso Path to Progress that aims to improve the livelihoods of 40,000 tenderos in six core markets in the region.
The programme provides comprehensive support including financial literacy and business skills training, access to professional credit and financial services, and assistance in meeting regulatory and other requirements, as well as training in responsible retailing of alcohol.
It gives tenderos the opportunity to develop the skills to improve their business and, at the same time, improve the quality of life of their families.
4e supports a critical sales channel for SABMiller while also enabling tenderos to use their central position in their communities to become catalysts for development.
