28 Strategic report Operations review Asia Pacific In Asia Pacific, organic, constant currency group NPR grew by 4%, with lager volume growth of 5% on an organic basis.
Reported group NPR declined by 2% driven by the depreciation of the Australian dollar against the US dollar, together with the impact of the termination of discontinued brands in the prior year in Australia, and the sale on 7September 2012 of Fosters interest in its Fijian beverage business.
Organic, constant currency group NPR per hl In Australia, our most improved in all the regions markets, but overall reported 2.45 hl efficient brewery, Yatala, group NPR per hl for the region declined, as Chinas growth, used an average of 2.45 hl with a lower than average group NPR per hl, outpaced the rest water to make 1hl beer.
On an organic, constant currency basis, EBITA grew by 8%, driven by Australia and China, with organic, Read more about our water efficiency programmes on page 41 constant currency EBITA margin improvement of 100 bps.
Reported EBITA margin growth was diluted by the inclusion of Kingway's results in the second half of the financial year, following completion of the acquisition of the brewery Carlton Draught was impacted by its exposure to the more business in September 2013 by our associate CR Snow.
Focus on premium growth platforms delivered 10% volume growth in the super premium In Australia, continuing domestic group NPR on a constant portfolio, most notably Peroni Nastro Azzurro, and the craft currency basis was in line with the prior year, with a 3% volume brand Fat Yak.
In addition, the launch of Kopparberg added decline in a market which declined by 2% offset by NPR an international premium cider to the portfolio.
Total reported per hl improvement of 3%, driven predominantly by price volumes, including discontinued brands and disposals, were increases, coupled with the execution of premium down 9%.
growth platforms along with more disciplined and performance-based discounting.
The integration programme continued to be ahead of schedule in both synergy delivery and capability build, delivering Continuing lager volumes were negatively impacted by cumulative synergies of A$150 million in the year, and remains persisting economic uncertainty and weak consumer on track to deliver on an accelerated timeline.
In light of the sentiment along with increased competitive intensity, which excess capacity in the network, we announced in January negatively impacted our lager volume share.
The strategy 2014 the intended closure of the Warnervale brewery.
During to restore the core portfolio and build a winning competitive the year we initiated the roll-out of our global template, which position resulted in strong volume growth of Carlton Dry and will assist with value creation and investment in commercial Carlton Mid, although Victoria Bitter declined by 1% off a capabilities.
higher base while still outperforming the beer market and Crown Lager declined, reflecting both a strong prior year A continuing focus on price realisation and effective cost comparative and price compression from imported brands.
control resulted in strong EBITA growth and margin expansion on an organic, constant currency basis.
Organic, constant Reported Restated Net acquisitions Currency Organic Reported currency growth growth Financial summary 2013 and disposals translation growth 2014 % % Group revenue including share of associates US$m 5,685 1 342 107 5,451 2 4 Group NPR including share of associates US$m 4,005 9 213 143 3,944 4 2 1 EBITA US$m 854 9 72 72 845 8 1 EBITA margin % 21.3 21.4 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 67,292 787 3,414 71,493 5 6 In 2014 before exceptional charges of US$103 million being integration and restructuring costs 2013: US$104 million being integration and restructuring costs of US$74 million and impairments of US$30 million.
Ari Mervis Managing Director, SABMiller Asia Pacific Organic, constant currency group NPR per hl improved in all the regions markets.
Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 29 Focus areas Growing contemporary brands in Australia Tight revenue and cost management in Australia Growing upper mainstream, premium and above premium sales in China Building CR Snows market leadership in China Significant business with production operations Selling operations and major export markets Associates Keeping a very clear focus on its target young adult In India, group NPR on a constant currency basis declined consumers ensured Carlton Dry was the fastestby 3% as a result of lower volumes, partially offset by robust growing brand in the top 10 beer brands in Australia NPR per hl growth of 4%.
Lager volumes fell by 7%, impacted and number one in the countrys easy-drinking sector.
by adverse regulatory changes in a number of our key states, including Maharashtra, together with an unusually As well as continuing its association with action intense and prolonged monsoon earlier in the year.
On a sports snowsports, surfing and motocross and constant currency basis, EBITA was lower than the prior music, Carlton Dry launched its witty #hellobeer year and EBITA margin declined, reflecting the volume campaign, which was designed particularly for social decline coupled with inflationary and input cost increases media.
This resulted in a record 90,000 hls being sold which were in excess of price realisation and state during December 2013 alone.
In China, strong group NPR growth of 17% on an organic, constant currency basis was underpinned by volume growth of 8% and favourable mix.
Our associate, CR Snow, further expanded its national market leadership, with healthy N o.
1 volume growth achieved in key provinces including Anhui, Zhejiang and Sichuan.
Beer brand in Australias Organic, constant currency group NPR per hl increased by easy-drinking 9% driven by growth in both premium brands and packs.
With the continuing focus on premiumisation, led by Snow Draft and Snow Brave the World, more than 30% of volumes are now in the premium segment.
CR Snow continued to invest in market-facing activities in an extremely competitive environment, in order to support its premiumisation strategy and to enhance its market leadership.
On 17 September 2013 CR Snow completed the acquisition of the brewery business of Kingway Brewery Holdings Limited and the results of this business have been included in the results of CR Snow for the second half of the financial year, diluting reported EBITA margin for the year.
The Kingway integration is under way, with the planned turnaround of the business expected to take two to three years.
2 Continuing information basis adjusts for the impact of discontinued licensed brands in all comparative information.
