Strategic report Governance Financial statements Performance Share Plan audited information The outstanding awards granted to each executive director of the Company under the Performance Share Plan are as follows: Under award Awarded Vested Lapsed Under award 1 October during during during 30 September 2013 the year the year the year 2014 Director number number number number number Vesting date G S Berruyer 464,894 464,894 10 March 2017 527,286 527,286 14 March 2016 476,062 476,062 12 March 2015 737,795 737,795 0 1,741,143 464,894 737,795 1,468,242 S Hare 286,088 286,088 10 March 2017 116,873 116,873 20 January 2017 402,961 402,961 Total 1,741,143 867,855 737,795 1,871,203 Notes: No variations were made in the terms of the awards in the year.
The market price of a share on 10 March 2014, the date of the awards made in the year ended 30 September 2014, was 419p.
The performance condition for awards made in March 2011, 2012 and 2014 is set out earlier in this report.
The performance condition for awards made in March 2013 and January 2014 is the same as the condition for March 2014.
Deferred shares audited information The outstanding awards granted to each executive director of the Company under The Sage Group Deferred Bonus Plan are as follows: Shares at Shares awarded Shares vested Shares lapsed Shares at 1 October during during during 30 September 2013 the year the year the year 2014 Director number number number number number Vesting date G S Berruyer 12,404 12,404 0 10 January 2014 Total 12,404 12,404 0 Notes: Awards of shares will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
In the event that a director ceases to be an employee of the Group for reasons other than death, retirement, redundancy, injury, ill-health or disability before the third anniversary of the date of grant then the rights to the award will lapse, unless the Remuneration Committee recommends otherwise.
Awards are not subject to further performance conditions once granted.
No variations were made in the terms of the awards in the year.
There are limits on the number of newly issued and treasury shares that can be used to satisfy awards under the Groups employee share schemes in any 10-year period.
The limits and the Groups current position against those limits as at 27 November 2014 the last practicable date prior to publication of this document are set out below: Limit Current position 7.5% of Groups share capital can be used for discretionary share schemes 3.35% 10% of Groups share capital can be used for all share schemes 4.14% The Company has previously satisfied all awards under the Performance Share Plan through the market purchase of shares or transfer of treasury shares and will continue to consider which is the most appropriate approach, based on the relevant factors at the time.
External appointments Executive directors are permitted, where appropriate and with Board approval, to take non-executive directorships with other organisations in order to broaden their knowledge and experience in other markets and countries.
Fees received by the directors in their capacity as directors of these companies are retained, reflecting the personal responsibility they undertake in these roles.
Mr G S Berruyer is a Non-executive Director of Meggitt Plc.
For the year under review, fees in respect of this non-executive directorship were 52,687.56.
The Board recognises the significant demands that are made on executive and non-executive directors and has therefore adopted a policy that no executive director should hold more than two directorships of other listed companies.
The Board encourages executive directors to limit other directorships to one listed company.
Except in exceptional circumstances where approved in advance by the Chairman of the Committee, if an executive director holds non-executive positions at more than one listed company then only the fees from one such company will be retained by the director.
No formal limit on other board appointments applies to non-executive directors under the policy but prior approval not to be unreasonably withheld from the Chairman on behalf of the Board is required in the case of any new appointment.
In the case of the Chairman, prior approval of the Nomination Committee is required on behalf of the Board.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 91 Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued Unexpired term of contract table Unexpired term of contract on 30 September 2014, or on Director Date of contract date of contract if later Notice period under contract Executive directors G S Berruyer 1 October 2010 6 months 12 months from the Company and or individual S Hare 3 January 2014 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual Non-executive directors N Berkett 5 July 2013 1.5 years 6 months from the Company or 1 month from individual D H Brydon 6 July 2012 3 years 6 months from the Company and or individual J Howell 15 May 2013 1.5 years 6 months from the Company or 1 month from individual R Markland 13 September 2012 1 year 6 months from the Company or 1 month from individual D Hall 3 January 2014 2.5 years 6 months from the Company or 1 month from individual I Kuznetsova 6 March 2014 2.5 years 6 months from the Company or 1 month from individual Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors remuneration The following directors were members of the Remuneration Committee when matters relating to the directors remuneration for the year were being considered: Ms R Markland Chair Mr D Hall Mr D H Brydon Mr J Howell Mr N Berkett Ms I Kuznetsova The Committee received assistance from Mr R Drury Group Human Resources Director, Ms R Fyffe former Director of Performance and Reward and Mr M J Robinson Company Secretary and other members of management, who may attend meetings by invitation, except when matters relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
External advisers The Remuneration Committee continues to receive advice from Deloitte, an independent firm of remuneration consultants appointed by the Committee after consultation with the Board.
During the year, Deloittes executive compensation advisory practice advised the Committee on developments in market practice, corporate governance, institutional investor views and in the development of the Companys incentive arrangements.
Total fees for advice provided to the Committee during the year were 60,450.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice they have received has been objective and independent.
Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its Code in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Other parts of Deloitte have provided tax advice, specific corporate finance support in the context of merger and acquisition activity and unrelated corporate advisory services.
Statement of shareholding voting The table below sets out the results of the vote on the Remuneration report and the Remuneration policy respectively at the 2014 AGM: Votes for Votes against Number % Number % Votes cast Votes withheld Remuneration report 795,851,111 96.20% 31,404,471 3.80% 827,255,582 2,134,887 Remuneration policy 778,225,813 94.98% 41,157,395 5.02% 819,383,208 10,007,261 Ruth Markland Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 3December 2014 92 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors report The directors present their report together with the audited consolidated Going concern financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2014.
The following statement has been included in accordance with the Listing Rules: Based on normal business planning and control The Annual Report & Accounts contains statements that are not based procedures, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the on current or historical fact and are forward-looking in nature.
"Please Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue refer to the ""Disclaimer"" on page 97. in operational existence for the foreseeable future."
For this reason, Strategic report the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The information that fulfils the reporting requirements relating to the following matters can be found on the following pages of the Research and development Strategic report: During the year, we invested131m 2013: 145m in research Subject matter Page and development.
Important events 47 Financial and operating review in the since the year-end Strategic report Political donations Future developments 10 Performance review in the Strategic report No political donations were made in the year.
"Greenhouse gas 55 Environment section of the Directors and their interests emissions Strategic report A list of directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, their interests in its long-term performance share plan and Corporate governance statement details of their options over the ordinary share capital of the Company The Disclosure and Transparency Rules ""DTR"" require certain information are given in the Directors remuneration report on page 90."
No director to be included in a corporate governance statement in the Directors had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service report.
This information can be found in the Corporate governance report contract or contract for services, with the Company or any of its on pages 61 to 76, which is incorporated into this Directors report by operating companies at any time during the year.
reference and, in the case of the information referred to in DTR 7.2.
The names of all persons who, at any time during the year, were directors of the Company can be found on pages 62 to 63 under Board Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 of Directors and Changes to the Board.
Information on allotments of shares for cash pursuant to the Group As at the date of this report, indemnities which are qualifying third-party employee share schemes can be found on page 144 within the indemnity provisions under the Companies Act 2006 are in place notes to the Group financial statements.
under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors of the Company and the former directors of the Company who held office during Results and dividends the year ended 30 September 2014, to the extent permitted by law and The results for the year are set out on page 104.
Full details of the by the Companys articles of association, in respect of all liabilities incurred proposed final dividend payment for the year ended 30 September in connection with the performance of their duties as a director of the 2014 are set out on page 149.
The Board is proposing a final dividend Company or its subsidiaries.
Copies of these indemnities are available of 8.00p per share following the payment of an interim dividend of for review at the Companys registered office.
The proposed total dividend for the year is therefore 12.12p per share.
Employment policy The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their respective aptitudes and abilities.
The policy includes, where practicable, the continued employment of those who may become disabled during their employment and the provision of training and career development and promotion, where appropriate.
The Group has continued its policy of employee involvement by making information available to employees on matters of concern to them.
Employees regularly receive updates on the financial and economic factors affecting the Group from both central and local management.
Many employees are stakeholders in the Company through participation in share option schemes and a long-term performance share plan.
Further details of employment policies are given on pages51 to 54.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 93 Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings Liquidation At 30 September 2014, the Company had been notified, in accordance If the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator may, with the authority with the DTRs, of the following interests in its ordinary share capital: of a special resolution of the Company and any other authority required by the statutes as defined in the articles of association : Name Ordinary shares % of capital Nature of holding Aberdeen Asset Divide among the members in specie the whole or any part of the Managers 61,706,538 5.62 Indirect assets of the Company: or Schroders plc 55,221,546 5.02 Indirect Vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts Aviva plc 50,389,626 4.59 Direct and indirect for the benefit of members as the liquidator, with the like authority, shall think fit In the period from 30 September 2014 to 27 November 2014, we received no further notifications.
Information provided to the Company under the Transfer of shares DTRs is publically available via the regulatory information service and on the Subject to the articles of association, any member may transfer all or any Company website.
of his or her certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual Share capital form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion, decline to register any instrument of transfer The Companys share capital is as set out on page 144.
The Company of a certificated share which is not a fully paid share although not so as has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares 4 to prevent dealings in shares taking place on an open and proper basis of 1 p each.
77 or on which the Company has a lien.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share Voting unless the instrument of transfer is: i left at the office, or at such other In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the place as the Board may decide, for registration: and ii accompanied by articles of association and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting the certificate for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence attached to any class of shares in the Company of which there are none : if any as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the intending transferor or his or her right to transfer the shares.
On a show of hands, a qualifying person being an individual who is a member of the Company, a person authorised to act as the The Board may permit any class of shares in the Company to be held representative of a corporation or a person appointed as a proxy in uncertificated form and, subject to the articles of association, title to of a member shall have one vote, except that a proxy has one uncertificated shares to be transferred by means of a relevant system vote for and one vote against a resolution if the proxy has been and may revoke any such permission.
Registration of a transfer of an appointed by more than one member and has been given conflicting uncertificated share may be refused where permitted by the statutes voting instructions by those members, or has been given discretion as defined in the articles of association.
as to how to vote Repurchase of shares On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last Annual General shall have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder Meeting 6 March 2014 to buy back up to 109,710,822 ordinary shares.
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class The minimum price which must be paid for each ordinary share is its meeting in respect of any shares held by him or her if any call or other nominal value and the maximum price is the higher of 105% of the sum then payable by him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business Deadlines for voting rights days immediately before the purchase is made and the amount stipulated Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the by article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting to be held case exclusive of expenses.
on 3 March 2015 will be set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
In the year under review, the Company repurchased a total of24,206,805 4 ordinary sharesof 1 p each at prices between 312.3p and 399.0p per 77 Dividends and distributions share.
The aggregate amount of consideration paid was 90m.
Following Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may, repurchase, these shares were held in treasury.
The rationale for these by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the members, share repurchases is referred to on page 35 in the Strategic report.
The but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
movement in earnings per share comprises profit growth and a change in the weighted average share base as a result of share repurchases, the The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, impact of which is as follows: whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid Underlying pro-rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
% chg basic EPS 2013 20.98 Due to change in underlying profit after tax 1.3% 0.27 Due to change in weighted average share base 6.9% 1.44 2014 8.2% 22.69 94 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In the year under reviewnotreasury shares were cancelled.
Powers of the directors On 30 September 2014, the Company appointed Citigroup Global The business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may Markets Ltd Citi to manage an irrevocable buyback programme during exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the the close period which commenced on 1 October 2014 and will run up Companys articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and any to 3 December 2014.
From 1 October 2014 to27 November 2014, the ordinary resolution of the Company.
last practicable date prior to publication of the Annual Report & Accounts, 4 3,457,020 ordinary shares of 1 p each were repurchased through Citi 77 Shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust at a weighted average price of 363.8p per share.
The highest and lowest The trustee of The Sage Group plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT has prices paid for these shares were 390.7p per share and 347.0p per share agreed not to vote any shares held in the EBT at any general meeting.
The purchased shares have not been cancelled and are held If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire their shares the trustee will as treasury shares.
These shares represent 0.3% of the issued share not be obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares which capital.
The total number of ordinary shares in issue excluding shares are at that time subject to subsisting awards, but will have regard to the held as treasury shares at27 November 2014 is 1,076,443,965. interests of the award holders and will have power to consult them to obtain their views on the offer.
Subject to the above the trustee may take Amendment of the Companys articles of association the action with respect to the offer it thinks fair.
Any amendments to the Companys articles of association may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of Significant agreements special resolution.
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a Appointment and replacement of directors change of control of the Company: Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 15 in number.
Under a dual tranche US$551 million and 218 million five-year Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement dated 26 June by the Board.
A director appointed by the Board holds office only until 2014 between, amongst others, the Company and Lloyds Bank plc the next Annual General Meeting and is then eligible for election by the as facility agent, on a change of control, if any individual lender so shareholders.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more requires and after having consulted with the Company in good faith directors to hold employment or executive office for such period subject for not less than 30 days following the change of control, the facility to the Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may determine agent shall, by not less than 10 business days notice to the and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Company, cancel the commitment of that lender and declare Under the articles of association, at every Annual General Meeting of the the participation of that lender in all outstanding loans, together Company, every director shall retire from office but shall be eligible for with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued under the election or re-election by the shareholders.
The Company may by special finance documents, immediately due and payable, whereupon resolution or by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been the commitment of that lender will be cancelled and all such given remove and the Board, by unanimous decision, may remove any outstanding amounts will become immediately due and payable director before the expiration of his or her term of office.
The office of Under a note purchase agreement dated 11 March 2010 relating director shall be vacated if: i he or she resigns: ii he or she has become to US$200 million senior notes, Series A, due 11 March 2015, physically or mentally incapable of acting as a director and may remain so US$50 million senior notes, Series B, due 11 March 2016 and for more than three months, or by reason of his or her mental health a US$50 million senior notes, Series C, due 11 March 2017 between court has made an order that prevents the director from acting and, in the Company and the note holders, on a change of control, the either case, the Board resolves that his or her office is vacated: iii he or Company will not take any action that consummates or finalises a she is absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board change of control unless at least 15 business days prior to such for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his or her office is action it shall have given to each holder of notes written notice vacated: iv he or she becomes bankrupt or makes an arrangement or containing and constituting an offer to prepay all notes on a date composition with his or her creditors generally: v he or she is prohibited specified in such offer which shall be a business day occurring by law from being a director: or vi he or she is removed from office subsequent to the effective date of the change of control which is pursuant to the articles of association.
not less than 30 days or more than 60 days after the date of the notice of prepayments.
Where a holder of notes accepts the offer to prepay, the prepayment shall be 100% of the principal amount of the notes together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon and shall be made on the proposed prepayment date.
No prepayment under a change of control shall include any premium of any kind The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 95 Directors report continued Under a note purchase agreement dated 20 May 2013 Group has no significant concentration of operational credit risk, relating to US$50 million senior notes, Series D, due 20 May with the exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and 2018, US$150 million senior notes, Series E, due 20 May 2020, customers.
Continued strong credit control ensured that in the year US$150 million senior notes, Series F, due 20 May 2023 and ended 30 September 2014 the Group did not see deterioration in US$50 million senior notes, Series G, due 20 May 2025 between days sales outstanding.
Sage Treasury Company Ltd and the note holders and guaranteed The credit risk on liquid funds is considered to be low, as the Boardby the Company, on a change of control of the Company, the approved Group treasury policy limits the value that can be invested Company will not take any action that consummates or finalises with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
a change of control unless at least 15 business days prior to All counterparties must meet minimum credit rating requirements.
such action it shall have given to each holder of notes written notice containing and constituting an offer to prepay all notes Interest rate risk on a date specified in such offer which shall be a business day The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on floating rate deposits and occurring subsequent to the effective date of the change of borrowings.
The US private placement loan notes, which comprise 80% control which is not less than 30 days or more than 60 days after of borrowings, are at fixed interest rates and bank debt, which comprises the date of the notice of prepayments.
Where a holder of notes 20% of borrowings, are at floating interest rates.
At 30 September 2014, accepts the offer to prepay, the prepayment shall be 100% of the Group had 145m of cash and cash equivalents.
the principal amount of the notes together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon and shall be made on the proposed The Group regularly reviews forecast debt, cash and cash equivalents prepayment date.
No prepayment under a change of control and interest rates to monitor this risk.
Interest rates on debt and deposits shall include any premium of any kind are fixed when management decides this is appropriate.
At 30 September 2014, the Groups principal borrowings comprised US private placement Under the terms of all three agreements, a change of control occurs loan notes of 432m 2013: 432m, which have an average fixed interest if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of rate of 3.88%, and bank debt of 111m 2013: 10m, which has an the Company.
average floating interest rate of 1.21%.
An explanation of this increase Financial risk management is on page 46 of the Financial and operating review.
The Groups exposure to and management of capital, liquidity, Foreign currency risk credit, interest rate and foreign currency risk are summarised below.
Although a substantial proportion of the Groups revenue and profit is Capital risk earned outside the UK, operating companies generally only trade in their own currency.
The Group is therefore not subject to any significant foreign The Groups objectives when managing capital defined as net debt plus exchange transactional exposure within these subsidiaries.
The Groups equity are to safeguard our ability to continue as a going concern in order principal exposure to foreign currency, therefore, lies in the translation of to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, overseas profits into sterling.
while optimising return to shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.
The Group manages its capital structure and This exposure is partly hedged to the extent that these profits are offset makes adjustments to it with respect to changes in economic conditions by interest charges in the same currency arising from the financing of and our strategic objectives.
The Group has set a long-term minimum the investment cost of overseas acquisitions by borrowings in the same leverage target of 1x net debt to EBITDA and will work to maintain this currency.
The Group is also exposed to a foreign exchange transaction going forward.
exposure from the conversion of surplus cash generated by its principal overseas subsidiaries, which would be hedged where appropriate.
Liquidity risk The Groups US Dollar denominated borrowings are designated as The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by reviewing cash a hedge of the net investment in its subsidiaries in the US.
The foreign resources required to meet business objectives through both short and exchange movements on translation of the borrowings into Sterling have long-term cash flow forecasts.
The Company has committed facilities been recognised in the translation reserve.
The Groups other currency which are available to be drawn for general corporate purposes including exposures comprise only those exposures that give rise to net currency working capital.
The Treasury function has a policy of optimising the level gains and losses to be recognised in the income statement.
Such of cash in the businesses in order to minimise external borrowings.
exposures reflect the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that Credit risk are not denominated in the operating or functional currency of the entity involved.
At 30 September 2013 and 30 September 2014, The Groups credit risk primarily arises from trade and other receivables.
these exposures were immaterial to the Group.
The Group has a very low operational credit risk due to the transactions being principally of a high volume, low value and short maturity.
The 96 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
