Our business model What we do...
Growing economies rely on successful SME businesses.
Were committed to helping them achieve this success by being their most trusted supporter.
Weve been dedicated to the success of SME businesses Our commitment to supporting our customers in this way, for over 30 years through the provision of localised products where we look to maintain ongoing and active relationships and services that help our customers to run their businesses with them, differentiates us from other software vendors.
It also means weve built a strong base of recurring revenue Our support offering is a key strength and is highly valued that underpins 73% of our total revenue, which is derived because it gives our customers somewhere to turn if they from 1.8 million support, subscription and payments have a technical problem, an accounting question or when relationships that we have with customers across the world.
theyre affected by legislative changes.
Ultimately, we have the resources, vision and resilience to be there for our customers over the long term as their businesses grow.
Key inputs to our business model Talented people Trusted brand Market insight Resource allocation Local knowledge We rely on the The Sage brand is Our focus on the Our approach to how Our skill at localising our flair, commitment and synonymous with SME market means we deploy our R&D solutions has allowed us collaboration of 12,975 supporting SMEs.
we have developed and S&M resources is to contend with a range employees around By striving to be our a deep understanding governed by where we of different legislative the world.
customers greatest of what is important to see our best opportunities environments across supporter, we remain small businesses.
Value created Shareholder returns Society Group organic Employees Resource allocation operating profit Dividends and Tax paid in the year Wages and salaries Investment in R&D share repurchases Representing a and S&M margin of 27.5% 217m 107m 360m 617m 417m Decrease of 62% Decrease of 10% Increase of 7% Decrease of 1% Increase in spend of 17% on Invest products Research and development.
The decrease is due to the payment of a special dividend of 199m last year alongside an increased rate of share repurchasing as we worked towards meeting our net debt to EBITDA target ratio of 1x, which we met in June 2013.
The total ordinary dividend per share has increased by 7% to 12.12p this year.
The underlying effective tax rate has fallen this year to 27% as a result of a change in the mix of tax rates that we are exposed to across the globe.
For more information on our tax policies, turn to the Financial and operating review starting on page 44.
12 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Activate Retain how we create value Key activities Routes to market R&D Direct S&M Accountant partners Support Business partners and resellers Our strategy sits at the heart of our business model and dictates how we respond to the changes taking place Group organic in the markets we serve.
revenue Read more about our strategy 5% organic growth and how it links to our business model on pages 24 to 35.
1,306m 73% recurring in nature Open to read more about the key elements of our business model.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 13 Attract Grow
