What we do Our products and services Our software is solving real business problems and harnessing the benefits of new technology, whilst remaining simple, efficient and a pleasure to use.
However, Sage is about much more than just software.
We take the lead in foreseeing the implications of changes that will impact SME businesses, particularly in relation to new legislation, and use this understanding to deliver training and support to our customers that instils them with greater confidence.
"Core products Accounting HR and payroll ERP Our accounting software gives our Our HR and payroll solutions Our Enterprise Resource customers total control over their are simple, secure and efficient, Planning ""ERP"" solutions are finances, invoicing and stock, and helping our customers to remain designed to help customers provides clear visibility over their compliant and pay their employees streamline, consolidate and profits, cash and financial position."
rationalise their business operations and processes.
Connected services Payments CRM Mobility Business intelligence Our payments businesses let our Our integrated CRM software Our mobile applications give our Our business intelligence customers take payments through helps our customers to maintain customers access to their data solutions are helping customers their websites, in person using more productive relationships anywhere and anytime, helping overcome data complexity a card reader, or directly from with their customers.
This helps them to stay in touch with every and obtain greater insight into electronic invoices.
to drive repeat business and more aspect of their business.
their business so that they can effective up-selling.
Our focus on integrating payments into our core accounting and ERP software means these transactions are recorded automatically into our customers systems, saving them time and reducing the risk of error.
Support We are in regular contact with our customers over the telephone or online.
We have over 30,000 conversations with them each day legislation comes into effect, to help our customers when on topics ranging from accounting queries and advice on they need us most.
new legislation, to technical aspects of our software.
Turn to page 18 to hear more from the people who help We also expand our support services during periods of peak our customers every day.
activity, such as during the tax filing season or when new 6 6 The Sage Gr The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 oup plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our markets Each of our segments has different characteristics and requirements, which provides us with a range of opportunities to bring great products and services to our customers.
Our annual Sage Business Index survey helps us remain close to what matters most to SMEs across the globe by gauging their level of business confidence.
Almost 14,000 respondents now take part in the survey, and you can read more about this years findings at www.
Start-up and small businesses SSB Small to medium sized businesses SMB Mid-market businesses 0-20 10-200 100-500 employees employees employees 68% 18% 3% of total of total of total customer base customer base customer base 30% 16% of Group of Group revenue revenue 34% of Group revenue Remainder derived from payments and accountants.
Routes to market Direct Accountant partners Business partners and resellers We sell direct to customers in most of Accountants buy software from us to We benefit from a network of around 7 our major markets via local websites, help them run their practices, and over 20,000 business partners, who act as an over the telephone and through specialist 48,500 accountant partners also recommend important reseller channel and also provide field-sales teams.
our products and services to their clients.
installation, training and support services to businesses with more complex needs.
The Sage Gr The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 oup plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 7 7
