Meeting customer needs continued Subscription Greater flexibility through subscription Subscription provides our customers with control and visibility over their cash flow.
Locamont 2M, France, using Sage Ciel Ultraflex As a family run business, it is important to owner When discussing Sage Ciel Flexs cloud features, Linked customer Patricia Baldy that she is contactable not only in which are only available on subscription, Patricia demand drivers: the office but from home on an evening, during is quick to allay any fears around security by saying, Peace of mind weekends and over holiday periods.
She explains, In the past I wasnt that disciplined in backing up around legislative We run a haulage company so it is not unusual for my data regularly I didnt have the time.
Since compliance customers to call very late in the day to book a last moving some of our software to the cloud I have Control to minute job.
I need to be on hand to speak to them, no concerns about the safety of our documents.
achieve success and grow fill out the required paperwork and pass their details I also like the fact I can go to my accountant with on to the staff that will be on the ground moving just a laptop and make any changes that I need More efficient working them, sometimes the next day.
to there and then without having to carry hard copies of everything.
Locamont 2M currently employs a team of five people based out of their office in Vitrolles, South The company is also utilising some of the mobile of France.
Patricia has used Ciel products for a apps that are offered as part of the subscription.
number of years after being introduced to using Patricia continues, I use the apps that help us the software as part of her accountancy training.
to plan being able to forward plan is critical to Initially attracted by the products simplicity and the future of our business and I find being able to ease of use, she has recently taken the decision access them through my phone very useful.
to pay by subscription as part of the Ultraflex package, adding, I like the fact that I know how much we are spending on our software month-on-month and can budget accordingly.
9m 60% Annualised value of Sage Ciel Flex subscription Sage Ciel Flex customers have chosen Ultraflex, contract base at 30 September 2014 the highest tier available Turn to pages 26 to 28 to read about why subscription is such an important part of our strategy.
22 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 www.
com The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 23 y t i n u t r s n o s o p e i p t n p o i i r s y c s g u b o b u l s o r f n u Our strategy On track to meet our financial targets Our strategy is helping us to respond to the changes taking place in the markets we serve in a way that leverages the strengths of our business model.
Our strategy is the driving force behind our commitment to doubling our long-term historic average organic revenue growth rate from 3% to 6% by the end of our 2015 financial year.
We are also committed to delivering an increase in organic operating profit margin of 100bps to 28% over the same period.
Description The benefits of subscription Were focused on transitioning our business model away from selling software on a perpetual licence and towards providing a holistic range of products and services to our customers on subscription.
Capturing the technology opportunity Technology and the cloud are offering us the chance to bring a new range of value propositions to our customers, which holds the key to a number of commercial benefits that can help us to drive higher growth.
Focusing our business Through greater focus on our best opportunities for success, working together Rigorous across the world in a more collaborative resource way and by setting priorities globally, we can better exploit our strengths.
and capital allocation Rigorous resource and capital allocation With our consistent, strong cash flows, we retain considerable financial flexibility.
Our main strategic priority remains an acceleration of growth, both organically and through targeted acquisitions, and we are investing in support of that aim.
24 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 o h o s c t i g e f t e n n i e s e h u b t c e g h o n T i F r u t p a C Strategic report Governance Financial statements Performance Associated KPIs Associated risks Software subscription is the primary driver of organic Organic annualised value of  revenue growth this year.
We now have over 450,000 the software subscriber base of business software subscription contracts that have an annualised Risks associated with value of 220m.
Sage Ciel Flex and Sage 100 i7 in change management France, and Sage 50 Payroll in the UK, have all delivered Inadequate processes good subscription growth this year and are some of the and systems best examples of our subscription drivers in action.
Weve continued to deliver on our technology roadmap this Adoption of Sage One Loss of data year.
Sage One is now live in 10 countries, our cloud ERP Adoption of hybrid cloud Unavailability of online solutions solutions for SMB business are all commercially available Sage ERP X3 organic Loss of source code and and Sage ERP X3 version 7 is now live with an online offering revenue growth intellectual property announced.
Weve also started to release modernised Integration ofpayments Issues with traditional products versions of some of our other leading on-premise products so that we can deliver a cloud-enriched experience to many more of our customers.
"We have continued to reallocate investment towards Research and Inability to attract skills our best opportunities for future growth and increased development reallocation and resources profitability, which has driven a 17% increase in R&D and Sales and marketing reallocation Poor resource allocation S&M expenditure on products categorised as ""Invest""."
Inadequate processes and systems This year we have increased the total ordinary dividend by Net debt to EBITDA ratio Poor resource allocation 7% to 12.12p.
We have returned 91m to shareholders Interest cover Inadequate processes through share repurchases as part of maintaining our and systems 1x net debt to EBITDA target ratio.
We also made two material acquisitions in Germany and the US for a combined consideration of around 110m.
Based on prevailing exchange rates at the time of announcement.
Turn to pages 36 and 37 Turn to pages 42 and 43 for for our strategic KPIs.
a list of our principal risks and mitigations.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 25 Our strategy continued The benefits of subscription Subscription is changing the nature of software purchasing, with customers electing to pay an ongoing fee in return for a service, rather than just a product.
A fundamental change for Sage The financial impact on Sage Software subscription represents a fundamental change There have been a number of market communications in for Sage because weve historicallysold our products recent years from other software vendors where they expect predominantly through perpetual licensing, where customers to suffer a short-term dip in revenue as they transition their pay once up-front and own their software forever.
This is the result of subscription revenue being recognisable over time, whereas perpetual Were currently driving a measured transition to subscription.
licence revenue is typicallyrecognised up-front.
This builds on our strong existing recurring revenue base, which is underpinned by our maintenance and support We are well-placed to mitigate the likelihood and extent offering and represents 73% of total revenue.
In particular, we are in a position of strength with 73%of revenue alreadyrecurring in nature, the majority Software subscription driving growth of which would not be displaced by subscription.
The We have over 450,000software subscription relationships, continuing availabilityof perpetual licensing alsocreates which means we already have an established subscription a portfolio effect so that the impact of any revenue base in our business.
However, the emphasis on subscription is increasing as cloud Subscription growth drivers technology and greater customer acceptance are driving There are alsoa number of other important subscription acceleration in the rate of adoption.
For example, this year drivers available to us, several of which help us togenerate weve seen a 29% increase in the organic annualised value incrementally new revenue.
of the software subscriber base to 220m.
"These drivers include attracting new types of customer Subscription and usage-based services such as payments, to Sage who are looking to pay on subscription, reactivating which we refer to as ""pay-to-play"", now represent 26%of existing customers who are not on another type of recurring our total revenue and were the biggest contributor to organic contract with us, and increasing subscription adoption revenue growth this year."
amongst existing customers more generally through up-selling and cross-selling a broader range of  and our business model based products andservices.
Subscription is an important strategic priority, particularly as it offers us a range of ways to accelerate growth.
More active relationships through subscription A key principle of our business model is that we wantto have active and ongoing relationships with our customers.
Active relationships are important because they help us to bettersupport our customers and grow the range of services they take from us because we are better able to anticipate their needs.
Split of revenue by type Organic annualised Historically, weve focused on doing this through our value of software support and payments offerings, which has helped us subscriber base to build over one million support-only relationships and m over200,000 payments relationships.
220 We are focused on both thetransition ofthisexisting 29% contract base to software subscription, and alsoon 26% establishing active relationships with customers who dont 170 Pay-to-play have a support or payments contract by encouraging them revenue to move to subscription for their core software product.
Dual model approach Even though we arefocused on transitioning customers to subscription, retaining their business and ensuring SSRS 27% theyre satisfied is always of paramount importance.
Maintenance and support 47% Software subscription 16% This is why were driving a measured transition where Payments 8% perpetual licensing remains available alongside subscription, 2013 2014 which preserves our customers ability to choose and Non-software subscription 2% gives them the flexibility to move when theyre ready.
26 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Subscription growth drivers Grow Cross-selling Building on over 450,000existing software Were able to maintain a much more intimate relationship with a subscription customer, which means we can anticipate and subscription contracts be more attentive to their needs.
Attract New types of customer This can help to increase our effectiveness at cross-selling other relevant products and services because we can be more targeted Activate Reactivation of off-plan customers in our approach.
Our connected services strategy is providing us with the platform Grow Cross-selling and greater lifetime value to drive this cross-sell and increase our share of wallet.
Retain Greater customer loyalty Greater lifetime value Subscription customers pay on an ongoing basis for as long as they require the use of their software and are entitled to receive Attract all future upgrades to their product.
The value of a subscription New types of customer relationship is therefore greater than that of a perpetual licence Subscription is making it easier for new types of businesses over its lifetime.
to become Sage customers because the up-front cost barrier This makes subscription a much higher-value revenue stream to ownership is lowered.
over the long term that gives us greater visibility and certainty For example, many start-ups have historically run their business over our future revenue potential.
on spreadsheets until they grew big enough to justify the cost of Lifetime value growth is the primary opportunity we have with a software package.
However, SaaS technology and subscription ourexisting on-plan customers, particularly as they are already pricing have combined to create a new market for simple and active and are paying to take additional services from us.
Technology-driven added-value features and intelligently priced Were addressing thisimportant new opportunity with Sage One, product and service bundles are providing these customers our global SaaS solution, which attracted 51,000new paying with reasons to swap their support contract for a software subscriptions this year.
Activate Retain Reactivatingoff-plan customers Greater customer loyalty There are millions of businesses who use our software, Perpetual licence customers typically buy software in multi-year and many also maintain some form of ongoing contract with cycles.
In the intervening yearswe may not have frequent us for additional services such as payments or support.
contact with these customers, unless they also have a support relationship with us, so making them aware of upgrades or Subscription offers us the chance to engage with customers other relevant products and services is more difficult.
who dont have one of these contracts, which we refer to as off-plan customers.
Subscription changes the dynamics of the relationship because there is no multi-year buying cycle, customers are entitled to These customers require a catalyst to move onto a recurring all upgrades as soon as they are available, and were able to software subscription contract with us, and our cloud technology work much more closely with them to ensure theyre satisfied.
initiatives are providing compelling reasons to move.
This reduces the likelihood a customer might be tempted to switch because their needs are being met.
Most importantly, were able to drive subscription adoption across the majority of ourcustomer base because were committed to Software subscription has very high rates of renewal as a result bringing cloud-based connected services to all of our customers, we see renewal rates of around 90% by volume.
This compares even where they choose to keep their core system on-premise.
to renewal rates on support contracts of around 80%.
Retaining our customers is incredibly important because we want them to Activating off-plan customers through subscription is a significant be satisfied so that we preserve the long-term revenue potential growth opportunity because it is immediately revenue-enhancing contained within our installed base.
and does not displace any existing revenue streams.
Turn to pages 12 and 13 to read more about our business model.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 27 Our strategy continued The benefits of subscription continued Progress this year Whilst subscription is fuelling growth across a range of different products in a number of countries, Turn to pages 36 and there are three stand-out performers this year that are good examplesof the subscription drivers in action: 37to view our strategic Sage Ciel Flex in France KPI progress.
Sage 100 i7 in France KPIs used to measure progress Sage 50 Payroll in the UK in this cornerstone: Sage Ciel Flex Organic annualised value of the software Our subscription contract base for Sage Ciel Flex, an accounting and payroll product aimed at subscriber base SSB businesses in France, was approximately 9m at the end of September 2014.
Over 60% of customers have chosen to subscribe to SageCiel Ultraflex, which is the highest tier of the Sage Ciel Flex offering andincludes premium features, cloud functionality and mobility.
Whilst Sage Ciel Flex has been successful in driving growth in new customer acquisition and existing customer migrations, it is also a great example of off-plan customer reactivation.
For example, approximately 50% of revenue from contracts secured this year was derived from customers who were previously not on a recurring support plan.
These customers are typically sensitive to price, so they needcompelling reasons to move away from what they already have.
However, our focus on providing value-adding features that increaseefficiency and ensure customers are legislatively compliant is encouraging many of them to move to subscription.
Turn to page22 Sage 100 i7 to hear from a Sage Ciel Flex customer.
Sage 100 i7 is aimed at SMB businesses in France, is only available on subscription and has now been a driver of upgrade activity in the French installed base for several consecutive reporting periods.
It offers a major user interface upgrade, can be accessed through a web browser and incorporates business intelligence and spreadsheet integration capabilities.
We also launched Sage 100 i7 Payroll during the year, which has helped to sustain upgrade activity into the second half.
At the end of September 2014, the annualised value of our Sage 100 i7 ERP and payroll subscription contract base was over 16m.
This represents penetration of around 30% of the entire Sage 100 customer base, which is an increase from 14% at the end of last year.
Sage 100 i7 is either available on a subscription-only contractor a lower-priced subscription contract together with an up-front fee, with the majority of customers choosing the latter option.
These fees are helping us to smooth the impact our subscription transition is having on our SSRS revenue base.
Turn to the fold-out Sage 50 Payroll on page13to read about the difference New legislation requiring all employees to be enrolled in a company pension scheme is affecting many between SSRS and SME businesses in the UK.
Our new auto-enrolment pension module, a connected servicethat integrates recurring revenue.
with Sage 50 Payroll, is helping our customers to comply with the new requirements.
The auto-enrolment module is only available on subscription and is supported on the latest version of Sage 50 Payroll.
However, as part of our measured transition, Sage 50 Payroll customers can retain their existing perpetual licence for the core product so they dont have to move to subscription completely if theyre not yet ready.
At the end of September 2014, the annualised vaue of our auto-enrolment subscription contract base was approximately 8m.
This represents a penetration rate of over 60% amongst customers who were required to comply this year.
28 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Capturing the technology opportunity Sage has a passion for technology innovation that is purposefully applied.
The right technology for our customers, powered by the cloud Were providing relevant cloud solutions to both new and existing customers across our segments.
We know that moving straight to the cloud is a great option for some businesses.
For others, they need to weigh moving to the cloud against other things that are important, including preserving existing infrastructure, maintaining control of systems and data, obtaining peace of mind around security and retaining the ability to customise.
Core system Connected services Or Mobile applications Third-party applications On-premise Cloud We want to deliver the power of the cloud to all our customers, regardless of how they deploy their core system.
Amazing cross-device experiences Our technology vision People are no longer confined to a desktop computer Choice of deployment when they work.
We want them to be able to roam We want businesses to be able to choose how they deploy seamlessly between different devices and achieve the same their core system either in the cloud or on-premise so things on a smartphone or tablet as they would on their PC.
that they can make a progressive transition without having to compromise or face significant disruption.
Choice of deployment through flexible architecture Data liberation We want businesses to have anytime, anywhere access Were providing flexibility so that customers can transition to their data regardless of their deployment choice, whether to the cloud in a way that is comfortable for them and that that is in the cloud or on-premise.
recognises their needs will change over time.
"More users and greater collaboration Our deployment choices fall into three categories: Through data liberation we want a broader range of users  ""SaaS"" cloud to be engaged with business information that is available Connected on-premise to them in real time, which will empower themto be more effective."
Cloud ERP Weve considered the technological merits of these Data and process intelligence deployment choices in the context of the needs of We want to make business data work harder by driving SME businessesto deliver a range of targeted solutions.
deeper insight, and through intelligent business process automation.
We believe customers should spend more time on running their business and less time on data manipulation and processing.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 29 Our strategy continued Capturing the technology opportunity continued SaaS cloud The power of connected services SaaS solutions are delivered through an internet browser, are Connected services allow us to separate features and available on subscription and are easy to use and maintain.
functionality from the core system and deliver them as smaller applications.
This heralds a move away from annual Start-ups, in particular, typically want to go straight to a SaaS release cycles and core applications that have perhaps cloud solution because they have no existing infrastructure, become big and bloated over time as they have evolved.
have relatively straightforward needs and want to get started quickly.
Customers purchase these services as additional bolt-ons to their core product, which provides them with greater Our global SaaS solution designed for start-up and small flexibility and is more cost-effective because they dont have businesses is Sage One.
to pay for features they dont use.
This invariably involves Sage One alsosimplifies bookkeeping, accounting and establishing a subscription relationship with us, and you payroll, which makes it much more accessible to ownercanread more about subscription on pages 26 to 28. managers who often arent accountants and dont have Most importantly, our technology architecture gives all our financial expertise.
customers the chance to benefit from connected services, Connected on-premise whether theyre running their business in the cloud or Many established businesses have existing on-premise on-premise.
systems that work well and on which their employees Were able to add significant value through tight integration of are trained.
They want to move to the cloud in a way that these connected services into the core system because we doesnt require them to dispose of what they already have make the whole suite.
or that leads to significant disruption.
Our key connected services On-premise software also continues to offer the greatest level of control and functional richness, and customers dont want Mobility to give up some of those features so they can benefit from Our mobile applications are bringing tailored user interface experiences to the cloud.
For example, field-based salespeople and engineers are benefiting from our mobile sales, billing and payments applications Were delivering the best of both worlds to our customers because they can be more productive whilst theyre on the road.
by modernising our existing on-premise products and liberating the data that is contained within our customers Weve also launched smartphone companion applications for our small systems.
Were using this data to enrich the desktop business solutions including Sage One, so owner-managers can create experience with connected services, cloud collaboration and edit business data even whilst theyre away from the office.
CRM Weve already started rolling out some of these capabilities Our CRM solutions provide new ways to interact with customers, in the UK with Sage 50, in Spain with Sage Contaplus and particularlybytaking advantage of social media and the latest mobile solutions.
in North America with the Sage Data Cloud.
We are focused on providing CRM solutions that are integrated with our Cloud ERP ERP products because this helpsour customers benefit from increased For our SMB and mid-market customers who are ready efficiency and productivity by gaining a single, customer-centric view across to migrate to the cloud, weve developed a range of cloud their business.
ERP solutions that allow them to make the transition easily Integrated payments and with the minimum of disruption.
Our integrated payments solutions seamlessly record receipted payments Cloud ERP solutions can offerour customers the option information into our customers core system, saving them time and ofoutsourcingtheir IT infrastructure, which can save them reducing the risk of error.
Our Sage Exchange technology in North money and means they no longer have to think about America alsoprovides customers with a holistic overview of their entire maintaining and replacing their own equipment.
payments ecosystem from all sources, whether they be online or card machine transactions.
As businesses grow, their system scales easily and they only need to pay for the extra capacity they need.
Business intelligence These solutions also preservesome of the benefits of Our business intelligence solutions are improving business decision making.
on-premise software, particularly around control over data, Theyre helping our customers overcome data complexity so that they have customisation and compatibility with third-party applications.
better insight into what is happening in their business.
30 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our cloud solutions Commercial opportunities for Sage Sage One The technology changes were delivering give us a range of opportunities to drive higher growth across the four key Sage One currently comes in five versions: Cashbook, elements of our business model: 86,000 Accounts, Payroll, Accountant Edition and Accounts Extra.
Sage One paying Cashbook and Accounts are designed to meet the basic subscriptions at Attract needs of start-ups, where the owner-manager is often 30 September 2014 Technology is creating new markets for us to also the bookkeeper.
Payroll simplifies the management serve, particularly amongst start-ups where SaaS of a payroll of up to 15 employees.
Accountant Edition technology is encouraging more of them to move allows accountants to access and edit their clientsdata away from spreadsheets and begin using in the cloud.
We launched Accounts Extra in the UK in October 2013.
Utilising new technology in our products is incredibly It is suitable for slightly larger businesses with a small finance important if we are to attract new customers to Sage team because it handles multiple user accounts, and and live up to their expectations.
This means that supports international trading and multi-company accounting.
constant and purposeful innovation must lie at the The launch of Extra was an important milestone in heart of what we do.
broadening the appeal of Sage One to more established Activate businesses, where price points and user numbers are higher.
When we sell cloud solutions to our customers Hybrid cloud for SMBs were creating a closer and more active relationship Weve completed the launch of cloud versions of our key with them because these products are always sold 1,500 ERP products across our major markets for SMB customers: on a subscription basis.
Hybrid cloud paying Sage 200 Online in the UKI subscriptions at Technology therefore represents an important 30 September 2014 Sage Murano Online in Spain delivery system for subscription.
Sage 300 Online in North America The cloud and our growing range of connected Sage 100 Online in France services are acting as catalysts, where customers Sage Office Online in Germany are willing to move to a subscription relationship with us because of the real added-value they provide.
These products give SMBs a clear migration path to the cloud, whilstretaining a user experience that isfamiliar You can read more about the benefits of subscription and consistentand doesntrequire themtocompromise for ourcustomers starting on page14, and for Sage  and control.
Sage ERP X3 Grow Sage ERP X3 is our global solution for the mid-market.
It is Connected services are helping us to increase 7% available in over100 countries, is supported by 290 business our share of wallet i. e. the average revenue per Sage ERP X3 organic partners and serves the needs of 4,800 customers and revenue growth in customer, because customers are more likely to 228,000 users.
the year ended take several services from us if they can do so in 30 September 2014 Sage ERP X3 version 7, which we released earlier this year, a flexible way by only paying for what they use.
is a major upgrade and a significant technology evolution.
Were also increasing our share of wallet by bringing Version 7 is designed with mobility and web native solutions these services to a broader range of non-financial at its core and sets the foundation for the next generation users by focusing on tailoring the user experience of ERP.
We also announced the planned launch ofSage ERP X3 Online this year, which preserves the customisation benefits Retain that are important to mid-market customers whilst letting Customers are more likely to stay with us if were them move their core system to the cloud.
meeting their needs and they are satisfied with what we do for them.
Our research tells us that when several services are able to work together seamlessly, customer satisfaction increases.
This is why were focusing on the tight integration of connected services with our core products.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 31 Our strategy continued Capturing the technology opportunity continued Progress this year Sage One Turn to pages36 Sage One is now  in 10countries, including recent releases inCanada, Portugal, and 37to view our Switzerland andSouth Africa.
This year we launched the newSage One Accounts Extra edition in the strategic KPI progress.
UK and releasedSage One AccountantEdition in the US.
KPIs used to measure progress Several existing products have also been brought into theSage One family, including: PastelMyBusiness in this cornerstone: Online, PastelMyPayroll Online and VIP Payroll Online in South Africa: E-paie in France:and Einfachlohn Adoption of in Germany.
Sage One The number of paying subscriptions increased almost 150% in 12 months to 86,000, up from 35,000 at Adoption of hybrid cloud the end of September 2013.
In the UKI, where Sage One is currently most established, we were adding Sage ERP X3 organic paying subscriptions at an average rate of 2,300 a month in the second half of the year.
revenue growth Integration The increase in subscriptions wasled by a strong performance in the UKI.
Theuptake of Sage Onein of payments Continental Europe is nascent, which is consistent with the level ofadoption of SaaS accounting in the wider market.
We are seeing promising early traction with Sage One in Canada following this years release, but the level of progress in the US is slow and remains below our expectations.
Hybrid cloud for SMBs The roll-out of our hybrid cloud solutions for SMBs, which are building on our existing flagship SMB products in our major markets, is now complete with the commercial launch of Sage 100 Online in France and Sage 300 Online in the US.
Whilst SME adoption of our hybrid cloud products is emerging, the number of paying subscriptions has doubled in the year to 1,500, with Sage Murano in Spain performing particularly well.
Sage ERP X3 Sage ERP X3 version 7 was launched in May 2014to positive reviews.
We also announcedSage ERP X3 Online, which is a pure cloud solution for our mid-market customers that isdue for commercial launch in 2015.
Sage ERP X3 organic revenue grew 7% in the year, which is below our stated ambition to deliver doubledigit organic revenue growth.
However, Sage ERP X3 continues to perform well outside of France, where it delivered organic revenue growth of20%.
Connected on-premise Sage 50 2015 launched in the UK in August 2014with a completely re-designed user interface.
Alongside Sage Contaplus in Spain, it has also been significantly modernised so that we can deliver a cloud-enriched experience to our on-premise customers.
Sage Drive, which will let customers share data and collaborate in the cloud, went live in October 2014 in Spain and in December 2014 in the UK.
Connected services Sage 50 Payroll in the UK saw a 400% increase in subscription revenue following therelease of aconnected service that helps affected customers deal with new auto-enrolment pension legislation.
We have also launched a range of new smartphone apps, including a companion app for Sage One that lets customers raise invoices on their smartphone.
The number of integrated payments customers also increased 14% to 15,800 during the year, although the performance in North America, in particular, was below our expectations.
Following the incorporation of several existing SaaS products into the Sage One portfolioduring the year, prior year Sage One paying subscriptions have been restated on a like-for-like basis.
Without the restatement, Sage One paying subscriptions at 30 September 2014 were52,600 2013: 22,400.
32 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Focusing our business Working with greater focus has led to a change in how we allocate resources and in the way we collaborate with each other across the globe.
Focusing our business captures a number of initiatives that weve undertaken: Split of total R&D and S&M Change in % spend spend by I:H:S category on Invest products Changing the way we work Streamlining our product portfolio and reallocating 62 investment to our best growth opportunities 57 Transforming our brand 52 52 Changing the way we work Although were executing on our strategic priorities locally, we have defined them globally.
We believe it is the only way to create the right conditions for success: It ensures all of our people are pursuing the same goals in a consistent way It means we make products that can be deployed 2013 2014 2013 2014 globally whilst maintaining our focus on meeting Invest 59% Research and Sales and the local needs of our customers development marketing Harvest 37% It encourages closer working practices and Sunset 4% knowledge sharing across the organisation Streamlining our portfolio and Graph is on an organic basis, excluding acquisitions, disposals and products held reallocating investment for sale.
Reported 2013 Invest percentages We categorise our core products as Invest, Harvest were: R&D 50%: S&M 49%.
and Sunset based on their potential to create value, whether that is through higherrevenue growth or profitability.
We use this categorisation to determine Global Brand Campaign 2014 our investment priorities.
Invest products represent our best current and future In January we launched our first global brand campaign across billboards, growth opportunities and receive more research print, radio and digital media.
The campaign focused on how Sage can and development R&D and sales and marketing put customers in control of their business so they can look forward with S&M investment.
The campaign has been a key milestone in delivering our strategy and connecting the market with a single brand.
We measured prospective Harvest products are mature and deliverhigher margins, customers awareness of Sage and have seen anincrease in global brand and we continue to invest in them appropriately to awareness and familiarity with our product offerings.
Sunset products have lower growth potential and, in most cases, the needs they serve are better met by another product within our portfolio.
These high margin productsare undergoing asunset process where associated investment is being redirected towards our Invest product portfolio.
This rigorous framework for managing the portfolio gives us clearer focus on the strategic drivers that will influence growth in both the near and medium term.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 33
