Our strategy continued Focusing our business continued Progress this year Investment reallocation Turn to pages36 The reallocation of R&D and S&M spend to our best opportunities has continued during the year alongside and 37 to view our an overall organic increase in expenditure in these areas of almost 4%.
62% of total R&D spend 2013: 52% and 57% 2013: 52% of total S&M spend is now directed towards KPIs used to measure progress products categorised as Invest opportunities.
This has resulted in an overall increase in absolute R&D and in this cornerstone: S&M spend on Invest products of 17%.
R&D reallocation Spend on the other categories has fallen as a result, with 35% and 3% of R&D spend, and 39% and 4% S&M reallocation of S&M spend, being directed to Harvest and Sunset products respectively 2013: R&D 41% and 7%: S&M 43% and 5%.
Transforming our brand Much of Sages growth over the last 30 years has been through acquisition as our business has expanded and strengthened its presence across a number of global markets.
However, this resulted in a highly-fragmented brand identity, where customers could relate to local product names but sometimes had never heard of Sage.
A single brand Our brand teams are changing this to strengthen Sages global presence and to make better use of our differentiated market position as the strongest supporter of SME businesses.
One of the biggest initiatives weve undertaken to help us do this was our first global brand campaign that was launched in January 2014.
The campaign incorporated an array of radio, digital, print and billboard advertising across Europe, North America, South Africa and Australia that raised our profile, and there are plans in place to follow up with a second campaign in due course.
Sage Summit 2014 In North America, our annual Sage Summit convention, which washeld in Las Vegas this year, was the biggest ever with over 5,000 customers and partners in attendance.
The focus of the event was to be the centre of a North America-wide conversation about the success of SMEs, the challenges they face and how Sage can help them to grow and thrive.
Attendees were able to hear from successful business people including: Biz Stone, the co-founder of Twitter: Magic Johnson, the former LA Lakers basketball player and now highly-successful businessman: and Jessica Alba, the famous Hollywood actress who has started her own business.
34 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rigorous resource and capital allocation With our consistent, strong cash flowswe have thefinancial strength to support growth.
Our main strategic priority remains an acceleration of growth, both organically and appropriate .
through targeted acquisitions, and we will invest in support of that aim.
This will enable Where the absence of such opportunities leads to a us to support growth of the ordinary dividend, with any surplus capital being returned significant net debt leverage target shortfallwe may also to shareholders from time to time.
consider larger returns of capital to shareholders as we did in June 2013, where we paid a 199m special dividend.
"Our acquisitionstrategy Our approach to acquisitionsis disciplined and we typically require opportunities to: Investment Targeted Demonstrate earnings accretion in year one and R&D acquisitions Deliver a return in excess of our risk-adjusted cost of capital in the medium term We are focused on acquisition opportunities that fall into three broad areas: Rigorous Technology bolt-ons that offer us opportunities to cross-sell into our installed base Through-cycle resource Selected gearing disposals Businesses in existing geographies that strengthen the and capital core offering allocation Businesses in new geographies where we are prepared to wait longer to achieve target returns in exchange for access to higher-growth markets Acquisitions this year Capital returns Sustainable This year we announced two material acquisitions: and progressive dividends Exact Software Deutschland GmbH ""Exact Lohn"" Exact Lohn is a German payroll business previously owned by Exact Holding N. V. This acquisition is transformative for Sages payroll business in Germany."
"PAI Group, Inc. ""PayChoice"" PayChoice is a provider of payroll and HR services for Investment and R&D SMBs in the US."
The acquisition accelerates Sages move Returns to Our approach to investing in our products and services to the cloud in this market by leveraging PayChoices SaaS shareholders is explained in the Focusing our business section on platform for self-service and outsourced payroll.
For more information on these and other acquisition-related 199 Ordinary dividend policy developments, turn to note 15 in the Financial statements starting on page 150.
Our policy is to grow the ordinary dividend progressively, and this year the full year dividend grew 7% to 12.12p per share.
251 Maintaining the leverage target We target anet debt leverage level of around1x our EBITDA, with flexibility to move higher if acquisition opportunities 91 present themselves.
In maintaining our core leverage, we 126 122 adopt aholistic approach to capital management that includes growing theordinary dividend and, where 2013 2014 appropriate, returning surpluscapital to shareholders.
Turn to pages 36 and 37 to view Ordinary dividends our strategic KPI progress.
Capital returns Share repurchases KPIs used to measure progress Special dividends Share repurchase decisions are made against strict price, in this cornerstone: volume and returns criteria that are agreed by the Board and Net debt to EBITDA ratio regularly reviewed.
Share repurchasing gives us the flexibility Interest cover to manage the leverage target when there is an absence of The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 35 Key performance indicators Measuring our progress The measurement of progress in delivering our strategy is important and we track a range of KPIs to measure performance.
Strategic KPIs The benefits Capturing the of subscription technology opportunity Organic annualised Adoption of Sage One Adoption of hybrid cloud Sage ERP X3 organic value of the software revenue growth subscriber base 220m 86,000 1,500 7% 2013: 170m 2013: 35,000 2013: 750 2013: 12% Description The amount of organic software The number of paying The number of paying The percentage increase in subscription revenue recorded subscriptions at the end of subscriptions at the end of the organic revenue derived from in the last month of the year the year for our portfolio of year for hybrid cloud products.
Sage ERP X3 in the year multiplied by 12.
compared to the prior year.
Software subscription is defined as Following the incorporation of any contract where customers may several existing SaaS products no longer use their software into the Sage One portfolio product if they cease to pay.
The during the year, prior year Sage prior year KPI has been restated One paying subscriptions have to include mandatory maintenance been restated on a like-for-like and support arrangements where basis.
Without the restatement, customers may no longer use Sage One paying subscriptions their software product if they cease at 30 September 2014 were to pay.
Payments contracts and 52,600 2013: 22,400. non-software subscription contracts are excluded from this measure.
Performance Software subscription was Sage One paying subscriptions SMB adoption of hybrid cloud Organic growth of 7% is below the primary driver of organic have increased by almost 150% is emerging, but we have seen our stated ambition for Sage revenue growth this year, which in 12 months.
The UKI continues good progress across our major ERP X3 of double-digit organic is reflected in the 29% increase to be the primary driver of this markets this year and have revenue growth.
Adoption in Continental doubled the number of paying Sage ERP X3 continues to subscription traction in France Europe is nascent, reflecting the subscriptions in 12 months.
perform well outside of France, and the UKI, in particular, rate of SaaS adoption more widely We saw the greatest traction where revenue has grown by where legislative and technology in that market.
Whilst we are in Spain, where paying 20%.
This year, we launched catalysts encouraged seeing promising early adoption subscriptions increased to Sage ERP X3 version 7, and customers to move to a in Canada following Sage Ones almost 450. we also announced the planned subscription relationship.
release there this year, our launch of Sage ERP X3 Online.
progress in the US remains slow and is below our expectations.
36 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Focusing Rigorous resource our business and capital allocation Integration of payments R&D and S&M Net debt to Interest cover spend by category EBITDA ratio R&D reallocation S&M reallocation 15,800 1.1:1 17x 62:35:03 57:39:04 2013: 13,800 2013: 1.0:1 2013: 24x 2013: 52:41:07 2013: 52:43:05 The number of customers at Resource optimisation is captured by The net value of cash less Statutory operating profit the end of the year who are reporting on the resource allocation in borrowings expressed as a for the year excluding using a Sage core accounting our business.
multiple of rolling 12-month non-recurring items that system, a Sage payments EBITDA.
EBITDA is defined management judge to be R&D and S&M spend in the year is solution, and the integration as earnings before interest, one-off or non-operational, divided into three categories of product of the two is provided or tax, depreciation, amortisation expressed as a multiple Invest:Harvest:Sunset.
of acquired intangible assets, of finance costs excluding Our strategy is to focus our investment acquisition-related items, imputed interest for the towards the Invest products in our portfolio.
fair value adjustments same period.
This KPI is on an organic basis.
Previously and non-recurring items reported allocations for 2013 were: that management judge to R&D 50:43:07: S&M 49:46:05. be one-off or non-operational.
The number of integrated We continue to focus on reallocation of During the year we The fall in interest cover is due payments customers R&D and S&M investment towards our best returned 217m of cash to the annualisation of interest increased 14% this year, opportunities for higher growth and profitability.
to shareholders through relating to the 2013 US private although our performance This year, overall expenditure across these ordinary dividends and placement, which was only in in North America, in particular, categories has increased by 4% organically, share repurchases, and issue for approximately four was below our expectations.
with a 17% increase on products classified paid out 65m in respect of months of last year.
acquisitions and the purchase addition, we have maintained of the remaining 25% of a higher level of net debt on Folhamatic in Brazil.
Net average throughout this year, debt stood at 437m at which has increased our 30 September 2014. interest costs.
Research and development Sales and marketing The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 37
