44 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Remuneration report: Annual statement deAR shAReholdeR performance period, the annual average regard to potential actual value of awards lost Seniors primary strategic objective remains percentage growth of Seniors Adjusted and timing of vesting but linking this to the the creation of long-term sustainable growth earnings per share exceeded the growth performance conditions of the relevant in shareholder value.
This has been achieved in the Retail Prices Index by 9.6%.
Senior performance share grants to ensure through a culture of empowerment of alignment with the Senior team.
The Policy Report that describes the individual autonomous, but collaborative, operations elements of the remuneration arrangements Finally, the Committee having due working within a well-defined control was approved 97.6% votes For at the 2014 consideration of the policy on payment for framework.
We believe that Seniors Annual General Meeting AGM for the departure from office, considered the remuneration arrangements for the executive period until April 2017.
No changes to the treatment of Mark Rollins unvested deferred Directors, with the level of variable pay Policy Report are being proposed for 2015, shares and LTIP share awards following his focused on the delivery of sustained however for ease of reference we have retirement in May 2015: the proposed earnings growth and strong cash flow, included the Policy Report once again in this treatment is shown on page 58. continues to support our strategy.
This focus 2014 Annual Report, although we will only be has been demonstrated again in 2014 by the We have retained the same structure as last inviting shareholders to approve the Annual continued growth in all Divisions against a years Remuneration Report: it consists of Report on Remuneration, in accordance with backdrop of currency exchange headwinds.
three sections: the 2013 Regulations, at the 2015 AGM.
During the year, the Committee reviewed 1. this Annual Statement: Also at the 2014 AGM, the 2014 Long-Term the appropriateness of the performance Incentive Plan 2014 Plan was approved 2. a P olicy report, which describes the conditions, relating to the performance 97.6% votes For by shareholders for a 10-year Companys policy for the Remuneration of shares granted under the 2005 Long-Term period.
We intend to grant performance shares executive and non-executive Directors and Incentive Plan.
Taking due consideration of using the new plan from 2015.
The 2014 Plan is unchanged from that which was the prevailing economic and market gives the Remuneration Committee the power approved by shareholders for three years conditions, the Committee decided that the to claw back all or part of the awards payments at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and performance conditions used for the grant for three years following vesting in the event of which is not subject to audit: and in 2013 were still suitably stretching for material misstatement, error or inaccurate or the 2014 award of performance shares.
3. t he Annual report on remuneration on misleading information or gross misconduct.
Further, the Committee reviewed the key pages 51 to 59, produced in accordance A clawback provision is already in place for the performance indicators KPIs for the 2014 with the Large and Medium-Sized annual bonus in relation to unvested deferred annual bonus and it was agreed that earnings Companies and Groups Accounts and shares, in the event of material misstatement per share and cash flow targets were still Reports Amendment Regulations and the or gross misconduct.
appropriate and that the target levels were relevant provisions of the Listing Rules of stretching without encouraging inappropriate During the year, the Committee has considered the Financial Conduct Authority.
the 2014 UK Corporate Governance code, the the Annual Report on Remuneration are Update to the GC100 and various codes of subject to audit, which provides details of The Committee considers that the out-turn practice from the institutions.
Also during the the Directors emoluments, shareholdings, of our incentive plans appropriately reflects year, the Shareholding Guidelines for Executive long-term incentive awards and pensions Seniors performance in 2014.
For example, Directors which were already in place were for the year ended 31 December 2014 and the Group Chief Executives annual bonus expanded to cover other senior roles.
intentions for 2015. was 54% of the maximum opportunity, which equates to 57% of his annual salary, During 2014, the recruitment policy was used Celia Baxter and 92% of the 2012 LTIP share awards are as a basis for determining the remuneration Chair of the Remuneration Committee to vest in March 2015.
During 2014, Seniors package to facilitate the recruitment of the market capitalisation reached an all-time high new Group Chief Executive, David Squires, and the Company was ranked ninth out of as detailed on page 59.
When he joins Senior the 31 comparator companies for total in May 2015 David will forfeit entitlements shareholder return TSR performance from his current employer.
In structuring his over the three-year performance period of recruitment package, the Committee sought to the 2012 LTIP award.
Over the same LTIP put in place similar long-term incentives with www.
