34 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Report of the directors The Directors present their Report and There are no specific restrictions on the size of The provisions of the UK Corporate supplementary reports, together with the a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which Governance Code require that all Directors audited Financial Statements for the year are both governed by the general provisions of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to ended 31 December 2014. of the Companys Articles of Association and annual election by shareholders.
The Directors are not Charles Berry, Andy Hamment, Derek Harding, Activities And Business Review aware of any agreements between holders Giles Kerr and Mark E. Vernon will all stand Senior plc is a holding company.
The nature of the Companys shares that may result in for re-election at the Annual General Meeting of the Groups operations and its principal restrictions on the transfer of securities or on the AGM in April 2015.
David Squires is activities are set out in the Strategic Report on voting rights.
No person has any special rights to be appointed to the Board on 1 May 2015 pages 1 to 27.
Its Principal Group undertakings of control over the Companys share capital, and Mark Rollins will retire from the Board are shown on page 114.
The Strategic Report and all issued shares are fully paid.
on 31 May 2015. includes details of the market overview: key growth drivers: Seniors business model: With regard to the appointment and BoARd diveRsity strategic objectives: risk and uncertainties: replacement of Directors, the Company is The Board remains committed to diversity, key performance indicators and a summary governed by its Articles of Association, the UK previously having an aspirational goal of 15% of 2014 performance.
Corporate Governance Code, the Companies female Board representation by the end of Act 2006 and related legislation.
The appointment of Celia Baxter to the Acquisitions And disposAls may be amended by special resolution of the Board means this goal was broadly met.
The On 8 April 2014, Senior acquired 100% of the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are engineering sector suffers from a shortage of issued share capital of UPECA Technologies described in the Matters Reserved for the PLC female personnel and as a result it can be hard Sdn.
Further details of the business is Board, which may be found on the Companys to find appropriate candidates.
It should be given on page 8. website.
Each year, shareholder approval is noted that Senior takes into account all aspects Results And dividends sought to renew the Boards authority to allot of a potential candidate, not just diversity.
The results for the year are shown in the relevant securities.
diRectoRs indemnities Consolidated Income Statement on page 64.
There are also a number of other agreements Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for An interim dividend of 1.67 pence per share that take effect, alter or terminate upon a the benefit of the Directors were renewed by the Company during the year and remain in 2013 1.52 pence has already been paid change of control of the Company, such as and the Directors recommend a final dividend commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, force at the date of this Report.
property lease arrangements, and employees ReseARch And development The final dividend, if approved, will be payable share plans.
None of these are considered to In 2014, the Group incurred 11.5m 2013 on 29 May 2015 to shareholders on the register be significant in terms of their likely impact on 12.9m on research and development.
Product at the close of business on 1 May 2015.
This the business of the Group as a whole.
development and improving manufacturing would bring the total dividend for the year to Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of techniques represent the primary focus of the 5.63 pence per share 2013 5.12 pence.
any agreements between the Company and Groups research and development activities.
its Directors or employees that provide for shARe cApitAl compensation for loss of office or employment politicAl donAtions The Company has one class of ordinary No political donations were made during that occurs because of a takeover bid.
shares, which carries no right to a fixed the year.
Each share carries the right to vote FinAnciAl instRuments at general meetings of the Company.
Changes Note 20 contains disclosures on Financial employees to the Companys issued share capital during Instruments.
The Group promotes the dissemination of 2014 were: relevant information, so that employees are diRectoRs kept regularly advised of Group and local Details of the Directors who served throughout Shares in issue at operation developments.
Where appropriate, the year can be found on pages 32 and 33.
1 January 2014 415,934,031 local briefing sessions are held concerning The Directors interests in the shares of the Senior plc Long-Term such matters as health and safety, pension Company are included in the Directors Incentive Plan 1,358,809 plans and healthcare benefits.
None of Senior plc Savings-Related the Directors has any interest in contracts with Share Option Plan 786,950 the Company or its subsidiary undertakings.
Shares in issue at 31 December 2014 418,079,790 Further share capital details are given in Note25.
Details of employee share plans are set out on pages 101 and 102. www.
com | Senior plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report & Accounts 2014 35 GReenhouse GAs emissions compliAnce with the uK coRpoRAte AuditoR The Group has followed the reporting GoveRnAnce code Each of the persons who is a Director of requirements on greenhouse gas emissions, The statements of compliance with the the Company at the date of approval of this contained in the Companies Act 2006 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Annual Report confirms that so far as the Strategic Report and Directors Report Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Regulations 2013: details of the Groups are set out on page 36. information of which the Companys Auditor emissions can be found on page 20. is unaware: diRectoRs RemuneRAtion RepoRt mAjoR shAReholdinGs And policy and the Director has taken all steps that he The Company had been notified that the The Companys policy on Directors she ought to have taken as a Director in following shareholders were interested in remuneration is set out in the Directors order to make himself herself aware of any 3% or more of the issued share capital of Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 59.
The relevant audit information and to establish the Company: Annual Report on Remuneration is to be put that the Companys Auditor is aware of that to shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM.
11.02.15 % The Directors Remuneration Policy was This information is given and should be BlackRock 9.67 approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM: interpreted in accordance with the provisions Henderson Global the Remuneration Policy is set out on of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Standard Life AnnuAl GeneRAl meetinG the Companys Auditor and to authorise the Investments 4.85 The Notice of Meeting describes the business Directors to set the Auditors remuneration Legal & General to be considered at the AGM to be held at will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Investment Management 4.74 11.30 am on Friday 24 April 2015 at Schroder Investment By Order of the Board Watersmeet, High Street, Rickmansworth Management 3.93 WD3 1EH.
Andrew Bodenham Old Mutual Global Group Company Secretary Investors 3.27 Acquisition oF the compAnys ownshARes 27 February 2015 Kames Capital 3.08 The Company purchased no ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company during So far as is known, no other shareholder had a the year.
At the end of the year, the Directors notifiable interest amounting to 3% or more of had authority, under the shareholders the issued share capital of the Company, and resolutions dated 25 April 2014, to make the Directors believe that the close company market purchases of the Companys shares provisions of the Income and Corporation up to an aggregate nominal amount of 42m, Taxes Act 1988 as amended do not apply which represented approximately 10% of the to the Company.
issued share capital of the Company.
A resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
