10 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Customer alignment Working with customers to provide market-leading solutions in the Groups chosen principal markets is the primary objective of customer alignment.
oPtimising value and targeted investment amt south Carolina exPansion exCeeding exPeCtations Investment is targeted in new product Seniors commitment to providing The Group seeks to deliver competitive development, technologies and geographic market-leading solutions to its products utilising its engineering expertise regions, for markets having higher than customers was the primary objective to optimise customer value and exceed average growth potential, to further enhance with the decision by the Group to expand expectations whilst continuing to meet organic growth opportunities.
ft. facility within Many of the Groups products are developed close proximity to Boeing South Carolina, This is achieved through advanced process to help customers achieve their objectives which will operate as an extension of Senior engineering and excellent operational for improved operating costs, particularly Aerospace AMT.
execution, leading to market differentiation fuel efficiency in aircraft platforms and land and continued growth in organic revenue, vehicle engine applications, and to meet AMT South Carolina will initially focus on operating margins and cash flow delivery.
increasingly stringent global emission providing completed assemblies to Boeing regulations.
The Groups level of investment delivered POU Point of Use and JIT Just $k in these growth areas and on expanding its in Time resulting in reduced shipping and 900 3% geographic footprint, which now includes logistics costs, lead times, and streamlined 800 Thailand and China, continues to increase.
movement through the Boeing Supply Chain.
The expansion created the opportunity for 700 1 collaboration between Senior Aerospace and Shipset value progression large commercial aircraft Dec-06 the customer to develop a cart delivery system 600 Dec-07 % CAGR 10% 28% 8% Dec-08 which will reduce packaging costs and green 500 Dec-09 waste.
The business model provides the 3% Dec-10 customer continuous value added services 400 Dec-11 for existing work statements and positions Dec-12 300 7% AMT to extend the same and expanded benefits Dec-13 in supporting future work packages.
The facility Dec-14 200 5% opened in February 2015.
100 0 B737 B777 B787 A320 A330 A380 A350 1 Average based on programme share and estimated engine variant.
fuelling the fuel Cells solar solutions Contributing ProteCting the Plant ProteCting toWards a Zero Car to sustainable solutions against disaster Senior Flexonics Bartlett supplies Senior manufactures specialist RotationFlex Senior supplies vacuum pumps which fuel cell components that form connectors that provide a critical function provide a critical role in monitoring for a critical role in fuel cells, helping to eliminate in the efficiency and reliability of solar power environmental pollution at nuclear power 2 vehicle CO emissions significantly and plants, being technology critical in the plants and in post-accident cleanup.
Fuel cells use an development of non-fossil fuel power.
vacuum pumps, which are designed and electrochemical process that take hydrogen manufactured by Senior Aerospace Metal The connectors, which are manufactured gas, which can be introduced directly, or Bellows, play a vital role in protecting the and designed by Senior Flexonics Germany, derived from natural gas or biogas, and environment and people from nuclear reduce CO2 emissions by 85%.
generates electricity with up to 100% radiation around the world.
2 less CO than coal-fired power generation methods.
Fuel cells emit virtually no pollutants such as nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide, or particulate matter.
com | Senior plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report & Accounts 2014 11 oPerating ethiCally Senior is committed to conducting its business with integrity, honesty and fairness PROVIDING ADDITIONAL and operating with the highest degree of ethical standards in everything it does.
The CAPABILITIES FOR OUR cornerstone of managements commitment to ethics is the Senior Code of Business CUSTOMERS IN ASIA.
Conduct that provides a clear framework for decision-making, highlighting the values and behaviours it expects its employees to demonstrate at all times.
Senior Aerospace Thailand is building a new 196,000 sq.
ft. factory which will allow significant expansion of this Aero-structures business.
The plan is to build The Code of Business Conduct applies in two phases, resulting in two interlinking buildings of approx.
ft. Group-wide including to its agents and joint with an office block at the front of the manufacturing floor space providing ventures.
The Code defines standards in scope for company growth in the next four to five years.
The building is 100m areas such as: anti-bribery, corruption and away from our existing facilities, one hour south of Suvarnabhumi International fraud, managing conflicts of interest and Airport, Bangkok, Thailand.
The new building will allow the introduction of an in-house treatment plant eduCating tomorroWs WorkforCe which will reduce inventory and also reduce freight costs.
This facility will Education and skills, particularly Science, significantly raise the profile of Senior Aerospace in Asia and opens the door for Technology, Engineering and Mathematics other prestigious Aero-structures packages from customers seeking low-cost STEM are key to the future success reliable solutions in the Asia region.
The first phase of the new facility is planned of both Senior and its customers.
Several to be fully operational during 2015.
Senior businesses focus their community activities on educational outreach programmes supporting local schools, technical colleges and universities.
For instance, Senior Aerospace BWT works on STEM initiatives with several local schools.
Two BWT employees are National STEM Ambassadors whose work includes supporting STEM Clubs in local schools, mentoring and supporting students with Career Academies, and helping students gain invaluable work experience through paid work placements.
