8 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Portfolio Developing a portfolio of autonomous but collaborative business units within a well-defined control framework, whilst promoting best practice sharing and developing complementary capabilities, is the foundation of Seniors business model.
Portfolio enhanCement exPanding an integrated capacity threefold, with a new 196,000 sq.
The Group has a good track record of acquiring global footPrint facility adding processing capability.
In India, and successfully integrating new businesses, Senior continues to develop an integrated the Group has recently signed a lease on a new and also of rationalising and enhancing the global commercial and operational footprint 26,000 sq.
ft. facility to support customer overall asset portfolio through disposals, to enable it to supply key programmes to its expansion and raising the profile of Senior in utilising a framework that has been developed original equipment manufacturer OEM Asia.
In addition, in February 2015, the Group as part of the strategic planning process.
The customers cost-effectively and to meet opened a new facility in Charleston, South key enabler of this programme is the significant growing domestic demand in emerging Carolina to support the Boeing 787 production balance sheet capacity that has been markets.
The acquisition of Upeca in April 2014 line.
See page 10 for more information.
All of generated in recent years through strong free is a perfect demonstration of this objective.
these facilities are due to come into operation cash flowgeneration.
during 2015. neW faCilities exPanding CaPabilities In 2014, the Group continued to invest in The Groups strategy is to target a select expanding a number of existing facilities within 59,000 sq.
ft. number of complementary acquisitions in its portfolio.
For example, at SSP an additional growth markets to expand its capabilities, 59,000 sq.
ft. building is under construction building is under construction to support accelerate growth and enhance to support A320neo and CSeries production growth, principally for the A320neo its asset portfolio.
In Thailand we are expanding uPeCa Case study In April 2014, Senior completed the acquisition of Upeca Technologies Upeca represents an 1 for a total consideration of 74m.
excellent addition to Seniors Upeca is a Malaysian-based manufacturer of high-precision engineered components serving portfolio, strengthening the the aerospace and energy sectors.
The Groups aerospace and business has over 20 years of manufacturing experience and enjoys strong relationships with energy market presence in blue chip customers across all of its markets.
the increasingly important Upeca has two manufacturing facilities in South East Asian region.
Malaysia, one selling to the aerospace industry and the other to the energy market, and a third Upecas 20 years of facility in China, which is located in Tianjin and experience, its impressive specialises in energy applications.
The two Malaysian facilities are located approximately capabilities and its own 30minutes apart on the outskirts of Kuala strong customer Lumpur.
Upeca employs around 650 people across its three operations.
relationships, combined Approximately one-third of Upecas revenue with Seniors wider market currently derives from the aerospace market access and financial and two-thirds from the energy, oil and gas market.
Prospects for healthy future growth for strength, are expected to Upeca are clearly evident from the high level of create an excellent platform customer interest in the Asia-Pacific region for both these markets.
to enhance the future growth prospects for the whole 74 million Senior Group.
1 acquisition total consideration including debt acquired Mark Rollins Group Chief Executive 27 million incremental sales in 2014 www.
com | Senior plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report & Accounts 2014 9 A STEP-CHANGE IN This year we have achieved SAFETy AT SENIOR some important milestones AEROSPACE DAMAR in our Zero Harm journey When Senior acquired Damar Aerosystems in March 2011, it had over500,000 hours injury an immature safety culture and Senior identified a number of areas for improvement.
In the subsequent three years, the business free.
Everyone is very has made significant improvement in its oversight of health and safety that has led to an 80% reduction in accidents.
The newly proud of this achievement appointed management team achieved this by first conducting a gap analysis against the Senior Group safety standards, appointing and theres a real buzz a Safety Co-ordinator and developing an improvement plan to bring all significant risks under control.
The team initially focused about what more we on improving the highest risks: the safeguarding of machinery, employees working at height, and working in close proximity to canachieve.
A Safety Committee was also established to lead the safety culture and engage employees in the safety improvement process by getting them to report near misses and contribute Charles Elder CEO Senior Aerospace Damar their ideas to make tasks safer.
Considerable focus was also directed at preventing major incidents by learning from every near miss.
A project was also launched to implement certificated management systems for environmental and safety affairs.
These measures have been successful and through the commitment and engagement of all its employees, Damar has achieved ISO 14001. aCquiring and enhanCing hoW We drive safety and environmental imProvements in our aCquired businesses Senior has made a series of acquisitions since 2011 which have enhanced its portfolio.
Post-acquisition, the Group invests heavily in improving and strengthening a newly acquired business and does this through a three-stage process.
1 assess, prioritise and plan 2 resource and support 3 measure and review Senior conducts comprehensive due The Group requires all its businesses to The Group uses a variety of measures and diligence before acquiring a business and, adequately resource HSE, and it is typical metrics to monitor performance and to once acquired, undertakes a baseline for a business joining Senior to appoint ensure the improvements identified in the assessment against the Groups standards dedicated and professionally trained HSE initial review are progressing.
This involves identifying and advisers, if previously there were none.
reports its HSE performance monthly to the assessing the top risks and establishing an A variety of tools, training programmes Group HSE Committee, which is chaired by improvement plan with measurable goals, and support is provided to assist new the Group Chief Executive.
In addition to timely action and clear accountability.
acquisitions develop their management overseeing the alignment of new businesses Our initial focus is on ensuring that high of HSE, ensuring there is an assertive with Seniors HSE requirements, the HSE risks are rigorously controlled and legal and timely pace of change.
To sustain the Committee is responsible for leading the compliance is maintained.
improvement and fully integrate it within the Groups HSE strategy, and managing businesss operating system, Senior requires Seniors policies, standards and management all businesses to achieve the international framework for identifying, assessing, environmental standard ISO 14001. managing and reporting HSE risks.
