STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report & Accounts 2014 31 executive and hse Committees 1 Mark Rollins 7 3 2 Derek Harding 4 5 3 Launie Fleming 4 Jerry Goodwin 5 Mike Sheppard 6 Bindi Foyle 7 David Beavan 1 6 2 5.
Mike Sheppard exeCutive Committee health, safety & environment The Executive Committee, although not hse Committee A US citizen, he has worked for the Group for over 30 years and is the Chief Executive of formally appointed as a Committee of the The HSE committee is also not formally Board, oversees the running of all Senior appointed as a Committee of the Board, Flexonics.
A qualified engineer, Mikes previous positions within the Group included operational Group operations.
but officially oversees all health, safety and environmental matters across the Group.
roles at the two largest Flexonics businesses, The purpose of the Executive Committee is Pathway and Bartlett.
to assist the Group Chief Executive in the Throughout 2014, the members of this performance of his duties, including: committee were: Mark Rollins Chairman, 6.
Bindi Foyle Mike Sheppard Chief Executive of Flexonics, A Chartered Accountant, she joined the Group the development and implementation Jerry Goodwin Chief Executive of Aerospace in 2006 as the Group Financial Controller.
In of strategy, operational plans, policies, Structures, Launie Fleming Chief Executive of August 2014 she was appointed Head of procedures and budgets: Aerospace Fluid Systems and James Pomeroy Investor Relations & People Development.
the monitoring of operating and financial Group HSE Manager.
The Committee met She is a member of the Executive Committee performance: four times during the year.
and acts as its Secretary.
Prior to joining Senior, she held a number of finance positions at the assessment and control of risk: 1.
Mark Rollins Amersham plc and GE Healthcare.
See biography on page 33. the prioritisation and allocation of 7.
Derek Harding David took up the role of Group Head of See biography on page 33. the monitoring of competitive forces in Business Development in April 2014.
Hejoined the Group in 2004, when he was appointed the each area of operation.
Launie Fleming A US citizen, he has worked for the Group Chief Executive of Senior Aerospace BWT.
The Committee is also responsible for the Prior to joining Senior, David had general foraround 17 years.
He joined the Executive consideration of all other matters not specifically Committee upon his appointment as Chief management experience within automotive reserved for consideration by the Board.
A report and commercial aircraft 1st tier supplier Executive of Aerospace Fluid Systems in on the activities of the Executive Committee September 2008.
Prior to that appointment industries.
is provided to the Board by the Group Chief hehad been Chief Executive of Senior Executive at each Board meeting.
The Strategic Report from pages 1 to 27a The Committee is comprised of two members 4.
Jerry Goodwin wasapproved by the Board of Directors on of the Board, Mark Rollins and Derek Harding, A US citizen, he joined the Group in June 2007 27 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by together with Launie Fleming Chief Executive as the Chief Executive of Senior Aerospace of Aerospace Fluid Systems, Jerry Goodwin Mark Rollins AMT.
He was appointed Chief Executive of Group Chief Executive Chief Executive of Aerospace Structures, Aerospace Structures in December 2010.
Mike Sheppard Chief Executive of Flexonics, Prior to joining Senior, Jerry served as Vice David Beavan Group Head of Business President and General Manager at C & D Development and Bindi Foyle Head of Zodiac, a composites aerospace Investor Relations & People Development.
Bindi Foyle also acts as Secretary to this Committee.
