Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Human rights Marketplace We recognise the importance of protecting human Customers rights.
We respect the United Nations Declaration of Developing and improving long-term relationships Human Rights and its Guiding Principles on Business with our customers is central to our business.
and Human Rights, as well as the national laws of the Furthermore, one conclusion from the reviews that jurisdictions in which we operate.
supported the development of our Corporate Renewal Programme was that we needed to improve our We have policies in place aimed not only at protecting oversight of the delivery of our contractual obligations human rights but also providing employees with an to our customers.
We have learned that being clear opportunity to raise any concerns they may have in and transparent with our customers is fundamental to relation to such rights, in order for appropriate action maintaining trusting relationships.
While day-to-day to be taken if necessary.
responsibility for meeting our customers needs lies with our contract directors, we have sought to increase Our Business Conduct and Ethics policy and Group the frequency and transparency of our customer standard requires us to respect the human rights and engagement and invested in more formal oversight of dignity of individuals, and not to take part in, or benefit delivery of our contractual commitments.
This will help from, any activity that breaks any law relating to human to ensure we identify and respond promptly to rights.
This policy applies to all jurisdictions in which operational performance issues and to our customer we operate to help ensure that, as a company, we do concerns.
This commitment is embedded in a new not adversely impact human rights.
Ethical and human Operations Group Standard which forms part of our rights considerations are reviewed as part of risk refreshed SMS.
We have also placed customer management.
If a significant ethical or human rights satisfaction at the core of our management reporting issue is raised it is reviewed by the Divisional Executive and incentive structures, so we are fully focused on Management Team and appropriate action agreed.
In ensuring our customers receive the high-quality instances where a significant ethical issue arises, it is services they deserve from us.
raised to the Executive Committee for a final decision.
We will maintain relationships at all levels with our Human rights risks are assessed and appropriate due customers, so they are aware of how we can help them diligence is undertaken when we are considering new and so that we can anticipate their changing needs.
markets, geographies and establishing working These relationships lie with our Divisional and Group relationships with joint venture partners or other third leaders.
In forming a decision, we have a decision tree which enables us to highlight any potential human Our reputation with our existing customers is also vital rights issues associated with the contracts we are to our success and to our prospects of future growth.
Many factors influence our reputation, including: The Investment Committee determines Sercos the quality of our service: position in relation to new geographic markets, or the trust of our customers: opportunities and activities.
Where those activities our values and service ethos: have been identified as presenting an ethical dilemma our capacity to innovate: and which either has implications across the Group or our engagement with our employees and other represent a significant reputational risk to the Group, stakeholders, such as local communities.
then such activities will be considered by the CRRC on behalf of the Board.
Suppliers Effective procurement helps us to achieve our vision We recognise we can be a force for good and will and deliver high-quality service to customers.
We aim consider operating in countries where there are known to be professional in all our dealings with suppliers and human rights issues, provided we would not knowingly to establish mutually beneficial relationships.
We have be connected to any abuses either directly by our a Procurement and Supply Chain function, which is employees or through associated third parties.
responsible for putting this approach into practice and Furthermore, in areas where we have an influence and for Group procurement policy and standards.
These believe this influence can be used to improve others documents have been reviewed, updated and respect for human rights, we have the option to do so.
re-published in 2014 as part of the refreshed SMS.
As a result we have strengthened guidance on due Our approach to due diligence of new opportunities diligence of third parties to ensure they meet our as well as the selection of third parties we work with is policy standards and Code of Conduct, including for currently being reviewed, updated and enhanced and example our zero tolerance to bribery and corruption.
will be re-issued along with supporting training in 2015.
In line with the relaunch of our Code of Conduct we also reviewed and republished our Supplier Code of The refresh of our Code of Conduct in 2014 included a Conduct.
This sets out the principles and standards we specific update on human rights and now includes expect from those we work with, to ensure we operate specific guidance on the topic.
In support of its not just legally, but ethically and fairly.
relaunch we are training all staff which includes our commitment to the protection of human rights.
