Strategic Report Strategic Report Key Performance Indicators In 2014 we reviewed the Key Financial Key Performance Indicators Performance Indicators KPIs we use to 1.
Trading Earnings per Share EPS monitor our performance to ensure we Definition Trading Profit Loss is defined as operating profit have a balanced set of metrics that loss excluding other expenses amortisation and gives appropriate emphasis to both impairment of intangibles arising on acquisition financial and non-financial aspects of and excluding exceptional items.
Exceptional items consist of exceptional loss profit on disposal of our performance.
These are detailed subsidiaries and operations and other exceptional below and now include customer operatingitems.
Trading profit after tax is defined as Profit loss for the Alongside this we are rolling out year excluding other expenses amortisation and acontract performance monitoring impairment of intangibles arising on acquisition and excluding exceptional items and excluding the tax process with contracts reporting effect of these exclusions.
Exceptional items consist of monthly against contractual obligations exceptional loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries and operations and other exceptional operating which are reviewed by Divisional items.
Executive Management Teams and theGroup Executive Management.
Trading EPS is calculated by dividing Trading profit after tax less non-controlling interests, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares during the period is calculated in accordance with IFRS.
Relevance to strategy Trading EPS reflects the combined ability to grow revenue and trading profit margin, together with the strength of funding and overall financial position.
Performance EPS pence per share 60 Decline 30 44.18p 34.40p 35.99p 31.95p 463.9% 0 Decline Increase Decline 130.99p -30 7.1% 38.3% 18.5% -60 -90 -120 -150 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 21 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Key Performance Indicators continued 2.
Trading cash flow m and trading cash 3.
Return on invested capital ROIC % Definition flow conversion rate ROIC is calculated as trading profit for the period Definition divided by invested capital.
Invested capital Trading cash flow is defined as net cash inflow from represents the assets and liabilities considered to be operating activities excluding exceptional items, as deployed in delivering the trading performance of the shown on the face of the Groups Consolidated Cash business.
Invested capital is defined in terms of Flow Statement, excluding tax paid plus dividends balances extracted from the balance sheet at the end received from joint ventures plus proceeds from date of the reporting period.
The balance sheet items disposal of property plant and equipment plus used are operating assets, being gross assets less proceeds from disposal of intangible assets less trade and other payables current and non-current purchase of other intangible assets less purchase of and excluding provisions, pension, derivatives, property, plant and equipment.
financing, tax and cash balances.
Invested capital includes assets and liabilities classified as held for sale.
The trading cash conversion is calculated as trading profit loss divided by trading cash flow and is Invested capital assets are: goodwill and other expressed as percentage.
intangible assets: property, plant and equipment: interests in joint ventures: trade and other receivables: Relevance to strategy inventories: and assets classified as held for sale.
Trading cash flow reflects our ability to generate funds Invested capital liabilities are trade and other payables to invest in our future growth and strategic current and non-current and liabilities classified as development.
The trading cash flow conversion rate held for sale.
reflects the efficiency of the business in converting profits into cash.
Invested capital is calculated using the closing balance sheet related to the period: for 2015 it will be Performance calculated as a two-point average of the opening and Trading Cash Flow m closing balance sheets for the period.
300 Relevance to strategy 282.9m ROIC measures how efficiently the Group uses its 250 capital in terms of the return it generates from its 233.9m 229.0m 200 assets.
Employee Engagement Non-financial Key Performance Indicators Definition We partner with Aon Hewitt to run our global 4.
Customer Insight employee engagement survey.
This covers all Definition employees, excluding our joint ventures, and focuses Each year we have reached out to customers across on three key areas: whether people say positive things the Group to identify how they feel about the services about working at Serco say, peoples intention to stay we provide.
In 2014 we measured Customer with Serco stay and their intention to give Satisfaction, asking how satisfied customers are with discretionary effort strive.
Our engagement score their overall experience of Serco: Customer shows how many employees exhibit strong levels of all Experience, how satisfied customers are with various three of these areas say, stay and strive when we aspects of their experience: and Customer Advocacy, survey.
how likely customers would be to recommend Serco to a colleague or associate.
The Net Promoter Score Relevance to strategy approach to measuring customer satisfaction is most We have completed extensive business linkage useful in businesses which have large numbers of analysis across our Divisions, including internationally, transactions with individual customers, which is not to show that high levels of employee engagement lead true in Sercos case.
In the coming year we will explore to higher customer satisfaction and lower levels of different ways of measuring customer satisfaction.
Therefore, to achieve our strategic aims, we need highly engaged Relevance to strategy employees to deliver outstanding customer service.
Such measures act as an early warning system to identify operational issues, support our contract teams Performance in building relationships with our customers, and help During 2014s Viewpoint survey, our global us address concerns leading to improved service levels engagement score is 57%, up 7% from 2013.
This is 1% and higher likelihood of contract retention.
ahead of the global average from our external providers Aon Hewitt and 3% ahead of their Services Performance industry average.
All divisions increased their Our latest survey shows that across those measured, engagement scores since 2013 and we were pleased 76% of our customers are satisfied with their overall that our three key engagement drivers increased from experience of Serco with a Net Promoter Score of 2013 as well for example Connection to Serco is up 4.7%.
This compares with a similar survey undertaken 5% from 2013.
The Viewpoint results were cascaded to in 2013 where overall satisfaction was 77% and the Net the organisation in late 2014 and we have a global plan Promoter Score was 1.9%.
of activities to sustain and drive employee engagement in Serco led by our Executive Committee through all Divisions.
This aims to embed engagement into business as usual and into the way we work in Serco.
Serco Employee Engagement 60 57 50 51 50 40 44 0,000 30 20 10 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 23 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Key Performance Indicators continued 6.
Carbon emissions headcount intensity per 100,000 employees tonnes CO e per FTE 2 Definition Definition Major injuries are classed as fatalities, fractures, We report our greenhouse gas emissions as tonnes of amputations, dislocations, loss of sight, chemical and CO e per full time equivalent FTE employee.
This 2 hot metal burns, electrical burns, unconsciousness normalises our emissions to the size of our business.
caused by asphyxia or exposure to a harmful We adopt ISO 14064-1 2012 to ensure we meet substance, and acute illness resulting from substance greenhouse gas reporting requirements and provide a inhalation or ingestion.
The rate measures our success fair and transparent picture of our greenhouse gas in providing a safe and secure working environment emissions.
Relevance to strategy Relevance to strategy Our carbon dioxide emissions are directly related to Delivering excellent service to our customers requires our energy use, and hence to the efficiency of our us to operate in the safest way possible.
has a direct bearing on the commitment and engagement of our people.
Performance Our front line operations have an emissions intensity of Performance 6.86 tonnes CO e per FTE whilst our back office 2 The number of major reportable incidents fell by 42% operations reported significantly less at 1.03 tonnes to 19 in 2014, resulting in a rate of 19.9 per 100,000 CO e per FTE.
Combined our normalised emissions 2 employees.
This can be broken down with rates for are 3.80 tonnes CO e per FTE which is a 6% 2 frontline higher risk operations at 37.3 and our back improvement on 2013 4.04. office operations at 4.
These are ahead of our target of a rate of below 40.
