Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Divisional Reviews continued AsPac Operations in the Asia Pacific division include Justice, Immigration, Defence, Healthcare and Transport services.
With Sercos operations in Australia being the largest element of the Division.
2014 2013 2014: 2013: Year ended 31December m Revenue Revenue Trading Loss Trading Profit Revenue and Trading Loss Profit 706 871 201.6 78.2 Of which, onerous contract provisions, asset impairments and other review items charged in 2014 237.1 38 Strategic Report Divisional revenue on a constant currency basis The value of signed contracts totalled over 200m in declined by 9%, though significant currency weakening 2014, however this was dominated by continuation of against Sterling, particularly the Australian Dollar, two existing operations rather than new bids.
An extended the decline on a reported currency basis to extension to Sercos Traffic Camera Services contract 19%.
The Divisions single largest contract which in Australia is valued at approximately 50m.
By far the provides Immigration Services in Australia saw largest award was successfully rebidding the provision revenues reduce by 35% to approximately 300m: this of onshore immigration detention services in Australia.
reflected fewer people in our care following the Whilst the five-year contract has a much larger significant changes to government policies addressing potential value, since it is volume related, Serco will the issue of people arriving by boat without a valid initially only reflect in its order book an estimate of visa.
Other contract starts and ramp-ups provided approximately 125m of revenue anticipated in relation good growth, including the Fiona Stanley Hospital in to the first year of the contract.
Perth moving to the operational stage, a short-term contract providing private sector aviation support Looking ahead, the estimate of lower immigration services in the Australian natural resources industry: detention volumes is expected to reduce further the and new transport management services in Asia such revenue for the AsPac division in 2015.
There will also as those for the Hong Kong Tsing Sha Control Area.
be a greater reduction in profitability than revenue following the rebid.
After securing this important Divisional Trading Profit, before the impact of onerous contract however, there are no other significant contract provisions, asset impairments and other contracts that require extending or rebidding in 2015, charges, reduced much more significantly than though there will be attrition impact from the loss of revenue.
In Australian Immigration Services there was the garrison support contracts and the end of the a greater impact on profitability from the volume short-term private sector aviation support services reductions together with changes to the mix of contract in the Australian natural resources industry.
services provided and the types of centres remaining Whilst progress on new bids was weak in 2014, in operation.
The loss of the Australian regional significant market opportunities remain in the region.
defence garrison support services contracts, operated These include further opportunities in Justice & in partnership with Sodexo, has not reduced revenue Immigration, defence support and transport as it was a joint venture operation, but reduced profits.
operations where Serco has strong presence in each of The Trading Profit for 2013 included a profit still being these local markets.
Serco is also looking to develop recognised on the Armidale Class Patrol Boats ACPB opportunities in Citizen Services and build upon its contract which was not repeated in 2014.
Overheads skills in non-clinical healthcare.
also increased in the Division, reflecting in particular increased bid costs on a number of unsuccessful large tenders including a new-build prison and two rail operations in Australia.
There was a significant impact from provisions, impairments and other review items in the AsPac division, with the vast majority of this driven by the ACPB contract for the Royal Australian Navy.
Detailed engineering reports have revealed major issues with the class of vessel, including those related to design, manufacture, usage and maintenance practice, all of which have conspired to require maintenance expenditure far in excess of that envisaged at the time the vessels first began service in 2005.
Until the second half of 2014, it was believed that these issues could be fixed as part of a one-off maintenance cycle.
However, updated engineering assessments indicate far greater costs over the remaining life of the vessels and therefore for our operation of the contract through to 2022.
An onerous contract provision of 136m, together with a further 60m of related impairments and other balance sheet adjustments, has therefore been required.
