Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued As communicated at the time, and as described elsewhere in this Report, Andrew Jenner only received his contractual entitlement of 12 months payment in lieu of notice, paid on a phased basis and subject to mitigation.
He was allowed to retain the 2012 Performance Share Plan PSP and Deferred Bonus Plan DBP awards that were due to vest within his notice period.
However, as the threshold performance conditions for these awards were not met, they lapsed entirely and no payment was made.
He has also voluntarily waived any entitlement to bonus in respect of 2014.
2014 Bonus Awards Our new leadership team have made an outstanding contribution to putting Serco on the path to recovery, putting in place cultural and governance structures under the Corporate Renewal Programme and bringing the Strategy Review and Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews to clear conclusions with the appropriate consequent restructuring of the Groups debt and equity, and demonstrating strong leadership in a time of great instability.
They have effected significant change in the executive leadership of the Group and made great progress in restoring the Groups relationship with the UK Government.
Given what has been achieved the Committee determined to award a commensurate bonus to Rupert Soames.
Rupert has, however, decided that, given the position the Company finds itself in, it would be in the best interests of the Company if he were to waive payment of his annual bonus, and no bonus will, therefore, be paid to him in respect of 2014.
Ed Caseys performance has also been judged very strong against all objectives.
The Chairman has put on public record his personal gratitude to Ed for stepping into the breach as Interim Group CEO following Chris Hymans resignation, despite the personal impact of moving across to the UK from his role as US CEO, and for the considerable leadership and inspiration he gave to the business during an intensely difficult period.
Based on Eds achievement against his objectives both during the period he was in the role of Interim Group CEO and subsequently as COO, and the unwavering personal commitment he has shown, a bonus award of 71.2% of maximum 106.9% of salary has been determined for him in respect of 2014 performance.
Vesting Awards As a consequence of our financial performance falling short of where we wanted it to be, the long-term incentive awards made under the PSP and DBP in 2012, and due to vest in 2015 based on 2014 results, will lapse.
We were below median against our peer group on a relative Total Shareholder Return basis and EPS growth fell short of the threshold of 5.5% pa compound.
These outcomes clearly demonstrate that our remuneration policy is effective in aligning pay with performance.
Remuneration for 2015 As agreed on appointment, Rupert Soames salary is not due for review until April 2016 so the Committee only reviewed the salaries of Ed Casey and Angus Cockburn, taking into account the competitiveness of their remuneration against the UK market and the current economic climate.
The Committee also has had regard to the overall pay decisions for employees across the Group as a whole.
With effect from 1 April 2015, the salary for Angus Cockburn and Ed Casey will remain unchanged at 500,000 and US$1,061,690 respectively.
We are not making any changes to our Remuneration Policy this year.
However, operating within our existing policy, the Committee are consulting with major shareholders on possible minor changes to the performance measures applied under our incentive plans in order to align Sercos incentive plans with the Groups Strategy Review.
Consultation will continue following the publication of the Prospectus related to our Rights Issue.
Shareholder engagement I and the Committee believe it is important to continue to maintain effective channels of communication with our shareholders.
The Committee takes the views of shareholders very seriously and these views have been influential in shaping our policy and practice.
We welcome shareholder feedback on any aspect of executive remuneration.
The voting outcome at the 8 May 2014 General Meeting in respect of the Annual Report on Remuneration and the Directors Remuneration Policy for the year ending 31 December 2013 reflected very strong shareholder support for the Companys remuneration policy with 99.61% and 98.08% vote in favour respectively.
Summary 2014 has been hugely challenging for the business.
I believe that the Remuneration Committee has rigorously made the necessary decisions to ensure that reward is clearly linked to performance and shareholder interests and that no payment is made for failure.
We will continue to engage with shareholders to ensure that our new leadership team are rewarded appropriately to incentivise them to recover lost value for shareholders through realising Sercos strategic objectives.
Angie Risley, Chair of Remuneration Committee 12 March 2015 102
