Strategic Report reflecting the extended time periods involved and a Onerous contract provisions and number of future variable items of which some, but not relatedimpairments all are within managements control.
Based on Included in the charge to Trading Loss were 557.5m of information currently available we believe that our charges related to onerous contracts.
The largest estimate of the most likely outcome is, in aggregate, element of this charge was 433.4m related to the appropriate.
Going forward, our contracts with recognition of future year projected cumulative onerous contract provisions will be assessed at least trading losses on contracts up to the contractual end every six months and more frequently if required due date including attributable overheads and, where the to changes in circumstances or performance.
Given impact of the time value of money was significant, the nature of the contracts, it is possible that the actual discounting.
Attributable overheads, such as IT and financial performance may well be different from our finance costs, are included in the provision and relate current projections and as a result, our onerous to the allocation of shared costs that can be linked to contract provision, particularly in regard to individual the contract activity performed.
The costs are contracts, might fluctuate year to year.
This is a allocated on the basis of the key cost drivers, except judgemental area but we will maintain a consistent where this is impracticable, where contract revenue is approach to assessing forecast contract outcomes and used as the basis.
The balance of the charge to Trading will provide clear disclosure in our reporting in future Loss relating to onerous contracts was 124.1m and periods of the utilisation and other changes to the comprised impairment of contract balances which onerous contract provisions.
were predominantly non-cash in nature.
Given the scale of these onerous contract provisions, The 433.4m provision for future contractual losses asset impairments and other charges, and the charged to Trading Profit and held on the balance consequent impact on future cash flow, the background sheet at 31 December 2014 is based on projections of to the five contracts with the largest financial impact is the future losses on approximately 50 contracts, with explained in more detail below.
These account for losses extending up to ten years to 2024 on the approximately three quarters of the total onerous longest contract.
These contracts, including UK contract provisions charged to Trading Loss.
The frontline clinical healthcare, made a cumulative loss in remaining contracts with charges related to onerous 2014, before the impact of onerous contract provisions contract provisions cover a number of different sectors arising from the review, of approximately 95m.
and geographies, but none has expected future Significant judgement is required in determining the cumulative trading losses greater than 15m.
appropriate level of onerous contract provision, Year ended 31December 2014 Onerous contract losses for future year Related Total charge contract impairments Operating losses and charges profit m m m Items charged to Trading Loss: ACPB 135.6 60.0 195.6 COMPASS 112.3 3.0 115.3 FPMS 50.2 15.4 65.6 PECS 14.1 12.8 26.9 Ashfield 15.3 3.5 18.8 Five largest 327.5 94.7 422.2 Other 105.9 29.4 135.3 Total items charged to Trading Loss 433.4 124.1 557.5 ACPB Impairment of intangibles arising on acquisition 6.3 6.3 Total onerous contracts charged to operating loss before exceptional items 433.4 130.4 563.8 UK frontline clinical health exceptional provisions 13.7 2.4 16.1 Total onerous contract charges to operating loss 447.1 132.8 579.9 51 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Finance Review continued Armidale Class Patrol Boats ACPB contract.
Total settlement based on an equitable division of excess impairments and provisions: 201.9m costs would be possible.
By the time of our contract The single largest onerous contract provision for future review, it was becoming clear that this would not be year losses relates to our contract to operate and easily or quickly achieved.
Furthermore, the costs of maintain a fleet of patrol boats for the Royal Australian penalties payable to the customer for failure to Navy.
This contract was entered into in December meet availability targets increased.
2003 with an initial design and build phase, after which These problems were compounded by a major fire the fleet became operational in 2007.
The boats were on one of the fourteen patrol boats whilst it was originally designed for general patrol duties.
Sercos under repair in August 2014.
This boat was rendered key obligation is to have the fleet available for inoperable, increasing further the risk of missing the operations for a fixed number of days a year.
fleet availability targets and consequent additional penalties.
In 2009 Australia was faced by a rapid and unforeseen increase in illegal arrivals by sea.
The Armidale Class As a result of these contractual developments, a patrol boats were heavily used for detection and charge totalling 201.9m has been expensed in the interception, and transporting immigrants to places of year with a provision of 135.6m related to anticipated safety.
Consequently, the patrol boats began to future losses over the remaining eight years of the operate at a greatly increased operational tempo, and contract.
There were also 66.3m relating to spent much more time in areas where sea conditions impairments of contract balances and other charges, are hostile and extremely stressful on vessels.
Neither including the impairment of receivables of 52.2m the customer, nor Serco anticipated such a change in arising from spend that was previously expected to be use of the patrol boats.
As a consequence, the vessels recoverable from the customer and 6.3m of have been operated in a manner beyond that originally impairment of intangibles arising on acquisition.
Our anticipated and for which they were specified, which estimate of future losses is based on our recent has resulted in increased repair and maintenance internal engineering assessment as well as the external costs, longer periods in port, and consequent expert review and reflects the scale of the remediation penalties being imposed by the customer for vessel required and the operational availability challenge, non-availability.
The contract has a further eight years exacerbated by the loss of one of the vessels.
The Group is currently in negotiations with the Australian Defence Material Given the fact that the systemic extent of cracking and Organisation with a view to agreeing the corrosion and remediation cost was not apparent until implementation of a remedial programme and the second half of 2014, compounded by the improving the terms of the contract.
deterioration in the customer relationship during the year and the loss of one vessel through fire in August In the years to 31 December 2013, the contract was 2014, we have concluded that this is a change in modestly profitable.
As repair costs increased in 2012 accounting estimate in 2014, and not a prior period and 2013, anticipated margins were reduced, but until error.
The above amount is considered to be the most the second half of 2014 it appeared likely that the appropriate charge to reflect the best estimate of revenues would exceed costs over the remaining life of future losses along with other write offs and the contract, and therefore there was no need to impairments.
However, Serco remains in ongoing recognise an onerous contract provision.
It was also discussion with the customer and is pursuing all believed that the customer would accept a proportion avenues to mitigate losses.
of the excess repair costs, particularly those related to corrosion, as an independent report, commissioned by Commercial and Operational Managers Procuring the customer, had confirmed that the customer was Asylum Support Services COMPASS contract.
Total partially responsible for the damage.
However, in 2014 impairments and provisions: 115.3m a number of events occurred that materially changed The second largest onerous contract provision for this judgement: future year losses relates to our COMPASS contract with the UK Home Office, which is for the provision of In the first quarter of 2014, structural cracks were accommodation, transportation and subsistence found in one of the patrol boats.
Over the following payments for asylum seekers whilst their claims are months, inspections were carried out on the fleet as being processed.
Claim processing can take from a they came in from patrol, and it became clear that few months to several years.
most of the boats had suffered similar damage, the remediation of which would require major work.
As This contract commenced in 2012 and provides a result of this and increasing costs of repair and services in two of the six administrative regions of the maintenance, in November 2014 we commissioned contract in the UK: the North West, comprising a specialist vessel engineering consultancy to fourteen Local Authority areas: and Scotland & produce a detailed projection of likely costs over Northern Ireland.
The contract runs to December 2017, the life of the contract both of repairing the with a further extension of up to two years at the structural damage, and maintaining the fleet option of the customer.
through to the end of the contract.
This report was recently finalised.
The contract was originally bid at a low margin and As the amount of time spent on repairs increased, despite losses in the two years to 31 December 2013 our ability to maintain fleet availability in there were expectations that it would become accordance with the contract decreased, and this profitable within the contract period given anticipated caused hardening attitudes between us and our volumes of asylum seekers, and on the assumption customer.
In 2013 and through the first half of 2014 that the costs of running the contract could be we expected that a reasonable commercial reduced over time.
Accordingly, no onerous contract 52 Strategic Report provision was recognised at the 2013 year end.
At As a result of these factors, a provision of 112.3m has 30 June 2014 an onerous contract provision of 6m been recognised to cover anticipated losses over the was recognised, which was based on the then-current remaining five years of the contract including the two assumptions regarding asylum seeker numbers, the extension years, and there have been asset impairments duration of accommodation and support services and other charges of 3.0m.
This represents our current required, and forecasts of costs to deliver the contract.
best estimate of the likely outcome, although the losses on the contract are closely linked to volume of asylum The contractual performance and outlook have seen seekers, which is not in Sercos control and the range of significant adverse changes since June 2014.
In potential outcomes is wide, given that there is no particular a number of events have occurred which contractual cap on the total number of service users that have led to a significant increase in the level of could be assigned to Serco.
contract loss we now expect to incur: As the triggers for these charges have been the recent There has been a significant increase in the volume significant changes in volumes and the consequent of asylum seekers in our care during the course of activation of the volume price reduction, we have 2014.
At 31 December 2013 we had 10,024 in our concluded that the charge is a change in accounting care, whereas by December 2014 we were looking estimate in 2014, and not a prior period error.
after 12,448 a year-on-year increase of 24%, with an accelerating growth rate in the second half of the Future Provision of Marine Services FPMS contract.
Growth in the number of asylum seekers is Total impairments and provisions: 65.6m driven by three factors: the number of new asylum The FPMS contract, which has a 15-year duration, seekers arriving in the UK: the rate at which the provides marine support services to the UK Ministry of Immigration Authorities process claims: and the Defence MOD dockyard ports of Portsmouth, proportion of asylum seekers allocated to each Plymouth and Faslane as well as support to military contractual region by the Immigration Authorities.
exercises and training and to the Raasay Ranges.
Serco We have no control over these factors, and all has been delivering services to the MOD under the moved to our disadvantage during 2014.
FPMS contract since its inception in 2007 and Despite the fact that the profile of our costs does operational performance against key performance not decrease in proportion to volume, the contract indicators has remained consistently strong.
includes a price reduction provision at certain volumes of asylum seekers in our care, which was The contract has specific tasks that we are required to triggered in October 2014 by the volume growth.
deliver in return for a fixed fee.
Additionally, variable Availability and cost of housing: when finding revenues are recognised for extra tasking as instructed housing for asylum seekers, we have to work closely by the MOD and other third parties, and from time to with Local Authorities to gain permissions to house time through the chartering of vessels to third parties.
asylum seekers in their areas.
Local Authorities have a statutory responsibility to provide and fund The contract was profitable in the early years.
healthcare and education services for asylum However, a reduction in fixed fee revenue resulted in seekers in their areas from existing budgets.
In 2013 the contract returned Accordingly, gaining Local Authority agreement to to profit as the Group secured a large number of extra allow asylum seekers to be housed in their areas can tasking requests and third party charters, with the be challenging and takes time.
If we have large reduced fixed fee revenue also being offset to some numbers of additional asylum seekers we find extent by a cost reduction programme.
During 2014, ourselves having to provide accommodation for the contract again lost money as there were few large numbers of asylum seekers in hotels rather opportunities for third party chartering revenue and than houses, which is much more expensive.
additional tasking requests also ran at a lower level Volatility in the number of service users has also than previous years.
become a major issue: as the system has come under strain from increasing numbers, so the It has become clear that there is significant uncertainty numbers the Home Office instructs us to take can about our future ability to generate third party change rapidly from week to week, whereas chartering revenue.
In addition, recent cost reduction procurement of properties takes a much longer measures put in place by the customer are likely to timescale.
On occasions, we have been instructed limit the volume of variable revenue opportunities in by the Home Office to take large numbers of terms of extra task orders.
Furthermore, a review of the service users with only a few days notice and this contract during the second half of 2014, based on inevitably causes increased costs and operational latest cost estimates, considered the on-going cost strain on the system.
Similarly, if there is a sudden base to deliver the contract.
This review covered the drop off in numbers of asylum seekers this can lead required resourcing, repairs and maintenance spend to a surplus in unoccupied rented housing, which and sub-contractor agreements and concluded that, also creates additional costs.
despite efforts in recent years to reduce the cost base, Given recent volume growth we have reassessed Serco is likely to lose money on the fixed fee element our forecast volume assumptions.
Based on historic of the contract.
numbers and trend analysis, we have assumed an average growth rate of 1.46% per month in the As a result of these factors a charge totalling 65.6m North West and 1.49% in Scotland and Northern has been taken, comprising a provision of 50.2m to Ireland.
This produces forecasts of significantly cover anticipated future losses over the remaining higher numbers of asylum seekers towards the end eight years of the contract and 15.4m of asset of the contract, and as a result the projected losses impairments and other charges.
As the triggers for this are far larger than were previously anticipated.
adjustment were the significant and unexpected reduction of variable revenues from chartering and 53 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Finance Review continued task orders in the year, which could not have been changes.
However, since the change of operational foreseen, together with the findings from the contract role of the prison the MOJ has imposed on us a level review, we have concluded that this is a change in of pricing which we dispute, and which would result in accounting estimate in 2014, and not a prior year error.
substantial losses over the remaining life of the contract.
We remain in negotiation with the MOJ but Prisoner Escort and Custody Services PECS contract.
progress has been slow and agreement has not yet Total impairments and provisions: 26.9m been reached.
Should we continue to be unable to This is a contract with the Ministry of Justice MOJ for reach a resolution with the MOJ, we will have to invoke the provision of prisoner transportation between contractual remedies, including the dispute resolution courts and prisons and for the management of mechanism under the terms of the contract.
Since the prisoner welfare when at court.
The seven-year outcome of any such process is uncertain, we judge we contract was awarded in 2011, with three one year need to take an onerous contract provision of 15.3m extension options at the customers discretion.
to cover anticipated future losses, as well as impairing certain other assets totalling 3.5m, making an In 2013 Serco identified mis-reporting of its aggregate charge against the contract of 18.8m.
Designated Ready and Available for Court Time DRACT performance measure, and in late 2013 an As the adjustment is the result of the failure to resolve outline agreement was reached with the MOJ that pricing in 2014, the adjustment is considered to be a Serco could retain the contract in return for making change in accounting estimate in 2014, and not a prior service improvements, at Sercos cost, and forgoing period error.
During the course of 2014 Serco and the MOJ worked together to determine the detail of Other onerous contract provisions charged to this agreement and the consequent level of trading loss investment required by Serco.
Discussions were at an Total other onerous contact provisions charged to early stage at June 2014 and are now concluded.
This Trading Loss for future year losses of 105.9m, related has allowed us finally to determine the transformation to contracts which each had cumulative future year activities necessary, and as a result in the second half trading losses of up to 15m.
These contracts were of 2014 we took the decision to extend our individually reviewed as part of the Contract and transformation programme into 2015, at an additional Balance Sheet Reviews by EY and management and estimated cost of 6m.
The crystallisation of these arise from one or more of the following factors in the obligations has also allowed us to refine our second half of 2014: a change to the strategic direction assessment of the future level of resources which will of the business, a reassessment of the likely outcome be necessary within the contract to sustain our service of disputed items, and adverse operational results at the agreed levels for the remainder of the contract arising from external factors leading to a reassessment term.
This resulted in a significant increase in expected of the future profitability.
These factors led to these future costs.
contracts becoming onerous and provisions being recognised at the lower of the net costs to fulfil The total onerous contract provision at 31 December contracts and, where applicable, the costs to end 2014 is 14.1m, to cover future anticipated losses over contracts early.
In each case, it was concluded that as the remaining three years and eight months of the the triggering events arose in 2014, these provisions contract, with asset impairments and other charges of were changes in estimates.
The principal factors driving our estimate are the extent and speed of our ability to reduce the level Onerous contract provisions projected utilisation of staff overtime and the requirement for short-term Projecting the future utilisation of the onerous contract agency resource through planned operational provision is not easy given the inherent uncertainties of improvements.
predicting future contract performance, particularly when the performance on a number of key contracts This adjustment is a direct result of the discussions depends on future service demand and volume which concluded in the second half of 2014, and are factors we do not control.
It is hard to forecast, for consequently the adjustment is considered to be a example, the number of asylum seekers entering the change in accounting estimate in 2014, and not a prior United Kingdom.
However, given the fact that period error.
projected utilisation correlates with the estimated cash impact of these future contract losses, we have Ashfield prison.
Total impairments and provisions: estimated the projected phasing below.
The projected 18.8m utilisation reflects, where the impact was significant, The HMP Ashfield PFI contract commenced in 1999 discounting of the future contract losses and this has and runs through to 2024.
In 2013 the operational role reduced the total provision on the balance sheet by of Ashfield was changed from a Young Offender 21m.
Clearly, we will in future years review our contract Institution to an adult male sex offenders prison performance regularly and update our estimate of resulting in a changed cost base.
Such changes are onerous contract provisions and associated projected normal in the life of a 25-year contract, and there is an future utilisation.
established process for agreeing resultant price 2017 2015 2016 onwards Total m m m m 1 Projected provision utilisation 139 83 225 447 1 Including exceptional items for UK frontline clinical Health and provisions included in held for sale liabilities.
