Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued Remuneration policy for other employees The remuneration policy described in the previous table applies specifically to Executive Directors of the Group.
The Committee believes that the structure of management reward at Serco should be linked to Sercos strategy and performance.
The table below explains how the remuneration policy has been cascaded below Executive Directors to achieve alignment of policy across the organisation.
Element Difference in remuneration policy for other employees Base salary The same principles and considerations that are applied to Executive Directors are, as far as possible, applied to all employees.
Benefits Serco also has provisions for market aligned benefits for all employees.
Pension The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
Individuals who have exceeded certain tax allowances may be offered cash allowances in lieu of pension benefits.
Annual bonus Approximately 500 members of the Global Leadership Team are eligible for a bonus award under The Leadership Team Bonus Scheme.
Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Members of the Executive Committee are invited to participate in the DBP on the same terms as the Executive Directors.
Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP is awarded to approximately 500 employees in the Global Leadership Team.
Options are normally granted at a discount of 10% to the market value and have no performance conditions.
The Executive Directors do not participate in Sharesave.
Considerations of conditions elsewhere in the Group Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Committee does consider the general base salary increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for the broader employee population when determining the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors.
Illustrations of application of the remuneration policy The charts illustrate the composition and value of the different elements of remuneration that the Executive Directors will receive for below threshold, target and maximum corporate performance.
The graphs show an estimate of the remuneration that could be received by Executive Directors under the policy set out in this Report.
Each of the bars is broken down to show how the total under each scenario is made up of fixed elements of remuneration, the annual bonus and share based incentives.
The charts indicate that a significant proportion of both target and maximum pay is performance-related.
For target performance variable pay accounts for nearly two thirds of total pay for the CEO, and over half for the CFO and the COO.
CEO CEO Proportion of remuneration package value delivered Potential value of CEOs 2015 remuneration package 000 through xed and performance-related pay for CEO % 100% 40% 55% 2,975 22% 1,169 24% Fixed elements Fixed elements 1,275 38% of remuneration of remuneration 638 Annual variable Annual variable 21% 1,128 1,128 1,128 Multiple period variable Multiple period variable Below Target Maximum Below Target Maximum threshold threshold 108
