Strategic Report The output of the Strategic Review identified a Impairment of goodwill non-cash exceptional impairment of goodwill of As goodwill is not amortised, it is tested for 466.0m in relation to the reduction in the carrying impairment annually or if there are indications that it value of net assets to the estimated recoverable might be impaired.
The recoverable amount of each amounts in the CGUs of the Group.
The impairments cash generating unit CGU is based on value in use arise as a result of two key issues.
Firstly, forecasts of calculations derived from forecast cash flows based on cash flows have been significantly impacted by the past experience, adjusted to reflect market trends, Strategy Review undertaken during the year, and economic conditions and key risks.
These forecasts secondly, the discount rates applied in the impairment include an appropriate level of new business wins and calculations have increased to reflect the changing an assumption that the final year forecast continues on level of risk associated with the business and the fall in into perpetuity at a CGU specific terminal growth rate the Groups market capitalisation.
The impairments that does not exceed the forecast GDP growth for the arose in the following cash generating units.
relevant market of the business.
Year ended 31December 2014 Total Exceptional impairment of goodwill by cash-generating Unit m UK Local & Regional Government: Local Services 57.6 UK Local & Regional Government: UK Health 22.9 Americas 100.7 Global Services 284.8 Total exceptional goodwill impairment charge 466.0 Loss on disposal of businesses Taxation The net loss on disposal of businesses of 5.4m relates Our tax strategy is to manage all taxes to ensure that to the following specific disposals.
we pay the appropriate amount in the countries in which we operate, while both respecting applicable On 19 June 2014 the Group disposed of its debt tax legislation and utilising appropriate legislative collection business, Collectica Limited, which after reliefs.
Our strategy is aligned with the Groups disposal related costs, resulted in a loss on disposal of business strategy and endorsed by the Board.
On 30 September 2014, the Group disposed of Responsibility for tax strategy and risk management its Sky Germany business resulting in a loss on sits with the Chief Financial Officer.
In the year there was also a 0.1m delivery of the strategy is executed by a global team of loss on disposal arising from the sale of Ascot College professionals who are aligned with our businesses and in 2013.
These losses were offset by a gain of 0.5m on who work closely with local tax authorities and local the disposal of the Braintree Community Hospital advisors.
business on 10 March 2014 and a gain of 5.4m recognised in the period in relation to the disposal of Taxes received the nuclear assurance technical consulting services We received net tax of 0.1m in the year with income business that had been sold in 2012, following the taxes paid of 25.9m during the period, principally in release of provisions which have become time expired.
our ASPAC 10.1m, Americas 5.9m and Global In the year, a loan receivable in respect of a prior year Services India 4.2m divisions.
We also received UK disposal in the prior year was impaired by 4.6m.
tax refunds of 26.0m arising from carrying back tax losses to earlier periods and from surrendering some Net finance expense of our tax losses to our UK joint ventures.
Net finance costs of 36.7m were 0.5m lower than 2013.
This reflected reduced bank loan interest As at 31 December 2014, the Group has gross charges incurred in the year as a result of lower estimated UK tax assets of 723m 145m net, which average net debt, and slightly higher investment are potentially available to offset against future UK revenue, which were partly offset by a 2.2m increase taxable profits.
These comprise mainly UK tax losses in facility fees associated with revisions to the terms of available for carry-forward and deferred tax lending agreements.
Of these tax assets, 589m arise in Serco Limited, the Groups principal UK trading entity: the remaining 134m arise in other UK group companies.
Of the net 145m of tax assets, only 10.5m is recognised on the balance sheet on the basis of forecast utilisation against future taxable profits, with 134.5m being a contingent asset not recognised on the balance sheet.
