Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration policy The following report details the remuneration policy and the decisions on remuneration of the Directors of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014.
This report has been drafted in compliance with the disclosure requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
This Report also complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Mediumsized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Regulations.
The remuneration policy report was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and will apply until Shareholders next consider and vote on the Policy.
The Directors remuneration policy is displayed on the Companys website, in the investor area.
Remuneration policy Sercos remuneration policy supports the achievement of the Companys long-term strategic objectives.
Sercos approach to executive remuneration is designed to: Support Sercos long-term future growth, strategy and values: Align the financial interests of executives and shareholders: Provide market competitive reward opportunities for performance in line with expectations and deliver significant financial rewards for sustained out-performance: Enable Serco to recruit and retain the best executives with the required skills and experience in all our chosen markets: Be based on a clear rationale which participants, shareholders and other stakeholders are able to understand and support.
Future policy table The remuneration package for Executive Directors consists of base salary, annual bonus, long-term share-based incentives, pension and other benefits.
The Companys policy is to ensure that a significant proportion of the package is related to performance.
The following table sets out each element of reward and how it supports the Companys shortand long-term strategic objectives.
Whilst the table is focused on Executive Directors, the table set out on page 108 provides further information of how pay policies are set for the broader employee population.
