Strategic Report Strategic Report Our Business Model Our customers have limited resources.
All What we do, how we do it governments are under intense pressure to do more, andwhere and better, with less.
Delivering services to meet the high expectations citizens have of public services is very demanding.
People and communities have rapidly Serco serves governments and other changing needs and expect the services they use to make a positive and tangible difference to their lives.
bodies who serve the public or protect To overcome these challenges, our customers want their nations interests.
partners who can improve the quality and efficiency of their services and help them keep their promises to their citizens.
Since we were founded more than 50years ago, we have delivered Serco people constantly look for ways to improve the services we deliver.
We can transfer our skills, insights services through people, supported and ideas from one sector or region to another, so we by processes, management and can anticipate and meet new challenges for customers.
Our customers know what We have deep experience in the capabilities we offer and in the countries we operate in, and this is the heart outcome or service they want to deliver of what makes us different.
to their service users, and we find new A key part of our value proposition is that we provide a and more effective ways to achieve it bridge between the drive, energy and innovation of for them.
Over the years we have the private sector, and the very specific requirements delivered innovative solutions to some of the public sector.
Providing services to the public, and being funded by taxpayers, is different, and in of the most complex challenges of many ways more demanding, than providing services the day, bringing our experience, to the private sector or consumers.
Influences such as politics, transparency and accountability to multiple innovation and scale to deliver the stakeholders are seen only dimly in the private sector, financial, service and policy outcomes but writ large in the public sector, and need skilful our customers want.
Serco has deep expertise in providing this bridge: overlaid on our private sector techniques, our customers, we make a difference to drive and energy, is a public service ethos that means the lives of millions of people around that we gain the trust of our customers.
As a consequence, we are granted contracts to provide the world, and help nations to protect services of the utmost sensitivity, from supporting their interests.
strategic nuclear weapons to caring for asylum seekers and young offenders.
During 2014 we simplified our divisional structure, removing a layer of supervisory management which sat between Group and our AMEAA Division.
For the balance of 2014, Serco operated through six Divisions, five of which being UK Central Government, UK & Europe Local & Regional Government, Americas, Asia Pacific and the Middle East provide a broad range of frontline public service operations to customers in various geographic regions and one being the Global Services Division provides Business Process Outsourcing BPO services globally.
More information on our Divisions their performance in the year can be found in the Divisional Review on pages 31 to 44.
Following our Strategy Review, described in more detail below, we will in future focus on five key pillars of public service: Justice & Immigration, Defence, Transport, Citizen Services and Healthcare, and deliver these services internationally from our operating units in North America, the UK & Europe, the Middle East and Australia & New Zealand.
In each of these areas we identify a pipeline of long-term contract opportunities that are anticipated to be procured by customers.
It is our intention to bid for and win opportunities in this pipeline: commit to a long-term contract with the customer, including specified pricing, service levels and scope of delivery: deliver on these contracted commitments at the contracted price: and on contract expiry, either win a rebid or manage a contract exit.
