Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Directors Report Annual Report and Accounts The Directors present the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Comparative figures used in this report are for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 78 to 91 forms part of the Statutory Directors Report.
The Chairmans Statement and the CEO Statement and Divisional Review on pages 25 to 44 report on the activities during the year, post balance sheet events, and likely future developments.
The information in these reports which is required to fulfil the requirements of the Business Review is incorporated in this Directors Report by reference.
Share capital The issued share capital of the Company, together with the details of shares issued during the year is shown in note 35 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The powers of the Directors to issue or buy back shares are restricted to those approved at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The rules relating to the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
Rights attaching to shares Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than certain restrictions, which may from time to time be imposed by law.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority certain employees are required to seek the approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreement between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Dividends An interim dividend of 3.10p 2013: 3.10p per ordinary share was paid on 17 October 2014.
The Directors do not recommend a final dividend to be paid for 2014 2013: 7.45p.
Interests in voting rights As at 11 March 2015 the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares: Number of shares % held millions As at As at date of Nature of 31December notification holding 2014 Invesco Limited 54.8 Indirect 9.98 GIC Private Limited 35.1 Direct 6.40 MSDC Management, L. P. 30.6 Indirect 5.58 Artisan Partners Limited Partnership, Artisan Investments GP LLC, Artisan Partners Holdings LP, and Artisan Partners Asset Management Inc. 27.6 Indirect 5.04 Morstan Nominees Limited 25.1 Indirect 4.58 BlackRock Inc. 25.0 Indirect 4.56 FIL Limited 24.4 Indirect 4.46 AXA S. A.
24.4 Indirect 4.44 FMR LLC 24.3 Indirect 4.42 Newton Investment Management Limited 23.6 Indirect 4.30 Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb Inc. 22.2 Indirect 4.05 Lancaster Investment Management LLP 22.0 SWAP 4.01 Woodford Investment Management LLP 16.7 Indirect 3.04 The Directors are unaware of any restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company or on voting rights.
There are also no known agreements between holders of the Companys securities which may result in such restrictions.
126 Directors Report Directors The current members of the Board together with biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 80 to 81.
On 28 February 2014, the Company announced the appointment of Rupert Soames as Group Chief Executive, commencing 1 May 2014 as revised.
On 30 April 2014 the Company announced that Andrew Jenner would be standing down as Group Chief Financial Officer once a successor had been appointed, which he did on 30 September 2014.
On 12 August 2014, the Company announced the appointment of Angus Cockburn as Group Chief Financial Officer with effect from the end of October 2014.
Angus will stand for election at the Companys AGM on 6 May 2015.
On 17 November 2014, the Company announced Alastair Lyons intention to step down from his role of Chairman once a new Chairman has been appointed.
As in previous years, and in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all other Directors will stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
Although the Chairman has stated his intention to step down, he is standing for re-election so that he can remain Chairman until his replacement has been appointed.
Directors interests With the exception of the Executive Directors service contracts and the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment, there are no contracts in which any Director has an interest.
Certain change in control conditions are included in the service contracts of Directors which provide compensation or reduction of notice periods in the event of a change in control of the Company.
Details of the Directors interests in the ordinary shares and options over the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 101 to 125.
Directors indemnities Directors and officers insurance cover has been established for all Directors to provide cover against their reasonable actions on behalf of the Company.
As permitted under the Articles of Association and in accordance with best practice, a deed was executed in 2015 indemnifying each of the Directors of the Company and or its subsidiaries as a supplement to the Directors and officers insurance cover.
The indemnities, which constitute a qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, remain in force for all current Directors of the Company.
Branch offices In certain jurisdictions, the Group will operate through a branch.
Authority for the purchase of shares As at the date of this report authority granted at the Companys AGM in May 2014 remains in force, as set out in the Notice of Meeting that is available on the Companys website, at the date of this report.
Significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control Given the business to government nature of many of the services provided by the Company and its subsidiaries, many agreements contain provisions entitling the other parties to terminate them in the event of a change of control of the Group company concerned, which can be triggered by a takeover of the Company.
The following agreements are those individual agreements which the Company considers to be significant to the Group as a whole that contain provisions giving the other party a specific right to terminate them if the Company is subject to a change of control.
Material customer contracts Australian Immigration Services: On 11 December 2014, Serco Australia Pty Limited entered into a contract with the Commonwealth of Australia acting through the Department of Immigration and Border Protection for the provision of detention services at all onshore immigration facilities in Australia.
The contract has an initial five year term, with two available two year extension options.
In the event of a change in control or ownership of Serco Australia Pty Limited, which in the reasonable opinion of the Commonwealth adversely affects the Companys ability to perform the Services, the contract may be terminated by the Commonwealth.
AWE: Serco Holdings Limited is a 33.3% shareholder in AWE Management Limited the AWE JV.
Serco Holdings Limiteds joint venture partners and the other shareholders in the AWE JV are UK subsidiary companies of Lockheed Martin Corporation and Jacobs Engineering Group.
The AWE JV oversees the design, development, maintenance and manufacture of warheads for the UKs strategic nuclear deterrent.
This work is carried out by the AWE JV under a management and operation contract with the Secretary of State for Defence the AWE Contract.
The AWE Contract was entered into on 1 December 1999 and has a 25 year term.
In the event that there is a change of control of Serco Holdings Limited or a controlling interest in the Serco Group then the other shareholders in the AWE JV are entitled to purchase the shares and loans held by Serco Holdings Limited and any other member of the Serco Group.
SSA: In order to bid and perform on certain classified contracts involving US national security, Serco Inc was required to mitigate its foreign ownership through a Special Security Agreement SSA between the US Government, Serco Inc. and Serco Group plc.
The effective date of the SSA is 18 June 2008.
In the event of a sale of Serco Inc. to a company or person that is under foreign ownership, control or influence FOCI, the SSA may be terminated by the US Department of Defense.
127 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Directors Report continued Financing facilities Revolving credit facility: the Company has a 730,000,000 revolving credit facility dated 28 March 2012 with the Bank of America Securities Limited, Barclays Bank PLC, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, DBS Bank Limited, London Branch, HSBC Bank PLC, J. P. Morgan Limited, Lloyds TSB Bank PLC, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ.
Limited and The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC as mandated lead arrangers and Barclays Bank PLC as Facility Agent, to be amended and restated as a 480,000,000 revolving and bonding credit facility following the successful completion of the rights issue.
The facility provides funds for general corporate and working capital purposes, and following its amendment and restatement will provide bonds to support the Groups business needs.
The facility agreement provides and will continue to provide after it has been amended and restated that in the event of a change of control of the Company each lender may, within a certain period, call for the prepayment of the amounts owed to it and cancel its commitments under the facility.
US Notes: the Company has issued notes under four US Private Placement Note Purchase Agreements the USPP Agreements dated, 20 August 2003, 9 May 2011, 20 October 2011 and 13 May 2013, respectively.
The total amounts of the notes under the four USPP Agreements are 16,600,000 and $886,000,000 and their maturity is between 30 August 2015 and 14 May 2024.
Under the terms of the USPP Agreement dated 20 August 2003, if a change of control of the Company is combined with a rating downgrade, the Company is required to offer to prepay the entire principal amount of the notes together with interest to the prepayment date plus a modified make-whole amount.
Under the terms of the other three USPP Agreements, if a change of control of the Company occurs, regardless of whether it is combined with a rating downgrade, it is required to offer to prepay the entire principal amount of the notes together with interest to the prepayment date but without payment of any make-whole amount.
Share plans The Companys share plans contain provisions in relation to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change of control of the Company, in accordance with the rules of the plans.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the offices of Clifford Chance LLP, 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ on 6 May 2015 at 3.00pm.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting together with explanatory notes is sent to shareholders with this Annual Report and Accounts.
Financial risk policies A summary of the Groups treasury policies and objectives relating to financial risk management, including exposure to associated risks, is on pages 183 to 189.
Employment policies The Board is committed to maintaining a working environment where staff are individually valued and recognised.
Group companies and divisions operate within a framework of human resources policies, practices and regulations appropriate to their own market sector and country of operation, whilst subject to Group-wide policies and principles.
All Group wide human resources policies were reviewed and updated as part of the review of the Serco Management System with new documentation published and communicated in the final quarter of 2014.
The Group is committed to ensuring equal opportunity, honouring the rights of the individual, and fostering partnership and trust in every working relationship.
Policies and procedures for recruitment, training and career development promote diversity, respect for human rights and equality of opportunity regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
The Group promotes diversity so that all employees are able to be successful regardless of their background.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment, career development and promotion received from the disabled and offers employment when suitable opportunities arise.
If employees become disabled during their service with the Group arrangements are made wherever practicable to continue their employment and training.
The Group recognises the importance of protecting human rights.
We respect the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and its Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as well as the national laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
These are embedded in the Companys policies and standards and considered when reviewing business opportunities.
The Group remains proud of its record of managing employee relations and continues to believe that the structure of individual and collective consultation and negotiation is best developed at a local level.
Over the years, the Group has demonstrated that working with trade unions and creating effective partnerships allows improvements to be delivered in business performance as well as in terms and conditions of employment.
Where employees choose not to belong to a trade union, employee communication forums such as works councils exist to ensure involvement of staff within the business.
These mechanisms ensure employees views are considered in decision making and that they have a common awareness of Group strategy, matters of concern to them and the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the company.
Participation by staff in the success of the Group is encouraged by the availability of sharesave schemes, a share option scheme, and long term incentive arrangements for senior management, which effectively align their interests with those of shareholders by requiring that performance criteria are achieved prior to exercise.
128 Directors Report Corporate Responsibility The Group maintains a focus on corporate responsibility through a model that is applied across the business focusing on our people, safety, the environment and the communities we serve.
This model forms an integral part of our Management System and is supported by defined policies in all of the areas it covers.
More information on Corporate Responsibility, including Greenhouse Gas Emission reporting, can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 67 to 75.
Research & Development Serco undertakes a limited amount of research and development, given that our primary business model is the delivery of public services through our people.
Nonetheless we spent 21.5m on R&D in 2014 note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, of which over 85% was accounted for by our contract at the National Physical Laboratory.
This contract, operated by Serco on behalf of the UKs Department for Business Innovation and Skills BIS was extended for a period of up to 12 months from 1 April 2014.
NPL is a global leader in measurement science and a key international collaborator in projects that develop new measurements to make and exploit new scientific discoveries.
The scientific output of NPL continues to increase, and in 2014, 256 papers were published by NPL scientists in peer-reviewed scientific journals.
Political donations During the year neither the Company nor the Group made political donations and they intend to continue with this policy.
Within the US business there exists a Political Action Committee PAC, which is funded entirely by employees and their spouses.
The Serco PAC and its contributions are administered in strict accordance with regulatory requirements.
Employee contributions are entirely voluntary and no pressure is placed on employees to participate.
Under US law, an employee-funded PAC must bear the name of the employing company.
Financial statements At the date of this report, as far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors Deloitte LLP has expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
129 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Directors Report continued Index of Directors Report disclosures The information required to be disclosed in the Directors Report can be found in this Annual Report on pages listed below.
4C, the information required to be disclosed in the Annual Report under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R is marked with an asterisk.
Amendment of the Articles Page 85 Appointment and replacement of Directors Page 86 Board of Directors Pages 80 and 81 Change of control Pages 127 128 Community Page 71 Directors emolument waiver Page 104 Directors insurance and indemnities Page 127 Directors inductions and training Page 85 Directors responsibilities statement Page 131 Disclosure of information to auditors Page 131 Diversity Page 69 Dividends Page 126 Employee involvement Pages 23 and 69 Corporate Responsibility Page 67 Employees with disabilities Page 128 Future developments of the business Pages 8 15 Going concern Pages 65, 90 and 144 Greenhouse gas emissions Pages 24 and 74 Independent auditors Pages 134 to 138 Long-term incentive plans under Listing Rule 9.4.
3 Section 2 Directors Report, paragraph 25 Remuneration Report Page 197 Political donations Page 129 Post-balance sheet events Page 126 Powers for the Company to issue or buy back its shares Page 126 Powers of the Directors Page 83 Research and development activities Page 129 Restrictions on transfer of securities Page 126 Rights attaching to shares Page 126 Risk management and internal control Pages 15 to 20 How the business manages risk Pages 15 to 20 Share capital Page 126 Significant agreements Pages 127 128 Significant related party agreements Page 201 Significant shareholders Page 126 Statement of corporate governance Page 137 Strategic report Pages 4 75 Voting rights Page 126 Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: David Eveleigh Secretary 12 March 2015 130
