Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued The Remuneration Committee The Committee determines the overall remuneration policy for senior management and the individual remuneration of the Executive Directors and the members of the Executive Committee.
This includes the base salary, bonus, long-term incentives, pensions and terms of employment including those terms on which service may be terminated.
The Committee also determines the remuneration of the Chairman.
Terms of reference The terms of reference of the Committee, a copy of which can be found on the Groups website, are reviewed annually to ensure that they remain appropriate.
Details of the Directors attendance at meetings of the Committee can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 84.
Members of the Committee All members of the Committee are independent.
Non-Executive Directors of the Group are initially appointed for a three-year term, and that appointment may be terminated on three months written notice.
Remuneration Committee members and attendees the Committee met 12 times during 2014 Remuneration Committee members Position Comments Angie Risley Chairman of Remuneration Committee from 14 May 2012 Alastair Lyons Member from 10 May 2011 Malcolm Wyman Member from 1 January 2013 Tamara Ingram Member from 3 March 2014 Remuneration Committee attendees during the year Position Comments Rupert Soames CEO Attended by invitation Ed Casey COO Attended by invitation Andrew Jenner CFO Attended by invitation Geoff Lloyd Group HR Director Attends as an executive responsible for advising on the remuneration policy Tara Gonzalez Group HR Director, Reward Attends as an executive responsible for advising on the remuneration policy David Eveleigh Group General Counsel & Company Attends as the secretary to the Committee Secretary Steve Williams Deputy Company Secretary Attends as the secretary to the Committee No person is present during any discussion relating to their own remuneration arrangements.
124 Directors Report Summary of the Committees activities during the financial year Meeting Regular items Ad hoc items February Consider salary review proposals for the Executive Directors, members of the Executive Review of the Executive Director service Committee and the Company Secretary: review final draft of the Remuneration Report: agreements: approve changes to the Confirmation of bonus payable: review of achievement of performance conditions for bonus plan LTIvesting March Consider proposals for LTI performance measures April Review the performance measures for the LTI awards: review bonus objectives: Finalisation of termination package for Andrew Jenner May Review the share scheme performance: approve LTI awards: review bonus objectives Approve the executive committee service agreement: approve the change to the PSP and DBP rules June Approve the performance measures for the LTI awards September Review performance of the Executive Directors against bonus objectives November Review the Committee Terms of Reference: review initial draft of the Remuneration Report Advisors to the Remuneration Committee The Committee has been advised during the year by  LLP PwC.
PwC were selected as advisors to the Committee through a competitive tendering process in 2012 and no conflicts of interest were identified.
PwC have provided advice throughout the year mainly around the following key executive reward areas: Advice on remuneration for leavers and joiners in the light of changes to the Executive Directors during 2014 Benchmarking fees for the Chairman Benchmarking the total remuneration of the Executive Directors Support in reviewing the Directors Remuneration Report Advice on the calibration of performance targets Responding to general and technical reward queries A representative from PwC attended each meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
Consulting services have also been provided to the Group by the advisors in relation to retirement benefits and pay data, accounting and taxation services.
A representative from PwC attends each meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
Fees paid to PwC as advisors to the Committee during the year totalled 124,900, fees are charged on an hourly rate basis.
PwC are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group which oversees the voluntary code of conduct in relation to executive consulting in the UK.
The Committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the advice it receives from PwC each year.
It is satisfied that PwC is providing robust and professional advice.
In the course of its deliberations, the Committee considers the views of the Chief Executive on the remuneration and performance of the other members of the Executive Committee.
The Committee have also received legal advice from Linklaters LLP and Clifford Chance LLP during the year.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: David Eveleigh Secretary 12 March 2015 125
