Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration policy The following report details the remuneration policy and the decisions on remuneration of the Directors of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014.
This report has been drafted in compliance with the disclosure requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
This Report also complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Mediumsized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Regulations.
The remuneration policy report was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and will apply until Shareholders next consider and vote on the Policy.
The Directors remuneration policy is displayed on the Companys website, in the investor area.
Remuneration policy Sercos remuneration policy supports the achievement of the Companys long-term strategic objectives.
Sercos approach to executive remuneration is designed to: Support Sercos long-term future growth, strategy and values: Align the financial interests of executives and shareholders: Provide market competitive reward opportunities for performance in line with expectations and deliver significant financial rewards for sustained out-performance: Enable Serco to recruit and retain the best executives with the required skills and experience in all our chosen markets: Be based on a clear rationale which participants, shareholders and other stakeholders are able to understand and support.
Future policy table The remuneration package for Executive Directors consists of base salary, annual bonus, long-term share-based incentives, pension and other benefits.
The Companys policy is to ensure that a significant proportion of the package is related to performance.
The following table sets out each element of reward and how it supports the Companys shortand long-term strategic objectives.
Whilst the table is focused on Executive Directors, the table set out on page 108 provides further information of how pay policies are set for the broader employee population.
104 Directors Report How the element Maximum potential Performance metrics Operation of supports our value and payment used, weighting and theelement strategicobjectives atthreshold time period applicable Base salary Pay levels are designed to be Over the policy period, base None To help recruit and retain competitive and fair and reflect the salaries for Executive Directors will executives of the necessary calibre skills and performance of individuals.
be set at an appropriate level within to execute Sercos strategic the peer group and will normally objectives and to recognise an Salaries are benchmarked from time increase at no more than the individuals experience, to time against salaries for the greater of inflation and salary responsibility and performance.
Companys relevant peer group, increases made to the general with the market positioning workforce in the jurisdiction the To ensure base salaries are dependent on the scale of Executive Director is based in.
competitive in the market in which challenges intrinsic to the the individual is employed.
individuals role and individuals Higher increases may be made in ability, experience and role.
In some exceptional circumstances, for circumstances there may be phased example when there is a change in movement to that positioning.
Salaries are reviewed annually and any changes are effective from 1 April in the financial year.
Benefits Serco pays the cost of providing the The maximum opportunity for None To provide a competitive level of benefits on a monthly basis or as benefits is defined by the nature of benefits.
required for one-off events such as the benefits and the cost of receiving financial advice.
As the cost of providing such benefits varies These include but are not limited to based on market rates and other car allowances, private medical factors, there is no formal maximum insurance, permanent healthcare monetary value.
insurance, life cover, annual allowance for independent financial advice, and voluntary health checks every two years.
Relocation benefits will be provided in a manner that reflects individual circumstances and Sercos relocation benefits policy.
For example, relocation benefits could include temporary accommodation for the Executive and dependents and tax equalisation.
Benefits are reviewed annually against market practice and are designed to be competitive.
Annual bonus Bonus result is determined by the Maximum bonus opportunity: Bonus is earned on the basis of Incentivise Executives to achieve Committee after the year end, 150% of salary for CEO achievement of a mix of financial specific, predetermined goals based on performance against 130% of salary for CFO and non-financial objectives of during a one-year period.
150% of salary for COO which at least 50% are financial.
Reward ongoing stewardship and contribution to core values.
Annual bonuses are paid after the On-target bonus: Financial measures are based on end of the financial year end to 75% of salary for CEO the Companys Key Performance which they relate.
There is an 65% of salary for CFO Indicators KPIs and the nonoptional deferral of up to 50% of 75% of salary for COO financial measures are based on key the total earned bonus into Serco strategic objectives.
Threshold bonus is 20% of maximum bonus opportunity.
Performance is measured over the On change of control the financial year.
Remuneration Committee may pay bonuses on a pro-rata basis The Committee has discretion to measured on performance up to vary the weighting of performance the date of change of control.
metrics over the life of this remuneration policy.
Also the Committee has discretion in exceptional circumstances to vary performance measures part-way through a performance year if there is a significant event such as a major transaction or transition in role which causes the Committee to believe the original performance conditions are no longer appropriate.
105 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued How the element Maximum potential Performance metrics Operation of supports our value and payment used, weighting and theelement strategicobjectives atthreshold time period applicable Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Executive Directors can elect to For maximum performance, each Earnings Per Share EPS is the sole This plan is to incentivise executives defer, for three financial years, up to investment share is matched by two measure to determine the vesting to achieve superior returns for 50% of their annual bonus by matching shares.
shareholders and to align purchasing investment shares.
executives to shareholder interests For threshold performance each The performance condition is Each individual investment share investment share is matched by half measured over three years.
purchased will be matched on a a matching share.
gross investment basis by up to a In exceptional circumstances the maximum of two matching shares.
Committee retains discretion to change performance measures and Dividends are reinvested and targets and the weightings distributed only in respect of shares attached to performance measures that vest at the end of the part-way through the performance performance period.
period if there is a significant event for example a major transaction The Committee, at its discretion which causes the Committee to may attach a post-vesting holding believe the original measures, period for awards.
weightings or targets are no longer appropriate In circumstances such as fraud, misconduct and or misstatement by The Committee has discretion to a participant, the Company will be vary the proportion of awards that entitled to withhold before the vest, to ensure that the outcomes vesting date the value of any shares are fair and appropriate and reflect to be released or the payment of the underlying financial cash equivalents under the DBP.
On a change of control awards vest pro-rata for time and performance up to the date of change of control unless the Committee decides otherwise.
As provided in the plan rules approved by shareholders, the Committee has discretion to adjust awards in the event of, for example, corporate restructuring or capital events.
Performance Share Plan PSP Awards of nominal cost options Face value on grant of 200% of base Vesting is dependent on at least To drive achievement of longer conditional shares made annually.
salary for the CEO and 175% for the two performance conditions chosen term objectives, increase CFO and COO.
from: shareholder value aligned closely to Dividends are reinvested and creating shareholders interests.
distributed only in respect of shares 25% of the award vests for threshold EPS that vest at the end of the performance.
Share Price or absolute TSR The Committee, at its discretion The measures are independent, may attach a post-vesting holding and are measured over three years.
The weighting of each is determined prior to award.
The In circumstances such as fraud, Remuneration Committee has misconduct and or misstatement by discretion to adopt other measures a participant, the Company will be following consultation with major entitled to withhold before the end shareholders.
of the holding period the value of any shares to be released or the In exceptional circumstances the payment of cash equivalents under Committee retains discretion to the PSP.
change performance measures and targets and the weightings On a change of control awards vest attached to performance measures pro-rata for time and performance part-way through the performance up to the date of change of control period if there is a significant event unless the Committee decides such as a major transaction which otherwise.
causes the Committee to believe the original measures, weightings As provided in the plan rules or targets are no longer approved by shareholders, the appropriate.
Committee has discretion to adjust awards in the event of, for example, The Committee has discretion to corporate restructuring or capital vary the proportion of awards that events.
vest, to ensure that the outcomes are fair and appropriate and reflect the underlying financial performance of the Group.
