Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Health and safety Major reportable incidents Our aspiration is zero harm.
Nothing is so urgent or Major incidents are classed as fatalities, fractures, important that we cannot do it safely.
A strong HSE amputations, dislocations, loss of sight, chemical and performance ensures the safety of our people and hot metal burns, electrical burns, unconsciousness protects our reputation.
Wherever they work and caused by asphyxia or exposure to a harmful whatever their role, our people must adhere to substance and acute illness resulting from substance stringent health and safety procedures.
procedures are embedded in the SMS and are the minimum standards that apply.
During 2014 these The number of major reportable incidents fell by 42% policies, standards and supporting Group operating to 19 in 2014, resulting in a rate of 19.9 per 100,000 procedures were reviewed, revised and re-published employees.
This can be broken down with rates for as part of the refresh of the SMS.
frontline higher risk operations at 37.3 and our back office operations at 4.
These are ahead of our target Serco operates in a number of heavily regulated, of 40.
For 2015 our objective is to sustain a major safety-critical areas, which places stringent reportable incident rate under 30. requirements upon us.
We have the systems in place to deliver these requirements, as reflected in the Physical assaults regulatory approvals and licences we operate under.
No employee should be subjected to either physical or This also means that we have regular regulatory verbal abuse.
We have clear policies to support all our oversight.
Together, these factors give us a strong employees and recognise the risks that some controls framework for managing our HSE employees face.
This performance indicator has been an area of We monitor and have objectives around a number of specific management focus in the UK Divisions and performance indicators including lost time incidents: ASPAC where we have significant risk of assaults major reportable incidents and physical assaults.
mainly through our immigration and custodial businesses.
Many initiatives, working groups to spread Lost time incidents best practice and training have helped to manage this In 2014 we saw an 18% reduction in numbers of Lost risk area.
For example the issue of legal highs which Time Incidents LTI compared to 2013 resulting in a has affected the UK custodial business has impacted 9.4% improvement in the lost time incident rate.
At 457 by fuelling assault situations, however we have led an our LTI rate per 100,000 employees has exceeded industry-wide working group to look at ways of target 462 for the year by 1%.
When the higher risk addressing this.
elements of our business frontline are considered our LTI rate of 925 has seen a 10.8% improvement In ASPAC, reducing the potential for assaults is against 2013 and is 2.6% ahead of target 950.
This managed through controls such as intelligence reports reflects ongoing continuous improvements which have and surveillance, and training of our personnel in seen a 29% improvement in our LTI rate over the last fide-escalation and situational response strategies.
This is in the context of an increasing risk addition, Justice and Corrections in New Zealand profile in some operations eg from within our launched a violence reduction strategy and a custodial business.
For 2015 our objective is a further multi-disciplinary safer custody committee to assist in 3% reduction in the LTI rate to 444 for our combined reducing the potential for assaults.
frontline and back office operations.
Having said this, with an evolving risk profile we have Slips trips falls and manual handling continue to be seen an increase in 2014 in the physical assault rate per the highest contributors to LTIs.
Where this risk exists a 100,000 employees of 15% 554 against our rate in variety of risk reduction initiatives are being 2013 481.
This falls short of our target 460 by 20%.
implemented including staff awareness and training.
When just frontline performance is considered our Our approach is risk based in regard to safety critical rate in 2014 at 1,155 is 12% higher than in 2013 1,035 areas where we have driven a number of initiatives and misses our target of 988 by 17%.
This reflects an including: improved governance arrangements: erratic performance over the last five years which is development of consistent process and toolsets: and reflective of the changing risk profile.
We will continue significant improvements in the monitoring and to build on current initiatives and engage with others reporting of safety performance.
in the industry with the objective of reducing our physical assault rate by 3% in 2015 to 537.
