Strategic Report At the time we cautioned that whilst we had made from known attrition such as our Northern Rail contract good progress, the reviews were ongoing, and that ending in 2016, and in particular due to the time the information set out at that time would be subject required to rebuild the pipeline and implement the to further work through to the completion of our year various initiatives to further stabilise and then end audit in March 2015.
This work has now been transform the Groups performance.
Future completed and, I am glad to say that our initial performance will also depend on the outcome of the estimates of the total impact of the Contract and programme of planned disposals.
Balance Sheet Reviews have proved largely correct, that trading for 2014 has been in line with our According to the Directors current best estimates of November statements, and that we are maintaining market growth rates, the sectors to be focused on are our guidance for 2015, albeit with a change in likely to grow at an average rate of 5-7% a year, and definition to the key forecasting measures.
However, industry margins across Sercos mix of business are given the significance of the uncertainties further out, likely to be in the range of 5-6%.
If this turns out to be in particular the timing of any disposals and the time correct, and markets develop as expected, Serco it will take to rebuild the pipeline and implement the believes that after the initial years of restructuring and strategic initiatives we are setting out, the Board transformation, progress will be made towards considers the comments previously made around 2016 bringing performance in line with the average of the are no longer appropriate and the Group is no longer Groups peers.
providing formal guidance for 2016 and beyond.
Funding strategy, proposed raising of equity Historically, the key metrics used in forecasts were and dividend policy non-GAAP measures of Adjusted Revenue adjusted to The Strategy Review has assessed the appropriate include Sercos share of joint venture revenue and funding strategy for the Group.
Net debt including Adjusted Operating Profit adjusted to exclude Sercos that for assets and liabilities held for sale was 682m share of joint venture interest and tax as well as at 31 December 2014, but averaged 783m over the removing transaction-related costs and other material course of 2014.
For 2015, a net cash outflow of costs estimated by management that were considered 150-200m is anticipated, before the effect of the to have been impacted by the UK Government reviews proposed rights issue and any proceeds from business that followed the issues on the EM and PECS disposals: this reflects in particular: the projected cash contracts.
We believe that in the future the Group outflow on onerous contracts, the updated estimate of should report its results and provide its future which is 139m and is described more fully in the guidance on metrics that are more closely aligned to Finance Review: an impact from year-end net debt statutory measures.
Accordingly, our outlook for 2015 levels becoming more aligned with average net debt is now expressed in terms of Revenue and Trading levels: and exceptional costs in 2015 which will include Profit.
The revenue measure is consistent with the IFRS refinancing fees of approximately 30m, and further definition, and therefore excludes Sercos share of joint restructuring programmes that will be developed as venture revenue.
Trading Profit, which is otherwise part of implementing the Strategy Review.
consistent with the IFRS definition of operating profit, adjusts only to exclude amortisation and impairment The Board has concluded that it needs to reduce the of intangibles arising on acquisition, as well as Groups indebtedness and that the appropriate exceptional items.
Trading Profit is therefore lower leverage for the business over the medium-term is in than the previously defined Adjusted Operating Profit the region of 1-2x average net debt to EBITDA.
In 2015, measure due to Sercos share of joint venture interest we anticipate that EBITDA for leverage covenant and tax charges.
We believe that reporting and purposes will be approximately 160m, or about 70m forecasting using metrics that are consistent with IFRS higher than Trading Profit, before any adjustment for will be simpler and more transparent, and therefore potential disposals that may be completed over the more helpful to investors.
The Groups current expectations for 2015 are revenue Our future strategy, which we outline below and have of approximately 3.5bn, Trading Profit of around explained further in the Prospectus, must be properly 90m and EBITDA as defined for covenant purposes funded, and the Group put on a firm foundation which of approximately 160m.
The expectations are will allow it to grow and flourish.
It has also become unchanged from those set out in November, with the increasingly clear that if we are to retain customers only difference being the change in definition of these confidence a firm foundation is an absolute necessity.
The principal drivers of the underlying To achieve this, the business will need a sustainable pressure on 2015 Revenue and Trading Profit versus balance sheet with a prudent level of financial gearing 2014 remain those previously described, namely the appropriate for the level of operational gearing given impact of net attrition from lost contracts and the mix of businesses we have.
To this end, the assumptions for reduced volumes on operations Board is today launching a fully underwritten rights such as Australian Immigration Services.
These issue to raise gross proceeds of approximately 555m.
expectations do not include any adjustment for Further detail on the rights issue can be found in the potential disposals that may be completed over separate announcement and the associated the course of 2015.
Prospectus also being published on 12 March 2015.
Looking further out, the Group is no longer providing Based on 2015 forecasts, the net proceeds of the formal guidance for 2016 and beyond.
Performance proposed rights issue is expected to reduce leverage is likely, at least in the initial stages, to remain to below 2x.
Leverage would be expected to reduce challenging given the impact still to come through further following the planned disposal of businesses 27
