Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Divisional Reviews continued UK and Europe Local and Regional Government The UK and Europe Local and Regional Government Division includes our frontline services in the devolved public service delivery markets of Health, Direct Services principally environmental and leisure services for local authorities and Infrastructure Services such as facilities management, together with Citizen Services which includes welfare support operations, BPO services for local authorities and various support operations for European Agencies.
2014 2013 2014: 2013: Year ended 31December m Revenue Revenue Trading Loss Trading Profit Revenue and Trading Loss Profit 962 1,075 90.4 17.8 Of which, onerous contract provisions, asset impairments and other review items charged in 2014 93.8 34 Strategic Report Divisional revenue on a constant currency and a The value of signed contracts totalled approximately reported currency basis was broadly flat in 2014.
Contracts for public sector BPO Excluding the impact of disposals, organic growth was operations accounted for towards half of this.
Growth was supported by new European Agency were predominately for UK local authorities and contracts with the European Commission and included a new contract to provide a range of business European Space Agency, together with an expansion process and contact centre services for Lincolnshire of certain local authority BPO operations: there was County Council valued at over 70m, and various offset to this from volume-related reductions on the extensions to our ICT services for Glasgow City National Citizen Service and Work Programme Council, Peterborough City Council and the London contracts.
Borough of Enfield valued in aggregate at a further 70m.
In Direct Services, Havering has been added as Divisional Trading Profit, before the impact of onerous a fifth London borough where we provide contract provisions, asset impairments and other environmental services with a total contract value of charges, reduced much more significantly than around 40m, whilst an extension and expanded revenue.
There were increased costs including the services at Milton Keynes is valued at 58m.
In our effect of operating this new Division separately, leisure services business, we were awarded a new together with the effect of some challenging contracts contract valued at approximately 50m to manage and such as the National Citizen Service, and a lower level operate the Wet n Wild waterpark in North Shields, of typically higher margin public sector BPO project Tyne and Wear.
An extension with expanded scope work and consulting.
was secured to continue providing IT support to the European Parliament valued at 60m, whilst a new Contracts operated by the UK and Europe Local and contract for additional IT support to the European Regional Government division that are loss-making Space Agency was also awarded with a value to Serco include Suffolk Community Healthcare, where an of approximately 36m.
exceptional onerous contract provision and related asset impairments of 16m has been driven by a Looking ahead, there are European Agencies IT greater loss rate due to unanticipated increases in support contracts coming up for rebid in the short volume, for which there is no additional revenue, along term that accounted in aggregate for 4% of 2014 with having to use greater numbers of agency staff to divisional revenue, whilst the Work Programme which deliver improved performance: the contract is due to is also coming up for rebid accounted for 1% of 2014 end in September 2015.
The charge to Trading Profit divisional revenue.
The Suffolk Community Healthcare for provisions, impairments and other review items of contract due to end in September 2015 accounted for 93.8m includes those for other loss-making contracts, 6% of 2014 divisional revenue.
Attrition from known the largest of which is for the Hertfordshire Country losses, predominantly Westminster City Council BPO Council BPO services contract.
support and a private sector facilities management contract for an aviation industry customer, accounted in aggregate for 4% of 2014 divisional revenue.
There are limited major new bid opportunities to be decided in the next 12 months.
With new management in place and a revised divisional structure, rebuilding the pipeline is a clear focus.
Opportunities already being developed include: further non-clinical support services for NHS trusts: local authority strategic partnerships for BPO support covering Finance, HR, ICT and citizen contact: and expanded services for European Agencies.
