Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Our Strategy The Strategy Review is now complete.
The strategy is Following the arrival of Rupert Soames set out in detail in this section, but like all good as our new Chief Executive in May 2014, strategies, it can be simply expressed.
Our strategy is to be a superb provider of public services, by being we launched a root-and-branch the best managed business in our sector.
We will be a Strategy Review, which also focused B2G Business to Government business, encompassed a comprehensive specialising across five pillars: Defence, Justice & Immigration, Transport, Citizen Services and examination of our contracts and Healthcare.
We will deliver these services Balance Sheet.
The objective of this internationally from our operating units in North America, the UK & Europe, the Middle East and review was to give us a firm foundation Australia & New Zealand.
upon which we could build a stronger company to deliver value to our stakeholders: to our customers, by providing excellent, reliable and innovative services: to our shareholders, by providing sustainable and growing returns on the capital they entrust to our care: to our lenders, by providing them with a solid and secure credit: and to our colleagues, by giving them interesting and rewarding careers.
From left: Rupert Soames Chief Executive Angus Cockburn Chief Financial Officer 08 Strategic Report Faced by these challenges, in 2010 Serco devised a The historical context strategy to reduce its dependence on frontline services and the public sector by building, largely From 2000 to 2010, Serco saw strong through acquisition, a private sector Business Processing Outsourcing business.
The thinking was growth through a combination of that a private sector business could bring skills and organic growth in existing markets, additional services to the public sector business, and the core Serco business could add distribution, brand expansion into new countries, and and heft to provide enhanced value to the private contributory acquisitions.
At the same time Serco sought to period Serco delivered outstanding combat a slowing public sector market by bidding for new work, and entered new sectors such as clinical performance, with revenues and healthcare in the UK and providing housing for asylum trading profit growing strongly.
Finally, Serco sought to gain efficiencies and reduce costs by investing in an enterprise-wide SAP Governments were keen to benefit ERP system and building a shared services from involving the private sector in the infrastructure covering IT, human resources provision of services, and many areas of andfinance.
activity were contracted out for the first Whilst this strategy was a logical reaction to time.
As Serco and others were able to challenging conditions, in practice it proved extremely difficult to implement because the synergies between reduce costs and improve services, the private and public sector businesses were not as contract margins grew and revenues expected: the acquisitions that drove entry into the increased rapidly.
BPO market were not well integrated: some of the contracts in new markets proved to be more costly and more difficult to execute than was anticipated: and the implementation of a shared services infrastructure proved problematic.
At the same time, some of Sercos most profitable contracts were lost on rebid e. g. Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board in the US, were taken back in-house e. g. Walsall Education in the UK or saw sharp reductions in volumes or margins e. g. Australian Immigration Services and the Atomic Weapons Establishment in the UK.
In addition, some of the contracts we had won began to lose money: how many contracts, and how much money they were losing and likely to lose in the future only became truly apparent in the second half of 2014.
Finally, in 2013, Serco suffered immense reputational damage when it was found by the UK Government to have overcharged on a major contract.
A 64.3m settlement was Towards the end of the decade, however, conditions paid to the customer, a large and profitable contract became more difficult.
Margins came under pressure was taken away, and for a period of time, the Group as first generation contracts were retendered and was effectively unable to win material new work from governments, having gained experience from early the UK Government.
The consequences of these contracts, became more sophisticated purchasers.
At factors are most obviously reflected in the financial the same time, the competitive landscape became performance and share-price of the Group.
Trading more intense, as companies from outside the public Profit fell from a high of 310.7m in 2012 to 113.2m, service sector were attracted by the rapid growth and before the impact of the Contract and Balance Sheet strong margins, and existing operators expanded into Reviews in 2014.
The market capitalisation of the new segments.
Overlaid upon this came the business over the same period fell from over 3bn to consequences of the financial crisis in 2008 which led less than 1bn.
to an intense focus on public expenditure deficits.
In the UK, the election in 2010 of a new Government Faced with these challenges, the new management determined to cut spending to reduce the fiscal team commenced a Strategy Review in May 2014 to deficit, combined with US budgetary constraints analyse the current market and competitive situation, leading to a series of continuing resolutions and develop a strategy that would offer the greatest reductions in military expenditure, resulted in a sharp opportunity for value creation for shareholders, reduction in the rate of growth of the public sector customers and employees, and identify how best to outsourcing market.
09 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Our Strategy continued In terms of strategic options, only two were worthy of Findings of the StrategyReview detailed examination.
First, we could continue with the existing strategy of operating both in the private and public sector: or we could focus on one and exit the The Strategy Review had three distinct other.
This was a difficult decision, because our private phases.
First: make sure we properly sector operation is a high-quality business, with excellent prospects.
However, it represented a very understood the causes and effects of small proportion of our economic profits, and the hard the challenges of the last five years.
fact was that Serco was not making a good job of Second: to explore the strategic owning it: our public sector customers have proved extremely resistant to moving middle or back office options for the Group.
Finally, having functions outside their jurisdictions, and we had failed selected a strategy, plan the to add value to the private sector business using our public sector distribution and brand.
that the disciplines required for international success in the private and public sector BPO markets are The causes of our troubles have been different, and to build a Group which could have the scale to be good at both would require significant set out in the historical context.
Therefore we decided to focus investment effects are most starkly reflected in and effort on our core market, where we had a strong and differentiated position.
Once we have addressed both the financial performance and the the issues in our core market, and earned the charges we have had to take on confidence of our stakeholders, we believe that we onerous contract provisions, asset would have more options in three to five years time than we have in 2014. impairments and other charges which are described in more detail in the Happily, the Strategy Review also identified that whilst the public service market presents a number of table on page 50.
In short, in 2014 we challenges, it also has many attractions.
Most have taken provisions and charges of particularly, we see the market for the provision of 1.3bn, of which 447.1m relates to public services by private companies as being underpinned by structural growth.
There are only two onerous contracts, and 510.6m to the things we need to believe for this hypothesis to be impairment of goodwill and intangibles correct: first, that in many areas of public service provision, private companies, properly managed, can and the balance of 347.3m for other deliver services of higher quality and lower cost than charges and impairment of assets.
Second, we believe that governments will continue to face huge pressures to deliver more and better public services, for less, and that these pressures will lead them to focus relentlessly on value for money and the quality of service provision.
We have named these pressures the Four Forces and they comprise: The growing costs of healthcare and the costs of supporting ageing populations The need to reduce public debt and expenditure deficits Rising expectations of service quality amongst public service users The unwillingness of voters and corporate taxpayers to countenance tax increases 10 Strategic Report Whilst there has been great focus on austerity as a Core to our strategy is the belief that having a factor affecting public finances in the shortterm, we diversified portfolio of exposures to different sectors believe that these Four Forces will continue to bear on and jurisdictions is an advantage.
In a world where public policy for many years to come, and drive growth political priorities of changing governments can switch in private sector provision of public services in our resources from defence to immigration control to sectors at a projected sector average which is currently healthcare and back again, being diversified by believed to be 5-7%.
Other factors that make the segment and jurisdiction should reduce risk and public sector marketplace attractive to us are that it is volatility and enable us to share best practice and is unlikely to be disrupted by technology or other therefore valuable.
Many of our closest competitors exogenous factors: absent catastrophe, we can be are specialists in either a particular sector, or within a very confident that the world will still need prisons, will geography.
Although focused on public services, we still need to manage immigration, and provide feel we can deliver better risk-adjusted returns and healthcare and transport, and that these services will lower volatility in the long-term if we have the be highly people-intensive.
capability to operate across more than one sector within the market, and in more than one jurisdiction.
People will ask: how large is the market?
Beyond saying that it is huge, truthfully, we dont really know, But management of risk is only one reason we like a as it is fiendishly hard to define.
Does the support of a strategy of operating across a number of jurisdictions mainframe computer supplied by IBM but operated by and sectors.
We believe that governments across the the government fall within our definition of the market?
world face similar challenges at many levels.
At a What about services provided by government-owned detailed operational level, providing cleaning and agencies operating on an arms-length basis?
Within catering services in a hospital is very similar in Western Defence, do we count supply and support of missile Australia and in Arkansas: likewise escorting prisoners systems, or just the types of services we supply even if to court.
At a higher level, having expertise in staff we could get a number for either ?
And how do we rostering and time management is globally applicable disentangle wildly different definitions of expenditure across sectors, as is project and case management.
Yet used by the various governments with whom we deal?
higher, building deep capability in continuous We could at considerable expense, pay consultants to improvement is globally applicable.
Finally, will the fact try to come up with an answer, but it would be no more that we have deep expertise in running urban than a wild guess, and not even a useful one.
Certainly transport in one territory give us credibility in another?
not one that passes the so what?
test: if one group of Will the fact that the Governments in the US and the consultants said the answer was 30 trillion, and UK trust us with some of their most secret and another said it was 40 trillion, would it change our sensitive projects help us when bidding for defence mind?
When it comes to guessing, we would projects in the Middle East?
Will our proven track rather do it for ourselves for free.
record in reducing recidivism amongst offenders in the UK and Australia be of interest to authorities in other Furthermore, if global market share was a determinant countries?
We believe the answer to all these or measure of success, we might be more exercised by questions is yes.
the question: but it is not, and with revenues from government of over 3bn, it would be so small against Which brings us to the question: which sectors, in the total global market as to be not worth measuring.
One of Sercos strengths and Within some segments for example prisons in the UK weaknesses is the vast number of different areas it we can be more precise, but then we get into issues provides services.
During our Strategy Review we of commercial sensitivity.
We are not inclined to share counted 38 discrete markets, so some focus is clearly with competitors how much we are being paid for required, and a pretty wide net has to be used in narrowly defined sectors, from which they might be defining the services we provide.
One example will able to extrapolate contract pricing.
suffice: in Sandwell, near Birmingham, we provide a very excellent dog warden service, picking up and So we ask stakeholders to accept the fact that the caring for waifs and strays.
180 miles from there, we are markets in which we intend to focus are huge, our intimately involved in the operation of the UKs Ballistic market share is generally small, although in some Missile Early Warning Station at RAF Fylingdales.
Such geographies and sectors large, and we have plenty of diversity and experience give us a foundation upon headroom to grow.
which to judge where we are able to add value, and succeed competitively.
11 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Our Strategy continued Our core pillars We intend to focus our business in the public sector into five pillars: Defence, Justice & Immigration, Transport, Citizen Services and Healthcare.
We will exit our interests in the private sector BPO and the UK Leisure and Environmental Services markets which will significantly simplify our business.
In 2014, our revenues in each of these pillars were: Revenues 2014 including Sector Jurisdictions Key services Joint Ventures, m Justice and Immigration 702 UK, Australia, New Zealand Custodial Services Immigration Detention andServices Detainee transport and monitoring Defence 1,321 N America, UK, Middle East, Base and operational support Australia Engineering, management and information services Maritime services Transport 845 UK, US, Middle East Rail and Ferries Road Traffic Management Air Traffic Control Citizen Services 899 UK, US, Europe, Australia, New Citizen contact and case Zealand management Middle and back office services: IT services Employment and skills services Healthcare 256 UK, Australia, Middle East Non-clinical support services Clinical support Patient administration and contact Other 730 Private Sector BPO Environmental Services Leisure Private sector FM Great Southern Rail Total 4,753 12 Strategic Report Having such an ambition may sound a bit  the strategy and-apple-pie, but we believe that it is a worthy and value-creating objective, and one that we can use to inspire our management teams.
In any given Our ambition is to be a superb provider circumstances, and whatever the slings and arrows of of public services.
fortune, well-managed businesses do better than poorly-managed businesses, and the best-managed businesses do best of all.
1.3bn of provisions and Serco is not a technology business: we charges say that Serco cannot currently claim to be the use technology, but as an enabling best-managed business in the sector, and other companies have dealt with the challenges in the tool, not a product.
We combine market better than we have.
people, processes and technology to So we can define our ambition as wanting to be the deliver excellent services.
Since the last best-managed business in our sector from a position two of these depend entirely on the where we can clearly do much better: everywhere we first one, it can be simply said that the look we see opportunities for improving the way we do things.
We can improve the way we manage contracts success of our strategy will depend and risk: we can equip people with accurate and timely upon how well we manage, organise, information: we can measure performance better: we can improve the efficiency of our internal processes: motivate, develop and select people.
we can reduce costs: we can re-build our business So the answer to how?
is: by being development capability: we can re-establish our the best-managed business in our reputation for developing innovative solutions to public service challenges.
None of this comes easy or sector.
quickly, and in our current circumstances we need to steer a tricky course between the urgent need to reduce our overheads in line with reduced revenues in the short-term and investing in systems and processes that will produce sustainable benefits in the long-term.
We also need to retain the baby of our strong culture of contract managers taking personal responsibility for their contracts, whilst chucking out the bathwater of our lack of visibility, accountability and effective risk management.
At the heart of our plan to implement our strategy is to focus on building our capability in the techniques of continuous improvement.
The advantage of these techniques is that they empower people to improve their operations in the way that they know best: it is not about grand gestures, or large projects, but relies on thousands of little projects, conceived, planned and executed at local level, all of which can deliver incremental improvement.
The cumulative effect of all these small improvements over time can be huge improvements in productivity and service.
Implementation means we are also improving our management information, shifting to a focus on risk-adjusted returns on capital, improving our visibility of performance, strengthening our controls and governance and becoming more efficient through delayering and making better use of our scale in procurement and the use of shared services.
The tangible evidence of our success or otherwise will be a return to industry rates of growth and margins.
According to the Directors current best estimates of the market the segments to be focused on are likely to grow at an aggregate of 5-7% and industry margins across Sercos mix of business are likely to be in the range of 5-6%.
If this turns out to be correct, and markets turn out as expected, we believe that after the initial years of restructuring and transformation, it should be possible to increase growth rates towards the average of the Groups peers.
