Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report CEO Statement continued that are no longer core to strategy.
The disposal Corporate Renewal Programme and proceeds are uncertain in both timing and amount, but strengthened management team are necessary in addition to the proposed rights issue During 2014, extensive work was undertaken as part of proceeds in order to reach what the Board consider an the Corporate Renewal Programme agreed with appropriate level of financial gearing.
Furthermore, Government to address the issues raised in the EM progress is being made to institute improved PECS investigations.
day-to-day working capital controls and cash forecasting in order to promote sustainable cash The Corporate Renewal Programme focused on generation and to focus on appropriate levels of return improving Sercos systems, processes and on capital.
We have substantially rewritten our system of management control, in As part of the funding strategy, we have reached particular as it relates to bid development and agreement with our lending banks and US private approval and contract management: developed an placement noteholders to refinance our facilities.
The approach to management information and review that agreements include an extension of the Revolving focuses equally on operational as well as financial Credit Facility from 2017 to 2019, and more flexible performance: and materially strengthened our financial covenants.
The amendments will only processes of management assurance, risk assessment, become effective upon the receipt of the proceeds of and internal audit, as well as our Board governance.
Full details can be found in the Capital We have reduced spans of management control, and Indebtedness section of the Prospectus.
establishing two UK divisions one for UK Central Government and one for UK and Europe Local and As part of the actions being taken to reduce the Regional Government where there was one before, Groups indebtedness, the Board is not and reducing layers, by having the management of the recommending the payment of a final dividend for the Asia Pacific and Middle East regions report directly to 2014 financial year.
Dividends paid in the year totalled the Group CEO rather than through an intervening 53m or 10.55p per share, representing the final supervisory layer.
dividend for 2013 of 7.45p that was paid to shareholders on 14 May 2014, together with the interim These programme elements and the many others we 2014 dividend of 3.10p that was paid to shareholders have previously described are set out in full in the on 17 October 2014.
In January 2014, the Cabinet Office issued a statement that, following scrutiny by officials and a The Board is committed to resuming dividend detailed review by the Governments independently payments and a progressive dividend policy when it is appointed Oversight Group, the scope of our prudent to do so.
The Directors decision as to when to Corporate Renewal Programme was accepted and that declare a dividend and the amount to be paid will take the changes Serco had already made and our into account the Groups underlying earnings, cash commitment to go further over the coming months flows and financial leverage, the requirement to were positive steps that the Government welcomed.
In maintain an appropriate level of dividend cover and October 2014, the Corporate Renewal Programme was the market outlook at the time.
It is not anticipated reported on by the UK Governments appointed that the Board will recommend any dividend in respect consultants confirming that Serco had identified and of the 2015 financial year.
understood the causes of previous issues and, through the Corporate Renewal Programme, has put in place Proposed disposals cultural and governance structures designed to address As announced on 10 November 2014, we intend to those issues and sustain ongoing customer confidence.
dispose of a number of businesses that are not core to our future strategy as summarised below, and where There has also been a significant change in the the resulting proceeds will contribute to reducing net leadership of the Group and the UK divisional debt.
These businesses include the Environmental management, and I am very pleased to say that we Services and Leisure businesses in the UK, the Great have succeeded in making some really strong Southern Rail business in Australia, and the majority of appointments.
I am naturally delighted that Angus our private sector BPO business.
In aggregate, these Cockburn, with whom I worked for 11 years at Aggreko, businesses contributed around 560m of revenue in joined Serco as Chief Financial Officer in October 2014.
If any of these disposals complete in 2015, it is 2014.
He was instrumental in the success of Aggreko, is expected that the Groups 2015 revenue and profits as a highly experienced CFO, and he and I have compared with the forecasts in our outlook complementary skills.
We have also made good commentary, above will be reduced and that this progress strengthening our UK management team, reduction may be material depending on the timing of with the appointment of Kevin Craven, previously CEO the disposals, with the expectation being that the later of Balfour Beatty Services, to run the Central in 2015 such a disposal takes place, the less the Government division, and Liz Benison, previously VP reduction will be.
Further, the effect of any disposal on and General Manager of Computer Science the Groups 2015 profits will be dependent on Corporations UK business, to run the Local and agreement around what cost structures transfer to a Regional Government Division: both of them started in buyer, as will the resulting proceeds from any September 2014.
David Eveleigh, previously General transaction.
There are ongoing sale processes in Counsel of BT Global Services, joined as General respect of each business, we are encouraged with Counsel and Company Secretary in November 2014. progress made to date and would anticipate Iwould also like to pay tribute to the dedication of Bob transactions, if they are agreed with buyers, to McGuiness and Andrew White, who stepped into the complete later this year.
breach to run the UK Divisions whilst we were looking 28
