Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Board Oversight Committee Annual statement by the Chairman of the Board Oversight Committee The Board Oversight Committee was established as an ad-hoc Committee of the Board to oversee the process of implementing the Corporate Renewal Programme during the period of its activities.
The Board Oversight Committee will remain in place to monitor the further embedding of the policies and procedures that have been put in place as part of the Corporate Renewal Programme.
The key components of the Programme were asfollows: Revising Sercos Code of Conduct, Values Statement and Governing Principles, supported by extensive training and formalised induction processes and appropriate performance management.
Comprehensively reassessing and reissuing the Serco Management System, being the Companys framework of management control, to include more prescriptive guidance on required operational processes and procedures and training this into management across the organisation.
Strengthening contract level governance, including improved contract bid processes to ensure appropriate levels of risk assessment, senior management scrutiny and technical and operational input.
Enhancing transparency, with robust reporting of operational and financial contract KPIs to both executive management and, in summary, to the Board and its committees.
Achieving greater engagement of public sector customers at contract and Government departmental level.
Creating a separate division for our UK Central Government work to achieve both focus on and openness with the UK Government as a collective customer.
Strengthening risk management compliance and internal audit processes and capabilities.
Appointing three additional Board Non-Executive Directors.
Creating the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee of the Board to formalise the process of guidance and decision making on ethical issues.
Establishing Ethics Officers in each division, accompanied by the redesign of our whistle-blowing process to the highest international standards.
Measuring the progress of attitudinal change throughout the organisation with ongoing independent culture and ethics reviews.
Membership and meetings The Board Oversight Committee is chaired by Alastair Lyons and the other members are Ed Casey, Ralph Crosby and Malcolm Wyman.
In addition, Lord Gold was appointed as an independent third-party member of the Board Oversight Committee.
The majority of members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee met seven times during 2014.
The minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
Principal activities during the year The Board Oversight Committee oversaw the implementation of the Corporate Renewal Programme during the year.
In October 2014, the Corporate Renewal Programme was reported on by the UK Governments appointed consultants confirming that Serco had identified and understood the causes of previous issues and, through the Corporate Renewal Programme, had put in place cultural and governance structures designed to address those issues and sustain ongoing customer confidence.
The Board Oversight Committee continues to assess and reinforce the Companys ethical compass and assesses the commitment of the Companys leadership throughout the business to do what is right by dealing with customers fairly.
It will continue as a committee into part of 2015 to support the embedding of the Corporate Renewal Programme within the Company.
Alastair Lyons CBE Chair of the Board Oversight Committee 12 March 2015 100
