Strategic Report Going concern Review period In assessing the basis of preparation of the financial In undertaking this review the Directors have statements for the year ended 31 December 2014, the considered the business plans which provide financial Directors have considered the principles of the projections for the foreseeable future, which is Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and interpreted as the period to December 2016.
The Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Directors have also reviewed the principal risks we face Companies 2009: namely assessing the applicability taking account of those identified from the outcome of of the going concern basis, the review period and the Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews.
Risks relating to Rights Issue The Groups current principal debt facilities at the The Directors have considered in their assessment of year-end comprised a 730m revolving credit facility, going concern, the prospects of the rights issue and 584.8m of US private placements notes.
As at 31 proceeding, and the net proceeds of the rights issue December 2014, the Group had 1,314.8m of being received by the Group, together with the risks committed credit facilities and headroom of 545.0m.
attached to the rights issue not taking place.
The Additionally the Group had a receivables financing directors highlight that the prospectus to raise facility of 60.0m.
The Groups stated intention is to approximately 555m before costs, was sent to reduce the Groups indebtedness to a more prudent shareholders at the same time as the accounts were level of financial gearing, and anticipates achieving this signed.
through the proceeds from the rights issue expected to be received in late April 2015 and the disposal of The Underwriters agreement to underwrite the entire non-core businesses.
rights issues is conditional, amongst other things, on the Companys shareholders passing an ordinary In December 2014, agreement was reached for the resolution granting the Directors the authority to issue Group to defer its December 2014 covenant test until the rights issue shares at the general meeting 31 May 2015.
When the covenant is calculated in May scheduled to take place on 30 March 2015.
The 2015, EBITDA will exclude the impact of charges Underwriters will also have termination rights in arising from the Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews respect of, for example, breach by the Group of and Consolidated Net Borrowings will include the net representations, warranties, and undertakings under proceeds from the equity rights issue, provided the the Underwriting Agreement.
The Underwriting proceeds are received by 30 June 2015.
Agreement will become unconditional following admission of the rights issue shares to trading on the Assessment of going concern London Stock Exchange, which is expected to be on The Directors have undertaken a rigorous assessment the day following the general meeting 31 March 2015. of going concern and liquidity taking into account The Group may still be liable for any losses suffered financial forecasts, the anticipated receipt of proceeds from breaches of representations, warranties, and from the rights issue, proposed debt refinancing, and undertakings under the Underwriting Agreement.
In order to satisfy ourselves that we have adequate resources for the future, the Directors have reviewed the Groups existing debt levels, the committed funding and liquidity positions under the proposed terms of the debt covenants under the amended and restated credit facility, our ability to generate cash from trading activities, and the estimated gross proceeds of approximately 555m due in April 2015 from the proposed fully underwritten rights issue that is subject to shareholder approval.
Additionally there has been consideration of the potential reduction in debt levels from planned disposals of non-core businesses in 2015.
