Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Finance Review continued Costs associated with UK Government Provision for settlement relating to DLR reviews Pension deficit funding dispute During the year there were exceptional costs totalling In November 2014 the Group agreed to settle a 9.2m 2013: 11.6m associated with the UK dispute with the Trustees of the Docklands Light Government reviews and the programme of corporate Railway DLR Pension Scheme over the extent of its renewal.
This reflected external costs incurred and liability to fund the deficit on the scheme.
This had included external adviser costs related to these previously been included as a contingent liability in reviews and the Corporate Renewal Programme.
2013 based on legal advice taken at the time.
The settlement has resulted in a total exceptional charge inclusive of costs of 35.6m, consisting of the full and UK Frontline clinical health contract final settlement amount of 33.0m and costs of 2.6m.
provisions The settlement is to be paid over four equal annual During 2014, there were additional exceptional instalments from January 2015 to January 2018 provisions of 16.1m 2013: 17.6m, including an covering all past and any future DLR associated onerous contract provision of 13.7m to cover the pension liabilities.
anticipated future year loss from the unexpected increase in patient volumes in 2014 on the Suffolk Other provision for legal claims Community Health contract.
The provisions relate to An exceptional provision of 20.1m has been the re-evaluation of the forecast losses of the UK recognised for legal claims made against Serco for clinical health operations, against which an exceptional commercial disputes.
This provision is based on legal onerous contract provision of 17.6m was made in the advice received by the Company.
prior year and reflect the Groups withdrawal from the front-line UK clinical health market, with the future focus of the Group on Healthcare being on the Impairment and related charges of provision of non-frontline health services.
This Australian rail business re-evaluation reflected reviews showing there are In 2014 the Group put the business up for sale and this additional costs of delivering improved service levels is expected to complete in the first half of 2015.
An and meeting performance obligations through to the impairment review was performed on the Australian end of the contracts.
The Cornwall out-of-hours rail business, Great Southern Rail, resulting in a charge contract is being exited early in May 2015 and totalling 37.2m 2013: 9.6m.
This consisted of an Braintree Clinical Services was disposed of in March impairment of 23.1m to reduce the carrying value of 2014.
The third loss-making contract, Suffolk its net assets to the estimated recoverable amount Community Health, is being run through to the end of and a charge of 14.1m in relation to the break costs of the contract term in September 2015. leases relating to the business.
Restructuring costs Impairment relating to Global Services As a result of analysis of the cost structures in the Business transferred to assets held for sale businesses and initial actions from the Strategy As part of the Strategic Review certain assets have Review, an exceptional restructuring charge of 32.7m been designated as non-core and are disclosed in the was taken in the year reflecting 19.8m in relation to balance sheet as held for sale.
Consequently a headcount reductions, 6.9m in relation to propertycalculation of the fair value of the Global Services related exit costs and related asset impairments and businesses has been performed and resulted in an 6.0m of adviser costs associated with the Strategy impairment of the carrying value of assets of 39.2m.
Review and the Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews.
This relates to an impairment of the UK part of the These have been treated as exceptional costs as they Global Services business.
have arisen directly as a result of restructuring in response to the impact of the UK Government reviews and the Strategy Review.
