Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 UK Central Government The UK Central Government Division includes our frontline services in Defence, Home Affairs encompassing justice-related operations, immigration and border security and transport including contracts for the Department for Transport as well as those for devolved authorities.
2014 2013 2014: 2013: Year ended 31December m Revenue Revenue Trading Loss Trading Profit Revenue and Trading Loss Profit 962 1,074 242.8 114.6 Of which, onerous contract provisions, asset impairments and other review items charged in 2014 300.8 32 Strategic Report Divisional revenue on a constant currency and The substantial charges in 2014 for provisions, reported currency basis declined by 11%.
Excluding impairments and other review items reflects principally the impact of disposals, the organic decline was 8%.
a number of significantly loss-making contracts for UK Drivers of the reduction included the loss of the Central Government that require onerous contract Electronic Monitoring EM contract, the re-role of provisions, together with other related impairments Ashfield prison and the end of the Colnbrook and charges.
COMPASS has charges of 115m, Immigration Removal Centre IRC contract.
There was reflecting the latest volume assumptions in a rapidly also an impact from volume-related reductions at our changing environment and the latest view of our strategic partnership with the Defence Science and estimated costs over the remaining five years of the Technology Laboratory Dstl and certain other contract.
The Royal Navy fleet support contract FPMS defence-related projects.
There was partial offset to has charges of 66m, reflecting updated vessel these reductions from additional project revenue from utilisation and maintenance cost assumptions through the expansion of Thameside prison and from to 2022.
The PECS and HMP Ashfield contracts have additional service users on the COMPASS UK asylum charges of 27m and 19m respectively.
The value of signed contracts totalled approximately Divisional Trading Profit, before the impact of onerous 1.4bn in 2014.
This excludes Sercos 520m share of contract provisions, asset impairments and other the interim franchise for Northern Rail as this is charges, reduced much more significantly than operated as a joint venture.
Around 7m of the decline is a result of the Transport Scotland to manage the new franchise for prior year including a profit contribution from the UK the Caledonian Sleeper services was the Groups Transport Maintenance & Technology business up to largest contract award in the year, with total revenue to its disposal on 27 November 2013.
The EM, Ashfield Serco over the 15-year contract estimated at and Colnbrook IRC contracts had a greater impact on approximately 800m and therefore representing over profitability than the respective revenue decline, half of the total award value for the Division.
Other reflecting their above average margins.
Whilst revenue awards included the successful rebid of Yarls Wood increased on COMPASS due to additional service Immigration Removal Centre valued at approximately users, this only served to increase the significant losses 70m, and various defence support work extended or sustained on the contract given Serco is incurring a expanded with a cumulative award value of over loss on each service user, and given that limited scale 100m.
The awards also included the short-term efficiency is currently being achieved to reduce this extensions to the DLR and National Physical loss per service user.
On the Prisoner Escort & Custody Laboratory NPL contracts, both of which have now Services PECS contract, the loss was excluded from ended.
the previous definition of Adjusted Operating Profit as it was included within management estimates related In the near term, there are no major contracts that to the UK Government reviews.
The loss on PECS, now require extending or rebidding.
However, the DLR, within Trading Profit, increased as we continued to NPL and Colnbrook IRC contracts, together with all apply additional resources to improve the operational other known attrition from contract losses, accounted performance.
The contract re-pricing on AWE that began only Although there are limited major new bid part-way through 2013 and the interim franchise opportunities to be decided over the next year, agreement on Northern Rail from April 2014 did not beyond that sees several opportunities including reduce revenue as our share of joint venture revenue is potential outsourcing of the Defence Fire & Risk now excluded, but these re-pricings significantly Management Organisation.
Following the significant reduced Trading Profit.
Lower profits also reflected disruption to our customer relationships with UK increased costs from operating this new division Central Government in 2013 and the subsequent separately as part of the Corporate Renewal Corporate Renewal process that has been put place Programme, and from a lower recovery of bid over the course of 2014, rebuilding the pipeline is now investment costs on major bids that were unsuccessful a major focus.
The Strategy Review is placing clear such as those for the Defence Infrastructure emphasis on those markets where Serco has significant Organisation DIO, the Nuclear Decommissioning skills and capabilities which for this Division includes Authority, the TransPennine rail franchise and the each of Justice & Immigration, Defence and Transport Docklands Light Railway DLR rebid.
in the UK, and the revised divisional structure and new management team are in place to take this business forward successfully.
