Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Divisional Reviews continued Global Services Following the transfer of public sector BPO operations to our other divisions, the Global Services Division now consists of Sercos private sector BPObusiness, predominantly for customers in the UK, India and North America.
The operations consist of middle and back office skills and capabilities across customer contact, transaction and financial processing, and related consulting and technology services.
As previously described, Serco intends to dispose of the majority of the private sector BPO business.
2014 2013 2014: 2013: Year ended 31December m Revenue Revenue Trading Loss Trading Profit Revenue and Trading Loss Profit 359 343 23.4 7.8 Of which, onerous contract provisions, asset impairments and other review items charged in 2014 30.3 42 Strategic Report Divisional revenue on a constant currency basis The value of signed contracts during 2014 totalled increased by 11%, though the weakening of local approximately 250m.
The largest, with a value of currencies against Sterling resulted in a reported approximately 140m over 10 years was a new contract currency growth of 5%.
Growth was led by new for multi-channel customer contact services for a major customers or expanded services in India and the UK retailer.
Other similar contracts have been awarded Middle East, the latter of which included the benefit of in the United States, Qatar and Australia, reflecting a small infill acquisition of a regional provider of BPO continued regional development of private sector BPO services: organic growth was 9%.
Revenue in the UK operations.
declined, reflecting in particular the end of the additional work for the transformation phase of the Looking ahead, there is no significant attrition major Shop Direct contract as well as exits from certain anticipated from the ending of any individual contracts loss-making contracts.
and there are also no significant contracts that require extending or rebidding during 2015.
As always, Divisional Trading Profit, before the impact of onerous existing customers are always seeking to reduce costs, contract provisions, asset impairments and other however our efficiency plans include a number of charges, reduced much more significantly than specific operational improvement initiatives in several revenue.
Cost reduction activity announced last year major contracts and delivery centres to improve has delivered savings in 2014, but these were offset by profitability.
Currently there are a limited number of profit decreases on certain contracts moving from major new bid opportunities to be decided, although transformation to full operational phase and an the pipeline in this business tends to be generated increase in costs associated with internal systems.
The over a shorter time period than those for our frontline exit of low margin or loss-making work has also had public service operations.
Reinvigorating business the impact of a number of delivery centres in the UK development efforts is a key focus of management to and India becoming under utilised in the short term.
recover the division from the consequential impact of challenges elsewhere in Serco, particularly some The impact of provisions, impairments and other residual brand issues in the UK market.
review items reflects a number of onerous contract provisions required on loss-making contracts, all of which are relatively small.
In addition to the 30.3m charged to Trading Profit, there is an exceptional 39.2m impairment of Global Services assets transferred to held for sale: within this the largest contract-related charge is for 8.7m for Shop Direct.
