Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report CEO Statement continued Free cash flow was 62m 2013: 63m, with the impact Summary of financial performance of the reduced level of underlying profitability largely Revenue for 2014 was 3,955m.
offset by less adverse working capital flows than the prior year.
Net debt, including that for assets and This excludes Sercos share of revenue from its joint liabilities held for sale, was 682m at the end of the ventures 798m : the non-GAAP measure of Adjusted year 2013: 745m, with the reduction supported by Revenue, used in previous years, would have been the May 2014 equity placing.
At constant currency and adjusting for disposals and acquisitions, the organic revenue The Revenue and Trading Profit performance are decline was 2.5%.
further described in the Divisional Reviews.
Reconciliations to the statutory income statement and The Trading Loss for the year was 632m.
This included detailed analysis of earnings, cash flow, financing and some 745m of charges for onerous contract related matters are described further in the Finance provisions, asset impairments and other charges the Review.
non-GAAP measure of Adjusted Operating Profit, used in previous years, would have excluded 24m of Contract awards, pipeline, order book and costs from the calculation of profit.
The principal drivers of the underlying decline in profitability revenue visibility included: changes in contract volumes e. g. Australian The Group signed contracts valued at 3.1bn in 2014 Immigration Services : contracts that we have lost e. g. 3.6bn including the Groups share of joint venture Electronic Monitoring : new contracts at lower margins contract awards compared to 3.5bn in 2013 also e. g. support to the US Affordable Care Act : fewer 3.5bn including joint ventures.
This includes notable new contracts won: contract re-pricing e. g. AWE and new awards such as the Caledonian Sleeper rail Northern Rail : and increased costs on contracts to franchise, as well as the retention of a number of address operational under-performance e. g. important existing operations such as Australian COMPASS and PECS.
Within the 745m of charges, Immigration Services and an expanded second year onerous contract provisions and contract-related asset for our contract to provide processing support impairments totalling some 558m reflect the scale of services for the US Affordable Care Act.
The value of anticipated potential future losses in the light of recent new awards has however been lower than previously operational developments and their deteriorating experienced of our pipeline of around 40 major financial performance: the charge taken in 2014 opportunities at the start of 2014, 19 have been lost represents anticipated future losses for 2015 through whilst 5 have been won.
Together with other to 2024, with the five largest loss-making contracts movements in the pipeline, there are now around 30 representing approximately three-quarters of the total opportunities we are focused on, with the result that, onerous contract provisions taken.
over the next two years, the estimated total value of new larger bid opportunities is 5bn, down from 12bn The Group also incurred a 662m net exceptional a year earlier.
Impairment of goodwill represented 466m of this, driven by the reduced carrying value of The Groups order book at 31 December 2014 stood at the Global Services private sector BPO division.
Other 12.6bn 15.8bn including the Groups share of joint exceptional impairments and provisions, together with venture contracts, down from 13.6bn a year earlier costs associated with the various reviews and 17.1bn including joint ventures.
This provides restructuring charges, totalled 196m.
revenue visibility of over 80% for 2015, based on our outlook as set out below.
Whilst there are limited The total of onerous contract provisions, asset near-term new bid opportunities to benefit 2015 impairments and other charges was 1.3bn, being the significantly, the level of future rebid risk is also combination of those charged within the Trading Loss reduced.
With a thoroughly reviewed strategy to take for the year and those that were exceptional items.
the Group forward, rebuilding the pipeline is a major This was broadly in line with the November estimate of focus of the new management teams across the 1.5bn.
This earlier estimate included the estimated Divisions.
provision for settlement relating to the DLR pension deficit funding dispute and the estimated impairment Outlook for 2015 and the opportunity in and related charges for the Great Southern Rail subsequent years business: these charges, totalling 73m, have been On 10 November 2014, we provided an update on the recognised as separate exceptional items and are Strategy Review, including the initial findings of the therefore not part of the 1.3bn.
Goodwill and other Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews, and an early view intangible asset impairments is around 0.2bn lower of the outlook.
In that statement we said that for 2015, than the original estimate, whereas onerous contract before the impact of any disposals, we believed provisions are approximately 0.1bn higher.
Adjusted Revenue could be around 4bn, that there could be a further decline in the Groups margin to The equity placing conducted in May 2014 increased around 2.5% and that Adjusted Operating Profit could the weighted average number of shares for EPS be around 100m.
Furthermore, we said that, purposes, and the Groups effective tax rate increased depending on decisions around disposals, Adjusted reflecting the geographic mix of taxable profits.
After Revenue could reach a nadir of 3.0-3.5bn in 2016, and these effects, EPS before exceptional items was a loss margins could be as low as 2-3%.
We also estimated of 135.0p per share and statutory EPS including the that the provisions, impairments and other balance impact of exceptional items was a loss of 258.4p.
sheet charges would total around 1.5bn.
