Strategic Report for new people: and of course I am grateful to Andrew Against the second objective, the Strategy Review Jenner who guided the finance function under proposed that the Board focus the Group on where its circumstances which were far from easy.
key skills and competitive advantages lie.
In other words, to exit the private sector through the sale of the Your Chairman, Alastair Lyons, informed the Board in majority of Sercos private sector operations, to focus November of his intention to step down once a new on the public sector market and be a leading public Chairman has been appointed.
Specifically to focus on five pillars of: Alastairs decision, I was saddened by it, and I want to Justice & Immigration, Defence, Transport, Citizen put on record the fact that he has done an outstanding Services and Healthcare: and across four geographies: job stewarding the Company through the travails of UK & Europe, North America, Middle East and the last two years.
Alastair was instrumental in Australia & New Zealand.
stabilising Serco with new management and NonExecutive Directors, a much improved relationship The move into private sector BPO was intended to with the UK Government, and clarity as to our strategic reduce the Groups dependencies upon the UK and direction.
Nobody could have worked harder or done the public sector, and gain exposure to a market which more to get us to the point where we can now offered higher rates of growth, whilst adding a new concentrate on building a solid future for Serco.
capability in middle and back office processing alongside Sercos historic strength in the delivery of frontline services.
This failed, however, to reflect Strategy Review summary adequately the difficulty of building distribution off a In April 2014, Serco announced that we would be base of limited presence in the private sector BPO carrying out a comprehensive review of our strategy.
market, and the anticipated move to whole agency The key objectives of the Strategy Review were public sector outsourcing in the UK has not developed threefold: at the expected pace.
Furthermore, the integration of the Groups acquisitions in this sector, principally Firstly, to analyse the current situation, in terms of Intelenet and The Listening Company, both with each the state of the markets, competitive positioning, other and the rest of the Group, was not well done.
opportunities and threats faced by Serco, and to identify a set of strategic options open to Serco, While examining our markets, we concluded that, alongside the Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews.
whilst the public service market presents a number of Secondly, to develop a strategy that offers the challenges, it also has many attractions: public services greatest opportunity for value creation, balancing tend to be of a critical nature and therefore unlikely to risk and reward, playing to the strengths of Serco, be disrupted by the economic cycle or disappear aiming for a more simple strategy underpinned by altogether: they are unlikely to be disrupted by markets that exhibit structural growth.
technology or other exogenous factors: and a low level Finally, to identify how to create a firm foundation of private sector penetration allows plenty of from which a business can be built to deliver the headroom for market growth all underpinned by strategy and therefore value to shareholders, structural drivers that will continue to promote the customers and staff.
growth of the market over the long term.
With regards to the first objective, the Strategy Review Serco has, over the past 25 years, built powerful made clear that the public sector market had become positions in its principal frontline services both in the a tougher place to operate, that Serco was not adding UK and in North America, Asia Pacific, and the Middle enough value to the private sector BPO business, and East.
In these areas Serco has depth of know-how and that Serco had some specific operational challenges a track-record of successful delivery, which allows it to that needed resolution.
The public sector market has take capabilities developed in one geography and seen slower growth over recent years as budgets have create a relevant presence in another the export of been cut, and at the same time customers have the Groups justice and non-clinical healthcare support become more sophisticated in procurement, risk experience from the UK to Australia being examples.
In the private In the future, Serco will focus on growing its business sector BPO market, new contracts tended to be more within those areas where it has sustainable competitive capital intensive than those Serco was used to from advantage, whilst at the same time reducing costs by public sector contracts: customers are more brand simplifying its organisational design and sharing wary and so were more cautious following the publicity common services across the Group.
All this will be surrounding the investigations into the Electronic developed within a control framework based on clear Monitoring and Prisoner Escort and Custody Services understanding of, and adherence to, the Groups best contracts: and the complexity of multiple service lines practice.
This will be supported by timely performance across multiple sectors and geographies demanded information that highlights unplanned exceptions at an management time without contributing significantly to early stage, allowing effective management Sercos core public service capabilities.
review made clear some weaknesses in the operating model, namely that financial performance was We are, therefore, able to adopt a strategy that is undermined by loss-making contracts and a weakened based on maximising the potential of Sercos areas of balance sheet, that the pipeline had suffered and a low strength.
Our competitors tend to be based on win rate had affected growth, and that risk assessment multiple sectors in a single geography or a single mechanisms needed to be strengthened.
Serco has breadth Furthermore, Sercos devolved nature resulted in poor across both sector and geography allowing it to generation of scale benefits and underlying achieve presence and diversification across a number information and technology infrastructure was weak.
of  B2G markets at the same time.
This is Sercos competitive differentiation and represents a strong base for future growth.
29 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report CEO statement continued Furthermore, we believe that nearly all governments The third objective of the Strategy Review was to are going to be faced by inexorable pressure on four identify how to create a firm foundation from which a fronts: the growing costs of healthcare and the costs of business can be built to deliver the strategy and supporting ageing populations: the need to reduce therefore value to shareholders, customers and staff.
public debt and expenditure deficits: rising To achieve this foundation, our implementation plan expectations of service quality amongst public service aims to fix our challenges and so become the best users: and the unwillingness of voters and corporate managed company in the sector.
We will achieve this taxpayers to countenance tax increases we call these by building a solid platform from which to grow: the Four Forces.
To reconcile these forces, reducing our costs: and repositioning for growth.
governments need to continuously improve the quality and efficiency of service delivery.
We believe that Specifically, we will build a solid platform through public sector monopolies are, by their nature, less three areas of focus.
We will strengthen our balance well-equipped to manage continuous innovation and sheet through the rights issue, improved working improvement in service delivery than the private capital management and the disposals programme: sector, and a model in which government sets this will result in financial position with the flexibility to strategy, defines services so they are contestable, and implement the strategy and ensure stakeholder then effectively competes, procures and oversees confidence is maintained.
We will actively mitigate our service delivery, is the best route to delivering loss making contracts through operational improving quality and reducing the cost of public management and commercial negotiation, with plans services.
Such a strategy relies on vibrant and now in place across underperforming contracts to competitive markets of private sector suppliers to improve profitability and cash flow performance whilst deliver public services.
meeting all our contractual service obligations.
We will also improve our management information through Our new strategy builds on the strengths of Serco.
more frequent, balanced and detailed reporting, in Serco already has leading positions with recognised order to improve our visibility of performance and expertise across a number of important segments in strengthen our controls and governance.
We will also some of the largest public services markets in the be focusing on risk-adjusted returns on capital as a world with a unique portfolio of service offerings way of judging our contracts.
across Justice & Immigration, Defence, Transport, Citizen Services and Healthcare.
Serco is one of the We will reduce our costs through continuing to few companies that can offer a wide range of services delayer, rolling out continuous improvement initiatives in each of the UK, US, Australia & New Zealand and the in our contract base, and making better use of our Middle East, which are markets in which governments scale in procurement and the use of shared services: frequently engage private companies in the provision all led by dedicated leadership with external support.
The combination of an international Such actions are targeted to drive a 20m reduction in footprint with a portfolio of sectors, across federal, our 2015 cost base, and begin the longer term journey state and local government customers provides a towards recovering our margins to those more in line healthy level of diversification without excessive with our peers.
Such a portfolio protects the business against sudden changes from elections in any Finally, we will reposition the business for growth, particular geography, against changes in policy or enabled by a clear and focused market strategy.
We attitude to competition, and allows Serco to balance will focus our business development spend on our the ebb and flow of demand across the business.
chosen pillars: invest in the development of markets Furthermore, the strategy builds upon strong and opportunities: strengthen our bid risk relationships already held, requires a public sector management through tightened procedures and more ethos in delivery that is already evident, and leverages thorough commercial reviews: and build strong Sercos current expertise in the transformation and cross-business networks to share capability and best management of complex frontline services to the practice.
In this way we expect, over time, to grow our public.
Finally, a simpler strategy, combined with a pipeline, improve our win rates, reduce the number of large order book and the resilience of longer term loss making contracts and produce a better return for contracts, provide Serco with the time and clarity to the risks we take on.
improve the way the business works.
More information on Serco, including the background For these reasons, we believe that the future of Serco to and further detail on the Strategy Review, are set lies in being a leading provider of public services: out in the Prospectus.
where our customers are governments or others operating in the public sector: and where Serco benefits from scale, expertise and diversification by operating internationally across five segments.
Rupert Soames OBE Serco Group Chief Executive Officer 30
