Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Divisional Reviews continued Americas Our Americas division provides professional, technology and management services focused on Defence, Transport, and Citizen Services principally process outsourcing for government agencies.
The US federal government, including the military, civilian agencies and the national intelligence community, are our largest customers.
We also provide services to the Canadian Government and to selected US state and municipal governments.
2014 2013 2014: 2013: Year ended 31December m Revenue Revenue Trading Profit Trading Profit Revenue and Trading Profit 708 765 16.5 65.1 Of which, onerous contract provisions, asset impairments and other review items charged in 2014 26.7 36 Strategic Report Divisional revenue on a constant currency basis The value of signed contracts totalled over 650m in reduced by 1% in 2014, though the weakening of the 2014.
The largest were the expanded first option year US dollar extended the decline on a reported currency of the US ACA valued at over US$200m, a five-year basis to 7%.
Both the US Affordable Care Act ACA rebid for the Department of Defense providing eligibility support services contract and the Virginia program management and related support valued at Department of Transport traffic management services over US$140m, and an extension to our contract contract began in the second half of 2013, so there was providing career transition services for US soldiers.
a full-year benefit of these major new operations in There was also good progress in securing IDIQ 2014.
This largely offset other contract attrition contract vehicles that enable Serco to compete for including that relating to certain US intelligence task orders across various areas of defence support agency IT contracts, C4ISR work on Naval Electronic work: this shorter term but still relatively regular work Surveillance Systems and Atlantic Aviation typically accounts for approximately one quarter of Engineering, and various areas of support to the US revenue for the Americas Division.
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board FRTIB and the Department of Veteran Affairs.
Looking ahead, the two largest rebids due during 2015 are our contracts for US Department of Homeland Divisional Trading Profit, before the impact of onerous Security benefits records management services and contract provisions, asset impairments and other for air traffic control services for the Federal Aviation charges, reduced more than revenue.
New contracts Administration: these accounted for 5% and 3% such as processing support work for the US ACA were respectively of 2014 divisional revenue.
The short-term at lower margins than the contracts where work has outlook for the Federal Government services market ended.
Our contract supporting the Department of appears more stable in terms of agreement around States National Visa Center and Kentucky Consular government budgets and funding.
In the longer term, Center NVC KCC was only extended for part of the the market, including defence services, remains 2014 year and was at lower margins, as was our rebid to attractive in size and growth potential.
New bid continue providing Driver Examination Services for the opportunities include further development in Ontario Ministry of Transportation in Canada.
non-defence areas, such as processing support for the Department of State and Department of Homeland The impact of provisions, impairments and other Security, and various state transport operations and review items was relatively limited for the Americas maintenance contracts.
We are also looking at Division, in part reflecting the different contracting opportunities in non-clinical healthcare support and, model which tends to be shorter term and less longer term, the potential for our involvement in parts exposed to issues around fixed price bidding.
of the Justice & Immigration market.
