Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Non-regulated Severn Trent Services Better for Patrick A long term waste water operations partnership saved tens of thousands of dollars for Severn Trent Services business customer Patrick Banger.
Better value and a healthier environment Helping our customer and the environment 1.2m saving over 20 years Weve operated the Neely Wastewater through a solar Reclamation Facility in Gilbert, Arizona, power system since 1999.
While the towns population has boomed, weve still delivered improvements that benefit our customer and the environment.
All the facilitys treated water goes to irrigate parks, golf courses and common areas, or to recharge facility basins.
Weve worked to save the town more than 60,000 in operating expenses, while a solar power system will save a further 1.2 million over 20 years.
25 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Non-regulated business model Our non-regulated business allows us to maximise our water and waste water 1 2 treatment knowledge by creating and delivering services and products to the UK and global municipal, industrial and commercial sectors.
We also provide renewable energy to thegroup and are looking toidentify newopportunities inenergy generation.
Identify and develop Create products Where risks are currently considered Principal Risks, further details are provided opportunities andservices on pages 39 to 41.
Identify and develop opportunities in Create products and services that help non-regulated markets our clients manage their water and energy needs Operating Services provides contract Our strategy is to continue growing our STS Operating Services operations and maintenance for water Operating Services business in the US and waste water treatment facilities and Europe.
formunicipal and industrial clients and Water supply services across the UK the UK Ministry of Defence MOD.
are changing, with legislation giving In the UK we provide design, build and businesses a choice in who they buy contract operations for water and waste their water and waste water services water treatment facilities for a variety from.
Operating Services is pursuing of industrial segments and supply retail this open market movement, helping water to businesses throughout the UK.
businesses achieve optimum water and waste water management through enhanced services.
Products provides ltration, disinfection Our strategy is to introduce next STS Water Purication and process solution technologies for generation products for traditional Products various municipal and industrial water markets and develop technologies to andwaste water treatment applications address needs in new geographies.
and the marine and offshore industries.
Addressing specic regional needs such as gas feed in India, and disinfection and ltration in China we will be able to provide products that deliver the best value for the customer.
Severn Trents non-regulated business In 2014 15 we will supply over 40,000 Renewable energy generates renewable energy from MWh of electricity and heat to our wind turbines and the anaerobic regulated business.
digestion AD of crops and we are Our new food waste AD business will now expanding into the food waste AD provide a service for the recycling market.
Our planned facility at Coleshill, of industrial, commercial, retail and Warwickshire, UK, will convert up to domestic food waste.
44,000 tonnes of food waste into 17,026 MWh of electricity and approximately 30,000 tonnes of biofertiliser for agriculture per year by 2016.
We plan to investigate the development of other technologies including photovoltaics PV and biomasscombustion.
26 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3 4 Build strong and Maximise our return Maximise our return on investment respectedbrands through long term contracts and Build strong and respected brandsthat service agreements and cross are recognised across our sectors dissemination of ourproducts Associated risks Operating Services is recognised as We continue to enter new states in Hazardous processes may result in our the largest private operator in terms the US, securing our largest monetary people being injured Principal Risk Ref 6. of facilities operated in the US, where contract to date in Bridgeport, Failure of products or treatment we serve more than 400 facilities in Connecticut, while expanding our processes may result in environmental 22 states.
These facilities regularly win presence in California with the damage and regulatory non-compliance awards in areas such as environmental acquisition of 14 contracts from Principal Risk Ref 7. compliance, health and safety and SouthWest Water Company.
Long term Regulatory or political change may lead overall plant performance.
contracts with the MOD and First Milk to decreased demand for our services.
Operating Services has taken a leading We may be unable to take advantage of role in the UK water supply market.
With the opening up of the UK retail market to water services licences for Scotland, competition Principal Risk Ref 2.
England and Wales, we offer multi-sited businesses the benets and synergies of a single supplier approach.
Our brands are used and recognised We are moving to a regional operating Failure of products or treatment throughout the world.
Some of our key model, which will better address processes may result in injury to people, brands are: our markets, bring us closer to our environmental damage and regulatory customers and realign the cost base non-compliance Principal Risk Ref 6 and 7.
ClorTec on-site sodium hypochlorite to improve margins.
We believe the generation systems.
Disruption in the global supply chain may effectiveness of our core technologies impact our ability to meet client needs.
Capital Controls a line of gas feed can deliver long term potential.
The intellectual property in our key Aftermarket sales of our water products may be used by competitors.
TETRA is one of the most trusted treatment technologies represents a names in drinking water and waste Regulatory change may lead to further opportunity.
We look to enter water lters.
decreased demand for our products.
new and targeted market geographies to expand our market presence.
BALPURE ballast water treatment New products may be introduced to the technology.
market leading to increased competition for our products and services.
Non-delivery of the expected benets of the restructuring plan.
We are recognised as being experienced We have established electricity and Hazardous processes may result in our in the eld of anaerobic digestion and heat power sale purchase agreements people being injured Principal Risk ref 6. combined heat and power generation with our regulated business.
We will We may be exposed to increased CHP.
Our expertise in this complex be entering into long term contracts volatility in energy prices.
biological process means that we can be withthe wider supply market to process Regulatory or political change or local trusted to provide an excellent service.
opposition to our plans may affect our ability to generate sufficient renewable energy to achieve our targets.
27 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Non-regulated performance review Severn Trent Services delivered a The 13.8 million a year, 10 year contract mixed performance in 2013 14. is our first in Connecticut, giving us a Operating Services performed well, presence in 22 states, and a potential winning new contracts and delivering springboard to win further work in New growth year on year.
The business also won 24 new Products business, shipments were below projects in the Texas Gulf Municipal Utility expectations due to continuing customer District region.
project and delivery delays, leading to We also acquired 14 contracts from lower revenues and profit before interest, the California based SouthWest Water tax and exceptional items PBIT for Company, representing approximately Severn Trent Services as a whole.
4.8 million in annual revenue, which After adjusting for the impact of disposals expands the number of public private in 2012 13 and exchange movements, partnerships we have in California.
revenue was 1.3% higher but PBIT was In the UK, we took full ownership of down by 48.6%.
Reported revenue fell by the Severn Trent Costain business.
5.2% to 311.1 million, while reported Our relationship with First Milk progressed PBIT was down 43.7% at 7.1 million.
with a 10 year design, build and operate contract to provide a new effluent Operating Services treatment plant in South Wales.
Operating Services grew year on year, We are well positioned in our plans winning new business in the US and UK, to take advantage of the opening up and successfully renewing contracts of business retail market beginning in in the US and Italy, with contract 2017, leveraging Severn Trents skills and retention rates overall ahead of target.
expertise to offer customers a single Turnover increased to 209.9 million, up expert supplier.
8.0% after adjusting for exchange rates and disposals in the prior year.
The US business secured its largest ever win by monetary value in Bridgeport, Connecticut, to provide operation, maintenance, management and customer services for the local waste water collection and treatment systems.
10 year Bridgeport contract Bridgeport, Connecticut In January 2014 Operating Services began its largest ever contract in terms of monetary value with the Water Pollution Control Authority of the City of Bridgeport, Connecticut.
The 10 year contract, which includes two subsequent five year options, requires us to provide operation, maintenance, management and customer services for the Authoritys waste water systems.
28 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 14m denitrication system Back River Wastewater Treatment Plant Products has been awarded a contract to provide its TETRA definite denitrication lter technology to the Back River Wastewater Treatment Plant WWTP in Baltimore, Maryland.
The TETRA definite process will be used to reduce high levels of nutrients discharged into the Chesapeake Bay.
Upon completion, the 14 million installation will be the largest xed-lm denitrication system in the world.
Our 25 year, 1 billion operation and In Severn Trent fide Nora, we have secured Our products must continue to deliver maintenance contract with the UK a framework agreement with a global value for customers so weve created Ministry of Defence is now in its ninth oil company for future installation teams for each of our core product year.
Weve continued to deliver of our OMNIPURE and BALPURE categories: disinfection, ltration and our contractual commitments for products.
Customer delays affected all electrochlorination to assess our environmental performance and product lines, largely in EMEA where the current platforms and determine asset improvement.
customers development of new offshore future needs.
As a result, a number of operations is behind schedule.
research and development projects in In Italy we successfully completed the our ltration andultraviolet disinfection reorganisation and renancing of our In the marine market, we still await portfolios werediscontinued to focus associate business SII.
This included ratication of ballast water treatment on current needs.
We are developing an agreement to reduce the levels of standards by the International Maritime next generation products for traditional Organization.
As a result, sales of our any shareholder supporting guarantees disinfection and gas feed markets that and set up contracted repayment BALPURE product line remain lower will deliver better value for money.
However, BALPURE still arrangements over 15 years for loans provided by shareholders.
SII has already delivered growth and we have a pipeline We are also developing a dedicated of new projects.
We continue to invest aftermarket sales team to create a new paid over the first amounts due under these new arrangements which will, in BALPURE, so it has a broader reach revenue stream, with Severn Trent fide across the marketplace.
This includes Nora the first to provide an offering.
over time, reduce the fully provided gross exposure of the group.
modifying the product to make it more Continuous improvement cost competitive for smaller ships, and Water Purication Products Our teams, including Health, Safety and taking costs out of the original design to Performance was disappointing, with Environment, Human Resources and Legal improve its competitiveness across the shipments below expectations due to Counsel, are dedicated to implementing product range.
continuing customer project and delivery systems and sharing best practices Orders were up by 23% over the prior delays across a number of markets, along whichempower our colleagues to year, and the challenge is to now convert with poor execution on some internal dotheright thing the Severn Trent way.
Turnover was projects impacting negatively on both Protecting health and safety is one of our 101.5 million, a decrease of 10.3% revenues and PBIT.
We set targets every year for after adjusting for exchange rates and incremental improvement and we beat Products performance in America and disposals in the prior year.
our Lost Time Incidents LTI target of 0.30 Europe was impacted due to difficult Action has already been taken to for 2013 14 with ascore of 0.27 see STS economic conditions and limited return the business to profitable KPI: 1 on page 9.
Our achievements customer investment in water and waste growth, including installation of a new included three consecutive months, and water projects.
management team, and over the next six months in total, with no LTIs.
In emerging markets such as Asia 12 months our Products business will The business also continues to adopt Pacic, demand remained consistent realign its cost base to improve margins Safer Better Faster, our approach to for disinfection and ltration products growth.
Nevertheless, we have taken continuous improvement, with a number due to continued urbanisation.
In China, a cautious view of the risks related to of our facilities and offices introducing effluent discharge standards continued these actions and have recorded an some or all elements of it.
This is driving to drive ltration product demand.
impairment of 24.7 million against safety and operational improvements.
Important wins included a contract to goodwill in the business.
During the chlorination provide our Capital Controls year the business continued its move system to the Chengdu Seventh Tap to a regional operating model, which Water Plant in Chengdu, China.
will better address our markets and bring us closer to our customers.
29 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Better for Neil Renewable Energy Manager Neil Liddell-Young expects our new 13 million food waste anaerobic digestion plant to generate a further 2% of our energy needs.
30 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 204 GWh Severn Trent generation2013 14 Were generating 23% of our energy from renewable sources Today, Severn Trent as a group generates Were investing 13 million in the plant, 23% of Severn Trent Waters energy from at Coleshill, Warwickshire.
This will create a wide variety of sources.
Having explored new challenges for our employees and opportunities from water and sewage we supply chain as well as seven new jobs are now expanding our non-regulated in the local community when it opens renewables portfolio, with our primary later this year.
The plants environmental focus for expansion being the emerging benets include preventing food waste food waste digestion market.
going to landll, reducing our net carbon emissions and providing high quality Weve now started work on a new plant, biofertiliser, to replace man-made which by 2016 will convert up to 44,000 alternatives.
The plant will also further tonnes of food and liquid waste into improve our resilience and our ability 17,026 Mwh of energy equivalent to a to serve our customers, by making further 2% of our requirements.
us less reliant on electricity from the national grid.
Picture above: Agrivert Ltd plant 31 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Non-regulated performance review continued Nearly 900 employees took part in this Customer service Outlook years Global Corporate Challenge, a 16 It is our objective to provide excellent Our expectations for our non-regulated week team based physical activity and customer service.
Since 2013 we have business remain positive.
wellbeing programme involving more than been monitoring customer satisfaction Recent new business in Operating Services 37,000 teams globally.
Our employees through our Voice of the Customer will provide long term revenue stability, as took more than 919 million steps and surveys see measures of objectives 4 the business seeks to expand into larger walked 365,000 miles, nishing second and 9 on page 9.
For STS KPI: 11, this is markets through organic growth.
among all the companies in the gas, the first year that we have full data for Next generation products and new electricity and water supply category and the whole of STS.
We scored 4.24 out of 5 geographies will provide opportunities for reporting many positive benets.
Products, offsetting delayed customer Our employee engagement remains spending in traditional markets.
We will Process highbut just below target, at 75% continue to invest in BALPURE, while Weve continued to invest in our systems.
We conduct a bi-annual awaiting IMO ratication of ballast water Weve introduced a new enterprise survey and quarterly pulse surveys, based treatment standards.
We also expect to resource planning system, and on arandom selection of 25% of our see sustainable growth from our implemented the Workday human employees.
These show continued aftermarket sales initiative.
While moving resource management system, which positive perceptions of our business to a regional operating structure, we will enables us to manage our global among our employees.
target continuous improvement across all workforce of 2,387 employees from a Information about diversity initiatives business segments and ensure we central application.
We have also andour gender diversity, including properly manage our supply chain.
implemented a global customer statistics for the group, is provided in the Having the right cost base and relationship management system and Nominations Committee report on pages appropriate products for each region will made all our operating systems cloud 52 and 53. allow us to develop into a sustainable based.
A common IT infrastructure Information about diversity initiatives and global business.
improves our communications and allows human rights issues for the group is set Our non-regulated renewable energy us to develop common processes, so out in the Corporate Responsibility generation continues to grow as we seek improving our efficiency.
Committee report on pages 57 to 59. to expand into different technologies and Great people new markets.
Renewables Our successful health and safety In addition to the renewable energy performance is often recognised generation that forms part of our externally, for example in November 2013 regulated business see page 22 we we received a plant safety award from the continued to build our non-regulated Eastern Pennsylvania Water Pollution renewable capacity.
After securing planning permission, weve We strive to support and develop our started work on site on our first food great people, their skills and opportunities waste anaerobic digestion plant at for creative and innovative thinking.
Were planning to In 2012 13, we put in place a training and commission the plant towards the end development team.
This year, the team of 2014. has been active across the business and Weve installed our first four large wind initiated a range of training and turbines at sites in Derby, Leicester and leadership development programmes, Newthorpe, and three of these are now including onboarding for new recruits.
Two more turbines All colleagues who full a leadership role are planned for the coming year.
Weve are expected to further develop their skills also expanded our crop anaerobic and many of our managers have been digestion plant in Nottingham.
This can involved in self awareness and team now produce 33% more renewable building events.
Severn Trent Water uses the electricity and heat that we generate in its water and waste water treatment processes.
