Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors report The directors present their report, together with the audited Employees group financial statements, for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The average number of employees within the group is shown in The Governance section set out on pages 45 to 76 forms part of note 9 to the financial statements on page 104. this report.
Severn Trent believes that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key factor in being a successful business.
Apart from ensuring an Principal activity individual has the ability to do the job we do not discriminate The principal activity of the group is to treat and provide water in any way and make every effort to ensure that those with and remove waste water in the UK and internationally.
disabilities can take up employment with us.
We endeavour to Details of the principal joint ventures, associated and subsidiary retain employees in the workforce if they become disabled, we undertakings of the group at 31 March 2014 are shown in make all reasonable adjustments to their role and, if necessary, notes 19, 20 and 46 to the financial statements on pages 112 look for redeployment opportunities to support them in seeking and 142. an alternative role within Severn Trent.
We ensure that training, career development and promotion opportunities are available Business review for all our employees irrespective of their gender, race, age The Strategic Report on the inside front cover through to page 41 or disability.
provides detailed information relating to the group, its business The provision of occupational health programmes is of crucial models and strategy, the operation of its businesses and the importance and, in particular, work has been undertaken during results and financial position for the year ended 31 March 2014. the year to promote awareness of mental health issues and Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group the employee assistance programme available to Severn Trent are set out in the risk management section on pages 38 to 41.
Directors and their interests The group actively encourages employee involvement and Biographies of the directors currently serving on the board are consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees set out on pages 42 and 43. informed of its activity and financial performance by way of company wide communication forums, briengs and All of the directors will be offering themselves for election or publication to staff of all relevant information and corporate re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM, as set out announcements.
To help align employees interests with the in the Governance report on page 46, with the exception of success of the companys performance, Severn Trent offers two Baroness Noakes who will be retiring from the board with effect employee share plans.
The Severn Trent Sharesave Scheme, from the conclusion of the AGM.
an HM Revenue and Customs approved SAYE plan, is offered Details of directors service contracts are set out in the Directors to UK employees on an annual basis.
The Severn Trent Share remuneration report on pages 64 and 65.
The interests of the Incentive Plan, approved by HM Revenue and Customs, makes directors in the shares of the company are shown on pages 70 an annual award of shares to Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent to 73 of that report.
Water Limited employees, based on performance against the companys KPI targets.
Insurance and indemnities The company maintains Directors and Officers Liability Research and development Insurance in respect of legal action that might be brought Expenditure on research and development is set out in notes against its directors and officers.
In accordance with the 7 and 17 to the Financial statements on pages 103 and companys articles of association, and to the extent permitted 110 respectively.
by law, in November 2011 the company indemnified each of its directors and other officers of the group against certain liabilities Treasury management that may be incurred as a result of their positions with the group.
The disclosures required under the EU Fair Value Directive in Indemnities were also entered into with Dr Angela Strank, relation to the use of financial instruments by the company are Liv Gareld, Philip Remnant and John Coghlan upon their set out in note 37 to the Financial statements on pages 127 to appointments to the board.
Further details on our treasury policy and management are set out in the Financial review on pages 36 and 37.
Severn Trent does not have in place any indemnities for the benefit of the auditors.
Post balance sheet events Details of post balance sheet events are set out in note 44 to the group financial statements on page 141.
77 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors report continued Dividends Substantial shareholdings An interim dividend of 32.16 pence per ordinary share was paid As at 31 March 2014 the company had been notied in on 10 January 2014.
The directors recommend a final dividend accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency of 48.24 pence per ordinary share to be paid on 25 July 2014 Rules of the following major shareholdings: to shareholders on the register on 20 June 2014.
of ordinary Percentage of voting 17 bring the total dividend for 2013 14 to 80.40 pence per ordinary shares of 97 p rights and issued 19 Name of holder each share capital share 2013: 75.85 pence.
The payment of the final dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
Blackrock Inc 23,457,458 9.87% Newton Investment On 27 July 2012 a special dividend of 63.0 pence per ordinary Management Ltd 11,474,764 4.80% share was paid to shareholders.
Legal & General Capital structure Group Plc 9,523,698 3.99% Details of the companys issued share capital and of the Percentages rounded to two decimal places.
movements during the year are shown in note 32 to the financial statements on page 123.
The company has one As at 28 May 2014, the company had been notied of the class of ordinary shares which carries no right to xed income.
following holdings of voting rights in the ordinary share capital Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of of the company: Blackrock Inc 23,457,458 9.87% : Newton the company.
The issued nominal value of the ordinary shares is Investment Management Ltd 11,474,764 4.80% and Legal & 100% of the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding nor on Authority to purchase shares the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general The company was given authority at its AGM in 2013 to make provisions of the articles of association and prevailing legislation.
market purchases of ordinary shares up to a maximum number The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of 23,882,260 shares.
Similar authority will again be sought from of the companys shares that may result in restrictions on the shareholders at this years AGM.
No market purchases were transfer of securities or on voting rights.
made by the company during the year ended 31 March 2014.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 38 to the financial statements on pages 135 to 138.
For shares held by Contributions for political and charitable purposes the Severn Trent Employee Share Ownership Trust, the trustee Donations to charitable organisations during the year amounted abstains from voting.
Donations are given to charities whose projects align closely with our aim to promote the No person has any special rights of control over the companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
responsible use of water resources and waste water services which provide the opportunity for longer term partnerships.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, In addition, we provide donations to employee nominated the company is governed by its articles of association, the charities through a matched funding scheme and health and Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related safety reward schemes.
We are also committed to supporting legislation.
The articles may be amended by special resolution WaterAid, the UKs only major charity dedicated to improving of the shareholders.
The powers of directors are described in the access to safe water, hygiene and sanitation in the worlds Severn Trent Plc Board Governance document, the articles and poorest countries.
the Governance report on pages 46 to 51.
Severn Trents policy is not to make any donations for political Under its articles of association, the directors have authority to purposes in the UK, or to donate to EU political parties or incur allot ordinary shares, subject to the aggregate nominal amount EU political expenditure.
Accordingly neither Severn Trent Plc nor limit set at the 2013 AGM.
its subsidiaries made any political donations or incurred political There are a number of agreements that take effect after, or expenditure in the financial year under review.
terminate upon, a change of control of the company, such as Under the provisions of the Political Parties Elections and commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease Referendums Act 2000 the relevant provisions of which are now arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these is contained in Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholder considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on authority is required for political donations to be made or the business of the group as a whole.
There are no agreements political expenditure to be incurred by the company or any of between the company and its directors or employees that its subsidiaries in the EU and disclosure of any such payment provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that must be made in the annual report.
The legislation gives a wide occurs because of a takeover bid.
denition of what constitutes political donations and political expenditure including sponsorship, subscriptions, payment of expenses, paid leave for employees fullling public duties and support for bodies representing the business community in policy review or reform.
The company has therefore obtained limited authority from shareholders as a precautionary measure 78 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 to allow the company to continue supporting the community Our GHG emissions are reported in tonnes of carbon dioxide and such organisations without inadvertently breaching equivalent tCO e, for the period 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014.
The GHG data we report is reported internally during the year At the 2013 AGM, shareholders gave the company authorities to the Corporate Responsibility Committee and to the board.
to make political donations or to incur political expenditure We have subjected our GHG data and processes to external in the EU which would not ordinarily be regarded as political assurance by Atkins.
donations up to an aggregate annual limit of 150,000 for the Severn Trent Plc direct operational greenhouse gas company and its subsidiaries.
Pursuant to those authorities, emissions tCO e 2013 14 2 during the year ended 31 March 2014 the group incurred costs Emissions from combustion of fuel and operation of nil 2013: nil.
Those authorities will expire at the 2014 AGM of facilities Scope 1 169,844 and, in line with market practice to renew the authorities on an Emissions from electricity purchased for own use annual basis, the board has decided to put forward a resolution Scope 2 330,679 to this years AGM to renew the authorities to make donations Total annual gross operational emissions 500,523 to political organisations and to incur political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate of 150,000 per annum.
As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, this resolution also covers any Annual GHG intensity ratio tCO unit 2013 14 2 political donations made or political expenditure incurred, by any Operational GHG emissions of Severn Trent per subsidiaries of the company.
m turnover 269.6 Report on greenhouse gas emissions Our long term aim is to be carbon neutral and energy self This is the first year Severn Trent has been required to report sufficient, provided this is the best value option for our greenhouse gas GHG emissions in the Directors report.
We plan to continue to reduce our emissions within Severn Trent Water by a further 3% between Severn Trent is committed to reducing its GHG emissions.
2015 and 2020, primarily by reducing our energy use.
We plan For Severn Trent Water, which accounts for 98% of our total to continue to increase our renewable generation mainly within group emissions, we have been publicly reporting on our our non-regulated business where the focus for expansion is emissions since 2002.
In that time we have reduced our the emerging food waste digestion market.
We have achieved this primarily by being measures will continue to reduce our key sources of emissions, more energy efficient and generating more renewable energy.
reduce our reliance on the electricity grid and bring financial Our continued investment in renewable energy over the past benets for our customers and investors.
decade and beyond now allows us to generate 204 GWh p. a. the equivalent of 23% of Severn Trent Waters electricity needs.
We continue to lead the UK water industry in renewable energy production and our aim is to generate the equivalent of 30% by 2015.
Severn Trent Water has held the Carbon Trust Standard since 2009 in recognition of consistent emissions reductions and effective carbon management processes.
Our gross GHG emissions have continued to reduce since we first achieved the Standard because of our reduction in energy consumption and our increase in self-supplied renewable energy.
This year, Severn Trent Water used 894 GWh of electricity, which is 22 GWh 2.4% less than in 2009 and Severn Trent self-supplied 154 GWh of electricity, 26 GWh 20.5% more than in 2009.
Our approach of generating more of our own energy and reducing the amount we use reduces our costs and our reliance on the electricity grid.
Notes: Further details about our approach to climate change and the Our approach to reporting is based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and risks and opportunities it presents to our business are set out in Reporting Standard and we have included only emissions from the assets which we our Carbon Disclosure Project CDP submission www.
own and operate and which we can directly influence and reduce, known as the financial control boundary.
In accordance with the reporting regulations, we have not The CDP request information about climate change from reported on emissions we can influence but which we are not responsible for, referred companies each year on behalf of investors and score each to as indirect emissions.
company on the quality and completeness of their responses.
For Severn Trent Water, we have calculated our emissions using the Carbon accounting We have seen a year on year improvement in our CDP score and in the UK Water Industry: methodology for estimating operational emissions, Version 8.1 in 2013 we achieved 83%, compared to the average score of released March 2014.
This is a peer-reviewed calculation tool developed and used by all the major water companies in the UK.
It is updated each year to include the latest 81% across the FTSE 100. available emissions factors.
For Severn Trent Services, we have used the latest Defra Emissions factors which include the relevant conversion factors for overseas electricity.
79 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors report continued The groups procedures for exercising control and managing risk Internal controls in relation to financial reporting and preparation of consolidated The board is responsible for the groups system of internal accounts include: control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The board reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control, including F the formulation and communication of group accounting financial, operational and compliance aspects including policies which are regularly updated for developments in IFRS risk management, at least annually in accordance with the and other reporting requirements: requirements of the Governance Code.
The internal control F specication of a set of financial controls that all of the system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance groups operating businesses are required to implement as against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to a minimum: manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve F deployment of a group-wide consolidation system with business objectives.
controls to restrict access and maintain integrity of data: The Audit Committee reviews the groups risk management F recruitment, training and development of appropriately process and the effectiveness of the system of internal control qualied and experienced financial reporting personnel: on behalf of the board and keeps under review ways in which F oversight by the Disclosure Committee of the groups to enhance the control and assurance arrangements.
The Audit compliance with its disclosure obligations: and Committee receives reports every six months from the Chief Executive detailing the significant risks and uncertainties faced F monthly reviews by the board of financial reports from the by the group, an assessment of the effectiveness of controls groups operating businesses.
over each of those risks and an action plan to improve controls Relevant audit information where this has been assessed as necessary.
During the course of The directors confirm that: its review of the system of internal control in 2013 14, the Audit Committee has not identied nor been advised of any failings or F so far as each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and The Internal Audit department provides objective assurance and advice on risk management and control.
The external auditors F each of them has taken all the steps that he she ought to Deloitte also report on significant financial control issues to the have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of Audit Committee.
any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
An independent reporter Atkins provides objective assurance in relation to the Severn Trent Water Limited Annual Regulatory This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in Compliance Statement and Annual Regulatory Performance accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Report.
Deloitte carried out a review of the agreed upon Act 2006. procedures relating to the calculation of the financial KPIs External auditors included in the Annual Regulatory Compliance Statement and Having carried out a review of their effectiveness during the the Annual Regulatory Performance Report.
year, the Audit Committee has recommended to the board the The board confirms that procedures providing an ongoing reappointment of Deloitte LLP and a resolution to that effect will process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal be on the agenda at the AGM.
Deloitte LLP have indicated their risks and uncertainties faced by the group have been in place willingness to continue as auditors.
The Audit Committee will for the year to 31 March 2014 and up to the date of approval also be responsible for determining the audit fee on behalf of of the annual report, which is in accordance with the revised the board.
guidance on internal control published in October 2005 theTurnbull Guidance.
Accounts of Severn Trent Water Limited Regulatory accounts for Severn Trent Water Limited are prepared and sent to Ofwat.
A copy of these accounts will be available on the website of Severn Trent Water Limited www.
co. uk or on request to the Company Secretary.
There is no charge for this publication.
80 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Going concern Annual General Meeting The groups business activities, together with the factors likely The AGM of the company will be held at the International to affect its future development, performance and position and Convention Centre, Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA at 11am on Wednesday 16 July 2014.
The notice convening the meeting, the business reviews of Severn Trent Water and Severn Trent Services are set out in the Strategic report, from the inside front together with details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes for each resolution, is distributed separately cover to page 41.
The financial position of the group, its cash to shareholders.
It is also available on the companys website ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in www.
the Financial review on pages 33 to 37.
The groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital and its financial risk management objectives are described in the Financial By order of the board review on pages 33 to 37 and in the Governance report.
Details of the groups financial instruments, hedging activities and exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are described in note 37 to the group financial statements.
Bronagh Kennedy The groups principal operating subsidiary, Severn Trent Water, General Counsel and Company Secretary is a regulated long term business characterised by multi year investment programmes.
The groups strategic funding 28 May 2014 objectives reect this.
The group therefore seeks to attain a balance of long term funding or commitment of funds across a range of funding at the best possible economic cost.
Average debt maturity is 16 years and the effective average interest cost during the year was 5.8%.
The group is in a strong liquidity position and had 123.2 million in cash and liquid reserves and 500.0 million of undrawn committed bank facilities at 31 March 2014, which are expected to be sufficient to fund its investment and cash ow needs at least until December 2015 in the normal course of business.
Severn Trent Water operates in an industry that is currently subject to economic regulation rather than market competition.
Ofwat, the economic regulator, has a statutory obligation to set price limits that it believes will enable the water companies to finance their activities.
As a consequence the directors believe that the group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
