Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our strategy Our aim is to drive value for our customers and shareholders with a focus on water and waste water services in key regulated and non-regulated sectors.
Our strategy delivers better value, better services and a healthier environment for our customers, society and investors.
How we are organised to deliver Regulated Non-regulated In the UK, our regulated business Severn Trent Water In the UK and key international markets, Severn Trent provides water and waste water services to over 4.3 million Services STS provides water and waste water services homes and businesses.
andwater technology products to a wide range of business, municipal and industrial customers.
We also Our business plan for the next regulatory period AMP6 havea growing non-regulated renewable energy portfolio.
see pages 11 and 12, is driven by and for our customers.
Our aimis to provide what our customers want Our strategy is to leverage our knowledge of water and and what the environment needs, whilst still keeping our waste water treatment in UK non-regulated and global charges as low as possible.
municipal, industrial and commercial markets, which offer long term growth opportunities.
See our business model on pages 14 and 15 See our business model on pages 26 and 27 Water and waste water Regulated turnover STS Water Purication Non-regulated turnover Products global water technology products STS Operating Services contract operations 209.9m and maintenance for 1,544.8m municipal and industrial 101.5m clients including UK retail business and the UK Ministry of Defence MoD Other nonregulated business Renewable Energy Severn Trent also has a non-regulated renewable energy portfolio that primarily supplies our ownregulated business.
What we stand for Value Responsible leadership Sustainability We aim to deliver value for our We have long advocated a more At Severn Trent we balance the customers and our shareholders.
socially, environmentally and interests of all our stakeholders and Our customers get good value for nancially sustainable future for our the environment.
We believe in doing money quality products, the lowest industry through our Changing Course the right thing for the longer term possible charges and a good overall series of publications.
We aim to have and in operating our business in a service.
Our shareholders benefit from an open and honest conversation sustainable way.
with our customers, our colleagues and our regulators about the changes we can all make towards a more sustainable future.
06 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our strategy delivers Better value and A healthier Sustainable returns betterservices environment forinvestors forcustomers At Severn Trent Water, we already At Severn Trent Water, our aim is to Our strategy delivers long term have the lowest combined water protect and enhance the environment, sustainable growth for investors.
and waste water bills in England and improving the quality of our rivers and Severn Trent Water invests on average Wales.
Through a focus on continuous safeguarding the infrastructure that over 500 million annually in our improvement and efficiency, we aim our customers and the environment water and waste water networks.
to deliver the service improvements depend upon.
We fund this programme from our customers want and which the We strive to operate our business the profits we generate, but also environment needs, whilst still keeping in a sustainable way, reducing the by borrowing money from capital prices as low as possible.
amount of water we take out of the markets.
Capital investment is added At Severn Trent Services, we also work environment, reducing our carbon to our regulated asset base, which in partnership with our customers to emissions and generating our own also rises in line with ination each deliver innovative and cost effective renewable energy.
The returns we generate for water and waste water solutions.
shareholders who invest in our asset At Severn Trent Services, we offer base are set by our economic regulator, customers throughout the world Ofwat, over five year planning cycles.
arange of products and services seeinside the front cover for details.
We can generate additional returns From ltration and disinfection by being more efficient in the delivery equipment to water and waste of the capital programme, managing water contract operations, our water our operational costs more effectively treatment technologies and services and by nancing our business at a are designed to help protect and lower cost.
At Severn Trent Services we target long term contractual relationships that provide financial and operational stability and a good platform for growth.
