Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Market and industry overview Severn Trent has contributed heavily to the debate about ourindustrys future and how we tackle the challenges through our series of Changing Course publications.
The water and sewerage industry F we still face considerable challenges Having a sustainable business requires us in England and Wales has more to meet the requirements of the to also balance longer term requirements than 50 million household and nonWater Framework Directive and that stretch beyond our five year plans.
More than 30 other environmental imperatives.
For example, our water resource plans privately-owned companies serve these We need to play our part in improving look 25 years into the future and we customers, of which 10 including Severn the environment, at a price that is study the need for investment in some of Trent Water provide both water and affordable to our customers: and our assets over a 40 year period.
The industry invests this information to adjust our investment F some of our infrastructure is old.
around 5 billion each year and employs plans for the next AMP cycle to ensure Whilst it has served us well it is no over 35,000 people.
we do the right thing for the long term longer able to deliver the quality whilst helping to keep customers The water industry has achieved standards and reliability customers bills affordable.
much in the 25 years since it was want.
We need to ensure that our privatised.
It has attracted over investments are timely, provide good As well as being regulated by Ofwat, our 100 billion of private investment to fund performance is monitored by: value for money and will deliver many improvements in, among other things, years of future service.
F the Drinking Water Inspectorate, which customer service, drinking water and We have actively sought to be at the makes sure we comply with drinking environmental standards.
forefront of the debate about our water quality regulations: However, our sector still faces significant industrys future and how we tackle F the Environment Agency EA, short and long term challenges: these challenges, through our series which controls water abstraction, of Changing Course publications.
F customers incomes have been riverpollution and ooding: and We have championed a more socially, squeezed, limiting their ability to pay F Natural Resources Wales, which brings environmentally and nancially for service improvements.
We need to together the work of the Countryside sustainable water industry.
ensure that our services are affordable: Council for Wales, the Environment Weve been pleased that many of the F the UKs population is growing, placing Agency Wales and the Forestry ideas we have championed have been more pressure on our water resources Commission Wales to manage the reected in the emerging UK policy and and on our networks.
We need to natural resources of Wales: and regulatory framework that is being put ensure we have sufficient capacity: F Natural England who protect and in place.
Challenges remain, but we are F were experiencing more ooding and improve Englands natural encouraged by the direction of reform.
We need to ensure that we environment.
We look forward to helping to make it have resilient services able to cope with We also work with other a success.
this increased volatility: agencies including: How the industry is regulated F financial markets have changed F the Department for Environment, signicantly since the 2008 financial Severn Trent Water is a regulated Food and Rural Affairs which sets the crisis, raising questions about how the business.
We work within five year policy context for the water industry industry can best finance its long term regulatory planning cycles, with the prices in England: investment.
We need to ensure that we charge our customers set at the F the Welsh Government which sets the the industry is nanced sustainably: beginning of each cycle by our economic policy context for the water industry in regulator Ofwat.
These five year cycles Wales: and are known as Asset Management Plan F the Consumer Council for Water which AMP periods.
We have just reached the represents customers in the industry.
end of the fourth year of AMP5.
However, we dont just think in the short term.
10 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our plan is driven by and for our customers.
At the same time, well increase overall Our business plan for AMP6 capital investment to around 3 billion.
Ofwat requires us to produce business Well prioritise improvements in those plans for each five year regulatory period.
areas most important to our customers, In December 2013, we submitted our including better services and healthier business plan for the next regulatory rivers.
In particular, our plan proposes period AMP6, which runs from April to reduce: 2015 to March 2020.
This plan is currently being reviewed by Ofwat who will give us F leakage by a further 6%: its final determination in December 2014.
F the length of time our customers Our plan is driven by and for our water supply is interrupted by 47%: customers.
The golden thread running F the number of homes affected by through our plan comprises four sewer ooding by 14%: and essential elements.
Our plan delivers better value Weve also set challenging efficiency for money.
targets, reducing total costs in AMP6 by over 370 million, helping to keep Were proud to have the lowest average average bills lower in 2020 than they combined bills in England and Wales.
Our AMP6 plan delivers even better value, by limiting price rises to below the rate 2.
Our plan is fair andbalanced of ination.
This means our average Weve taken into account the interests price rises from 201020 will have been of all our stakeholders.
Were sharing below the rate of ination over that 10 the benets of outperformance with year period.
our customers by investing an extra 150 million, to improve the service our customers receive see further details about how we have spent this extra investment so far on page 20.
Well continue this approach in the next regulatory period, to ensure customers Were proud to have share in the rewards of our success and thelowest average also ensure that there is no need for combined bills in regulatory intervention in AMP6.
Well have the opportunity to earn more, Englandand Wales.
through incentives that encourage us to deliver even better services.
If we dont deliver on our commitments, penalties will result in lower prices to customers.
Our plan will also deliver fair returns for shareholders.
11 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Market and industry overview continued... there is a clear line of sight between what customers wanted to see and what is being proposed in the plan.
Dame Yve Buckland, Water Forum Chair 3.
Our plan is robust and reliable Were also planning to make significant The non-regulated market investment in 20152020 to improve the Our approach builds on our track record The worldwide market for water and quality of rivers and on strategic resilience, of producing robust business plans and is waste water products and services is which were phasing over 10 years to based on the largest customer research substantial with long term prospects ensure the right balance for customers and engagement exercise weve ever for growth in most areas we serve.
We plan to double our undertaken through our Lets Talk Water The drivers of the water and waste water programme of sustainable urban drainage consultation.
We also put in place a business remain strong, and include systems, to help prevent sewer ooding.
rigorous assurance process, to test the water scarcity, population growth, We also plan to reduce the amount of plans robustness.
climate change and more stringent water we take out of the environment per regulatory requirements.
In total, we talked to more than 16,000 customer by 6%, further strengthening The customers for our Operating customers and other stakeholders.
our leading position in this area.
We gave customers real choices Services are often municipal or regional authorities, who are looking to outsource about where their money should be A changing regulatory environment spent and we were challenged hard management of their treatment The water industry continues to be facilities.
The market for these services by the Water Forum, our customer affected by a number of changes to challenge group, and changed our plan is therefore largest in countries which legislation and regulations.
have established traditions of involving as a result.
The Water Forum includes New legislation introduced this year representatives from customers, our the private sector in providing public through the Water Act 2014 brings a services, such as the US.
In the UK, we environmental regulators and local number of significant changes to the authorities, and has an independent will increasingly be able to provide water way the industry operates.
In particular, services to business customers, as the Chair, Dame Yve Buckland, who is also the it will allow more competition for Chair of the Consumer Council for Water.
Water Act 2014 opens up the market to non-household customers and competition from 2017. greater upstream competition which 4.
Our plan does the right thing for the On the Products side, our customers should eventually lead to a more long term range from public sector treatment efficient industry.
Weve long advocated a more socially, works and industrial operations to marine The European Water Framework environmentally and nancially and offshore oil and gas operations.
Directive WFD will be a significant sustainable water industry and published They need high quality products to meet driver of our future capital expenditure.
our first Changing Course report in their water and waste water purication It will help to protect and enhance our April 2010.
Our plan is shaped by the needs.
The market for these products rivers, lakes, streams and groundwater.
philosophy that underpins Changing is global.
We are also developing a During 2013 14, we published a Course and provides a solid foundation dedicated aftermarket sales team to Changing Course report on implementing for the long term.
The level the WFD and shared it with the EA.
This is Our future plans include major of demand for our products often our contribution to the debate about investments over the next two AMP depends on environmental regulations, achieving environmental improvements periods to increase the resilience of the strength of municipal nances and at an affordable cost to customers.
the level of investment in new treatment also begun to look at which technologies applications.
In the shipping industry, offer the best solution to implementing ratication by the International Maritime the WFD, in preparation for AMP6.
Organisation of new standards for purifying ballast water to prevent the spread of invasive species would expand the market for our BALPURE product line.
