Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Board of directors 1.
BSc Hons MA Econ PhD 49 Director, Strategy and Regulation Appointed to the board on 2 October 2007 Tonys extensive experience in utility policy and regulation leaves him ideally placed to lead the companys strategic and regulatory work.
Prior to joining Severn Trent he held the posts of Chief Economist for Ofwat, director of London Economics and director of Stone and Webster Consultants.
Member of Water UK Council 2.
John Coghlan O BCom ACA 56 Independent non-executive director Appointed to the board on 23 May 2014 John is a chartered accountant with substantial financial expertise and is a valuable addition to the boards existing skill set.
He will become Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from the conclusion of the AGM on 16 July 2014.
Chairman of Inchcape Shipping Services and a nonexecutive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Lavendon Group plc.
He was previously a non-executive director of Hibu plc formerly Yell Group plc from June 2002 to February 2014 and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Prior to this he was a nonexecutive director of Ashley House plc and DX Services PLC and until 2006 he was Deputy Chief Executive and Group Finance Director of Exel Plc.
External appointments Chairman of Inchcape Shipping Services 7.
Non-executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Lavendon Group plc Chairman of Freight Transport Association Ireland Limited 3.
Richard Davey Q O BA 65 Senior independent non-executive director Appointed to the board on 1 January 2006 Richard spent the majority of his executive career in investment banking at NM Rothschild and Sons, in roles including Head of Investment Banking.
10. invaluable specialist financial expertise to the board, the Audit Committee and as chair of the Remuneration Committee, having run Rothschilds Financial Services Group and worked with a number of high street banks and insurers.
Previously he held non-executive roles at Yorkshire Building Society, where he was Vice Chairman, Freeserve Plc and Scottish Widows Fund and Life Assurance Society.
External appointments Non-executive Chairman, member of the Risk and Solvency Committee and Chairman of the Nomination 11.
Andrew Duff V O BSc FEI 55 Non-executive Chairman Appointed to the board on 10 May 2010 and Chairman on 20 July 2010 Andrews extensive experience of international and regulated business, strategic management and customer service in high prole, dynamic environments have equipped him well for the role of Chairman of the 13. group.
Andrew spent 16 years at BP in marketing, strategy and oil trading.
He joined National Power in 1998 and the board of Innogy plc upon its demerger from National Power in 2000.
He led the restructuring and subsequent sale of Innogy to RWE in 2003.
Committee membership key He became CEO of the successor company, npower, Q Audit Committee and a member of the RWE Group Executive Committee.
V Corporate Responsibility Committee He was a non-executive director of Wolseley Plc from Y Executive Committee O Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee 42 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 July 2004 until his retirement in November 2013.
Philip Remnant Q O Andrew was appointed non-executive Deputy Chairman BSc MBA 54 CBE ACA MA 59 of Elementis plc on 1 April 2014 and became non-executive Chairman of Elementis plc on Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director 24 April 2014.
Appointed to the board on 29 February 2008 Appointed to the board on 31 March 2014 Martin has extensive experience of managing and Philip is a senior investment banker with substantial External appointments developing large engineering businesses in all parts advisory and regulatory experience.
In May 2014, Martin left the board of accountant, he is Senior Independent Director of Non-executive Chairman and Chairman of the IMI plc having served as Chief Executive for 13 years Prudential Plc, a Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel, Nomination Committee of Elementis plc and after 33 years with the company.
He oversaw the a non-executive director of UK Financial Investments Member of the CBI Presidents Committee fundamental reshaping of IMI and held a number Limited and Chairman of City of London Investment Trustee of Macmillan Cancer Support and Earth Trust of senior management roles there.
He was previously a Vice Chairman of Credit Fellow of the Energy Institute 2014, Martin was appointed Chairman of Evoqua Suisse First Boston Europe and Head of the UK Water Technologies.
His strong commercial acumen, Investment Banking Department.
Philip was Director experience of managing complex projects, and General of the Takeover Panel for two years between 5.
Gordon Fryett V O familiarity with current market pressures leave him 2001 and 2003, and again in 2010.
Previously he served 60 well placed to add value to the Severn Trent business.
on the board of Northern Rock plc and from 2007 to Previously Martin was a non-executive director of 2012 was Chairman of the Shareholder Executive.
Independent non-executive director Spectris plc.
Appointed to the board on 1 July 2009 External appointments Gordon has extensive experience working in and with External appointments international businesses, managing significant capital Senior independent director and member of the expenditure.
His in-depth retail expertise at both Chairman of Evoqua Water Technologies LLC Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees executive and operational level in a customer facing, Member of the Advisory Board of AEA Investors ofPrudential Plc.
highly competitive environment, enables him to bring Management UK Limited Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel substantial experience and expertise to the board and Non-executive director of UK Financial the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Gordon held Investments Limited the position of Group Property Director at Tesco Plc Non-executive Chairman of City of London 9.
Michael McKeon Y until his retirement in November 2013.
He previously InvestmentTrust plc MA CA 57 held a number of senior roles within the Tesco Group, Governor of Goodenough College including Operations Director, International Support Finance Director Trustee of St Pauls Cathedral Foundation Director andCEO Republic of Ireland.
Appointed to the board on 13 December 2005 Michael brings significant financial and commercial External appointments expertise to the board and has over eight years 12.
Andy Smith Y Alumnus of INSEAD experience of the Severn Trent group.
Prior to joining BTech Hons 53 Severn Trent he was Finance Director of Novar Plc and Director of Water Services before that, held various senior roles with Rolls-Royce Plc, including Finance Director of the Aerospace Group.
Appointed to the board on 2 October 2007 6.
Olivia Gareld V Y O He has extensive international business experience Andy brings a broad range of executive and operational BA Hons 38 having worked overseas for CarnaudMetalbox, Elf expertise gained from diverse sectors to the board.
Chief Executive Atochem and Price Waterhouse.
Michael is a chartered Andy has significant experience having worked in accountant and a member of the Institute of Chartered the UK and overseas with global businesses such as Appointed to the board on 11 April 2014 Accountants of Scotland.
BP, Mars and Pepsi, in engineering and operational Olivia Liv brings to the board a wealth of experience management roles.
Previously he was a member of managing customer service delivery and complex External appointments theboard at BootsGroup Plc.
infrastructure and organisations in a regulated environment.
Before joining Severn Trent, Liv was Chief Non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Executive Officer of Openreach, part of the BT Group, Committee of The Merchants Trust Plc where she spearheaded and oversaw the commercial 13.
Dr Angela Strank V O roll-out of bre broadband to two thirds of the country.
BSc PhD Geology 61 She joined BT in 2002 and held the pivotal roles of 10.
Baroness Noakes Q O Independent non-executive director Group Director of Strategy and Regulation, Managing DBE LLB FCA 64 Appointed to the board on 24 January 2014 Director Commercial and Brands, Global Services Angela is Chief Scientist at BP Group.
She has held and UK Customer Services Director.
From 1998 to Independent non-executive director various senior strategic, technical and commercial 2002, Liv worked for Accenture as a consultant in the Appointed to the board on 29 February 2008 leadership roles at BP since joining in 1982, most Communications and High Tech Market Unit, designing Sheila brings valuable expertise to the board as recently Vice President and Head of the Chief and implementing business change solutions across a an experienced director and Audit Committee Executives Office.
In 2010 Angela was the winner of number of industry sectors.
Chairman of UK listed companies and with extensive the UK First Womans Award in Science and Technology and varied professional, political and public sector in recognition of pioneering UK women in business and External appointments experience.
A qualied chartered accountant, she industry.
Her track record and experience in strategy, previously headed KPMGs European and International Non-executive director Tesco Plc technology and transformational change are a Government practices and has been President of the complementary addition to the boards skill set.
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Sheila was appointed to the House of Lords 7.
Martin Kane Y External appointments in 2000 and has served on the Conservative front BSc CEng CEnv MICE MIWEM FIW 61 Board of Governors of the University of Manchester bench in various roles including as shadow treasury University College London, Energy Institute minister between 2003 and May 2010.
Previously she Chief Executive Officer, Severn Trent Services International Advisory Board held non-executive roles on the Court of the Bank of Appointed to the board on 2 October 2007 England, Hanson Plc, ICI Plc, John Laing and SThree.
Martin joined Severn Trent Water in 1975 and has Sheila will retire from the board with effect from the held various senior roles giving him an extensive and conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
unique understanding of the design, construction and operation of water and waste water treatment plants, External appointments water distribution networks and sewerage systems.
Martin was Director of Customer Relations, Severn Non-executive director, member of the Group Audit Trent Water, from May 2006 until January 2012, when Committee and Group Nominations Committee and he was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Severn Chairman of the Board Risk Committee of The Royal Trent Services.
Bank of Scotland Group Plc Deputy Chairman, senior independent director External appointments and Chairman of the Nominations Committee ofCarpetright Plc Member of the boards of Utilities and Service Industries Training Limited and National Association ofWater Companies US Trustee of International Society for Trenchless Technology 43
