Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Regulated Severn Trent Water Better for Jessica We made sure that we listened to our customers problems, like Jessicas, inour AMP6 business plans.
Listening to customers inshaping ourplans Tackling the nasty problem of sewer ooding for customers like Jessica Hinnett from Alfreton in Derbyshire is a top priority for customers which came out of our Lets Talk Water consultation.
Over 16,000 customers gave us their views in our biggest ever customer consultation.
We made sure their voices were heard loud and clear when we 3,000 submitted our AMP6 business plan customers attended to Ofwat.
our Lets Talk Thankfully for Jessica, her problem was Water roadshows.
I cant speak highly enough of everyone at Severn Trent who helped me at a time when I was very emotional.
13 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Regulated business model Water is essential to life and to the communities The role of Severn Trent Water in which we live and work.
Severn Trent Water is intrinsically linked to the life cycle ofwater.
12 Thecustomer is at the heart of our continuous drive to improve ouroperations and services across collection, delivery and cleaning ofwater.
Severn Trent Water is a regulated business.
We work within five year planning cycles, with customer prices setby our economic regulator, Ofwat, to allow us to fund our investment programme and cover an Water is collected Water efficient level of operating costs.
We are also subject toregulation by two quality regulators the Drinking abstraction is cleaned Water Inspectorate and the Environment Agency We pay the Environment Our 156 water treatment details ofthese regulators are provided below.
Agency for the water we works clean raw water collect from reservoirs, rivers to the highest standards Our prices and asset base are adjusted by RPI ination and underground aquifers making it safe to drink.
In certain circumstances we can ask for across our region.
prices to be reviewed within the five year period due to costs associated with notied items orrelevant changes of circumstance.
Customer bad debt and the adoption of private drains and sewers are included inthese categories for the current veyearperiod.
Severn Trent has not sought to review prices for either of these reasons during 201015.
Regulatory framework The company earns a return on its asset base.
We can F Ofwat F Ofwat generate additional returns if we outperform Ofwats F Natural England F Drinking Water assumptions by becoming more efficient in the Inspectorate F Natural Resources Wales delivery of our capital programme, managing our F Environment Agency F Health and Safety operational costs more effectively, and by nancing Executive F Health and Safety Executive our business at a lower cost.
Risks Our operating performance is assessed and benchmarked against the sector by Ofwat.
Within the F Failure of key assets may F Failure of key assets or current price review there is scope to earn additional result indamage to property, processes may result in income, or incur penalties, based on ourperformance.
injury to people and or adecline in water quality, disruption to our ability disruption in our supply Regulatory framework to supply our customers.
tocustomers or failure to Principal Risk Ref 6 and 8 meetregulatory targets.
Consumer Council forWater Principal Risk Ref 7 and 8 Consumer Council for Water is an independent body designed to F Hazardous processes protect the rights ofconsumers.
uk Where risks are currently orchemicals may result Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI considered Principal Risks, inpeoplebeing injured.
The Drinking Water Inspectorate makes sure companies supply further details are provided Principal Risk Ref 6 water that is safe to drink and complies with all national and on pages 3941 European standards.
uk Environment Agency EA 7 The Environment Agency is a public body set up to protect and improve the environment.
uk Health and Safety Executive The Health and Safety Executive is the enforcing authority on health and safety law.
uk Natural England Natural England protects and improves Englands naturalenvironment.
uk Networks invested Natural Resources Wales Natural Resources Wales brings together the work of the and maintained Environment Agency Wales, The Forestry Commission Wales and the Countryside Council for Wales.
uk Ofwat The economic regulator forthe water and sewerage industry.
It makes sure that water companies use customers money efficiently and effectively and setsour price limits.
uk 14 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3456 Clean water Customers Waste water Waste water isdistributed enjoy our services is collected is treated and A 47,000 km network We bill 4.3 million Our c. 92,000 km of sewers returned to the of pipes and enclosed businesses and households and pumping stations environment storage reservoirs bring a year.
Inreturn, we provide collect waste water from a continuous supply of a safe, reliable supply of homes and businesses, and Waste water is carefully clean water right to our water and the collection of surface water from outside screened, ltered and customers taps.
waste water 24 hours a day, properties and drains.
treated in our 1,019 sewage 365 days ayear.
treatment works to meet stringent environmental standards.
We pay the Environment Agency an annual consent fee to return the now treated water to the water system.
F Ofwat F Ofwat F Ofwat F Ofwat F Drinking Water F Consumer Council for F Environment Agency F Natural England Inspectorate Water F Health and Safety F Natural Resources Wales F Health and Safety F Drinking Water Executive F Environment Agency Executive Inspectorate F Health and Safety Executive F The performance of our F We may be unable to F Failure to deal with customer F We may suffer operational distribution network may fall sufficiently improve our waste effectively may lead failurein our waste water below the standards expected performance in relation to tosewer ooding.
operations which results by DWI or Ofwat, resulting in customer service in order to Principal Risk Ref7 in damage to the local poor service to our customers deliver what our customers environment.
Principal Risk and increased leakage from tell us they want.
Principal Risk Principal Risk Ref 1 Ref 7 F We may be unable to respond F Failure of one of our key effectively to the opening up assets could result in of thebusiness retail market disruption to supply to to competition.
Ref 2 Principal Risk Ref 8 We are an investment led industry, and our capital programme this Risks year was 602million, or around 140 per connected property, We operate within a complex legal and regulatory environment as a water reecting increased investment year on year 2012 13: 555 million and sewerage service provider in England and Wales.
As a result we face a in our water and sewerage networks, including nding and xing more number of risks including those associated with possible non-compliance leaks and reducing the number ofsupply interruptions, improvements with our legal and regulatory framework, failure to obtain support to our water andsewage treatment plants and upgrades to our from Ofwat for our business plan for 20152020 and failure to meet sewer network to reduce incidents of sewer ooding.
We fund this the terms of our regulatory contract as set out in our agreed business investment programme from the profits we generate, but also by plan for 20102015.
We also face risks associated with possible future borrowing money from the capital markets.
Capital investment is changes in legislation which may result in our business plans becoming added on to our asset base, called the RCV.
Our asset base also rises unsustainable.
Principal Risk Ref 3, 4 and 5 on pages 39 and 40 in line with ination each year.
The returns that we generate for Regulatory Framework shareholders on that asset base are set by our economic regulator, Ofwat, over five year planning cycles.
We can increase these returns F Ofwat by outperformance.
F Health and Safety Executive F Environment Agency F Drinking Water Inspectorate 15 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Regulated performance review We are taking these failures extremely Delivering better value, betterservices and a healthier seriously and accept that we have more environment to do in order to address the issues and risks we face.
We have identied several Our goal is to be the UKs best water areas where improvements to our assets and waste water company.
This means are required and investment programmes we must deliver better value and better are already in progress.
We have a services to customers and investors, while programme of work dedicated to protecting the environment on which identifying and delivering improvements.
We have stepped up our operational To reach our goal and meet our monitoring and remain committed to customers needs, we set 10 long term doing what is needed to address issues in objectives in 2013.
Each year, we report this area at pace.
We remain committed against our objectives and explain how to ensuring that our customers receive weve improved our performance.
water of the highest quality.
Quality water We continue to invest in our people and Objective 1.
Well provide you with water in our treatment works to enable us to that is good to drink improve our performance.
For example, this year we have run a programme to Our drinking water is amongst the best in improve knowledge and awareness of the UK and we achieved 99.96% overall water quality for our network operators compliance with the Drinking Water and operational call-centre colleagues.
Inspectorates DWI quality standards We are in the process of investing to 2012 13: 99.98%.
renew assets and improve processes at However, some aspects of our our largest works at Frankley.
At Bamford, performance have fallen below the Derbyshire, weve improved our processes standard we and our customers expect.
to increase their resilience and ability to We reported one more significant event treat water from the local peat moors.
to the DWI this year than last.
The two We continue to look to the future with our most recent DWI Chief Inspectors water quality strategy and our AMP6 plan reports have highlighted a number of will also look to addressing deteriorating improvement areas, and there has been raw water quality in more innovative and one prosecution during the last year in sustainable ways, for example, extending relation to water quality.
specifically, our our catchment approach.
It involves performance in relation to the number working in partnership with landowners of outbreaks of detected coliforms and users to minimise the risk of pollution non-harmful bacteria has exceeded the entering the raw water system, so we maximum level expected by Ofwat twice can avoid additional investment in our in three years including 2013 14.
result our serviceability on above ground assets is rated as marginal.
Partnership working to reduce ood risks Together with the Environment Agency, wevecreated four hectares of woodland along the River Ashop, Derbyshire.
By stopping livestock grazing and working with natural processes, land management like this reduces and delays the ow of water downstream, cutting the risk of ooding and pollution, while improving wildlife habitats and biodiversity.
16 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 We were pleased to win an award for Towards the end of the year, we Services you can rely on innovation of the year at the Water consulted on our water resources Objective 2.
We will ensure water is there Industry Achievement Awards 2014 management plan.
This explains how when you need it for new equipment we have developed well provide sustainable and affordable Our customers expect water to be that improves leak detection efficiency water to our customers, over the next there when they turn on the tap and for and is particularly effective with plastic 25 years and beyond.
We also issued our leakage to be lower.
pipes which is a problem throughout drought plan, which sets out how well As part of our commitment to the industry.
This equipment has been maintain supplies during shortages.
improvement, we have reviewed developed by us working in partnership Our future plans include major the basis on which we calculate our with Loughborough University from investments over the next two AMP leakage gure.
The net impact of the a research and development project periods to increase the resilience improvements is neutral with respect to through to commercial launch of Birminghams water supply.
This will extend the life of the Elan Valley We maintained leakage at 441 Ml d The number of properties that Aqueduct, saving customers hundreds beating our Ofwat leakage target of experienced a supply interruption longer of millions of pounds over the coming 456 Ml d. Severn Trent is one of the few than 12 hours was 2,699: an increase decades and reducing risk to the UKs companies to target lower leakage during of 142 on last year.
Over 900 of these second largest city.
Well also continue AMP5 and were on track to deliver a 11% interruptions occurred following the to improve our trunk main network leakage reduction over AMP5.
extreme storms of February when and strategic grid of pipes to provide Weve further reduced the average power supplies were interrupted for customers with increased resilience.
number of minutes that customers are extended periods.
This is a key input Objective 3.
We will safely take your without supply from 29 minutes per measure to serviceability assessment.
waste water away property to 16 minutes.
Were investing Despite an underlying improvement on We continue to invest to reduce the in new pipes, valves and other assets, this measure, and the fact that other risk of internal sewer ooding and have and improving our ability to restore indicators performing within or ahead protected a further 121 properties customers supplies quickly.
For example, of the operating ranges agreed with this year, putting us on track for 741 new technology allows us to keep Ofwat, the application of the serviceability properties over AMP5.
Our efforts have water owing while we repair a pipe.
framework means our serviceability is reduced the number of customers rated as marginal.
who suffered repeated internal sewer We are committed to reducing the ooding, from 255 in 2012 13 to 204 number of interruptions longer than this year.
We also mitigated the risk of 12 hours.
In order to achieve this we ooding for around 160 properties this have increased our focus on improving year.
Were increasingly using sustainable our risk and contingency planning and drainage systems to reduce ooding, as emergency response.
well as increasing our partnership working with local authorities, the Environment Agency, local drainage boards and highways authorities.
Creation of 4 hectares of woodland 17 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Giving our customers peaceof mind In 2007, Gloucestershire suffered severe The result is peace of mind for customers oods.
Hundreds of properties suffered like Sylvia Hyett.
Despite appalling sewer ooding and rising river levels weather, no properties have suffered forced us to shut our Mythe water sewer ooding in this area in the last two treatment works, leaving 140,000 winters and our customers water supply properties without a piped water supply.
We were determined that our customers Sylvia said: shouldnt have to face this again.
We are so relieved that this work has Since 2007, weve invested nearly been completed.
If it rains now, for the 47 million in making our water and first time in many years we can go to sewerage system robust and resilient.
bed without being terried as to what Weve installed 16 km of strategic water we may nd in the morning the work mains and 3.4 km of sewers, along done by Severn Trent to prevent this will with new water and sewage pumping improve our lives immeasurably.
stations, and we have built ood defences around our Mythe works.
Mythe works ood defences in action 18 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Better for Sylvia Gloucester resident Sylvia Hyett nowhas greater peace of mind after a 47 million investment in making ourwater and sewerage system robustand resilient.
19 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Regulated performance review continued This year, we completed our ood Objective 4.
We will provide you with During the year, we continued to roll excellent customer service protection scheme in Gloucester.
It has out our Great People programme.
kept the town free from ooding, despite This gives our frontline advisors better We want to make it easy to be a Severn extreme weather over the last two customer interaction skills and helps Trent customer.
In recent years weve winters.
Our Royal Leamington Spa our managers to run more customer worked hard to offer our customers a sewer improvement project, which will focused operations.
broader choice of contact channels, and protect 103 properties from ooding, is to deliver an improved experience from Affordable bills going to plan and will complete in 2014. each of those channels.
We will have the lowest This project won a national Green Apple today we answer more than 80% of possible charges for our customers award for recycling excavated material calls within 20 seconds, and very soon and were exploring how to extend this to With household budgets under pressure, we will be answering customer emails other schemes.
we are pleased that our customers within 4 hours.
Were also working hard benefit from the lowest combined water Our overall serviceability remains to simplify our processes and provide our and sewerage bills in England and Wales, customers with more straightforward marginal.
We have continued to deliver at 335 in 2013 14.
Cumulatively, our good performance on five of the six journeys through the various touchpoints prices over the last five years have risen of our organisation.
Our company-wide indicators included in the serviceability by less than ination, a record we intend assessment.
On the sixth indicator, Customer Experience Programme to maintain until 2020. will continue to focus on practical, sewer blockages, our performance has shown an improving trend over measurable improvements to what really This year, we have absorbed the matters to our customers so that we can 18 months falling 13% last year but additional operating costs of the private remains above the target agreed with consistently deliver to them a 5 out of 5 drains and sewers we adopted in October experience, every time, every day.
The improvement is reective of 2011 rather than seeking to pass these the action we have taken throughout on to customers.
We estimate that well There are a number of other ways the AMP5 period.
Although our overall absorb additional operating costs of that we capture and try to measure environmental performance remains around 38 million in AMP5, with around customer satisfaction.
Ofwat measures positive, and the other customer and 42 million more capital investment.
our customer service using its Service environmental indicators within this area Incentive Mechanism SIM, which has We continue to share efficiency benets are performing within or ahead of the qualitative and quantitative elements.
The additional operating ranges agreed with Ofwat, The qualitative element reects our 150 million of investment we the application of the serviceability customers views of our service.
This year, announced in May 2012 is helping to framework results in a continuing our qualitative score rose to 4.48 from deliver our services, including cleaning our marginal assessment.
This is consistent 4.36, narrowing the gap between us and sewers, improving our sewage treatment with the assessment included in our our peer group.
Despite our efforts we are works and reducing leakage.
Our pollutions performance still in seventh place for the year for this weve invested 120 million, with the is included within Objective 7 We will measure and we recognise that our pace remainder to follow in 2014 15. protect our local environment set out of change needs to improve.
Customers who dont pay increase on page 21.
The quantitative metric reects the the costs for those who do, so we take Weve made a good start to adopting number of customers who have to a rigorous approach to ensuring that and upgrading private pumping stations, contact us.
Our performance improved everyone who can pay actually does.
ahead of their transfer on 1 October by14%.
Overall, our SIM score was 81.55, Wehave one of the industrys lowest 2016.
Weve already adopted and up from 78.11 last year.
levels of bad debt, at 2.2% of turnover.
upgraded 24 stations and will adopt We also capture data through our Voice We continually improve the way we another 150 in the next year.
of the Customer surveys, which gives us work, so we can keep our customers bills We will continue to improve our blockage feedback from around 10,000 customers down and enhance our service.
We have and pollution performance by increasing each month.
This shows that were now introduced common systems and our focus on customer education.
75% resolving 94% of customer issues first processes which exploit our investment of blockages are due to unwanted items time, while 93% are satisfied with the in our SAP enterprise software solution, that customers put down the toilet so we way our advisors helped them.
which underpins and connects our are speaking to customers following any business operations.
For example, we are This year, we worked hard to understand local incident and developing a broader simplifying our Plan to Adopt process how we could more accurately predict campaign to provide more focus in the way we build new assets helping customer demand.
This helps to ensure this area.
us to deliver greater efficiency in our that we have the right resource at the capital programme.
right time, so we can respond faster to our customers needs.
20 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Customer interaction Customers want to interact with us in ways that are convenient to them, so weve strengthened our web self-service offering, giving customers full access on a smartphone or tablet.
Were also the UKs first utility to launch Pingit, Barclays mobile payment app.
Were already exploring the next innovations that will make it easier to pay.
During the year, we invested in our The Severn Trent Trust Fund is a registered Weve continued to invest in our sewage Customer Operations Service Centre charity, which has helped many treatment works and were on track to to improve efficiency and save money.
customers to meet their water bills.
complete our investment programme When a customer reports a problem, our for AMP5.
Our non-infrastructure The Big Difference Fund is our partnership agents have better information on the improvement group has also analysed with the Citizens Advice Bureau CAB.
affected asset, work crew availability and and systematically eliminated problems.
The CAB helps our customers to address other key factors, so we can x problems their broader financial issues, so they can As a result, only five of our 704 faster and give our customers a better minimise or avoid household debts more consented sites failed to reach their service.
Weve also invested in Netbase, a effectively in the future.
During 2013 14, compliance limits, giving us our best system that analyses our infrastructures we donated a further 3.5 million to ever performance of 99.29%, which has performance so we can identify where these funds.
contributed to the serviceability of our we need to focus the efforts of our work above ground assets remaining stable.
Responsible business crews to rapidly stop leaks.
We also continue to innovate, testing Objective 7.
We will protect our Collaborative working with our the Lontra Blade compressor at our localenvironment supply chain partners also delivers Worcester sewage treatment works.
Pollution incidents are caused by The compressor is optimised for aerating In 2013 14, we renewed our One unplanned discharges of water or waste water, to reduce the electricity Supply Chain approach for a further sewage into the environment.
Weve we use for this process by 20%.
Extending these relationships further reduced the number of pollution demonstrated the units efficiency has enabled us to put together a incidents, with serious pollution incidents and reliability.
Weve also begun work robust capital programme for AMP6.
We understand on the UKs first vertical ow reed More generally, our Procurement team that we are one of only two companies bed.
This technology offers the lowest has continued to help us cut the cost of to deliver a year on year reduction in maintenance and most environmentally the goods and services that we buy with serious pollutions, as recognised by the friendly solution for sewage works in a total of 58 million saved this year.
environmental performance, assessed In line with the EAs National Environment Objective 6.
We will help you in 2012 13 by the EA as 3 out of a Programme, we invested a further ifyoustruggle possible score of 4, has signicantly 48 million to enhance river quality, Poverty rates in our region are improved in 2013 14.
We await the EAs bringing our AMP5 investment to signicantly higher than the national final assessment on performance, due to more than 150 million.
This included average and we recognise that some be published in summer 2014.
However, improving processes at 15 sewage works customers genuinely struggle to pay their there were two prosecution actions taken and enabling public sewerage networks bills.
We offer a wide range of social tariffs by the EA during the year: this highlights for four communities to remove polluting and schemes to help, benefiting a total of the need for continued improvement private discharges.
over 20,000 customers in 2013 14. in our operational performance.
Weve This support includes the WaterSure increased our visibility of our final effluent quality by installing monitors at tariff, which caps bills for customers who have particular difficulty in paying, and 350 sites, with 209 of these sites being commissioned and in service compared Water Direct, which allows customers to arrange small deductions from benets, to only 50 the previous year.
We aim to have monitors at 520 sites by the end to go towards their bill arrears.
21 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Regulated performance review continued Educating our future customers Through our Water Champions programme, Severn Trent volunteers create fun and educational water efficient gardens for schools.
We also provide learning materials and home activities, so children really learn about water.
Aldermoor Farm Primary School, Coventry, is one beneciary.
Our volunteers spent three days there, helping the school to transform its outdoor learning environment.
We have an important role in protecting Objective 8.
We will protect the During the year, we installed more wider environment biodiversity, including at the 38 sites of efficient combined heat and power units special scientific interest SSSIs we own at our largest sewage treatment works, Water and sewage treatment is energy or partly manage.
Were working with to increase output by 10%.
Were also intensive and Severn Trent Water is partners such as Natural England, Natural building our first, and the UKs largest, responsible for 98% of the groups carbon Resources Wales, the EA, wildlife trusts bio-methane injection plant at Minworth, emissions.
Weve been reporting our and the RSPB, to bring all of our SSSIs into Birmingham.
Information about our nonperformance for more than a decade and favourable condition by 2020.
Our key regulated renewables can be found on have consistently reduced our emissions visitor sites with SSSI status have been pages 31 and 32. and costs, through energy efficiency, entered into Natural Englands Higher renewable energy production, improved Objective 9.
We will make a positive Level Stewardship schemes, which aim to metering and more effective use of difference in the community deliver significant environmental benets transport.
In 2013 14, our emissions Our activities bring broad economic in priority areas.
In particular, were e, a totalled 511 kilo tonnes of CO 2 and social benets to our region.
looking to increase biodiversity and offer reduction of 9%.
Our plan is to reduce According to research we commissioned sustainable catchment management on ourcarbon emissions by 3% in AMP6.
from Coventry University, for every 1 we our land.
Weve had Carbon Trust Standard invest 1.66 is generated and retained However, there are water quality issues accreditation since 2009 and contribute in the regional economy gures from at the SSSI at the Charnwood Reservoirs, to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
Making a Difference, a Severn Trent Leicestershire.
To address these were More information about our greenhouse Water Report.
With an investment close to nalising a 10 year agreement gas impact can be found in the Directors programme of around 600 million in and lease with Leicestershire & Rutland report on page 79.
Wildlife Trust L&RWT, which will enable This year, we achieved 100% compliance Were also a major employer, of more than L&RWT to manage the woodland and on satisfactory sludge disposal and 5,900 people.
We help young people into reservoir margin, in line with Natural implemented a new IT system to work through our apprenticeships and Englands SSSI conservation objectives.
modernise our compliance monitoring currently have more than 80 apprentices We continue to have our woodlands and control.
We also invested in biosolids in our operations and customer services.
certied by the Forest Stewardship storage, to mitigate the effects of severe As well as benefiting the young people Council and enter them in the Forestry weather, and trialled innovative solutions involved, this helps secure the skills well Commissions woodland grant schemes.
to ensure we can recycle biosolids during need in the coming years.
For example, a scheme at Carsington challenging weather.
Educating our current and future Water manages the landholding to Weve built a sector leading position in customers is also key to helping people benefit woodland birds while also renewable energy, which now provides understand how to use water efficiently holding water, so its slowly released 23% of our energy requirements.
and what can be safely disposed of in our into catchments.
We also liaise with A number of these processes use bysewers.
Our schools education programme community groups such as bird clubs, products or essential features of our reaches more than 45,000 children each to monitor the numbers and species water or sewage treatment, and are year, so they understand the value of of birds on and around our reservoirs.
classed as part of our regulated business.
Weve extended this with our Volunteer groups have helped create company-wide Water Champions biodiversity habitats such as new volunteering programme.
This allows our ponds, manage reed beds and restore people to create fun and educational wildower grasslands.
water efficient gardens in local primary schools, which they can incorporate into everyday learning.
This engages our local communities, while improving our peoples skills and building working relationships.
22 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Also, in 2013 we were a sponsor of the Excellent health and safety Great people Big Bang event in our region.
The national To achieve our objectives, we have No one should get hurt or made unwell Big Bang programme is the largest a exible workforce, with people by what we do.
Weve sustained our promotional event for science, technology, who are willing to work in new ways, lost time incident LTI rate at 0.21 per engineering and maths for young people embrace new skills and focus on our 100,000 hours worked 2012 13: 0.21, in the UK and the regional event at the customersneeds.
making us the leaders in our industry.
Ricoh Arena in Coventry, UK, involved Particular achievements included our Our employee survey showed our highest nearly 4,000 schoolchildren.
Water Production team working for an level of engagement in eight years: Our local communities are actively entire year without an LTI.
involved in helping the running of our This compares with 79% last year and Weve done this through further visitor sites, volunteering nearly 20,000 75% for other benchmarked companies.
Our ongoing hours each year on conservation, training programme helps MindSafety Particular strengths included health and maintenance activity and providing our people to understand how they safety, where our people understand our excellent customer service.
Last year should work and take responsibility for commitment and their own responsibility we invested over 1.1 million in our their own safety.
Severn Trents Code visitor sites and over 3 million customers of Conduct, Doing the right thing The Weve also implemented site based visited our sites during 2013, highlighting Severn Trent way, explains our approach safety improvement teams.
This gives our continued commitment to offer to issues ranging from bribery and our people ownership of the issues high levels of conservation, access and corruption to excellent customer service.
and allows them to x the day-to-day recreation across our region.
At Draycote Our people recognise their responsibility problems that can affect their health, Water, our reservoir site near Rugby, for complying with the Code of Conduct safety and wellbeing.
Our proactive we have spent 330,000 over two and our focus on doing the right thing, approach to health, safety and wellbeing years remodelling and refurbishing the reecting our continued training and continues to improve, with around visitor centre, building a childrens play engagement in this area.
They also 15,000 hazards identied and resolved area and increasing parking facilities.
understand how the companys goals per month.
Since its re-opening in April 2013 we have and their role contributes to customer Occupational health has been a focus seen an increase in visitor numbers of experience and are happy to go the extra for us this year.
physiotherapy and rehabilitation service Sustainable finance As always, there are areas where for those suffering with musculoskeletal we can improve.
In common with problems, which has reduced employee Objective 10.
We will finance our many organisations, our people think absence by more than 1,000 days.
business sustainably we could be better at handling and Weve also developed Fit for the Future, We aim to finance our business communicating change.
They also want which is part of our bespoke injury sustainably, so we can invest now to us to simplify our processes, reecting prevention programme.
This programme protect our future services.
We avoid the number of new systems and not only trains people in safe and efficient excessive debt, which would transfer processes weve introduced in recent manual handling but provides health risk to our customers, and look for a years.
In response to feedback from last and nutrition advice to support our sustainable mix of debt finance at the years survey, members of the Executive employees in maintaining a healthy and right cost, reecting the long term nature Committee have held events around the productive career.
The programme won of our investment.
business meeting teams and sharing our Rehabilitation Initiative of the Year at the Our nancing needs are and will remain future plans.
We continue to hold events Rehabilitation First awards.
In AMP6 our plan suggests around the business, allowing employees Our next area of focus will be mental we will need to raise around 2.6 billion to ask about our business and contribute health.
Weve taken part in Time to in new and renanced debt, which their ideas.
Change, Englands biggest programme to means it will be necessary to maintain an end stigma and discrimination for people investment grade credit rating.
Our long with mental health problems.
We want term credit ratings are BBB Standard to identify the gaps between supporting and Poors and A3 Moodys.
These are people with mental health issues and in line with regulatory assumptions and taking practical action.
Weve surveyed were unchanged during the year.
our people and are educating managers Our gearing and interest cover remain and employees about building personal prudent further detail can be found in resilience to better manage challenges at the Financial review on pages 33 to 37. home and in work.
23 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Regulated performance review continued Developing our people A diverse workforce Rewarding our people A diverse and inclusive culture is Weve continued to roll out our We look to offer innovative rewards for Leading for Performance programme.
our people, with a strong link to improving Our approach is based on doing the This develops leaders who can coach business performance.
Through our their teams and inspire greater levels right thing and were working to ensure exible benets scheme Lifestyle our policies, processes and practices are of performance.
Weve also run employees can choose certain benets, development centres for 80 managers, open, fair and transparent.
such as buying or selling annual leave benchmarking them externally and days.
We also offer a range of products, We monitor our performance against internally, and helping them to create where we can use our buying power to a range of diversity measures and high quality personal development plans.
Lifestyle won benchmarks, so we can use the data the Best Flexible Benets Scheme at the We continue to develop our line to inform our actions.
Our workforce is Employee Benets Awards in June 2013. managers through our Line Manager slightly more diverse than the sector Journey.
So far, weve trained nearly 700 average.
31% of our employees are Its also important to align our people in a range of core management women compared to the industry employees interests with those of our skills.
Weve invested in IT and business average of 28.9%.
7.5% of our employees shareholders and to share the benets of skills, as well as project and programme are Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic our success with them.
More than 5,000 management, with 850 training days this BAME compared to the industry average employees are members of our Share year in those areas.
Were building a diversity and Incentive Plan and we offer a Sharesave inclusion plan to address particular areas scheme, allowing employees to buy Our Future Skills strategy encompasses of improvement.
Our current focus is on discounted shares.
our apprentice and graduate attracting more women into operational programmes.
Weve taken on more Outlook leadership roles and ensuring that our graduates this year, employing 20 for The next 12 months will see us complete frontline operational roles are attractive general leadership training and we have to BAME candidates.
To support our goals the delivery of our AMP5 plan.
introduced a technical engineering we have carried out a complete review In the coming months we will also programme for graduates.
of our job descriptions and advertising nalise our plan for AMP6, so we can strategy and trained over 320 managers continue to deliver for our customers, in effective interview techniques.
shareholders, employees and the environment.
Well ensure were in a More information about our gender diversity, including statistics for the position to start delivering it from day one of AMP6.
group, are provided in the Nominations Committee report on pages 52 and 53.
Ofwat has committed to publishing its Information about human rights issues final determination of all companies plans by 12 December 2014. for the group is set out in the Corporate Responsibility Committee report on pages57 to 59.
A diverse and inclusive culture is important forbusiness success.
Our approach is based ondoing the right thing and were working toensure our policies, processes and practices are open, fair and transparent.
