Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Executive Committee The Chief Executive during the year under review was Tony During the year, the Executive Committee met to consider Wray, who retired on 11 April 2014.
Liv Gareld succeeded strategy, business management, policy and planning, Tonyas Chief Executive on 11 April 2014. andoperational performance.
The Executive Committee oversees the development and Members of the Executive Committee are delegated execution of the Severn Trent strategy.
It also has accountability responsibility to sit on steering groups that oversee the for achieving business results.
The terms of reference of the deliveryof our strategy and business management.
Executive Committee are available on the companys website Duringtheyear, steering groups were set up to oversee www.
com or from the Company Secretary.
areassuch asthe submission of our PR14 plan to Ofwat and the integrated delivery of our year end results andOfwat AnnualRegulatory Returns.
Michael McKeon BSc Hons MA Econ PhD 49 BSc Hons 51 MA Hons 42 MA CA 57 Director, Strategy and Regulation Director of Human Resources Customer Relations Director Finance Director Please see full biography on page 42.
Joined Severn Trent in November 2006.
Joined Severn Trent in May 2012.
Please see full biography on page 43.
Evelyn has extensive HR experience Angela commenced her career with 2.
Simon Cocks leading design and delivery of major IBM during its transformation from 10.
Alec Richmond change programmes, business manufacturing to services business.
BA Hons 48 BSc Econ FCA FIIA 56 restructuring, employee relations, She has since held senior operational Waste Water Services Director Director of Internal Audit resourcing, executive remuneration, leadership positions for Barclays, Joined Severn Trent in July 2009.
Joined Severn Trent in June organisational capability and Hiscox and Vodafone, delivering Simon is an electrical engineer 2007.
Prior to that, he worked for performance management customer services across B2B, B2C, by training.
He previously worked Cadbury Schweppes Plc, leading initiatives.
Before joining Severn Trent domestic, international, indirect and for London Electricity invarious the companys global internal Evelyn worked in HR consultancy and regulated markets.
In addition to operational and management audit service from 20002005. as HR Director HR Operations for leading award winning customer roles and, more recently, for Before joining Severn Trent, he Boots the Chemists.
operations, she has consulted National Grid where hewas Head worked for RSM Robson Rhodes as widely in the area of customer of UK Operations Performance and a director anda member of the 4.
Olivia Gareld service in multiple sectors.
Planning, then Commercial Director management board responsible for BA Hons 38 for the gas and electricity business Risk Assurance Services.
Martin Kane in the UK and Europe and held Chief Executive fellow of the Institute of Chartered BSc CEng CEnv MICE MIWEM FIW 61 the position of ChiefProcurement Please see full biography on page 43.
Accountants in England and Wales Officer before joining Severn Trent.
Chief Executive Officer, and the Institute of Internal Auditors.
Simon is a boardmember of UK 5.
Myron Hrycyk Severn Trent Services Water IndustryResearch.
Andy Smith MBA 57 BTech Hons 53 Chief Information Officer 8.
Bronagh Kennedy Joined Severn Trent in April 2008.
Director of Water Services BA Hons 50 Myron has held senior IT posts Please see full biography on page 43. formajor organisations across a General Counsel and range of business sectors, Financial CompanySecretary Services, Publishing, Automotive Joined Severn Trent in June 2011. andLogistics Supply Chain.
He has Bronagh is a solicitor and was delivered strategic IT and business previously Group Company Secretary transformation programmes, and General Counsel at Mitchells & restructured corporate IT units Butlers, where she worked for 15 anddeployed high performance IT years.
Prior to that, she was a Senior practices.
Myron also has executive Associate at Allen & Overy.
responsibility for Supply Chain & Procurement.
