Board of Directors Susan Kilsby 56 Dr. Flemming Ornskov 57 David Kappler 67 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: September 1, 2011 Appointed: January 2, 2013 Committee Membership: N Committee Chairmanship: E Appointed: April 5, 2004 N Committee Chairmanship: Susan served as an independent Non-Executive Flemming served as Chief Executive Officer Committee Membership: A Director prior to her appointment as Chairman on Designate prior to his appointment as Chief April 29, 2014.
David was appointed Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in July 2007 and Deputy Skills & experience: Susan brings to her role Skills & experience: Flemming brings to his role Chairman in June 2008. extensive M&A and finance experience having his operational and medical knowledge and his enjoyed a distinguished global career in investment extensive international, strategic and operational Skills & experience: David brings to the Board his banking.
She held senior positions with The First experience in the pharmaceutical sector.
He extensive knowledge and experience in financial Boston Corporation, Bankers Trust, Barclays fide formerly held the position of Non-Executive reporting, risk management and internal financial Zoete Wedd and most recently Credit Suisse Chairman of Evotec AG and was Non-Executive controls.
He served on the Board of InterContinental whereshe was Chairman of the EMEA Mergers & Director of PCI Biotech Holding ASA.
From Hotels Group plc until 2014, was Chairman of Acquisitions team until 2009 and a part-time senior 2010to2012 he was Chief Marketing Officer Premier Foods plc until 2010 and held directorships advisor until 2014.
Susan is also a former Director andGlobalHead, Strategic Marketing for General at Camelot Group plc and HMV Group plc.
David ofHong Kong listed global skin care company, andSpeciality Medicine at Bayer.
From 2008 retired from Cadbury Schweppes plc in 2004 after LOccitane International S. A.
She holds a BA in to2010 Flemming served as Global President, serving as Chief Financial Officer since 1995.
Pharmaceuticals and OTC at Bausch & Lomb, Inc. Heworked for the Cadbury Schweppes Group He also served as Chairman, and later as President between 1965 and 1984 and rejoined the Key appointments: and Chief Executive Officer, of Life-Cycle Pharma companyin 1989 following its acquisition of the BBA Aviation plc Non-Executive Director, A S from 2006 to 2008, and as President and Chief Trebor Group, where he was Financial Director.
Coca-Cola HBC AG Non-Executive Executive Officer of Ikaria, Inc. from 2005 to 2006.
David is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Director andKeurig Green Mountain, Inc.
Earlier in his pharmaceutical career Flemming held Management Accountants.
roles of increasing responsibility at Merck & Co. Inc. and Novartis AG, following a distinguished period spent in hospitals and academic medicine.
Flemming received his MD from the University ofCopenhagen, MBA from INSEAD and Master ofPublic Health from Harvard University.
Dominic Blakemore 45 William Burns 67 Dr. David Ginsburg 62 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: January 1, 2014 Appointed: March 15, 2010 Appointed: June 16, 2010 Committee Chairmanship: A Committee Membership: R N S Committee Chairmanship: S Skills & experience: Dominic brings to the Board Skills & experience: William Bill brings to the Skills & experience: David brings to the Board his his strategic and financial experience.
He holds the Board extensive international R&D, commercial, clinical medical experience in internal medicine, position of Group Finance Director at Compass business development and operational experience hematology-oncology and medical genetics, as Group PLC, having held the positions of Chief in the pharmaceutical sector.
He worked for Roche wellas his extensive basic biomedical laboratory Financial Officer at Iglo Foods Group and European from 1986 until 2009: most recently holding the research expertise.
David obtained his BA at Yale Finance & Strategy Director, Corporate Finance position of CEO of their pharmaceuticals division University, MD at Duke University and completed Director, and Group Financial Controller at Cadbury and serving as a member of the Roche Group his medical and research training at Harvard plc.
Earlier in his career Dominic worked at Corporate Executive Committee.
David is the recipient of numerous  where he advised BA Hons.
honors and awards, including election to pharmaceutical sector clients.
membership in the National Academy of Sciences, Key appointments: the Institute of Medicine and the American Key appointments: Masters Pharmaceuticals Chairman, Biotie Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Compass Group PLC Group Finance Director.
Therapies Corp. Chairman, Mesoblast Limited Key appointments: Non-Executive Director, Vestergaard Frandsen Vice Chairman, Wellcome Trust Committee University of Michigan James V. Neel Distinguished Chairman, Institute of Cancer Research University Professor of Internal Medicine, Human Trustee and University of Cologne Bonn Center Genetics and Pediatrics and Howard Hughes forIntegrated Oncology Scientific Advisory Medical Institute Investigator.
60 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Board committees A Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee R Remuneration Committee N Nomination Committee Dr. Steven Gillis 61 Anne Minto OBE 61 S Science & Technology Committee Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director E Executive Committee Appointed: June 16, 2010 Appointed: October 1, 2012 R Committee Chairmanship: Committee Membership: A R S Committee Membership: N Skills & experience: Steven brings to the Board his extensive technical and scientific knowledge and Skills & experience: Anne brings to the Board commercial experience.
He is currently a Managing her extensive legal, commercial and remuneration Director at ARCH Venture Partners: a provider of experience.
She held the position of Group venture capital for technology firms.
Prior to this Director, Human Resources at Centrica plc from Steven was a founder and Director of Corixa 2002 to 2011 and was a member of the Centrica Corporation, acquired by GlaxoSmithKline in 2005, Executive Committee.
Her extensive business and before that a founder and Director of Immunex career includes senior management roles at Shell Corporation.
An immunologist by training Steven has UK, the position of Deputy Director-General of the authored more than 300 peer-reviewed publications Engineering Employers Federation and the in the areas of molecular and tumor immunology.
He position of Group Director Human Resources at is credited as being a pioneer in the field of cytokines Smiths Group plc.
She is also a former Director of and cytokine receptors, directing the development Northumbrian Water plc and SITA UK.
Anne holds of multiple marketed products including Leukine, a Law degree and a postgraduate diploma in GM-CSF, Prokine IL-2 and Enbrel soluble TNF Human Resources, and is a qualified lawyer.
receptor-Fc fusion protein as well as the regulatory Sheis also a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of approval of Bexxar radiolabeled anti-CD20 and the Personnel & Development, the Royal Society of novel vaccine adjuvant, MPL.
Steven received his Arts and the London City and Guilds, and is a BA from Williams College and his Ph.
D. from member of the Law Society of Scotland.
Key appointments: Key appointments: Tate & Lyle PLC Non-Executive Director, ARCH Venture Partners Managing Director, ExlService Holdings, Inc. Non-Executive Director, bluebird bio, Inc. Non-Executive Director University of Aberdeen Development Trust Vice andVBIVaccines Inc. Chairman and Chairman and Trustee and University of Aberdeen Non-Executive Director.
David Stout 60 Non-Executive Director Appointed: October 31, 2009 Committee Membership: A R Skills & experience: David brings to the Board extensive international sales, marketing, operational and supply chain experience gained in the pharmaceutical sector.
He is due to step down from the Board on April 28, 2015.
David was President, Pharmaceutical Operations at GlaxoSmithKline, where he was responsible for the companys globalpharmaceutical operations from 2003 to2008.
Prior to that he was President of GlaxoSmithKlines US pharmaceuticals business and before that SmithKline Beechams NorthAmerican pharmaceuticals business.
Before joining SmithKline Beecham, David worked for many years at Schering-Plough.
He is also a former Director of Allos Therapeutics, Inc. and holds a BA in Biology.
Key appointments: Jabil Circuit, Inc. Non-Executive Director and Airgas, Inc. Non-Executive Director.
