Additional statutory information Directors Interests in material contracts Appointment and replacement Other than the insurance indemnity provisions disclosed Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary under Liability insurance and indemnifi cation above, none resolution or by the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are ofthe Directors had a material interest in any contract of appointed ordinarily for a term of two years, subject to signifi cance to which the Company or any of its subsidiary shareholder approval.
Re-appointment of Non-Executive undertakings was a party during the period under review.
Directors following the expiry of their term of appointment is Dividends subject to Board approval.
The Board may, from time-to-time, Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company appoint one or more Directors for such period and on such may by ordinary resolution, from time-to-time, declare terms as it may determine and may also revoke or terminate dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the any such appointment.
Subject to the Companies Act, the Board may pay The Companys Articles of Association the Articles provide interim dividends, and also any fi xed rate dividend, whenever that at each Annual General Meeting AGM all those the fi financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Directors who have been appointed by the Board since the Board, justifi es its payment.
last AGM, or who held offi ce at the time of the two preceding The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, or who held dividends or other monies payable in respect of the shares offi ce with the Company, other than executive offi ce, for a from a person with a 0.25% interest as defi ned in the continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the Articles if such person has been served with a restriction meeting, shall retire from offi ce and may offer themselves notice as defi ned in the Articles after failure to provide the forre-election by the members.
Company with information concerning interests in those Notwithstanding the provisions in the Articles, in accordance shares required to be provided under the Articles.
with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, all Directors Shire has put in place income access share arrangements will be subject to annual re-election.
which enable shareholders to elect to receive their dividends Powers from a Group company resident for tax purposes in the UK.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Jersey Law Further information is available in Note 23 to the consolidated 1991, as amended the Companies Act, the Articles and fi financial statements.
directions given by the Company in general meeting by In respect of the six months to December 31, 2014, the Board special resolution, the business of the Company is managed resolved to pay an interim dividend of 19.09 US cents by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the 2013: 16.93 US cents per Ordinary Share.
Together with the Company whether relating to the management of the fi first interim dividend payment of 3.83 US cents 2013: 3.00 business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may US cents per Ordinary Share, this represents total dividends exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money of 22.92 US cents 2013: 19.93 US cents per Ordinary Share andto mortgage or charge all or any part of the undertaking, for the year ended December 31, 2014. property and assets present and future and uncalled capital of the Company and, subject to the Companies Act, to issue ACS HR Solutions Share Plan Services Guernsey Limited debentures and other securities, whether outright or as the Trustee, trustee of the Shire Employee Benefi t Trust collateral security, for a debt, liability or obligation of the the Trust, has waived its entitlement to any dividends Company or of a third party.
which become due and payable, from time-to-time, in respect of shares or other securities which are registered in the name Liability insurance and indemnification of the trustee or its nominee s. Total dividends waived by the In the year under review the Group maintained an insurance Trustee during the year amounted to 350,638.32. policy for its Directors and Offi cers in respect of liabilities arising out of any act, error or omission whilst acting in their capacity as Directors or Offi cers.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions were also in place during the year under review for the benefi t of Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may potentially incur to third parties in the course of their duties.
These remain in force at the date of this report.
102 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Shares Restrictions on voting Share capital No member shall, unless the Board otherwise decides, As at the year ended December 31, 2014, the Companys beentitled to attend or vote at any general or class meeting issued share capital comprised 599,057,502 Ordinary Shares inrespect of any shares held if any call or other sum payable of 5 pence each of which 9,019,832 Ordinary Shares were bythat member remains unpaid.
Also, a member may not held in treasury.
beentitled to attend or vote if served with a restriction notice as defi ned in the Articles.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares The Company is not aware of any agreements between are set out in the Articles which are available on the holders of securities that may result in restrictions on Companys website.
The Articles may only be amended votingrights.
byspecial resolution of the members of the Company.
The Company maintains an American Depositary Receipt Variation of rights ADR program in the US.
Each American Depositary Subject to the Companies Act, rights attached to any class Share ADS represents three Ordinary Shares.
An ADS is ofshares may be varied with written consent of the holders of evidenced by an ADR issued by Citibank, N. A. as Depositary, not less than two-thirds in nominal value of the issued shares and is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.
Each ADS of that class calculated excluding any shares held in treasury holder is entitled to the fi financial rights attached to such or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a shares although the ADR Depositary is the registered holder separate meeting of the holders of those shares.
At each of the underlying Ordinary Shares.
suchseparate general meeting, except an adjourned meeting, As at December 31, 2014, the Trust held 0.25% of the issued the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by share capital of the Company on trust for the benefi t of proxy not less than one third in nominal value of the issued participants in the Companys employee share plans.
The shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the intreasury.
The Trustee may vote or abstain from voting in any Issuance of shares way it thinks fi t and in doing so may take into account both Subject to applicable statutes and subject to and without fi financial and non-fi financial interests of the benefi ciaries of prejudice to any rights attached to existing shares, shares theTrust or their dependants.
Historically the Trustee has may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the notexercised its right to vote.
Company may by special resolution decide or, if no such Purchase of own shares resolution has been passed or so far as the resolution does At its AGM held on April 29, 2014 the Company was not make specifi c provision, as the Board may decide.
authorized, until the earlier of July 28, 2015 or the conclusion Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and other of the 2015 AGM, to make market purchases of up to shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal 58,878,332 of its own Ordinary Shares.
regarding purchases by the Company of its own shares can Restrictions on transfer of shares be found in Note 23 to the consolidated fi financial statements.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Substantial shareholdings Company, except i that certain restrictions may, from As at the date of this report, the Company had been notifi ed time-to-time, be imposed by laws and regulations for of the following holdings of 3% or more in the issued Ordinary example insider trading laws : and ii pursuant to the Listing Share capital of the Company: Rules of the UK Financial Conduct Authority whereby certain Directors and employees of the Company require the Number of Percentage of approval of the Company to deal in the Companys Ordinary issued share 1 OrdinaryShares.
Shares capital BlackRock, Inc. 55,345,849 9.99% Voting FMR LLC 29,648,433 5.02% It is the Companys practice to hold a poll on every resolution at general meetings.
Every member present in person or by 1 Excludes treasury shares.
proxy has, upon a poll, one vote for every share held by him.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall beaccepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 103 Additional statutory information continued Signi cant agreements Earnings guidance The following signifi cant agreements contain provisions The following extracts were published by the Company during entitling counterparties to exercise the following rights in the year in its quarterly earnings releases: theevent of a change of control of the Company: February 13, 2014 We now expect Non GAAP earnings Under the $2,100 million credit facility agreement dated per ADS in 2014 to grow at a similar level to 2013 2013: December 12, 2014, between, amongst others, the up23%.
Company and a number of its subsidiaries, Barclays Bank plc May 1, 2014 Re ecting our strong start to the year, we are as the facility agent and the banks and financial institutions increasing our guidance for Non GAAP earnings per ADS to named therein as lenders, upon a change of control any mid-to-high twenty percent growth for the full year 2014, lender may, following not less than 30 days notice, cancel previous guidance: growth at a similar level to 2013 2013: itscommitments and require prepayment of its participation up 23%.
For these purposes, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in July 18, 2014 We have again delivered record quarterly concert gains the ability to control more than half the votes results and following our strong performance in the first half ata general meeting of the Company or holds more than of 2014, we are increasing our guidance for Non GAAP halfthe equity share capital of the Company.
A waiver of diluted earnings per ADS to low-to-mid thirty percent growth themandatory prepayment provision would require the for the full year 2014 previous guidance: mid-to-high twenty consent of each lender under the agreement.
23, 2015, Shire requested the utilization of $1,300 million October 24, 2014 Weve delivered a very strong under the agreement.
performance so far this year, and as a result we are Under the $2,600 million term loan agreement dated increasing our guidance.
We now expect to deliver Non November 11, 2013, between, amongst others, the GAAP earnings per ADS growth in the high thirty percent Company and a number of its subsidiaries, Barclays Bank plc range in 2014 previous guidance: low-to-mid thirty as the facility agent and the banks and financial institutions percentgrowth.
named therein as lenders, upon a change of control any 1 The Non GAAP diluted earnings per ADS growth in respect lender may, following not less than 30 days notice, cancel its of the 2014 fi financial year was 38 percent: in line with the commitments and require prepayment of its participation in most recently published guidance.
Further commentary on any outstanding loans.
For these purposes, a change of the performance of the Company during the year can be control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in found starting on page 42. concert gains the ability to control more than half the votes at a general meeting of the Company or holds more than half Political donations the equity share capital of the Company.
A waiver of the Shire did not make any donations to political parties during mandatory prepayment provision would require the consent the year ended December 31, 2014 2013: $nil.
of each lender under the agreement.
On December 13, 2013, and at various points during the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company canceled part of the $2,600 million term loan facility.
As at February 24, 2015, the agreement comprised a fully utilized $850 million term loan facility which matures on November 11, 2015.
Under the $850 million term facility agreement dated January 11, 2015, between, amongst others, Citibank International Limited as the facility agent, upon a change of control any lender may, following not less than 30 days notice, cancel its commitments and require prepayment of its participation in any outstanding loans.
For these purposes, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains the ability to control more than half the votes ata general meeting of the Company or holds more than halfthe equity share capital of the Company.
A waiver of themandatory prepayment provision would require the consent of each lender under the agreement.
On February 23, 2015, Shire requested the utilization of $850 million underthe agreement.
1 This is a Non GAAP financial measure.
For reconciliation to US GAAP please see page 166.
104 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Information required under 9.8.
4 R of the Listing Directors Report Rules LR The Directors Report comprises pages 2 to 105 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Location within Information requirement Annual Report 2014 Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Details of information required by LR 9.2.
18 R. Page 104 Details of any contract of significance in which a Director is, or was, materially interested.
Page 102 Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived, or agreed to waive, any dividends.
Page 102 Where a shareholder has agreed to waive future Tatjana May dividends, details of such waiver together with those Company Secretary relating to dividends which are payable during the February 24, 2015 period under review.
Page 102 Other information requirements set out in LR 9.8.
4 R are not applicable to theCompany.
Liquidity, cash ow and going concern The Directors Report sets out information on the fi financial position of the Group, its cash fl ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, its business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and fi financial position, its objectives, policies and processes for managing capital, its fi financial risk management objectives, details of its hedging activity and its exposures tocredit risk and liquidity risk.
Details of the Groups fi financial instruments are disclosed in Note 21 to the consolidated fi financial statements.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual fi financial statements.
Audit information Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confi rms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that the he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
