Strategy and business model We focus on researching, developing and marketing innovative medicines that have the potential to transform the lives of people around the world with rare and other specialized conditions.
Where we are heading How we are going to get there Transforming lives Four strategic drivers Our purpose is to enable people with life altering To realize our aspiration to become a leading biotech, conditionstolead better lives.
we will concentrate our efforts on four strategic drivers: A leading global biotech We aspire to be a leading, global biotech delivering Growth innovativemedicines to patients with rare diseases andotherspecialty conditions.
Optimize In-line assets via commercial excellence 10 x 20 Advance late-stage pipeline and launch To guide and motivate us on our journey we seek newproducts toachieveproduct sales of $10 billion by 2020.
Accelerate top and bottom-line growth through the acquisition of core adjacent assets Product sales: Percent CAGR Innovation In-line Expand our rare diseases expertise and offerings Existing Pipeline Upside Reinvest in R&D 10 x 20 Details $10 bn In-line: $7 billion expected Extend our portfolio to new indications and 1 $3bn from on-market products therapeutic areas 10% CAGR Pipeline: $3 billion Collaborate globally to advance our scienti c expected from existing andcommercial priorities $7bn 1 pipeline Upside: NPS Pharma, $5bn Ef ciency Lumena, Fibrotech, BIKAM, CINRYZE new uses, early Operate a lean and agile organization stage pipeline and future Concentrate operations in Lexington and Zug business development provide additional upside Execute to a high standard by meeting to 10 x 20 milestones and delivering on our commitments 2013 2020 $5bn represents sales from continuing operations.
People Foster and reward a high-performance culture 1 Shire announced its 10 x 20 Attract, develop and retain the best talent aspiration on June 23, 2014 and seeks to achieve 2020 product sales Live our values of $10 billion from its In-line and Pipeline portfolio as at May 2014.
10 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information We are on a dynamic journey characterized by high growth, ongoing innovation and leadership in the areas in which we choose to compete.
Our business model To drive our growth, we have a unifi ed, global business model In-line commercial excellence focused on our strategic drivers.
We lead our business Our In-line focus is on marketing through our Executive Committee which, supported by products to meet the needs of ourIn-line and Pipeline Committees, ensures we allocate patients today.
resources and make decisions across the enterprise in the best interests of all our stakeholders patients, employees, Our business units focus exclusively on the commercial physicians, payers, policy makers and investors.
execution of our marketed products in the areas of Rare This streamlined way of working means we can quickly adapt Disease, Neuroscience, Gastrointestinal, and Internal and change our business around the world as we pursue Medicine.
In addition, we have recently added an andmake the most of opportunities to develop and market Ophthalmics business unit to support the development innovative treatments that have the potential to transform ofourpipeline candidates.
thelives of people around the world.
Pipeline innovation excellence One culture Our Pipeline focus is on the products We have a clear and strong patient-focused, performancewe are developing to meet the needs based culture which is grounded in our purpose of enabling of patients tomorrow.
people with life altering conditions to lead better lives: We have the courage to lead the way We have a single Research and Development R&D organization that focuses on enhancing our pipeline of We are agile and adaptable to meet the changing needs innovative treatments to address unmet patient needs with an of our stakeholders increasing emphasis on rare diseases.
We are also adapting We deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders our expertise in existing therapeutic areas to that of a rare disease focus.
This focus ensures we explore and develop We fearlessly innovate to address unmet patient need opportunities built upon our core strengths and also enables We do the right thing, in the right way us to explore related and emerging areas.
Our growth is also fueled by the acquisition of new We value and invest in our employees to ensure they have the companies, licensing agreements and new product capabilities and support to implement our strategy, achieve development opportunities through partnerships.
Our global our vision and deliver value to all our stakeholders.
Corporate Development team searches for new technologies, innovative products and strategic partnerships that have the potential to address unmet medical needs and provide new growth opportunities for Shire.
The team is engaged in conversations with scientists and entrepreneurs around the world, while collaborating daily with commercial and R&D experts throughout the Company.
