Responsibility At Shire, we ground everything we do in our values We are committed to to be bold, resilient, accountable, visionary, and ethical.
This underpins our approach to Responsibility, and ultimately how we strive to develop innovative treatments to serve patients and to create enduring value for stakeholders.
Responsibility at Shire has always been embedded in our business we have never separated it from our daily business activities, decisions and relationships.
Read more online at: In 2014, Shire remained a constituent of the FTSE4Good www.
com shireplc en resp Index Series, a leading responsibility investment index.
We are also proud in 2015 of having the distinction of ranking among the 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World with our inclusion for the fi first time in the Global 100.
Shire has been included for the Our responsibility programs and activities include: rsttime as one of the 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the world Improving access to our rare disease medicines where according to Corporate Knights.
they arent currently available Raising awareness among physicians and parents of the Shire remained a constituent of the signs of many rare and specialist conditions and providing FTSE4Good Index Series, as we have the extra support often required with this type of diagnosis for many years.
Educating policy makers on the serious social impact of untreated ADHD on families, education, the criminal justice system and society as a whole Advocating to discourage the misuse, abuse and diversion In 2014, we improved our ofADHD medications performance in the CDP results achieving 91% B rating, our highest Providing easy-to-understand information on our clinical trials rating to date, and above the FTSE and pharmaceutical averages.
including current trials underway as well as information on findings from completed trials Reducing our environmental impact through a series oflocally-based initiatives and programs Supporting and encouraging diversity within our company by fostering a culture which respects and values contributions from a wide spectrum of experiences and individuals Helping support minority and small business through aSupplier Diversity program in the United States Respecting and protecting the human rights of all the individuals our business touches from employees to partners: and patients who participate in our clinical trials Providing funding for medical aid to our NGO partners to helpthe Ebola crisis 26 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information We also have a long-standing relationship with AmeriCares, Core areas of focus donating medicines and funding to help people in need in poorer countries around the world.
These are just some of the While responsibility at Shire covers a wide range of topics and ways we are working to provide hope to patients with few, areas including the environment, community involvement, ifany, treatment options.
and our people our 2014 materiality assessment see page 31 points to three primary areas where we have the greatest Disease awareness responsibility: access to medicines, transparency and Disease awareness is especially important for Shire because disease awareness.
the conditions our products treat are often extremely rare or not well understood.
Without the appropriate level of awareness, conditions often remain undiagnosed to the detriment of the patient, their family, the healthcare system and society.
We believe that creating fact and evidence-based Access to awareness of these conditions is key to enabling proper medicines diagnosis and treatment.
We aim to share our expertise and provide balanced, reliableand scientifi cally sound information to help improve understanding and appreciation of diffi cult and life-altering conditions.
We do this in a variety of ways, for example by Areas of sponsoring new research and conducting educational the greatest workshops with doctors, patients and policy makers.
responsibility Wealsoseek to ensure responsible use of our products, particularly among ADHD patients, through the convening Disease Transparency ofa coalition of medical, mental health, higher education, awareness student and industry experts working together to help preventmisuse, abuse and diversion of ADHD prescription stimulant medication.
Transparency Transparency relates to many aspects of our business, and Access to medicines in2014 we made good progress in improving transparency For those with rare or specialist conditions, obtaining access particularly in the area of clinical trials.
In 2014 we launched to treatment can be a big challenge, even in more developed shiretrials.
com which provides patients, physicians and parts of the world such as North America and Western researchers a single portal to access information on Shires Europe.
According to Shires Rare Disease Index Report trials current and past.
which was published in 2013, some 7,000 rare diseases have been identifi ed, and treatment exists for less than 5%.
The We also publish details regularly about our educational report also revealed that it takes more than seven and a half grantsas well as donations made to patient groups and years in the U. S. to receive a proper diagnosis of a rare charitable organizations.
disease it isnt diffi cult to see how much longer this might In 2014, Shire ranked in the top 25 of 60 companies in the be in less developed parts of the world.
UKevaluated by Transparency International for transparency For those with rare and specialist conditions, improving in corporate reporting which ranked companies based access is largely about continuing to focus on developing ontheir publication of anti-bribery and corruption efforts, new treatments for unmet patient needs, where there may disclosure of subsidiaries operations and disclosure of currently be little hope.
As a result, we view the development fi financial data on foreign operations.
of orphan drugs, and treatments for other specialist conditions with signifi cant unmet needs, as a core responsibility in itself.
com Other ways to improve access involve reducing barriers, such as affordability and geographic access for our existing treatments.
We have several programs to assist patients with affordability challenges in the US Outside the US, we have Named Patient programs and working with our NGO partner Direct Relief, provide humanitarian access to patients where they might not otherwise be available.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 27 Responsibility continued Other areas of focus Overall gender breakdown as at December 31, 2014 5,016 Diversity Our success continues to be driven by our diverse employee 2014 talent around the world.
We value all genders, ages, cultures, 2,555 51% 2,461 49% experiences and backgrounds as we build and grow our global organization.
Shire is an equal opportunity employer 2013 and strives to ensure that there is no discrimination against 2,736 51% 2,600 49% anyone applying for a job or in employment for reasons related to race, religion, national origin, gender, disability, sexual orientation or any other personal characteristic.
Shire plc Directors gender split as at December 31, 2014 9 We do not have diversity targets or quotas and we do not focus exclusively on one group of employees over and above 2014 any other group of employees.
However, we do focus very 7 78% 2 22% strongly on fostering a culture which aims to provide all our employees with a supportive work environment that values 2013 diverse opinions and experiences, and enables individual, 8 80% 2 20% group and organizational success.
Having a diverse workforce is only half the equation the benefi t to our employees, our patients, our business, and Shire senior managers gender split society comes from the respect, consideration and inclusion as at December 31, 2014 203 of these different views into our work every day.
Our growing global reach gives us the opportunity to bring to our 2014 business, and for the benefi t of our patients, greater depth 140 70% 63 30% ofexperiences and capabilities.
Beyond our immediate workforce, we also have a Supplier Diversity Program in 2013 placein the US which provides opportunities for minority 149 72% 57 28% ordisabled and veteran-owned businesses.
More than 11.2%ofShires total 2014 US spend was in support of thesebusinesses.
Key In all our hiring and employment practices, we are committed Male to ensuring we do not discriminate against individuals who Female have a disability.
We further assert our commitment to fair treatment and reasonable accommodation of applicants or employees disabilities in accordance with all applicable laws in the respective locations of all Shire facilities.
28 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Our people As of December 31, 2014, Shire employed more than 5,000 2014 employment by talented people with offi ces in 34 countries.
We promote country as at December 31, thebest use of our people on the basis of individual skills 2014 andexperience matched against those required for the work US 70% to be performed, and actively seek out a diversity of views and experiences.
UK 6% 5,016 We believe we are better able to achieve our goals and Switzerland 4% continuously improve by supporting a strong performance Ireland 2% culture.
While many factors contribute to this, research has shown that the most important factor in performance is an Other 18% employees relationship with his or her manager.
Thats why we have devoted considerable resources to help our managers be the best they can be.
This includes a dedicated Ethnic minorities, US online resource center for managers, which provides critical as at December 31, 2014 support, tips and e-learning opportunities.
This tool is supplemented by face-to-face and group opportunities to Non-minority 2,551 learn how to manage performance and develop people, for Minority 742 which all Shire people managers are accountable.
Our pay for performance philosophy provides managers with a variety of Unstated 99 3,392 programs to recognize and reward employee contributions, and our employee share purchase plans enable employees tohave a vested interest in the success of the business.
Driving performance requires a clear understanding of where we are heading, and this happens at every level of the business from the one-on-one performance discussions between managers and employees, to the all employee meetings held at any of our major sites.
Shire communicates with all employees via periodic all-company meetings, the intranet, all-employee emails from the CEO and other executives, a social networking platform, and quarterly leadership briefi ngs and cascades.
Our success continues to be driven by our diverse employee talent around the world.
The bene t toouremployees, our patients, our business, and society comes from the respect, consideration and inclusion of these different views into our workevery day.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 29 Responsibility continued Our planet While Shire is a global company, most environmental impacts Shire is committed to operating a sustainable organization from our facilities are local, so we believe the impacts are that protects our employees, the environment and the most effectively addressed locally.
We therefore focus on communities where we conduct our activities.
We fi rmly local initiatives and setting local goals rather than global goals believe that effective environmental management is a key to reduce our impact.
These are supported at our major sites component in achieving excellent company performance through our SAVE committees who undertake site-specifi c andmaking Shire a world-class organization and responsible recycling and energy reduction programs.
strive to do the right thing and at each of our facilities our staffworks to identify and implement projects to reduce our We strive to conserve resources and minimize adverse environmental impacts.
environmental impacts and risks that may be associated withour products, facilities and operations.
We are committed This local approach has proven successful, illustrated by to promoting the sustainable and effi cient use of natural Shires improved performance in the Carbon Disclosure resources, waste minimization, recycling, energy effi ciency, Projects CDP 2014 Climate Change disclosure and and responsible product stewardship in our business performance results where Shire achieved its highest activities.
We have implemented key components of a resultsto date of 91% and a B rating, both above the health, safety and environmental management system for pharmaceutical industry and FTSE averages.
Our health, safety and environmental team aninternational, not-for-profi t organization which evaluates continually work to improve this system.
Shires reporting of its Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG isoutlined in the table below.
Greenhouse Gas Assessment parameters Baseline year FY 2014 Consolidation approach Operational control Boundary summary All facilities with emissions greater than 1% of the overall footprint were included in the Scope 1 and 2 reporting of emissions from natural gas and electricity.
All global fleet fuel usage is included.
Emissions from diesel fuel oil generators are less than 1% of total footprint and are excluded.
Scope 3 includes business air travel and business vehicle travel which are significant enough to warrant inclusion in our annual report though not required by law.
The baseline year emissions were updated to 2014, due to a change in operational control of several locations, which resulted in a material impact.
Consistency with the financial statements Any facility with less than 1% of overall emissions is excluded from the reported inventory Assessment methodology Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064-1 2006 Intensity ratio GHG emissions per unit revenue Greenhouse Gas Emission Source 1 MTCO2e MTCO2e $ millions 2014 2013 2014 2013 2 Scope 1 26,615 28,554 Scope 2 24,523 24,855 Total Scope 1 & 2 51,138 53,399 8.49 10.8 Scope 3 28,577 18,579 3 Total emissions 79,715 71,978 13.24 14.6 1 GHG emissions reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents.
2 For Scope 1 Fleet usage, an annual mileage of 20,000 km was used to approximate fleet emissions for vehicles without precise annual mileage data available.
3 Emissions factors were sourced from UKs Defra database, The Climate Registry, the WRI GHG Protocol calculation tools, and the United States EPAs Climate Leaders and eGrid emission factors.
30 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Human Rights Organizing for greatest effect We support the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights We have more than a dozen internal responsibility leaders www.
org en documents udhr and recognize the who serve as sponsors for focus areas such as the obligation to promote universal respect for and observance environment, our people and the community.
The sponsors ofhuman rights and fundamental freedoms for all, without are responsible for setting goals which support our overall distinction to sex, age, race, religion, or any other strategy, ensuring progress and maintaining high standards.
They include senior representatives from Legal, Research &Development, Human Resources, Technical Operations, Of paramount importance, we safeguard the human rights Environment, Health & Safety, Compliance and Risk ofthose taking part in our clinical trials, which is primarily Management, Facilities, Corporate Communications, Patient achieved through the process of informed consent.
Shire Advocacy and Public Affairs.
Our Responsibility team adheres to the International Conference on Harmonization facilitates the activities of Responsibility working groups, ICH Good Clinical Practice GCP Guidelines.
oversees communications and works with sponsors to We are committed to the protection of the human rights of our identify risks and opportunities.
Our approach to responsibility employees in our offi ces and manufacturing facilities around is championed by our CEO, supported by the Executive, the world.
We recognize that commercial success depends In-line and Pipeline Committees and endorsed by our Board.
on the full commitment of all our employees and commit to Staying close to our stakeholders respecting their human rights, to provide them with safe and We recognize the importance of seeking external input from favorable working conditions that are free from unnecessary key stakeholders such as patients, physicians and others to risk and to maintain fair and competitive terms and conditions understand what is most important to them, and regularly of service at all times.
consult and engage with them on these important areas.
We seek to comply fully with all relevant laws, rules and During the year we engaged with investors, patient groups regulations governing labor, employment and the employment and policy makers on a range of issues including our relationship in all of the countries where Shire does business.
environmental approaches and disclosure, our approach toclinical trials, our role in ensuring the appropriate use of We commit to the principles articulated in the International ourADHD products, philanthropy and access to medicines.
Labor Organizations ILO Declaration on Fundamental In2014 we concluded a materiality assessment of Shires Principles and Rights at Work which includes the following Responsibility areas.
four major principles: 1 Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining: 2 Sharing and improving Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor: 3 We communicate widely and regularly on responsibility Abolition of child labor and: 4 Elimination of employment with all our stakeholders through our bi-annual publication discrimination.
We also commit to the protection of human Responsibility Matters, our intranet and on our website, rights of our partners and suppliers, and in turn, expect them shire.
Were always interested to hear feedback to do the same in their operations and to their employees andsuggestions on how we can be an even more around the world.
We do this through a regular and .
systematic audit of our suppliers, and our Responsible Supply Chain policy explicitly states our expectations of suppliers to uphold the ILO principles.
This policy can be found on our website, www.
1 Materiality assessment 2014 Importance to stakeholders Transparency Disease Awareness Access to Medicine Public Policy Pricing Employee Engagement Lower priority Higher priority Clinical Trials Animal Testing Ethical Sales Mergers and Acquisitions and Marketing Geographic Expansion Product Safety and Environmental, Pharmacovigilance Health and Safety Stewardship of Partners Suppliers Baseline expectation 1 According to research with international stakeholders in 2013 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 31
