Governance Directors report DIRECTORS REPORT Introduction Appointment of directors Directors share interests The directors of Associated British Foods The Companys articles of association Details regarding the share interests of plc the Company present their report the Articles give the directors power the directors and their connected persons for the year ended 13 September 2014, to appoint and replace directors.
Under in the share capital of the Company, in accordance with section 415 of the the terms of reference of the Nomination including any interests under the Companies Act 2006.
The UKLAs committee, any appointment must be long-term incentive plan, are set out in the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and recommended by the Nomination Remuneration report on pages 75 and 76.
Listing Rules also require the Company committee for approval by the board Employees to make certain disclosures, some of of directors.
A person who is not During the year under review, the group which have been included in other recommended by the directors may employed an average of 118,209 people appropriate sections of the annual only be appointed as a director where worldwide 2013: 112,652 of whom report and accounts.
details of that director have been provided 41,942 2013: 40,071 were employed in 80 at least seven and not more than 35 days The information set out on pages 1 to 3 the UK.
The group abides by the following prior to the relevant meeting by at least and 83 and, in particular, the following principles, recognising that people are its two members of the Company.
The cross-referenced material, is incorporated most crucial resource: Articles require directors to retire and into this Directors report: submit themselves for election at the equal opportunities the group is likely future developments in the first AGM following appointment and all committed to offering equal groups business pages 4 to 49 : directors who held office at the time of opportunities in recruitment, training, the two preceding AGMs and, in any career development and promotion greenhouse gas emissions event, not less than one third of the to all people, including those with pages 40 and 41 : and relevant directors excluding those disabilities, having regard for their the Board of directors and the directors who retire other than by particular aptitudes and abilities.
Corporate governance report rotation, to submit themselves for As a matter of policy, full and fair pages 50 to 63. re-election.
The Articles notwithstanding, consideration is given to applicants all directors will stand for election or with disabilities and every effort is Results and dividends re-election at the AGM this year in made to give employees who become The consolidated income statement is compliance with the UK Corporate disabled whilst employed by the group on page 86.
Profit for the financial year Governance Code.
Details of unexpired an opportunity for retraining and for attributable to equity shareholders terms of directors service contracts is continuation in employment.
set out in the Remuneration report on policy that the training, career The directors recommend a final dividend page 78. development and promotion of disabled of 24.3p per ordinary share to be paid, persons should, as far as possible, be Power of directors subject to shareholder approval, on the same as those of other employees: The directors are responsible for 9 January 2015.
Together with the interim managing the business of the Company health and safety health and safety dividend of 9.7p per share paid on 4 July and may exercise all the powers of the are considered as equal in importance 2014, this amounts to 34.0p for the year.
Company subject to the provisions of to that of any other function of the Dividends are detailed on page 102. relevant statutes, to any directions group and its business objectives.
Directors given by special resolution and to the The health and safety policy is The names of the persons who were Companys Articles.
The Articles, for available on the Companys website directors of the Company during the example, contain specific provisions and at www.
co. uk: financial year and as at 4 November restrictions concerning the Companys harrassment sexual, mental or 2014 appear on pages 50 and 51. power to borrow money.
As indicated physical harassment in the workplace All the directors are standing for above, powers relating to the issuing of will not be tolerated.
It is expected election or re-election at this years shares are also included in the Articles that incidents of harassment to be AGM in December.
and such authorities are renewed by reported to the appropriate human shareholders at the AGM each year.
resources director: Directors indemnities human rights managers must take Three directors of operating subsidiaries, account of the core International Labour benefited from qualifying third-party Organization labour conventions and indemnity provisions provided by the strive to observe the UN Universal Companys wholly owned subsidiary, Declaration of Human Rights, by ABF Investments plc, during the financial respecting the dignity and human rights year and at the date of this report.
of group employees and in particular as One director benefited from a qualifying stated below: pension scheme indemnity provision during the financial year and at the date of this report.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors report Universal respect for an observance of Disclosures required under Authority to issue shares human rights and fundamental freedoms Listing Rule 9.8.
4R At the last annual general meeting for all without discrimination as to race, The following table is included to meet AGM, held on 6 December 2013, sex, language or religion.
the requirements of Listing Rule section authority was given to the directors to 9.8.
The information required to be allot unissued relevant securities in the The group remunerates fairly with disclosed by that section, where Company up to a maximum of an amount respect to skills, performance, its peers applicable to the Company, can be located equivalent to two-thirds of the shares in and local conditions: in the annual report and accounts at the issue of which one-third must be offered communication employees and references set out below.
This authority their representatives are briefed and expires on the date of this years AGM to Information required Location in annual report consulted on all relevant matters on be held on 5 December 2014.
No such Amount of interest a regular basis in order to take their shares have been issued.
The directors capitalised Note 9 on page 106 81 views into account with regard to propose to renew this authority at the Dividend waiver Note 22 on page 117 decision-making and to achieve a 2014 AGM for the following year.
common awareness of all the financial A further special resolution passed at that Major interests in shares and economic factors affecting the meeting granted authority to the directors As at 31 October 2014, the Company had performance of the group.
Information to allot equity securities in the Company received formal notification, under the relevant to the employees will be for cash, without regard to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the provided systematically to employees: pre-emption provisions of the Companies following material interest in its shares: and Act 2006.
This authority also expires on % of security the security of our staff and the date of the 2014 AGM and the Number issued Date of of ordinary share notification customers is paramount and the group directors will seek to renew this authority Shareholder shares capital of interest will, at all times, take the necessary for the following year.
The Capital steps to minimise risks to their safety.
Group 21 Authority to purchase own shares Companies, January Employees are provided with information The Companies Act 2006 empowers Inc. 55,452,249 7.0044 2014 on the performance of their local business the Company to purchase its own shares and their involvement is encouraged in a subject to the necessary shareholder variety of ways, such as through Share capital approval.
The Company has no existing engagement surveys.
Details of the Companys share capital authority to purchase its own shares.
and the rights attached to the Companys The group encourages an open culture Amendment to Companys articles shares are set out in note 20 on page 115. in all its dealings between employees of association The Company has one class of share and people with whom it comes into Any amendments to the Articles may be 15 capital: ordinary shares of 5 22p.
Effective and honest made in accordance with the provisions rights and obligations attaching to these communication is essential if malpractice of the Companies Act 2006 by way of shares are governed by UK law and the and wrongdoing are to be dealt with special resolution of the shareholders.
The groups whistleblowing procedure sets out guidelines for No shareholder holds securities carrying individuals who feel they need to raise special rights with regard to the control of certain issues in confidence with the the Company.
There are no restrictions on Company or their own business.
Every effort is made to protect the There are no restrictions on the transfer confidentiality of those who raise of ordinary shares other than the concerns, and employees may come standard restrictions for a UK-quoted forward without fear for their position.
company set out in article 32 of the Controlling interest Companys Articles.
Details of a controlling interest in the shares of the Company are given in note 28 on page 129.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors report Significant agreements Financial risk management Auditors change of control Details of the groups use of financial In accordance with Section 489 of the The group has contractual arrangements instruments, together with information Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the with many parties including directors, on our risk objectives and policies and our reappointment of KPMG LLP as auditors employees, customers, suppliers and exposure to price, credit, liquidity, cash of the Company is to be proposed at the banking groups.
The following flow and interest rate risks, can be found forthcoming AGM.
arrangements are considered to be in note 24 on pages 118 to 127.
Annual general meeting significant in terms of their potential Research and development The AGM will be held on 5 December impact on the business of the group as Innovative use of existing and emerging 2014 at 11.00 am at Congress Centre, a whole and could alter or terminate on technologies will continue to be crucial 28 Great Russell Street, London a change of control of the Company: to the successful development of new WC1B 3LS.
Details of the resolutions the group has a number of borrowing products and processes for the group.
to be proposed are set out in a separate 82 facilities provided by various banking Notice of meeting which accompanies The Company has a major technical groups.
These facility agreements this report for shareholders receiving hard centre in the UK at the Allied Technical generally include change of control copy documents and which is available at Centre.
Facilities also exist at ACH Food provisions which, in the event of a www.
co. uk for those who elected to Companies in the US, Weston change in ownership of the Company, receive documents electronically.
At the Technologies and AB Mauri in Australia could result in their renegotiation or 2014 AGM, all voting will be by polls using and the Netherlands, and AB Enzymes withdrawal.
The most significant of electronic handsets.
These centres support the these are the 1.2bn syndicated loan technical resources of the trading On behalf of the board facility signed on 15 July 2014 and divisions in the search for new technology a 120m loan from the European Paul Lister and in monitoring and maintaining high Investment Bank signed on Company Secretary standards of quality and food safety.
5 December 2007 which was 4 November 2014 fully drawn down at the year end.
Branches There were no drawdowns at the The Company, through various Associated British Foods plc year end under the 1.2bn facility.
subsidiaries, has established branches in Registered office: The syndicated loan facility for a number of different countries in which Weston Centre 1.15bn signed on 13 July 2010 the group operates.
10 Grosvenor Street was cancelled upon executing the London W1K 4QY Post-balance sheet events 1.2bn syndicated facility.
Significant events affecting the group that Company No.
293262 in addition to these bank facilities, have arisen between 13 September 2014 in March 2009 the Company issued and the date of this report and that require US$610m of private placement notes disclosure are described in note 29 on to institutional investors and, in page 130.
December 2011 and March 2012, the Disclosure of information to auditors Company issued a further US$626m of Each of the directors who held office at private placement notes.
In accordance the date of approval of this Directors with the scheduled maturities, report confirm that: US$194m of these notes were repaid in March 2014.
In the event of a change so far as he she is aware, there is no in ownership of the Company, the relevant audit information of which the Company is obliged to make an offer of Companys auditors are unaware: and immediate repayment to the remaining each director has taken all the note holders.
reasonable steps that he she ought There are no agreements between the to have taken as a director to make Company and its directors or employees himself herself aware of any relevant providing for compensation for loss of audit information and to establish that office or employment that occurs as a the Companys auditors are aware of result of a takeover bid.
Political donations For these purposes, relevant audit The Company did not make any political information means information needed donations during the year.
by the Companys auditors in connection with the preparation of their report on pages 84 and 85.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014
