Governance Board of directors BOARD OF DIRECTORS 50 George G Weston Chief Executive age 50 George was appointed to the board in 1999 and took up his current appointment as Chief Executive in April 2005.
In his former roles at Associated British Foods, he was Managing Director of Westmill Foods, Allied Bakeries and George Weston Foods Limited Australia.
Charles Sinclair Chairman age 66 Other appointments: He is a non-executive Charles was appointed a non-executive director of Wittington Investments Limited and director in October 2008 and as Chairman a trustee of the Garfield Weston Foundation.
With wide business experience of both the UK and overseas, his executive career was latterly with Daily Mail and General Trust plc, where he was chief executive from 1989 until he retired from that role and the board in September 2008.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration committees.
Emma Adamo Non-executive director age 51 Emma was appointed as a director in December 2011.
She was educated at Stanford University and INSEAD in France.
Other appointments: She is a director of John Bason Wittington Investments Limited, and of the Finance Director age 57 W Garfield Weston Foundation in Canada.
John was appointed as Finance Director in May 1999.
He was previously the finance director of Bunzl plc and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Other appointments: He is a non-executive director of Compass Group PLC, a trustee of Voluntary Service Overseas and deputy chairman of the charity FareShare.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Board of directors Ruth Cairnie Independent non-executive director age 60 Ruth was appointed a director in May 2014.
She has extensive overseas experience including international marketing and supply chain.
Ruth was formerly Executive Vice President Strategy & Planning at Royal Dutch Shell Plc.
This role followed a number of senior international roles within Shell, including Vice President of their Global Commercial Fuels business.
She is a physicist by qualification.
Other appointments: She is a non-executive director of Keller Group plc and of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit and Timothy Clarke Remuneration committees.
Independent non-executive director age 57 Tim was appointed a director in November 2004 and has been Senior Independent Lord Jay of Ewelme GCMG Director since December 2007.
Tim has Independent non-executive director extensive experience of retailing.
Until 2009, age 68 he was chief executive of Mitchells & Lord Jay was appointed a director in November Butlers plc, following its demerger from 2006 and has broad experience of government Six Continents PLC where he also held the and international business.
During his career in position of chief executive.
Previously he public service he was British Ambassador to had been a partner of Panmure Gordon & Co France from 1996 to 2001 and Permanent before joining Bass PLC in 1990.
Under Secretary at the Foreign & Other appointments: He is a non-executive Commonwealth Office from 2002 to 2006. director of two pub and brewing companies, Other appointments: He is a non-executive Hall & Woodhouse Limited, and Timothy Taylor director of Candover Investments plc, Valeo & Company Limited, and also Triple Point VCT the French-based automobile parts company 2011 PLC.
and of Electricit fide France.
He has been an Committee membership: Member of the independent member of the House of Lords Nomination and Remuneration committees.
He is also chairman of the British Library Advisory Council.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees.
Peter Smith Independent non-executive director age 68 Peter was appointed a director in February 2007 and brings broad experience of international financial matters.
Formerly, he was senior partner at  PwC in the UK.
He served for two years as chairman of Javier Ferrn Coopers & Lybrand International and as a member of the global leadership team of Independent non-executive director PwC.
He was also chairman of RAC plc and age 58 a non-executive director of Safeway plc.
Javier was appointed a director in November 2006.
He spent the earlier part of his career Other appointments: He is chairman of with Bacardi Group, where latterly he served Savills plc and Templeton Emerging Markets as president and chief executive officer.
Investment Trust plc, and a member of the He has in-depth knowledge of consumer supervisory board of Paris Orlans SCA.
He is brands on an international basis and of also chairman of the Land Restoration Trust.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit committee and a member of the Nomination and Other appointments: He is currently a partner Remuneration committees.
at Lion Capital LLP, a London-based private equity firm.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014
