Strategic report Business strategies Providing our business leaders with the freedom and decision-making authority to pursue opportunities with entrepreneurial flair.
10 SUGAR BUSINESS STRATEGIES A world-leading sugar business focused on excellence.
AB Sugar is an advanced manufacturer and has a simple vision to be a world-leading sugar business.
We must remain cost competitive whilst exceeding the demanding and diverse needs of our customers, and we must grow sustainably.
AB Sugar aims to achieve growth through excellence in agriculture and operations including the application of new technologies and the further expansion of co-product opportunities.
We seek to ensure cost leadership in our various regional supply chains through: GROCERY engagement with growers to ensure An enviable portfolio of leading optimum beet cane growing whilst food brands.
providing fair returns to growers: continual Each of our Grocery businesses pursues improvement in operating performance an independent strategy, appropriate to by maintaining a well-invested asset base: its particular market position and stage and by seeking out best practice to ofdevelopment.
As examples, Jordans optimise product quality and the Ryvita is focused on developing its brands efficiency of the conversion process.
in its core markets, whilst AB World Foods has had considerable success extending its reach into new and emerging markets.
All of these businesses are committed tothe consistent development of their brands, and consumer research is conducted locally and internationally to establish consumer needs and ensure appropriately targeted investment.
Our production facilities are well maintained and we take a long-term approach to capital investment, recognising the merits of building for the future.
Acquisitions are undertaken when opportunities are presented to either strengthen or complement existingbusinesses.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Business strategies RETAIL Up-to-the-minute fashion at amazing prices.
Primark offers great value for money which it achieves by: incurring no advertising costs, instead relying on its customers doing the talking about its products: buying in vast quantities and passing on the cost savings to customers: keeping overheads to a minimum but investing in state-of-the-art logistics to enable its stores to replenish stocks quickly: and by not compromising its highquality standards, rigorously testing products at the various stages 11 ofproduction.
AGRICULTURE In the world of fashion it is critical that Driving value for businesses along once a style is seen on the fashion show the food supply chain.
catwalk it reaches the stores as quickly as possible.
It can take as little as six As a unique community of leading weeks from initial design concept to agricultural businesses, AB Agri being available on shelf, and merchandise consistently strives to improve the is sourced from all corners of the globe.
Although Primark does not own the We work in partnership with customers companies or factories that produce to deliver precision food production by itsmerchandise, it recognises its optimising resources, thereby enabling responsibility to the workers in those the production of more food with a lower factories, and to its customers, to environmental impact.
AB Agri operates ensure that its products are made in through individual, entrepreneurial good working conditions.
businesses empowered to grow their interests independently, and through a strong network of contacts across INGREDIENTS the entire food supply chain.
Technology and innovation to meet Organic growth is achieved through customer needs.
innovative product development and through extending the businesss Our Ingredients businesses are dedicated alreadybroad geographic reach into to understanding the key requirements newterritories.
Using the diverse oftheir customers and their end-use breadth of products, services and markets in order to ensure a relevant people within the AB Agri community, supply of ingredients, systems, the business develops bespoke solutions products and technology that create specifically tailored to its customers value.
Extending this into new relationships with customers to achieve geographies and into new areas that are a genuine understanding of their adjacent to its corecapabilities affords products, formulations, equipment and further growth opportunities.
AB Agri processes and the market environment in will continue itssuccessful strategy which the products are sold.
They aim to of seeking to makecomplementary grow by providing outstanding customer acquisitions to strengthen its portfolio service backed by a high level of of businesses and its technical capability.
investment in technology, innovation, It will also continue to collaborate with research and development.
other businesses in the ABF group to Each business has its own business harness new contacts and technologies.
model that determines an appropriate balance of emphasis across the full range of potential sources of competitive advantage: innovative and distinctive products: an efficient and proprietary set of production processes: and compelling customer propositions comprising a blend of product performance and customerspecific services.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014
