Strategic report Group business model and strategy Associated British Foods is a diversified group of food, ingredients and retail businesses selling into more than 100 countries worldwide and with operations in 47 countries across Europe, southern Africa, the Americas, Asia and Australia.
8 Our range of activities is broad in product, technology and market scope.
Our portfolio GROUP BUSINESS of businesses comprises sizeable operations that achieve good revenue and profit growth: MODEL AND mature, cash-generative operations: and smaller enterprises that afford exciting growth potential.
STRATEGY In our markets, we aim to achieve strong and sustainable positions through a combination of organic growth, acquisition of complementary new businesses and achievement of high levels of operating efficiency.
We provide high-quality, value-for-money food and clothing that are central to peoples lives.
10 year adjusted earnings per share growth pence 8% compound annual growth 110 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Group business model and strategy STRATEGY The corporate centre agrees strategy and budgets with the businesses and monitors their performance closely.
The group balance sheet is managed toensure long-term financial stability, regardless of the state of capital markets, and capital funding is made available to all of our businesses where returns meet or exceed clearly defined criteria.
The centre provides selected services where the scale of its operations enables a more THE cost-effective or efficient delivery, where expertise that might not be available at CORPORATE abusiness level can be retained by the CENTRE group, or where the provision of such ORGANIC GROWTH services would otherwise distract business executives.
Such services Organic growth is achieved include investor relations, pensions, through investment in marketing, insurance, tax and treasury management, in the development of existing where specialist expertise is brought andnew products and technologies together in one place for the benefit of and in targeted capital expenditure thegroup as a whole.
The centre also to improve efficiency and co-ordinates selected value-added expand capacity.
capabilities to support the businesses BUSINESS STRUCTURE We are committed to innovation, intheir local markets such as talent Our businesses are organised so that thecontinuous pursuit of improvement management and development, they are close to the markets and and the maintenance of our efficient procurement, and the sharing of best customers that they serve.
practice in, for example, health and They are managed as five business safety or engineering risk management.
We aim to operate in a sustainable, segments that bring together common We operate to high ethical standards as ethical, efficient and safe manner.
industry expertise, operational capability an organisation and expect the same of Wehave a strong culture of continuing and market intelligence.
We encourage an open operational improvement and focus decisions are made locally because, in and honest culture in all our dealings and ondelivering exceptional quality and ourexperience, they are most successful ensure that our core values are fully customer service.
The group takes a when made by the people who have implemented throughout the group.
long-term approach to investment and thebest understanding of their markets iscommitted to increasing shareholder u Business strategies page 10 and who have to implement them.
value through sound commercial, Thecorporate centre aims to provide a responsible and sustainable business framework in which our business leaders decisions that deliver steady growth have the freedom and decision-making inearnings and dividends.
authority to pursue opportunities with Acquisitions are made to complement entrepreneurial flair.
The centre is small existing business activities and to and uses short lines of communication to exploit opportunities in adjacent ensure prompt, incisive and unambiguous markets orgeographies.
It seeks to ensure that business activities are appropriately monitored andsupported.
u Operating review page 12 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014
