STRATEGIC REPORT Smith & Nephew today Our marketplace is growing Demand for healthcare continues to increase worldwide.
This is driven by increased longevity, more prevalence of obesity and associated disease states, greater expectation of an active lifestyle, improved awareness of treatment options and the increasing affluence of the emerging markets.
Advanced Surgical Devices Advanced Wound Management Total segment value Total segment value $24bn $7bn 5% 4% Our products are used by surgeons and nurses to help repair and heal the human body throughout a persons life Global population 2.5 billion people 6 billion people 10 billion people 65 16% 65 7% 20-64 56% 20-64 54% 65 5% 20-64 51% 0-19 39% 0-19 28% 0-19 44% 1950 2000 2050 Source: United Nations World Population Prospects, The 2012 Revision.
8 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Served by our global businesses Our global franchises design, develop and deliver our advanced medical technologies to customers in more than 100 countries globally.
Advanced Surgical Advanced Wound 1 1 5 Devices global Management global Revenue Revenue 5 1 1 2014 4 2014 4 3 2013 2013 3 3 2 3 2 2 2 Advanced Surgical Devices global Advanced Wound Management global 1.
Advanced Wound Care Specialist hip and knee implant systems.
Products for the treatment of acute and chronic wounds, 1 including leg, diabetic and pressure ulcers, burns and postRevenue operative wounds.
Trauma & Extremities Internal and external devices used in the stabilisation of severe 2.
Advanced Wound Devices fractures and deformity correction procedures.
1 Traditional and single-use Negative Pressure Wound Therapy Revenue NPWT and hydrosurgery systems.
Sports Medicine Joint Repair Instruments, technologies and implants necessary to perform 3.
Advanced Wound Bioactives minimally invasive surgery of joints.
1 Bioactive technologies that provide unique approaches to Revenue debridement and dermal repair and regeneration.
Arthroscopic Enabling Technologies Cutting, visualisation and fluid management technologies necessary for Sports Medicine Joint Repair.
Other ASD ENT and gynaecology instrumentation.
1 Revenue 1 The underlying percentage increases decreases are after adjusting for the effect of currency translation and the inclusion of the comparative impact of acquisitions and $147m 10% exclusion of disposals.
2013 $74m Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 9 STRATEGIC REPORT Smith & Nephew today continued 1 Our operations are global, serving customers in more than 100 countries Head office Division & Group Manufacturing Distribution Centre Office 1 US 2 UK & IRELAND 3 CONTINENTAL EUROPE Our Advanced Surgical Devices Home of our Global Head Office Our European organisation is headquarters is based in Andover, our in London and the Advanced headquartered in Baar, Switzerland and we Advanced Wound Management US head Wound Management manufacturing have manufacturing facilities in Tuttlingen, office is in Fort Worth, and we have site in Hull, UK Germany and Aarau, Switzerland manufacturing facilities in Memphis, Mansfield and Oklahoma City EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES 6,255 1,603 2,040 10 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 2 3 4 4 CHINA REST OF THE WORLD Our commercial office is in Shanghai, We have commercial offices, and we have manufacturing facilities manufacturing sites and warehouses in Beijing and Suzhou across the world to serve our customers EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES 1,197 2,373 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 11 STRATEGIC REPORT Smith & Nephew today continued Our business model delivers value Our value creation process Read more about our business model on page 21 Research & Ethics Manufacturing Medical Sales & Development & Compliance Education Marketing We invest in products We conduct business We implement Lean We are proud We invest in our sales that meet unmet ethically everywhere Manufacturing to support the and marketing teams patient needs, improve we operate.
We throughout our professional who ensure our outcomes and access rigorously enforce factories and supply development of customers have the and reduce the ethics and compliance chain to improve and surgeons and nurses advanced technologies economic burden on standards and expect sustain higher levels by providing medical and supporting healthcare systems.
the same from those of service, quality, education and training services they need with whom we do productivity and on our products to to treat their patients.
help ensure safe and pioneering into our We support the effective treatment business models, Our Code of Conduct We are optimising provision of advanced for patients.
seeking new ways to and Business our manufacturing, medical and surgical serve our customers Principles governs supply and distribution Every year thousands treatments in over such as value how we achieve these footprint to reduce our of customers attend 100countries.
our training centres and the mid-tier and courses around portfolio.
Cash generated from operations $961m Our Capital Allocation Framework Reinvest for Progressive Acquisitions in line Return excess organic growth dividendpolicy with strategy to Shareholders Maintain a strong balance sheet to ensure solidinvestment grade credit metrics Resource utilised $7.3bn $235m 13,468 15 $245m Total Assets Investment in R&D Employees Manufacturing Corporation tax paid plants worldwide 12 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION With a strategy to drive our performance Our strategic priorities Established Markets Build upon existing strong positions, win market share through greater product and commercial innovation and drive efficiencies to liberate resources.
Emerging & International Markets Deliver thought leadership in the Emerging & International Markets bybuilding strong, direct customer relationships, widening access to our premium products anddeveloping portfolios designed for the mid-tier population.
Innovate for value Accelerate our rate of innovation by investing more inresearch & development to support projects that will move clinical and cost boundaries and deliver maximum value.
Simplify and improve our operating model Pursue maximum efficiency in everything we do, streamline our operations and manufacturing, remove duplication and build strong global functions to support our commercial teams.
Supplement organic growth with acquisitions Build our platform by acquiring complementary technologies, manufacturing and distribution in the emerging markets and complementary products or businesses in our higher growth segments.
Read more about our strategy in action on pages 42 53 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 13
