We support healthcare professionals in their daily efforts to improve the lives of their patients through: A pioneering approach We take a pioneering approach to the design of our products and services.
Smith & Nephew has a long history of innovation, dating back to our foundations in the 19th century, and in 2014 we again launched many new exciting products.
Securing wide access We strive to secure wide access to our diverse technologies for more customers globally.
In the emerging markets we have built an entrepreneurial business resourced to reach and support an ever greater number of customers in delivering affordable healthcare.
Enabling better outcomes We seek to enable better outcomes for patients and healthcare systems, providing high quality products and medical education that improve clinical outcomes and enable healthcare professionals to treat more patients, faster, also improving the economic outcome for payers.
42 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 s e m o c t u o H r e O t W t e W b E D g n O i I l T b a n E S e c u r i T n I g O D w i E What we do Supporting healthcare professionals for over 150 years Read examples of our work in the following case studies on pages 4453 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 43 d W e W a O c H c e s h s c a o r p p a H g O n W i r W e E e D n O o I i T p A At the top of their game Sports Medicine is the treatment of injuries We expect to see long-term global to the soft tissues through keyhole surgery growth driven by delivering both clinical typically ligaments, tendons and cartilage in benefits and strong health economics.
These injuries can affect anyone, Repairing injuries today prevents them not just athletes.
Sports Medicine helps becoming more debilitating as patients get patients recover function as well as minimise older, which reduces future demands on disability and recovery time.
In the emerging markets we are helping to widen access to these Smith & Nephew is a global leader in advanced treatments through delivering Sports Medicine.
In 2014, nearly a quarter medical education.
of our revenue came from this area, and our Joint Repair business delivered revenue Sports Medicine is a great place to innovate.
We are investing more in R&D to improve existing treatments, and to develop new It is a $4.6 billion global market, and a instrumentation to enable surgeons to strong area of focus and opportunity for better treat their patients.
In 2014, we made a major investment in Sports Medicine, acquiring ArthroCare Corporation, an innovative medical device company with a highly complementary sports medicine portfolio.
This strengthened our business, and brings exciting growth prospects.
In resection, the combination of ArthroCares COBLATION radio frequency RF technology and Smith & Nephews mechanical blade portfolio gives customers greater choice.
In joint repair, ArthroCares shoulder anchor innovation complements our strength in knee repair, forming an extensive, integrated portfolio.
We expect to benefit from additional revenue opportunities from our combined global footprint and channel presence as well as an enhanced new product pipeline.
44 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 24% $5bn Nearly a quarter of Smith & Nephew revenue Global Sports Medicine market with Smith & Nephew came from Sports Medicine in 2014 having 24% market share in 2014 see page 20 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 45 Better by design We have a deep knowledge of the needs of surgeons and nurses, we understand the JOURNEY II economic pressures healthcare payers work The JOURNEY II Cruciate Retaining CR knee under, and we recognise that patients are replacement extends the JOURNEY II Total Knee demanding better treatment options to System to procedures that preserve the restore quality of life.
These factors drive our posterior cruciate ligament PCL, which new product development programmes.
accounts for approximately half of all knee In 2014, we launched a number of exciting replacement procedures.
The JOURNEY II CR new products, expanding our portfolios in knee, like the JOURNEY II Bi-cruciate Stabilized our Established Markets and Emerging & BCS knee that was launched last year, sets a International Markets.
new standard in knee implant performance by restoring more normal motion for patients.
We also invested $235 million in R&D in 2014, over 5% of revenue, and have a strong pipeline of innovation to come.
Our experts in Europe, US, China and India keep us close to HAT-TRICK our customers and ensure our programmes The HAT-TRICK Lesser Toe Repair System is our target unmet clinical needs, have strong entry into the high-growth forefoot market, financials and are technologically feasible.
where we believe there are significant They also work closely with manufacturing opportunities for us to enhance the surgeon to ensure we can produce new products to experience, simplify the procedures and, clinical, cost and time specifications.
most importantly, improve patient outcomes.
EVOS EVOS MINI Plating System for use in complex fractures of the long bones of the arms and legs.
Designed specifically for traumatologists, this long-bone-specific system includes the variety of mini, flat plates and screw sizes necessary to address both fracture reduction and short-term fixation while the final, load-bearing repair is being completed.
PICO PICO, Smith & Nephews disposable, canisterfree Negative Pressure Wound Therapy system has been named Most Innovative Product 2014 at The Irish Medical and Surgical Trade Association Awards.
The award was judged by a panel of top clinicians, health service executives and medical companies.
46 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 5.1% R&D expenditure as a percentage of Group revenue DYONICS PLAN The DYONICS PLAN Hip Impingement Planning System is a revolutionary 3D software system that allows surgeons to visualise, assess and generate a comprehensive surgical report for each patients unique impingement surgery before that patient ever enters the operating room.
Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 47 All in a days work Syncera Syncera is a new model for high-quality $4.0m primary reconstructive knee and hip implants, launched by Smith & Nephew in 2014.
Savings from Syncera for a hospital doing 700 procedures per annum over three years Syncera optimises the supply chain and reduces costs whilst offering our clinically proven products.
A hospital that does 700 implants a year, over the three-year contract, will enjoy a net cash flow benefit of well over $4 million.
Syncera allows us to provide a new group of customers with the solution to their unmet needs.
We believe that at least 5-10% of the US market is looking for this type of model.
How a rep supports our customers Japan In Advanced Wound Care, representatives are expected to have deep knowledge of best-practice for treating both chronic and acute wounds.
Once a sales representative is certified in Japan, they typically spend the majority of their time working directly with, and supporting customers.
They help develop preoperative plans and provide in-hospital support to aid in the safe and effective use of our implants, instruments and medical products and techniques.
Smith & Nephews sales representatives The use of surgical devices regularly are highly trained and skilled individuals necessitates technical training and who work tirelessly to support healthcare hands-on experience.
Our sales professionals, our customers, in their daily representatives will often arrange such efforts to better treat patients.
training, either for clinical experts to visit customers at work, or for surgeons to In Japan, becoming a sales representative attend Smith & Nephew medical education can take many months or even years of courses.
In Japan, surgeons often travel intense training, including passing a strict to our training centres in the US to learn certification programme, before being the latest surgical techniques from allowed to engage in discussions with, acknowledged global leaders.
In Japan, and ultimately, sell product to customers.
and everywhere we work, our sales Depending on their area of specialism, representatives embody the trust that representatives must be able to demonstrate our customers place in Smith & Nephew.
a detailed knowledge of all the surgical instruments used to implant a device, or have specific understanding of the various surgical techniques a customer might use.
48 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 49 Extending our reach Serving the mid-tier Smith & Nephew has a strong sustainable However, we believe that it is the mid-tier, business in the emerging markets.
We also made up of the economic middle class, which have a clear strategy to drive this further.
will grow faster and ultimately become much We focus on those countries which offer the larger than the high-tier.
greatest opportunity: we ensure we have a By addressing this mid-tier market we can more direct relationship with our customers substantially widen access to our products.
surgeons, nurses and other healthcare Our approach is based upon pioneering professionals and we offer these customers a different commercial model and often the right products.
different products from those for the high-tier.
Over the last five years we have created a Customers are demanding good quality ELECT FOAM dressing offers access to the business with revenues well over $600 million, products at significantly lower prices.
We are advantages of foam-based wound care at growing rapidly.
The proportion of our Group meeting this need through service, product an affordable price.
revenues from Emerging & International and manufacturing innovation.
Markets has doubled to 15% today, and we We launched our first mid-tier products aspire to 25%.
in 2014 including ELECT Foam and Virtually all of this growth has come have a strong pipeline for the future.
from bringing premium products to high-tier customers.
50 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 25,000 Surgeons attended Smith & Nephew training in 2014 Sharing $40m Invested in medical education knowledge Closing the skills gap Resources at South African State Hospitals are limited.
This means that newly qualified orthopaedic surgeons have limited access to arthroplasty training and Smith & Nephew South Africa is meeting this skills gap through its Arthroplasty Academy.
There is keen competition to participate in the 12-month programme where candidates are mentored by leading arthroplasty consultants, participate in workshops and ultimately treat patients.
Learning how to present more effectively is another valuable component of the Academy programme.
A series of public speaking coaching sessions culminate in Dr Thabo Makobela, Arthroplasty Academy the candidates presenting a paper to Candidate performing a hip replacement under faculty at a formal academic meeting.
the mentorship of Dr Paul Rowe at Mitchells Plain Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa.
Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 51 Realising potential The ability to attract and retain talented We aim to provide an open, challenging, productive, employees is essential to achieving our diverse, healthy, safe and participative environment business goals.
This is why one of our based on constructive relationships.
strategic imperatives is to be recognised as, a great place to work.
For Smith & Nephew, being a great place to work means having a workplace where Diverse employees are proud and excited to come Smith & Nephew believes that diversity fuels innovation.
We are committed to each day because they are doing work employment practices based on equality of opportunity, regardless of colour, creed, that makes a difference for customers race, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation or mental or physical and patients.
disability unrelated to the ability of the person to perform the essential functions of the job.
Diversity & Inclusion continues to be a key focus for us and we have a Global It is a place where employees are valued Steering team sponsored by the CEO with local councils established across the for their performance and achievements, business.
30% of our Board of Directors and 23% of senior managers are female.
and a place that values trust above all else.
To qualify as a Great Place to Work, a company must complete the Great Place to Healthy Work Trust Index survey and its management We strongly believe we perform better when our employees are healthy, motivated must participate in a Culture Audit.
The support we provide our employees when they experience a health evaluate the companys performance on concern is a critical factor in how well and how quickly they are able to get back to key dimensions of engagement: Credibility, peak.
During 2014, Smith & Nephew signed up to the UKs Time to Change programme, Respect, Fairness, Pride and Camaraderie.
showing our employees being open about mental health concerns will lead to support, not discrimination, and embarked on a global wellness initiative to support all employees.
Safe We are committed to providing healthy and safe working conditions for all employees.
We achieve this by ensuring that health and safety and the working environment are managed as an integral part of the business, and we recognise employee involvement as a key part of that process.
During 2014, we reduced the lost time injury frequency by 20%, reflecting a sharp focus of leadership on identifying and managing workplace risk.
14 000 Our employees support healthcare professionals in more than 100 countries 23% of our senior managers are female 52 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 Great Place to Work During 2014, our Spanish business, based in Barcelona, achieved the distinction of being the first country to achieve the Great Place to Work accreditation.
This is an important honour, and is the result of a combination of highly engaged leaders, enthusiastic employees and the comprehensive efforts of Smith & Nephew to attract, develop and retain this very talented workforce.
Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our Board of Directors Roberto Quarta 65 Olivier Bohuon 56 Julie Brown 52 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Joined the Board in December 2013 and Joined the Board and was appointed Chief Joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer appointed Chairman following election by Executive Officer in April 2011.
He is a Member in February 2013. shareholders on 10 April 2014.
He was also of the Nomination & Governance Committee.
appointed Chairman of the Nomination & Governance Committee and a Member of the Remuneration Committee on that day.
Career and Experience Career and Experience Career and Experience Roberto is a graduate and a former Trustee Olivier has had a highly successful career Julie is a graduate, Chartered Accountant and of the College of the Holy Cross, Worcester in the pharmaceutical industry.
He holds a Fellow of the Institute of Taxation.
He started his career as a manager doctorate from the University of Paris and with KPMG before working at AstraZeneca trainee at David Gessner Ltd, before moving an MBA from HEC, Paris.
His career has PLC, where she served as Vice President on to Worcester Controls Corporation and been truly global.
He started his career Group Finance, and ultimately, as Interim then BTR plc, where he was a divisional in Morocco with Roussel Uclaf and then, Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to that she was Chief Executive.
Between 1985 and 1989 he with the same company, held a number of Regional Vice President Latin America, was Executive Vice President of Hitchiner positions in the Middle East with increasing Marketing Company President AstraZeneca Manufacturing Co. Inc. where he helped levels of responsibility.
He joined Abbott Portugal, and Vice President Corporate the company to expand internationally.
He in Chicago as head of their anti-infective Strategy and R&D Chief Financial Officer.
In returned to BTR plc in 1989 as Divisional Chief franchise with Abbott International, before both Julies country and regional roles, trading Executive, where he led the expansion in becoming Pharmaceutical General Manager margins increased significantly, improving the North America and was appointed to the main in Spain.
He subsequently spent 10 years efficiency and profitability of the business.
From here he moved to BBA Aviation with GlaxoSmithKline, rising to Senior experience encompasses many areas of the plc, as CEO from 1993 to 2001 and then as Vice President & Director for European healthcare value chain including Commercial, Chairman, until 2007.
He has held several Commercial Operations.
He then re-joined Operations, R&D and Business Development.
board positions, including Non-executive Abbott as President for Europe, became She has led multi-billion dollar cost saving and Director of Powergen plc, Equant N. V. BAE President of Abbott International all countries restructuring programmes in Operations, R&D Systems plc and Foster Wheeler AG.
His outside of the US, and then President of and the Commercial organisations and led previous Chairmanships include Italtel Group their Pharmaceutical Division, which was major refinancing programmes, including the S. p. A. and Rexel S. A.
He is currently Chairman a $20 billion business, encompassing issuance of $2 billion US bonds.
Julie has so Designate of WPP plc, and will shortly retire as manufacturing, R&D and commercial far in her career, fulfilled two Non-executive Chairman of IMI plc, the global engineering operations.
He joined Smith & Nephew from Directorships with the NHS in the UK and the group as soon as a suitable replacement is Pierre Fabre, where he was Chief Executive.
Board of the British Embassy.
He is a partner at Clayton, Dubilier Skills and Competencies Skills and Competencies & Rice and he is a member of the Investment Committee of Fondo Strategico Italiano Spa.
Olivier has extensive international healthcare Julie has deep financial expertise and leadership experience within a number of understanding of the healthcare sector, Skills and Competencies significant pharmaceutical and healthcare which has enabled her to lead a major Robertos career in private equity brings companies.
His global experience provides transformation project at Smith & Nephew valuable experience to the Board, particularly the skillset required to innovate a FTSE100 designed to simplify and improve the when evaluating acquisitions and new company with a deep heritage and provide organisation and deliver margin accretion.
He has an in-depth inspiring leadership.
He is a Non-executive is a recognised leader with a proven ability understanding of differing global governance Director of Virbac group.
Her commercial experience requirements having served as a director and in Latin America is of particular benefit as we Nationality Chairman of a number of UK and international continue to grow in emerging markets.
Since his appointment as French has held a number of senior commercial roles Chairman in April 2014, he has conducted a as well as financial positions, making her a comprehensive review into the composition versatile Chief Financial Officer.
of the Board, and conducted the search for Nationality new Non-executive Directors resulting in the appointment of Vinita Bali and Erik Engstrom.
British Nationality American Italian 54 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Vinita Bali 59 Ian Barlow 63 The Rt.
Hon Baroness Virginia Bottomley Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director of Nettlestone DL 66 Independent Non-executive Director Appointed Independent Non-executive Appointed Independent Non-executive Director on 1 December 2014.
She will join Director in March 2010 and Chairman Appointed Independent Non-executive the Remuneration and Ethics & Compliance of the Audit Committee in May 2010.
She is a Member of Committees on 1 April 2015. was appointed a Member of the Ethics & the Remuneration Committee and joined the Compliance Committee on 2 October 2014.
Nomination & Governance Committee on 10 April 2014.
Career and Experience Career and Experience Career and Experience Vinita holds an MBA from the Jamnalal Bajaj Ian is a Chartered Accountant with Virginia gained her MSc in Social Institute of Management Studies, University considerable financial experience both Administration from the London School of of Bombay and a bachelors degree in internationally and in the UK.
He was a Partner Economics and Political Science following her economics from the University of Delhi.
at KPMG, latterly Senior Partner, London, until first degree.
She was appointed a Life Peer She commenced her career in India with 2008.
At KPMG, he was Head of UK tax and in 2005 following her career as a Member the Tata group, and then joined Cadbury legal operations, and acted as Lead Partner of Parliament between 1984 and 2005.
She India, subsequently working with Cadbury for many large international organisations served successively as Secretary of State for Schweppes plc in the UK, Nigeria and South operating extensively in North America, Health and then Culture, Media and Sport.
From 1994, she held a number of senior Europe and Asia.
Ians previous appointments Virginia was formerly a director of Bupa and global positions in marketing and general include Non-executive Director and Chairman Akzo Nobel NV.
She is currently a director management at The Coca-Cola Company of the Audit Committee of PA Consulting of International Resources Group Limited, based in the US and South America, Group and Non-executive Director of Candy member of the International Advisory Council becoming President of the Andean Division & Candy.
He was Chairman of WSP Group plc of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Chancellor in 1999 and Vice President, Corporate Strategy and of Think London, the inward investment of University of Hull and Sheriff of Hull, in 2001.
In 2003, she joined the consultancy, agency.
He is currently Lead Non-executive Pro Chancellor of the University of Surrey, Zyman Group as Managing Principal, again Director chairing the Board of Her Majestys Governor of the London School of Economics based in the US.
Until recently, Vinita was Revenue & Customs: Non-executive Director and Trustee of The Economist Newspaper.
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of The Brunner Investment Trust PLC: NonSkills and Competencies of Britannia Industries Ltd, a leading Indian executive Director of Foxtons Group plc: Board publicly listed food company.
Currently, Vinita Member of the China-Britain Business Council Virginias extensive experience within is a Non-executive Director of Syngenta AG, and Chairman of The Racecourse Association.
government, particularly as Secretary of Titan Company Ltd and CRISIL Credit Rating State for Health brings a unique insight into Skills and Competencies Information Services of India Ltd. She is also the healthcare system both in the UK and a board member of GAIN Global Alliance for Ians longstanding financial and auditing globally, whilst her experience on the Board of Improved Nutrition.
career and extensive board experience add Bupa brings an understanding of the private value to his role as Chairman of the Audit healthcare sector and an insight into the Skills and Competencies Committee.
It was of particular benefit when needs of our customers.
Her long association Vinita has an impressive track record of leading the selection process for the new with Hull, the home of many of our UK achievement with blue-chip global external auditor in 2014.
His appointment employees also brings an added perspective.
corporations in multiple geographies as an additional member of the Ethics & Nationality including India, Africa, South America, the US Compliance Committee recognises the close and UK, all key markets for Smith & Nephew.
links between the activities and oversight role British Additionally, her strong appreciation of of both committees.
His work for a number of customer service and marketing brings deep international companies gives added insight insight to the Company as we continue to when reviewing our global businesses.
develop innovative ways to serve our markets Nationality and grow our business.
British Nationality Indian Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our Board of Directors continued Erik Engstrom 51 Michael Friedman 71 Brian Larcombe 61 Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Appointed Independent Non-executive Appointed Independent Non-executive Appointed Independent Non-executive Director on 1 January 2015 and Member of the Director in April 2013.
He was appointed Director in March 2002, Member of the Audit Committee.
Chairman of the Ethics & Compliance Audit Committee, Nomination & Governance Committee on 1 August 2014.
Committee and Remuneration Committee, and appointed Senior Independent Director on 10 April 2014.
Career and Experience Career and Experience Career and Experience Erik is a graduate of the Stockholm School Michael graduated with a Bachelor of Arts Brian graduated with a Bachelor of Commerce of Economics BSc and of the Royal Institute degree, magna cum laude from Tulane degree from Birmingham University.
He of Technology in Stockholm MSc.
In 1986, University and a Doctorate in Medicine spent most of his career in private equity with he was awarded a Fulbright scholarship from the University of Texas.
After leading the UK investment to Harvard Business School, from where postdoctoral training at Stanford University business for a number of years, he became he graduated with an MBA in 1988.
Erik and the National Cancer Institute, and is Finance Director and then Chief Executive of commenced his career at McKinsey & Co. board certified in Internal Medicine and the Group following its flotation.
He has held a and then worked in publishing, latterly as Medical Oncology.
In 1983, he joined the number of Non-executive Directorships.
He is President and Chief Operating Officer of Division of Cancer Treatment at the National currently Non-executive Director of gategroup Random House, Inc. and as President and Cancer Institute and went on to become the Holding AG and Non-executive Director of Chief Executive Officer at Bantam Doubleday Associate Director of the Cancer Therapy Kodak Alaris Holdings Limited.
In 2001, he moved on Evaluation Program.
Michael was most Skills and Competencies to be a partner at General Atlantic Partners, recently Chief Executive Officer of City of a private equity investment firm focusing Hope, the prestigious cancer research and Brians experience in private equity is on information technology, internet and treatment institution in California.
He also particularly useful to us when evaluating telecommunications businesses.
Between served as Director of the institutions Cancer acquisitions and new business opportunities.
2004 and 2009, he was Chief Executive of Centre and held the Irell & Manella Cancer His long service as a Non-executive Director Elsevier, the division specialising in scientific Center Directors Distinguished Chair.
He was has provided continuity throughout a period and medical information and then from 2009 formerly Senior Vice President of research, of change and his corporate memory and Chief Executive of Reed Elsevier.
medical and public policy for Pharmacia wise counsel continues to support our Corporation and also Deputy Commissioner new Chairman.
As Senior Independent Skills and Competencies and Acting Commissioner at the US Food and Director and member of the Nomination & Erik has successfully reshaped Reed Drug Administration FDA.
He has served Governance Committee, he plays an active Elseviers business in terms of portfolio and on a number of boards in a non-executive role in succession planning and the search for geographies.
He brings a deep understanding capacity, including Rite Aid Corporation.
In 2014, he led of how technology can be used to transform Currently, Michael is a Non-executive Director an insightful review into the effectiveness of a business and insight into the development of Celgene Corporation and Non-executive the Board.
of new commercial models that deliver Director of MannKind Corporation.
Skills and Competencies British Nationality Michael understands the fundamental Swedish importance of research, which is part of Smith & Nephews value creation process.
His varied career in both the public and private healthcare sector has given him a deep insight and a highly respected career.
In particular his work with the FDA and knowledge relating to US compliance provides the skillset required to Chair the Ethics & Compliance Committee and resulted in a smooth handover during 2014.
Nationality American 56 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Joseph Papa 59 Susan Swabey 53 Independent Non-executive Director Company Secretary Appointed Independent Non-executive Appointed Company Secretary in May 2009.
Director in August 2008 and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in April 2011, Member of the Audit Committee and Ethics & Compliance Committee.
Career and Experience Skills and Experience Joe graduated with a Bachelor of Science Susan has 30 years experience as a degree in Pharmacy from the University company secretary in a wide range of of Connecticut and Master of Business companies including Prudential plc, Administration from Northwestern Universitys Amersham plc and RMC Group plc.
Her Kellogg School of Management.
In 2012, work has covered board support, corporate he received an Honorary Doctor of Science governance, corporate transactions, share degree from the University of Connecticut registration, listing obligations, corporate School of Pharmacy.
He began his commercial social responsibility, pensions, insurance career at Novartis International AG as an and employee and executive share plans.
Assistant Product Manager and eventually Susan is joint Vice-Chair of the GC100 rose to Vice President, Marketing, having Group, a member of the CBI Companies held senior positions in both Switzerland Committee and is a frequent speaker on and the US.
He moved on to hold senior corporate governance and related matters.
positions at Searle Pharmaceuticals and was She is also a trustee of ShareGift, the share later President & Chief Operating Officer of donation charity.
DuPont Pharmaceuticals and then Watson Nationality Pharma Inc.
Between 2004 and 2006, he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of British the Pharmaceutical Technologies Services Segment of Cardinal Health, Inc. Joe is currently Chairman and Chief Executive of Perrigo Company plc, one of the largest overthe-counter pharmaceutical companies in the US.
Skills and Competencies With over 30 years experience in the global pharmaceutical industry, Joe brings deep insight into the wider global healthcare industry and the regulatory environment.
As Chairman and Chief Executive of a significant US Company, Joe has a comprehensive understanding both of how to attract and retain global talent and use remuneration arrangements that incentivise performance, leading to maximum returns for investors.
Nationality American Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our Executive Officers Olivier Bohuon is supported in the day-to-day management of the Group by a strong team of Executive Officers: Julie Brown 52 Rodrigo Bianchi 55 Chief Financial Officer President, IRAMEA Joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer in Joined Smith & Nephew in July 2013 with February 2013.
Julie is a graduate, Chartered responsibility for Greater China, India, Russia, Accountant and Fellow of the Institute of Asia, Middle East and Africa, focusing on Taxation.
continuing our strong momentum in these regions.
Skills and Competencies Skills and Experience Julies experience in the healthcare sector includes 25 years with AstraZeneca PLC in progressively Rodrigos experience in the healthcare senior roles and four years with KPMG.
Most industry includes 26 years with Johnson & recently, she served as Interim Chief Financial Johnson in progressively senior roles.
She has international recently, he was Regional Vice President for experience and a deep understanding of the the Medical Devices and Diagnostics division healthcare sector gained through her previously in the Mediterranean region and prior to that held Vice President Finance positions in all President of Mitek and Ethicon.
He started his areas of the healthcare value chain including career at Procter & Gamble Italy.
Commercial, Operations, R&D and Business Nationality Development.
Julie has also led commercial organisations, being Country President and Italian Regional Vice President in AstraZeneca.
Nationality British Helen Maye 55 Diogo Moreira-Rato 53 Chief Human Resources Officer President, Europe and Canada Joined Smith & Nephew in July 2011 and leads Joined Smith & Nephew in May 2014 with the Global Human Resources and Internal responsibility for leading all of our commercial Communications functions.
Since 2013, business in Europe and Canada.
He is based she has also led the Sustainability, Health, in Baar, Switzerland.
She is based Skills and Experience in London.
Diogos experience in the healthcare industry Skills and Experience includes 31 years with Johnson & Johnson Helen has more than 35 years experience in progressively senior roles.
Most recently, across a variety of international and global Diogo was President, DePuy Synthes, EMEA, roles in medical devices and pharmaceuticals, where he led the merger and integration including manufacturing, supply chain and of DePuy and Synthes in EMEA.
Previously, she was included International Vice President for the Divisional Vice President of Human Medical Devices and Diagnostics business, Resources at Abbott Laboratories.
President DePuy Orthopaedics and Managing Director of Portugal.
Nationality Nationality Irish Portuguese 58 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Jack Campo 60 Michael Frazzette 53 Gordon Howe 52 Chief Legal Officer President, Advanced Surgical Devices President, Global Operations Joined Smith & Nephew in June 2008 and Joined Smith & Nephew in July 2006 as President Joined Smith & Nephew in 1998 and, since heads up the Global Legal function.
Initially of the Endoscopy business.
Since July 2011, he 2013, is responsible for manufacturing, supply based in London, he has been based in has headed up the Advanced Surgical Devices chain and procurement, IT systems and Andover, Massachusetts since late 2011.
Division and is responsible for the Orthopaedic Regulatory and Quality Affairs.
Prior to that, he Reconstruction, Trauma and Endoscopy business headed up the Global Planning and Business Skills and Experience units.
Since 2014 he is also responsible for all Development teams.
He is based in Memphis, Prior to joining Smith & Nephew, Jack held of our commercial business in Latin America.
a number of senior legal roles within the He is based in Andover, Massachusetts.
Skills and Experience General Electric Company, including seven Skills and Experience years at GE Healthcare GE Medical Systems Gordon has held a number of senior in the US and Asia.
He began his career with Mike has held a number of senior positions management positions within the Smith & Davis Polk & Wardwell.
within the US medical devices industry.
He Nephew Group, firstly in the Orthopaedics was Chief Executive Officer of Micro Group, division and more recently at Group Level.
Nationality a privately held manufacturer of medical Prior to joining the Company, he held senior American devices.
Prior to that, he spent 15 years at Tyco roles at United Technologies Corporation.
Healthcare in various leadership roles including Nationality President of the Patient Care Division, Health Systems, and Tyco Healthcare Group Canada.
American Nationality American Cyrille Petit 44 Glenn Warner 52 Chief Corporate Development Officer President, Advanced Wound Management Joined Smith & Nephew in 2012 and leads Joined Smith & Nephew in June 2014 the Corporate Development function.
He is with responsibility for Advanced Wound based in London.
Managements global franchise strategy, marketing and produce development, as well Skills and Experience as its US commercial business.
Cyrille spent the previous 15 years of his Skills and Experience career with General Electric Company, where he held progressively senior positions Glenn has a broad-based background in beginning with GE Capital, GE Healthcare pharmaceuticals and medical products including and ultimately as the General Manager, extensive international experience, having served Global Business Development of the most recently as AbbVie Vice President and Transportation Division.
Cyrilles career began Corporate Officer, Strategic Initiatives, where in investment banking at BNP Paribas and he was responsible for the development and then Goldman Sachs.
execution of pipeline and asset management strategies.
Prior to that he was President and Nationality Officer, Japan Commercial Operations in Abbotts French international pharmaceutical business and Executive Vice President, TAP Pharmaceutical Products, Inc. Additional senior level roles included international positions in Germany and Singapore for Abbotts Diagnostics business.
Nationality American Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans letter Good Governance lies at the heart of a well-run Company Dear Shareholder, Mergers and acquisitions I am delighted to present my first Corporate Governance Statement Following the successful acquisition of our Biotherapeutics business in as your Chairman following my appointment at the Annual General 2012, we continued to make further acquisitions throughout 2013 of the Meeting in April 2014.
I feel very strongly that good corporate Adler business in India, two distributorships in Brazil and one in Turkey.
In governance lies at the heart of a well-run company.
Openness and January 2014, we announced the acquisition of ArthroCare Corporation transparency, accountability and responsibility should run through and this deal completed in May.
You will read elsewhere in this Annual everything that we do, both as a Board and throughout the business Report about the successful integration of ArthroCare into our Company.
The Board and I aim to set the tone at the top which We also undertook post acquisition reviews of the transaction and should pervade throughout the rest of the organisation.
earlier acquisitions to monitor actual performance against expected performance at the time of acquisition and we continued to review Later in this statement, as well as all the standard corporate governance and evaluate other potential acquisitions for the future to support our disclosures we are required to make, you will find reports from Ian Strategic Priorities.
Barlow, Michael Friedman, myself and Joseph Papa, the Chairmen of our Board Committees on the activities of those committees throughout the year.
These reports will explain to you where we have focused Succession planning below Board level our work in 2014.
Firstly, however I should like to explain the key We believe that succession planning below Board level is crucially issues that we, as a Board, have been handling: important for the long-term future of the Company.
In October, the Board therefore reviewed management succession plans both for the Executive Board succession planning Board members and also for their direct reports.
We recognised that whilst there were some gaps, there were also plans in place to address As mentioned in my letter on page 5, Sir John Buchanan, Richard fide these gaps and develop the next tier of management to become BoardSchutter, Ajay Piramal and Pamela Kirby all retired from the Board ready in the medium-term.
The Board also takes the opportunity to meet during 2014.
One of my first tasks in assuming the role of Chairman with local management teams when undertaking site visits and senior therefore was to refresh the Board to take the Company into our next executives below Board level frequently present to the Board and its stage of development.
The report from the Nomination & Governance Committees.
This helps us to get to know executives who could well Committee on page 70 discusses the process we followed to identify become Board members in the future.
the gaps in Board skills and experiences left by the departing directors and to commence the search for our new Non-executive Directors, Vinita Bali, who joined the Board on 1 December 2014, and Erik Understanding the business more deeply Engstrom, who joined us on 1 January 2015.
I believe that we have Corporate governance does not exist in isolation and cannot be a well-balanced Board with the skills we need for the future and I reduced to compliance with checklists and codes.
In order for the welcome our new Board members.
This, however, is an ongoing Board to be able to review strategy, to determine our approach to risk process and we shall keep the Board composition under constant and to respond to events, we need to have a thorough understanding review in the years ahead, making changes where necessary to adapt of the business in which we operate.
to the changing needs of the Company.
During the year, the Board received a number of presentations from the businesses covering corporate development activity, the ArthroCare integration progress and our investment in Bioventus LLP.
In October, we visited our Biotherapeutics facility in Fort Worth, Texas, where we met with management and toured the R&D facility.
In September, we held our annual Strategy Review in Singapore and met with members of our ASEAN management team and discussed their opportunities and challenges.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and we comply with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code.
The Companys American Depositary Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and we are therefore subject to the rules of the NYSE as well as to the US securities laws and the rules of the Securities Exchange Commission SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
We comply with the requirements of the NYSE and SEC except that the Nomination & Governance Committee is not comprised wholly of Independent Directors as required by the NYSE, but consists of a majority of Independent Directors in accordance with the Code.
We shall explain in this Corporate Governance Statement and in the reports on the Audit Committee, the Nomination & Governance Committee, the Ethics & Compliance Committee and the Remuneration Committee, how we have applied the provisions and principles of the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Listing Rules, Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTRs and the Code throughout the year.
The Directors report comprises pages 54 to 80, 103, 111, 113, 115 and pages 170 to 193 of the Annual Report.
60 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Working together as a Board Given the number of changes at Board level in 2014, we decided that our review into the Boards effectiveness would focus on how we worked together as a Board and how we worked with the Executive Team.
This review was led by Brian Larcombe, our Senior Independent Director.
He asked the Directors and key members of the Executive team a series of open-ended questions about their views on the role of the Board and its Committees and how we worked together.
The results of his review have proved to be very interesting and we are now working on ways to work together even more effectively.
This is explained in greater detail on page 68.
Yours sincerely, Roberto Quarta Chairman Overview The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
We maintain these standards through a clear definition of our roles, continuing development and evaluation and accountability through the work of the Board Committees.
Leadership Effectiveness Accountability The Board sets the tone at the The Board carries out its The Board delegates some top of the Company through: duties through: of its detailed work to the Board Committees: A clear definition of the roles of the Regular meetings focusing on individual members of the Board the oversight of strategy, risk Each Committee meets regularly and and succession planning reports back to the Board on its activities A comprehensive corporate governance framework An annual review into the The terms of reference of each effectiveness of the Board Committee may be found Defined processes to ensure the on the Company website at independence of Directors and the A comprehensive programme of www.
com management of conflicts of interest development activities throughout the year A report from the Chairman of each Committee is included in this Annual Report Read more about our Read more about our Read more about our Boards Leadership Boards Effectiveness Boards Accountability See page 62 See page 66 See page 70 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement Leadership Diversity and experience Executive Non-executive Non-executive tenure A.
Less than one year 2 C E A B. Non-executive 7 A B.
One to three years 2 C. Chairman 1 C. Three to six years 1 D D. Six to nine years 1 E. Over nine years 1 C B B Gender split Board nationality A.
Female 3 B. British 4 E B C. French 1 D D. Indian 1 E. Italian American 1 C A F. Swedish 1 B Role of Directors Whilst we all share collective responsibility for the activities of the Board, some of our roles have been defined in greater detail.
In particular, the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are clearly defined.
Chairman Building a well-balanced Board Chairing Board meetings and setting Board agendas Ensuring effectiveness of Board and enabling the annual review of effectiveness Encouraging constructive challenge and facilitating effective communication between Board members Promoting effective Board relationships Ensuring appropriate induction and development programmes Ensuring effective two-way communication and debate with shareholders Promoting high standards of corporate governance Maintaining appropriate balance between stakeholders.
Chief Executive Officer Developing and implementing Group strategy Recommending the annual budget and five-year strategic and financial plan Ensuring coherent leadership of the Group Managing the Groups risk profile and establishing effective internal controls Regularly reviewing organisational structure, developing executive team and planning for succession Ensuring the Chairman and Board are kept advised and updated regarding key matters Maintaining relationships with shareholders and advising the Board accordingly Setting the tone at the top with regard to compliance and sustainability matters Day-to-day running of the business.
62 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Role of Directors continued The roles of the Non-executive Directors, Senior Independent Director and the Company Secretary are defined as follows: Non-executive Directors Providing effective challenge to management Assisting in development and approval of strategy Serving on the Board Committees Providing advice to management.
Senior Independent Director Chairing meetings in the absence of the Chairman Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman on Board-related matters Acting as an intermediary for the other Directors where necessary Available to shareholders on matters which cannot otherwise be resolved Leading the annual evaluation into the Boards effectiveness Leading the search for a new Chairman, if necessary.
Company Secretary Advising the Board on matters of corporate governance Supporting the Chairman and Non-executive Directors Point of contact for investors on matters of corporate governance Ensuring good governance practices at Board level and throughout the Group.
Changes to the Board Chairman Roberto Quarta replaced Sir John Buchanan on 10 April 2014 Independent Non-executive Directors Left the Board during 2014 Ajay Piramal resigned 24 March 2014 Richard fide Shutter retired 10 April 2014 Pamela Kirby retired 31 July 2014 Joined the Board during 2014 Vinita Bali appointed 1 December 2014 Erik Engstrom appointed 1 January 2015, since year-end Role changed during 2014 Brian Larcombe replaced Richard fide Schutter as Senior Independent Director on 10 April 2014 Michael Friedman replaced Pamela Kirby as Chairman of the Ethics & Compliance Committee on 31 July 2014 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued Leadership Corporate Governance Framework The Executive Officers form the Commercial and Operations Committee which advises the Chief Executive Officer in decisions relating to the The Board is responsible to shareholders for approving the strategy of commercial and operational aspects of the business.
the Group, for overseeing the performance of the Group and evaluating and monitoring the management of risk.
The Chief Executive Officer in turn delegates the day-to-day management of the Group functions and regional commercial Each member of the Board has access collectively and individually operations divisions to the Executive Officers, who are assisted in their to the Company Secretary and is also entitled to obtain independent decision making by their own leadership teams and other committees professional advice at the Companys expense, should they decide and councils.
it is necessary in order to fulfil their responsibilities as Directors.
The day-to-day running of the business is delegated to Olivier Bohuon, the Chief Executive Officer, and his executive team comprising the Executive Officers who are shown on pages 58 to 59.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination & Ethics & Ad Hoc Committee Committee Governance Compliance Committees Committee Committee Provides independent Determines remuneration Ad hoc committees assessment of the policy and packages for Reviews size and Reviews and monitors may be established to financial affairs of the Executive Directors and composition of the ethics and compliance review and approve Company, reviews Executive Officers.
Board, succession matters across the specific matters financial statements and planning, diversity and Group.
controls, and the risk governance matters.
oversees quality and management process.
Manages use of internal and external auditors.
Read more Read more Read more Read more See page 75 See page 81 See page 70 See page 72 Chief Executive Officer Supporting the Business Investment in the Strategic Priorities Various committees and groups relating to the running of the business Investment in our Strategic Priorities, important for our future success, is report to the Chief Executive Officer.
These groups have a dual role both governed through a number of committees and groups.
These groups advising the Chief Executive Officer and also implementing the strategy report either to the Chief Executive Officer or to one of the Executive throughout the business.
A number of these committees also report Officers and are focused on allocating resources to and overseeing regularly to the Board or one of its Committees.
investment in the strategic priorities.
Regular reports from these groups are submitted to the Board or one of its Committees.
Commercial & Operations Committee Committee of the Executive Research & Development Council Reviews and evaluates R&D Officers, advising the Chief Executive Officer on commercial and projects, determining the allocation of resources, ensuring alignment operational matters with corporate strategy, reports regularly to the Board Regional Leadership Teams Implement work of regional presidents Mergers & Acquisitions Council Oversees corporate development strategy, monitors status of transactions and approves various stages of Functional Leadership Teams Implement work of functional presidents acquisition prior to presentation to Board Disclosure Committee Approves all announcements except routine Capital Governance Board Sets group level targets for capital regulatory matters released to investors and to UKLA, London and New expenditure priorities and monitors capital expenditure within the York Stock Exchanges, and SEC parameters set by the Board Finance & Banking Committee Approves banking and treasury IT Governance Board Oversees the IT strategy and investment matters, corporate structure changes, acquisition details allocation throughout the Group, monitors IT systems and cyber security, Group Risk Committee Reviews risk registers and mitigation plans, reports regularly to the Audit Committee reports to Board and Audit Committee Group Optimisation Committee Oversees the implementation Health, Safety and Environment Leadership Team Oversees of the Group Optimisation project, reports regularly to the Board health, safety and environment matters across Group, reports to Board European Process Optimisation Committee Oversees the on sustainability implementation of the European ERP project Diversity & Inclusion Council Implements strategies to promote diversity and inclusion across the Group Group Benefits Committee Oversees policies and processes relating to pension and employee benefit plans Group Ethics & Compliance including Quality Committee Monitors developments in compliance and quality matters, approves enhanced compliance programme, reports to Board Ethics & Compliance Committee 64 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Independence of Directors Re-appointment of Directors We require our Non-executive Directors to remain independent from In accordance with the Code, all Directors offer themselves to management so that they are able to exercise independent oversight shareholders for re-election annually, except those who are retiring and effectively challenge management.
We therefore continually immediately after the Annual General Meeting.
Vinita Bali and Erik assess the independence of each of our Non-executive Directors.
Engstrom, who were appointed to the Board on 1 December 2014 and The Executive Directors have determined that all our Non-executive 1 January 2015 respectively, will offer themselves for election at the Directors are independent in accordance with both UK and US Annual General Meeting.
Each Director may be removed at any time by requirements.
None of our Non-executive Directors or their immediate the Board or the shareholders.
families has ever had a material relationship with the Group.
None of them receives additional remuneration apart from Directors fees, nor Director Indemnity Arrangements do they participate in the Groups share plans or pension schemes.
None of them serve as directors of any companies or affiliates in which Each Director is covered by appropriate directors and officers liability any other Director is a director.
insurance and there are also Deeds of Indemnity in place between the Company and each Director.
These Deeds of Indemnity mean that the More importantly, each of our Non-executive Directors is prepared to Company indemnifies Directors in respect of any proceedings brought question and challenge management, to request more information and by third parties against them personally in their capacity as Directors to ask the difficult question.
They insist on robust responses both within of the Company.
The Company would also fund ongoing costs in the Boardroom and sometimes, between meetings.
The Chief Executive defending a legal action as they are incurred rather than after judgment Officer is open to challenge from the Non-executive Directors and uses has been given.
In the event of an unsuccessful defence in an action this positively to provide more detail and to reflect further on issues.
against them, individual directors would be liable to repay the Company We acknowledge that Brian Larcombe has served as an independent for any damages and to repay defence costs to the extent funded by Non-executive Director for a period of 13 years, which is a period of time the Company.
that some might regard as likely to impact his independence.
We do not believe this to be the case as Brian Larcombe continues to maintain an Liaison with shareholders independent view within Board discussions.
Furthermore, his experience on the Board, wise counsel and corporate memory has been most The Board meets with retail investors at the Annual General Meeting useful to Roberto Quarta in his first year as Chairman of the Company, and responds to many letters and emails from shareholders particularly in a year when a number of other long-serving directors have throughout the year.
left the Board and new Non-executive Directors have been appointed.
The Executive Directors also meet regularly with institutional investors to discuss the Companys business and financial performance both Management of Conflicts of Interest at the time of the announcement of results and at industry investor events.
During 2014, the Executive Directors held meetings with None of our Directors or their connected persons, has any family institutional investors, including investors representing approximately relationship with any other Director or Officer, nor has a material 46% of the share capital as at December 2014. interest in any contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries are, or were, a party during the year or up to 23 February 2015.
Since joining the Company, Roberto Quarta, the new Chairman has taken the opportunity to meet with investors to hear from them their Each of us as a Director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 views of the Company and also to talk about his first impressions of to avoid a situation in which we have or may have a direct or indirect the Company and management.
He held 12 meetings with investors interest that conflicts or might conflict with the interests of the Company.
holding approximately 22% of the share capital.
These meetings have This duty is in addition to the existing duty owed to the Company to been a useful part of his induction process in understanding the disclose to the Board any interest in a transaction or arrangement Company from the investor perspective.
under consideration by the Company.
Joseph Papa, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also If any Director becomes aware of any situation which might give rise offered to meet with key institutional investors towards the end of 2014. to a conflict of interest, they inform the rest of the Board immediately Most investors were overwhelmingly supportive of our remuneration and the Board is then permitted under the Companys Articles of arrangements and we have made no changes to these arrangements Association to authorise such conflict.
This information is then recorded over the year.
He therefore met with four investors holding around 2% in the Companys Register of Conflicts, together with the date on which of the share capital.
These were useful discussions giving insight into authorisation was given.
In addition, each Director certifies on an current investor thinking.
annual basis that the information contained in the Register is correct.
Ian Barlow, the Chairman of the Audit Committee also offered to meet When the Board decides whether or not to authorise a conflict, only the with institutional investors to discuss audit related matters and in Directors who have no interest in the matter are permitted to participate particular, the tender process we had followed to select new auditors.
in the discussion and a conflict is only authorised if the Board believes The meetings held with five investors holding around 5.45% of the that it would not have an impact on the Boards ability to promote the issued share capital were interesting and useful and we welcomed success of the Company in the long term.
Additionally, the Board may some insightful comments on possible improvements to the Audit determine that certain limits or conditions must be imposed when Committee Report.
No actual conflicts have been identified, which have required approval by the Board.
However, six situations have Members of the Board are always happy to engage with investors, if been identified which could potentially give rise to a conflict of interest they have matters they wish to raise with the Non-executive team.
and these have been duly authorised by the Board and are reviewed A short report on our major shareholders and any significant changes on an annual basis.
in their holdings since the previous meeting is reviewed at each Board meeting.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors report back to the Outside Directorships Board following their meetings with investors.
Olivier Bohuon and Julie Brown routinely report on any concerns or issues that shareholders We encourage our Executive Directors to serve as a Non-executive have raised with them in their meetings.
Copies of analyst reports on Director of a maximum of one external company.
Olivier Bohuon is a the Company and its peers are also circulated to Directors.
Non-executive Director of Virbac group and Julie Brown does not hold such a position.
Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued Effectiveness Board timetable Jan 14 Feb 14 Mar 14 Apr 14 May 14 Jun 14 Jul 14 Aug 14 Sep 14 Oct 14 Nov 14 Dec 14 Responsibility of the Board The work of the Board falls into the following key areas: Strategy Risk Approving the Group strategy including major changes to corporate Overseeing the Groups risk management programme and management structure Regularly reviewing the risk register Approving acquisitions, mergers, disposals, capital transactions in Overseeing risk management processes see pages 36 to 39 for excess of $50 million further details.
Setting priorities for capital investment across the Group Approving annual budget, financial plan, five-year business plan Shareholder Communications Approving major borrowings and finance and banking arrangements Approving preliminary announcement of annual results, the publication of the Annual Report, the half-yearly report, the quarterly financial Approving changes to the size and structure of the Board and the announcements, the release of price sensitive announcements and appointment and removal of Directors and the Company Secretary any listing particulars, circulars or prospectuses Approving Group policies relating to corporate social responsibility, Approving the Sustainability Report prior to publication health and safety, Code of Conduct and Code of Share Dealing and other matters Maintaining relationships and continued engagement with shareholders.
Approving the appointment and removal of key professional advisers.
Providing Advice Performance Using experience gained within other companies and organisations Reviewing performance against strategy, budgets and financial and to advise management both within and between Board meetings.
business plans The Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board describes the role and Overseeing Group operations and maintaining a sound system of responsibilities of the Board more fully and can be found on our website internal control at www.
com Determining the dividend policy and dividend recommendations Approving the appointment and removal of the external Auditor on the recommendation of the Audit Committee Approving significant changes to accounting policies or practices Overseeing succession planning at Board and Executive Officer level.
Approving the use of the Companys shares in relation to employee and executive share incentive plans on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee.
66 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION What we did Month Considered and approved acquisition of ArthroCare Corporation January acquisition of ArthroCare Reviewed the results for the full year 2013 and the preliminary announcement and approved the final dividend Early February to be recommended to shareholders for approval Approval of Preliminary Reviewed and approved the annual risk management report Announcement Approved the Budget for 2014 and the five-year Plan for 2014 to 2018 Approved the continuation of the share buy-back programme to repurchase shares issued in connection with share plans on a quarterly basis Reviewed the results of the review into the effectiveness of the Board in 2013 and agreed action points for 2014 Reviewed and approved the Annual Report and Accounts for 2013, having determined that they were fair, balanced Late February and understandable by telephone Approval Reviewed and approved the Notice of Annual General Meeting and related documentation of Financial Statements Noted, considered and approved the new Commercial organisation structure Early April Received a presentation on SYNCERA, the new value range for our ASD division Approved the Sustainability Report Prepared for the Annual General Meeting to be held later that day Reviewed the results for the first quarter 2014 and approved the Q1 announcement Late April by telephone Approval of Q1 results Reviewed the results for the first half 2014 and approved the H1 announcement, having considered managements July judgement in a number of areas and approved payment of interim dividend Approval of H1 results Received and considered a report analysing the progress of recent acquisitions against expectations at the time of acquisition Received and discussed annual review of defence planning Received update reports from Group Taxation and Group Treasury Approved the appointment of Deutsche Bank as ADR Depositary Bank and the change of the ratio of ADR to ordinary shares Updated and approved the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board Approved the Strategic Plan for 2015 to 2019 over a two-day Strategy Review with the executive team Early October Approved the renewal of the Directors and Officers Liability insurance Strategy Review Authorised the executive team to arrange the private placement of debt Singapore Reviewed the results for the third quarter 2014 and approved the Q3 announcement Late October Received and considered the annual report from the executive team on executive Succession Planning Approval of Q3 Results Received an update on the progress of the integration of ArthroCare Fort Worth, Texas Approved the appointment of Vinita Bali as a Non-executive Director Approved the Budget for 2015 December Authorised the executive team to conduct a selection process for new corporate brokers Approval of Budget Received a report on the progress of our investment in Bioventus LLP Received an update on the HR transformation project Received an update on the Commercial structure within Europe We also agreed to appoint Erik Engstrom as Non-executive Director by written resolution.
Since the year end, we have also approved the Annual Report and Accounts for 2014 and have concluded that, taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced and understandable.
We have approved the Notice of Annual General Meeting, recommended the final dividend to shareholders and have received and discussed the report on the effectiveness of the Board in 2014.
Each meeting was preceded by a meeting between the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors without Executive Directors and management in attendance.
Unless otherwise stated, meetings are held in London.
At each meeting, we approved the minutes of the previous meetings, reviewed matters arising and received reports and updates from the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Business Development Officer, the Chief Legal Officer and the Company Secretary.
We also received reports from the chairmen of the Board Committees on the activities of these Committees since the previous meeting.
Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued Effectiveness Board and Committee Attendance Nomination & Audit Remuneration Governance Ethics & Compliance Board Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Director 9 meetings 8 meetings 4 meetings 3 meetings 4 meetings 7 Roberto Quarta 9 9 2 2 3 3 Olivier Bohuon 9 9 3 3 Julie Brown 9 9 1 Vinita Bali 1 1 9 Ian Barlow 9 9 8 8 1 1 8 Virginia Bottomley 9 9 4 4 2 2 2 Sir John Buchanan 3 4 1 1 3 Michael Friedman 8 9 4 4 4 Pamela Kirby 6 6 3 3 3 3 Brian Larcombe 9 9 8 8 4 4 3 3 Joseph Papa 9 9 8 8 4 4 4 4 5 Ajay Piramal 1 3 6 Richard fide Schutter 4 4 3 3 2 2 1 1 2 2 1 Vinita Bali was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2014 5 Ajay Piramal retired from the Board on 24 March 2014 2 Sir John Buchanan retired from the Board on 10 April 2014 6 Richard fide Schutter retired from the Board on 10 April 2014 3 Michael Friedman was unable to attend one Board telephone update 7 Roberto Quarta joined the Remuneration Committee on 10 April 2014 due to a flight delay 8 Virginia Bottomley joined the Nomination & Governance Committee on 10 April 2014 4 Pamela Kirby retired from the Board on 31 July 2014 9 Ian Barlow joined the Ethics & Compliance Committee on 2 October 2014 In the event that a Director is unable to attend a Board or Board Committee meeting, they ensure that they are familiar with the matters to be discussed and make their views known to the Chairman of the Board or Board Committee prior to the meeting.
developing an excellent working relationship with Olivier.
He has Dear Shareholder, invested the time to understand the business, getting to know The Chairman asked me as Senior Independent Director to conduct the senior executives and the major shareholders and has made the review into the effectiveness of the Board in 2014.
I interviewed all excellent progress in strengthening the Board with appointment of the members of the Board, the Company Secretary and the Head of new Non-executive Directors.
The Committees of the Board were Human Resources towards the end of 2014, basing our discussions also found to be operating effectively.
around a short questionnaire prepared by the Company Secretary.
There has been some healthy discussion around the role played by The Board scores highly on all the key assessments of our the Board, with the Non-executives eager to play a more active role responsibilities for approving strategy, monitoring performance, in agenda planning, setting the strategy, organisational change and determining risk, diligence of members attendance and quality of management succession and the appointment of advisers.
Roberto Quarta, Chairman of the Board is universally The Board discussed the results of my findings at our Board meeting respected for his professionalism, chairmanship skills and for in February 2015 and agreed the following actions for 2015: Action identified Make more effective use of the annual Board Planner to ensure that all key strategic issues were timetabled appropriately throughout the year Encourage the executive team to access the diverse competencies of the Non-executive Directors more between Board meetings Continue the practice of inviting members of the executive team to present regularly to the Board The review into the Boards effectiveness in 2015 will be facilitated externally as although we undertake an annual review, the last externally facilitated review was in 2012.
The areas for attention identified in the 2013 review have been addressed as follows: Progress made in 2014 against the Areas for Attention identified in the 2013 review Succession Planning at Non-executive Director Nomination & Governance Committee undertook a comprehensive search for new Nonlevel would be a key priority following the executive Directors leading to the appointment of Vinita Bali on 1 December 2014 and of retirement of a number of long serving NonErik Engstrom on 1 January 2015.
Details of the full search process executive Directors during the year.
are given in the Nomination & Governance Committee Report on page 70.
Timing and length of the Board and Committee The timing and frequency of Board meetings has been reviewed by the Chairman and meetings could be reviewed to consider the Chief Executive Officer, who have concluded that the current pattern of meetings is whether the current pattern of meetings was appropriate for the Company and fits in well with the programme of executive activities most effective.
The reporting schedule inhibits changing the Board timetable.
Yours sincerely, Brian Larcombe Senior Independent Director 68 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Board Development Programme In 2014, we particularly focused on the changes to Narrative Reporting and reporting on Remuneration as well as the changes incorporated in Our Board Development Programme is directed to the specific needs the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 and the Financial Reporting and interests of our Directors.
We focus the development sessions on Councils Audit Quality Thematic Review into fraud risks and laws facilitating a greater awareness and understanding of our business and regulations.
New Directors receive tailored induction programmes rather than formal training in what it is to be a Director.
We value our when they join the Board.
In 2014, Vinita Bali commenced her induction visits to the different Smith & Nephew sites around the world, where programme with a series of meetings with key senior executives and a we meet with the local managers of our businesses and see the briefing on UK Company Law and Corporate Governance delivered jointly daily operations in action.
Meeting our local managers helps us to by our corporate lawyers, Freshfields and our Company Secretary, Susan understand the challenges they face and their plans to meet those Swabey.
Since the year end, Vinita Bali and Erik Engstrom have continued challenges.
We also take these opportunities to look at our products meeting with key senior executives and a series of visits to our major and in particular the new products being developed by our R&D teams.
facilities is planned for them both over the next few months.
All NonThis direct contact with the business in the locations in which we executive Directors are encouraged to visit our overseas businesses, if operate around the world helps us to make investment and strategic they happen to be travelling for other purposes.
Meeting our local managers also helps us when making teams enjoy welcoming Non-executive Directors to their business succession planning decisions below Board level.
and it emphasises the interest the Board takes in all our operations.
During the course of the year, we receive updates at the Board and The Chairman regularly reviews the development needs of individual Committee meetings on external corporate governance changes Directors and the Board as a whole.
likely to impact the Company in the future.
Development activities The following development sessions covering both the Smith & Nephew business and wider market issues were held during the year: Month Activity Individual cyber profiling sessions with each Director February Presentation from external consultants on the current state of the Medical Devices industry across Europe April Presentation on new SYNCERA range Joint presentation from our corporate brokers on equity markets and investor perceptions of Smith & Nephew July Meetings with our ASEAN management team in Singapore with presentations from the local Managing September Directors in Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand Presentation from a leading Indian hip surgeon on the challenges in the Indian market Presentations from the entire Executive team as part of the Boards Strategy review Board discussion on Risk as part of the Boards Strategy discussions Visit to the Biotherapeutics facility in Fort Worth, Texas and meetings with the Biotherapeutics research and October development teams Series of presentations from our Advanced Wound Management US Commercial team on the challenges faced by the business, our strategy and initiatives to meet these challenges and an update on progress made since the previous year Succession Planning members of the executive team at the Strategy Review held annually in September and at the site visits held in October each year.
Executive The Board is responsible for ensuring that there are effective Officers and their direct reports also make regular presentations succession plans in place to ensure the orderly appointment of on different aspects of the business.
The Board recognises the directors to the Board, as and when vacancies arise.
The report importance of getting to know the executive team below Board level from the Nomination & Governance Committee on pages 70 to 71 both for the purpose of understanding the business better but also explains the process the Board and the Nomination & Governance in order to plan for executive succession.
Committee followed in 2014 to build a balanced board for the future in undertaking the search for new Non-executive Directors.
By order of the Board, on 25 February 2015 Building a successful executive team is the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer, although this process is also overseen by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Human Resources Officer present a report to the Board on Succession Planning on an annual basis, at which the performance and potential of members of the Roberto Quarta executive team are discussed and considered.
The Board is also given Chairman a number of opportunities during the course of the year to meet key Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Accountability Accountability Role of the Nomination & Governance Committee Nomination & Governance Our work falls into the following two areas: Committee Report Board Composition Reviewing the size and composition of the Board Overseeing Board succession plans Recommending the appointment of Directors Monitoring Board diversity.
Corporate Governance Overseeing governance aspects of the Board and its Committees Overseeing the review into the effectiveness of the Board Considering and updating the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board and the Terms of Reference of the Board Committees Monitoring external corporate governance activities and keeping Dear Shareholder the Board updated I am pleased to present our Report on the role and activities of the Overseeing the Board Development Programme and the induction Nomination & Governance Committee in 2014. process for new Directors.
The terms of reference of the Nomination & Governance Committee Current Members in 2014 describe our role and responsibilities more fully and can be found on our website at www.
com Roberto Quarta Committee Chairman Brian Larcombe Senior Independent Non-executive Director Activities of the Nomination & Governance Committee Virginia Bottomley from 10 April 2014 Independent Non-executive Director in 2014 and since the year end Olivier Bohuon Chief Executive Officer In 2014, we held four physical meetings.
Each meeting was attended by all members of the Committee.
The Company Secretary, the Head of 1 Sir John Buchanan and Richard fide Schutter left the Committee on 10 April 2014 on their retirement from the Board.
Human Resources and external search agents also attended by invitation.
In between each meeting, various discussions were held between members of the Nominations & Governance Committee and the external search agent.
Our programme of work in 2014 was as follows: Key activities Early February Activities related to the year end Review the composition of the Board and make Considered and approved the re-appointment of directors who recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment had completed three or six years service and the annual of Directors.
appointment of directors serving in excess of nine years Oversee governance aspects of the Board and its Committees.
Reviewed and updated the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board and the Terms of Reference of the Board Committees 2015 focus Considered and discussed the results of the annual review into Continue to search for one more Non-executive Director with the effectiveness of the Board financial expertise.
Noted an update on corporate governance matters relating to reporting and disclosure requirements.
Early September Appointment of Vinita Bali Reviewed the long list of candidates for the position of Non-executive Director and discussed the outcome of meetings already held with candidates who had been shortlisted Agreed to recommend to the Board that Vinita Bali be appointed Non-executive Director.
70 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION The Nomination & Governance Committee agreed to recommend End October Appointment of Erik Engstrom that the Board appoint Vinita Bali and Erik Engstrom as NonFurther reviewed the longlist and shortlist of Non-executive executive Directors.
Director candidates and discussed the outcome of meetings held The Nomination & Governance Committee selected Vinita Bali to be with candidates a Non-executive Director because of her experience as a very senior Agreed to recommend to the Board that Erik Engstrom be appointed commercial executive in a wide range of Emerging Markets across India, Non-executive Director Africa and South America.
Agreed to hold further meetings with other candidates.
We selected Erik Engstrom because of his experience in his role as Chief Executive Officer leading his company Reed Elsevier through significant Early December Appointment of Non-executive Directors technological change and his ability to add value to our Audit Committee.
Further reviewed the longlist and shortlist of Non-executive Russell Reynolds also undertook succession planning assessments on Director candidates and discussed the outcome of meetings held behalf of management.
The Committee is satisfied that their advice is with candidates.
Since the year end, we have also considered the outcomes of the Board Effectiveness review and discussed the future structure of the Board.
Diversity We aim to have a Board which represents a wide range of Non-executive Directors backgrounds, skills and experiences.
We also value a diversity of During 2014, there were a number of changes to the composition of outlook, approach and style in our Board members.
We believe that a the Board.
Sir John Buchanan retired as Chairman of the Board at the balanced Board is better equipped to consider matters from a broader Annual General Meeting after nine years service to the Company.
perspective and therefore come to decisions that have considered a Richard fide Schutter also retired at the Annual General Meeting wider range of issues and perspectives than would be the case in a following 13 years service and Pamela Kirby retired after 12 years more homogenous Board.
Diversity is not simply a matter of gender, service in July.
Earlier in the year, Ajay Piramal also retired from the ethnicity or other easily measurable characteristic.
Diversity of outlook Board in March due to the pressure of other commitments.
These and approach is harder to measure than gender or ethnicity but is departures left a number of positions on the Board to be filled.
A Board needs a range of skills from technical therefore undertook a search programme to identify suitable new adherence to governance or regulatory matters for an understanding of Board members, which resulted in the appointment of Vinita Bali as the business in which we operate.
It needs some members with a long Non-executive Director with effect from 1 December 2014 and of Erik corporate memory and others who bring new insights from other fields.
Engstrom with effect from 1 January 2015.
The process we followed was There needs to be both support and challenge on the Board as well as as follows: a balance of gender, commercial and international experience.
When selecting new members for the Board, we take these considerations I worked with Olivier Bohuon, Chief Executive Officer, the Company into account, as well as professional background.
A new Board Secretary and the Head of Human Resources to analyse the skills member needs to fit in with their fellow Board members, but also needs and experiences we felt that we needed on the Board to implement to provide a new way of looking at things.
our Strategy over the next five years.
We also analysed the skills and experiences of those Directors who would be remaining on In 2012, we stated that our expectation would be that by 2015, 25% of the Board our Board would be female and we have met this expectation.
We do not regard this as a fixed percentage as From this review, we identified that we would wish to search for up to the number of Board members will fluctuate from time to time and we three new Non-executive Directors, each with a combination of one would not necessarily expect to replace any retiring Director with a new or more of the following skills, experiences or backgrounds: Director of the same gender.
We will still continue to appoint Directors E xperience of one or more of the Emerging Markets in which on merit, valuing the unique contribution that they will bring to the we operate: Board, regardless of gender.
D igital experience we later modified this to leading a company through a period of considerable technological change: Governance Experience as a Chief Executive Officer in another listed company: During the year, the Nomination & Governance Committee also addressed a number of governance matters.
We also received updates At least one new female Non-executive Director: from the Company Secretary on new developments in corporate The Board reviewed this analysis and endorsed the skills and governance and reporting in both the UK and Europe.
We reviewed experiences against which we would be searching the independence of our Non-executive Directors, considered potential conflicts of interest and the diversity of the Board and made The Nomination & Governance Committee selected Russell recommendations concerning these matters to the Board.
Reynolds to undertake the search for new Non-executive directors, having reviewed three firms suggested by the Head of Human Yours sincerely, Resources and the Company Secretary Russell Reynolds prepared a long list of candidates satisfying one or more of the above criteria and Brian Larcombe and I met with them to discuss the longlist and select a shortlist of suitable candidates Members of the Nomination & Governance Committee then met Roberto Quarta individually with a number of candidates.
Additional Board members Chairman of the Nomination & Governance Committee were also asked to meet certain candidates where there were particular interests or experiences Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Accountability continued Role of the Ethics & Compliance Committee Ethics & Compliance Our work falls into the following two general areas: Committee Report Ethics & Compliance Overseeing ethics and compliance programmes Monitoring ethics and compliance policies and training programmes Reviewing compliance performance based on monitoring, auditing and investigations data Reviewing allegations of significant compliance issues Overseeing the Groups internal and external communications relating to ethics and compliance matters Reviewing external developments and compliance activities Receiving reports from the Groups Ethics & Compliance Committee meetings and from the Chief Compliance Officer and the Chief Legal Officer.
Dear Shareholder Quality Assurance and Regulatory Assurance I am pleased to present our Report on the role and activities of the Ethics & Compliance Committee in 2014.
Overseeing the processes by which regulatory and quality risks relating to the Company and its operations are managed Current Members in 2014 Receiving and considering regular functional reports and presentations from the SVP Quality Assurance and Regulatory Michael A. Friedman from 31 July 2014 Committee Chairman Assurance QARA.
Ian Barlow from 2 October 2014 Independent Non-executive Director The terms of reference of the Ethics & Compliance Committee describe our role and responsibilities more fully and can be found on our Joseph Papa Independent Non-executive Director website at www.
com 1 Richard fide Schutter left the Committee on 10 April 2014 on his retirement from the Board.
2 Pamela Kirby left the Committee on 31 July 2014 on her retirement from the Board.
3 Vinita Bali will join the Committee on 1 April 2015.
Key activities Reviews ethics and compliance processes and practices across the Group.
Oversees quality and regulatory matters.
Monitors significant compliance, quality and regulatory issues or failures as they arise.
2015 focus Develop a deeper oversight of quality and regulatory matters.
Continue to focus on compliance issues within the context of our acquisition programme.
Continue to enhance the compliance processes and practices of our third party distributors.
72 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Activities of the Ethics & Compliance Committee in Employee Compliance Programme 2014 and since the year end New employees are trained on our Code of Conduct, which sets out the basic legal and ethical principles for conducting business.
In 2014, we held four physical meetings.
Each meeting was attended by A copy of the Code of Conduct can be found on our website at all members of the Committee.
The Company Secretary, the Chief Legal www.
com Officer, the Chief Compliance Officer and the SVP Quality Assurance and Regulatory Assurance also attended by invitation.
Our programme Further support is provided through a comprehensive set of tools and of work in 2014 included the following: resources located on our global intranet platform.
These tools and resources are regularly updated.
February The Code of Conduct includes our whistle-blower policy, which Noted that the SEC and DOJ had confirmed the termination of the enables employees and members of the public to contact us independent monitorship in January 2014 and that the Company anonymously through an independent provider where allowed by local was now subject to self-reporting.
Discussed and noted the law.
Individuals can also report any concern to their direct manager requirements of self-reporting or a manager in Compliance, Legal or Human Resources.
All calls and Noted the ethics and compliance due diligence and integration work contacts are investigated and the appropriate action taken, including being undertaken in respect of recent transactions in India, Turkey reports for senior management or the Board, where warranted.
As and Brazil and the Biotherapeutics business stated in the Code of Conduct, we also enforce our non-retaliation policy with respect to anyone who makes a report in good faith.
The Noted the preparations being made in capturing data to be filed Ethics & Compliance Committee is advised of any potentially significant under the US Sunshine Act and considered the Sunshine legislation improprieties from time to time, and the Companys response.
In 2014, we continued to work to enhance the employee compliance April training programme.
New employees receive training on our Code Reviewed the processes in place to ensure oversight over third of Conduct Code, and we assign annual compliance training to party sellers employees.
In 2014, we updated our Code training.
The new module is more interactive, role-based and allows individuals to apply the Code Noted the ethics and compliance due diligence and integration work in different scenarios.
being undertaken in respect of recent transactions in India, Turkey and Brazil and ArthroCare We also developed and piloted a face-to-face course for new managers, supplementing the on-line manager certification training.
In Noted that the first aggregate payment report under the US 2015, all new managers will be required to complete both the on-line Sunshine Act had been filed in March 2014 and considered the and the face-to-face course.
Sunshine legislation in other territories.
July Noted that the Companys first self-reporting report would be filed with the SEC and DOJ in July 2014.
October Reviewed the results of 2014 ethics survey Noted the data recently published under the US Sunshine Act in respect of both the Company and its competitors Received a report from the SVP Quality Assurance and Regulatory Assurance on the activities of the QARA function, reviewing the quality and regulatory challenges faced across the Company and initiatives to address them.
At each meeting we noted and considered the activities of enforcement agencies and investigation of possible improprieties.
We also reviewed a report on the activities of the Group Ethics & Compliance Committee and reviewed the progress of the Global Compliance Programme.
Since the year end, we have also reviewed the work of the Group Ethics & Compliance Committee meeting held in November 2014, considered the compliance implications of recent acquisitions and continued our oversight of the Quality Assurance and Regulatory Assurance function.
Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Accountability continued Compliance Programme for Third Parties Oversight of Quality Assurance and Regulatory Assurance Function We continually review our compliance programme with third party sellers such as distributors and sales agents, particularly During the course of 2014, it was agreed that primary oversight of the in higher risk markets.
This programme includes due diligence, Quality Assurance and Regulatory Assurance Function QARA would contracts with compliance terms and compliance training.
To increase move from the Audit Committee to the Ethics & Compliance Committee.
oversight, we have augmented monitoring and auditing programmes Product safety is at the heart of our business and regulatory authorities in 2014. enforce a complex series of laws and regulations that govern the design, development, approval, manufacture, labelling, marketing We expanded our oversight of third party sellers with site assessments and sale of healthcare products, including review of the safety and to check compliance controls and monitoring visits to review books efficacy of such products.
Jerry Porreca, SVP Quality Assurance and records.
and Regulatory Assurance presented to the Ethics & Compliance We have continued to strengthen controls over other third parties Committee in October 2014, explaining the new structure of the QARA engaged by us to provide services other than selling our products, function and the current focuses and initiatives being addressed by the such as customs, registration and travel agents.
In 2014, we focused on function.
The QARA function is built on four pillars quality assurance, potentially higher risk third parties.
We have established a policy and regulatory affairs, customer complaints and quality systems and process requiring that managers prioritise our oversight of third parties regulatory compliance.
and take appropriate steps, including performing a risk assessment, Going forward, the Ethics & Compliance Committee will monitor the conducting due diligence and assigning training, based on third party work of the QARA function on a quarterly basis, approve the QARA type and risk profile.
annual programme of work, as outlined in their 3-Year QARA Plan, Compliance implications around acquisitions consider any quality or regulatory issues that arise during the year, and approve any appropriate remedial action.
In both 2013 and 2014, there has been increased strategic acquisition activity across the Group.
In all cases, we undertake comprehensive Yours sincerely, due diligence evaluation prior to acquisition and implement compliance integration plans from the point of executing the acquisition.
This is to ensure that new businesses are integrated into the Smith & Nephew compliance culture as soon and consistently as possible and that all Michael A. Friedman new employees are immediately made aware of how we do things at Chairman of the Ethics & Compliance Committee Smith & Nephew.
74 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Role of the Audit Committee Audit Committee Report Our work falls into the following five areas: Financial Reporting Reviewing significant financial reporting judgments and accounting policies and compliance with accounting standards Ensuring the integrity of the financial statements and their compliance with UK and US statutory requirements Ensuring the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable and recommending their adoption by the Board Monitoring announcements relating to the Groups financial performance.
Internal Controls and Risk Management Monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls and compliance Dear Shareholder with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the Sarbanes I am pleased to present our Report on the role and activities of the Oxley Act, specifically sections 302 and 404 Audit Committee in 2014.
Reviewing the operation of the Groups risk management processes and the control environment over financial risks.
Current Members in 2014 Fraud and Whistle-blowing Ian Barlow Committee Chairman and designated financial expert Receiving reports on the processes in place to prevent fraud and to enable whistle-blowing Erik Engstrom from 1 January 2015 Independent Non-executive Director If required, receiving reports of fraud incidents.
Brian Larcombe Senior Independent Non-executive Director Internal Audit Joseph Papa Independent Non-executive Director Agreeing internal audit plans and reviewing reports of internal 1 Richard fide Schutter left the Committee on 10 April 2014 on his retirement from audit work the Board.
Monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
External Audit Key activities Overseeing the Boards relationship with the external auditor Undertake independent assessment of the financial affairs of Monitoring and reviewing the independence and performance of the Company.
the external auditor and evaluating their effectiveness Oversee system of control and risk management throughout Making recommendations to the Board for the appointment or the Group.
re-appointment of the external auditor.
Undertake detailed work to support the Boards approval of the The terms of reference of the Audit Committee describe our role financial results.
and responsibilities more fully and can be found on our website at www.
com 2015 focus Consideration of how to address the requirement to publish a Viability Statement in the 2015 Annual Report and more detailed risk management reporting.
Monitor the roll-out of enhanced consistently applied financial controls across the Group.
Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Accountability continued Activities of the Audit Committee in 2014 and since the year end In 2014, we held five physical meetings and three meetings by telephone.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Head of Internal Audit following her appointment in May 2014, the external auditor and key members of the finance function, the Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary also attended by invitation.
We also met regularly with the external auditor without management present.
Our programme of work in 2014 was as follows: Month Activity Reviewed the results for the full year 2013 and the preliminary announcement and recommend them for adoption by Early February the Board Approval of Preliminary Reviewed the effectiveness of financial controls and of the risk management process and concluded they were Announcement operating effectively Received the Internal Audit Report and approved the Internal Audit work programme for 2014 Received the Quality Assurance Report and approved the Quality Assurance work programme for 2014 Received the fraud report and reviewed whistle-blowing procedures Approved external audit fees and the policy for pre-approval of EY non-audit tax fees and noted consulting fees paid to other major audit firms Reviewed and approved the Annual Report and Accounts for 2013, having considered whether they were fair balanced Late February and understandable, and recommended them for adoption by the Board by telephone Approval Considered the effectiveness of the external auditor and concluded that their work had been effective of Financial Statements Agreed to put the audit out to tender for the financial year 2015 Early April Confirmed the detailed plan for the audit tender and appointed the Audit Tender Steering Committee Presentations from Received a presentation from the three audit firms planning to participate in our audit tender process prospective audit firms Reviewed the results for the first quarter 2014 and approved the Q1 announcement Late April by telephone Approval of Q1 results Considered and approved the recommendation of the Audit Tender Steering Committee to appoint KPMG LLP as the Early July Company auditors for the year ending 31 December 2015 by telephone Appointment of new Auditors Reviewed the results for the first half 2014 and approved the H1 announcement Late July Reviewed the Progress Report from Internal Audit which included an update on the status of the 2014 Internal Audit plan Approval of H1 results Received the fraud report and reviewed whistle-blowing procedures Reviewed and discussed the due diligence process for acquisitions, noting improvements made to this process in the past year Reviewed and approved the external Auditors Audit Plan for 2014 Reviewed the results for the third quarter 2014 and approved the Q3 announcement October Approved the terms of the engagement letter of EY as Auditors for the financial year 2014 Approval of Q3 Results Reviewed the Progress Report from Internal Audit, the status of the 2014 Internal Audit plan and two internal audit reports.
Approved the Group Risk management programme conducted in 2014 Considered and discussed the updated UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council Considered and discussed the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Thematic Review - Fraud risks and laws and regulations.
Received the fraud report and reviewed whistle-blowing processes Noted the progress of the European IT SAP implementation project Reviewed the inspection reports on EY from the Financial Reporting Council UK and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board US Reviewed and discussed the roll-out of the Minimum Acceptable Practices for Finance and other control focussed initiatives Reviewed and updated the terms of reference of the Audit Committee December Considered and approved critical accounting policies and judgments in advance of the 2014 year end Review of Functional Considered and approved the external audit plan for 2015 Reports Reviewed and approved the layout and design of the Annual Report 2014 Received and discussed a report on the Finance transformation project and reports from the Head of Taxation, the Group Treasurer and the Chief Information Officer on Disaster Recovery and IT risk.
These reports focused on the respective controls and risks within each function During the year, we also approved our Policy on the use of Conflict Minerals by written resolution.
Since the year end, we have also reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts for 2014 and have concluded that taken as a whole, they are fair balanced and understandable and have advised the full Board accordingly.
In coming to this conclusion, we have considered the description of the Groups strategy and key risks, the key elements of the business model, which is set out on page 12, and the key performance indicators and their link to the strategy.
76 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Significant matters related to the financial statements We considered the following key areas of judgement in relation to the 2014 accounts and at each reporting quarter end, which we discussed in all cases with management and the external auditor: Area of judgement Our action Valuation of inventories A feature of the orthopaedic business model whose finished goods inventory At each quarter end, we received reports from and makes up 81% of the Group total finished goods inventory is the high level of discussed with management the level of provisioning product inventory required, some of which is located at customer premises and is andmaterial areas at risk.
The provisioning level was 21.5% available for customers immediate use.
Complete sets of product, including large at 31 December 2014 26.0% as at 31 December 2013.
We and small sizes have to be made available in this way.
These sizes are used less concluded thatthe proposed levels were appropriate.
frequently than standard sizes and towards the end of the product life cycle are inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments to carrying value are therefore required to be made to orthopaedic inventory to anticipate this situation.
Liability provisioning The recognition of provisions for legal disputes is subject to a significant degree As members of the Board, we receive regular updates from of estimation.
Provision is made for loss contingencies when it is considered the Chief Legal Officer.
These updates form the basis for the probable that an adverse outcome will occur and the amount of the loss can be level of provisioning.
These judgements have not moved reasonably estimated.
In making its estimates, management takes into account materially during the year, with some cases having been the advice of internal and external legal counsel.
Provisions are reviewed regularly resolved, and we have determined that the proposed levels and amounts updated where necessary to reflect developments in the disputes.
at year end of $74 million in 2014 $86 million in 2013 were The ultimate liability may differ from the amount provided depending on the appropriate in the circumstances.
outcome of court proceedings or settlement negotiations or if new facts come to light.
The level of provisioning for contingent and other liabilities is an issue where management and legal judgements are important.
Impairment In carrying out impairment reviews of goodwill, intangible assets and property, We reviewed managements reports on the key plant and equipment, a number of significant assumptions have to be made assumptions with respect to goodwill, acquisition intangible when preparing cash flow projections.
These include the future rate of market assets and investments in associates - particularly the growth, discount rates, the market demand for the products acquired, the future forecast future cash flows and discount rates used to make profitability of acquired businesses or products, levels of reimbursement and these calculations.
We have also considered the disclosure success in obtaining regulatory approvals.
If actual results should differ or surrounding these reviews, and concluded that the review changes in expectations arise, impairment charges may be required which and disclosure were appropriate.
would adversely impact operating results.
Taxation Provisioning for potential current tax liabilities and the level of deferred tax asset We annually review our processes and approve the recognition in relation to accumulated tax losses are underpinned by a range principles for management of tax risks.
We review quarterly of judgments about the future statutory profitability of constituent entities of reports from management evaluating existing risks and the Group.
tax provisions, concluding that the levels of provisions was appropriate.
Business combinations The Group has identified growth through acquisitions as one of its Strategic For completed acquisitions, we received a report from Priorities.
During 2014, we acquired ArthroCare Corporation: the determination management setting out the significant assets and liabilities of the balance sheet fair value acquired is dependent upon understanding the acquired, details of the provisional fair value adjustments circumstances at acquisition and estimates of the future results of the acquired applied, an analysis of the intangible assets acquired, business and management judgement is a factor in making these determinations.
the assumptions behind the valuation of these acquired intangible assets and the proposed useful economic life of each intangible asset class.
For material acquisitions, management engage third party specialists to perform a detailed analysis, summaries of which are included in management reports.
We reviewed, discussed and approved these reports.
We note that within the External Audit report there is a principal risk associated with the timing of revenue recognition and measurement of related reserves as required by auditing standards.
We have considered this and have concluded that we have appropriate procedures and controls in place not to include this as a significant area of judgement.
Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 77 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Accountability continued External Auditor information of which the Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, are unaware and the Directors also confirm that they have taken reasonable steps to be Independence of External Auditors aware of any relevant audit information and, accordingly, to establish The independence of our external auditors is critical for the integrity that the Auditor is aware of such information.
Our Auditor Independence Policy, which ensures that this Audit and Professional Fees paid to the Auditor independence is maintained, is available on the Companys website.
We believe that the implementation of this policy helps ensure that Fees for professional services provided by Ernst & Young LLP, the auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
The policy governs Groups independent auditor in each of the last two fiscal years, in our approach when we require our external auditor to carry our noneachof the following categories were: audit services, and all such services are strictly governed by this policy.
2014 2013 During 2014, fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP, our external auditor, for non- $ million $ million audit work totalled $1.8 million, representing 35% of total audit fees.
Full details are shown in Note 3.2 of the Notes to the Group accounts.
During Audit 3 3 2014, fees paid to KPMG LLP, who will be appointed as our external Audit-related fees auditors at the Annual General Meeting, amounted to $3.9 million.
The Tax 2 3 provision of non-audit services by KPMG will be subject to our Auditor Other Independence Policy and the level of these services will be monitored closely.
It is not expected that the level of non-audit services provided by Total 5 6 KPMG will be as high in 2015.
The Auditor Independence Policy also governs the policy regarding Internal Audit audit partner rotation.
In 2014, Les Clifford who had been our audit partner for five years was replaced by Michael Rudberg.
Our Internal Audit function reports directly to the Audit Committee and is headed by Jenny Morgan, Senior Vice President Internal Audit, Effectiveness of External Auditors whom we appointed in May 2014.
She has subsequently restructured Although EY will cease to be the Companys external auditors at the her team to meet the requirements of the evolving nature of our Annual General Meeting, we felt that it would still be useful to carry business, particularly in Emerging Markets and new acquisitions.
out a review of the effectiveness of the external audit process and The internal Audit function carries out work in the following three areas: the quality of the audit, as the findings could be of use to KPMG, the incoming external auditor.
We therefore conducted a review into Financial systems and processes: the effectiveness of the external audit as part of the 2014 year-end Systems that ensure compliance with our Code of Conduct, process, in line with previous years.
We sought the views of key regulation and laws: and members of the finance management team, considered the feedback from this process and shared it with management, EY and KPMG.
Quality management systems in our manufacturing activities.
During the year, we also considered the inspection reports from the In all three areas, they act as a third line of defence behind operational Audit Oversight Boards in the UK and US and determined that we were managements front line and the Companys internal assurance satisfied with the audit quality provided by EY.
activities within Group Finance Compliance and Quality Assurance.
During the year, they completed 26 reviews across the business.
The Audit Quality Review Team of the Financial Reporting Council in the The Audit Committee receives a quarterly report of the activities of UK reviewed the 2013 audit EY performed of the Company.
We have the Internal Audit function and reviews the results of the Internal Audit discussed the results of this inspection with EY and are satisfied that reports, looking in detail at any reports with unsatisfactory ratings.
the points raised by the review have been appropriately addressed in We also receive a quarterly report detailing any unremediated and the 2014 audit.
overdue control recommendations and oversee the effective and timely Overall therefore, we concluded that EY had carried out their audit for remediation of any recommendations.
Specific activities of the Internal Audit function in 2014 were the Appointment of External Auditors at Annual General Meeting review of the design of the post-deal acquisition review process and the calculation of the benefits and costs associated with the Ernst & Young LLP will be retiring as the Companys external auditor Group Optimisation programme.
In addition site specific audits were at the Annual General Meeting.
The reports of Ernst & Young LLP on conducted of the China commercial business and the new acquisitions the Companys financial statements for the past two fiscal years did in Turkey and India to ensure that integration efforts were in line with not contain an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion and were approved plans.
not qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope, or accounting principles.
In connection with the audits of the Companys financial In 2015, we will continue to monitor Internal Audits scope of work and statements for each of the two fiscal years ended 2013 and 2014, and operational methods to ensure that it continues to play a full role in in the subsequent interim period to 23 February 2015, there were no providing assurance over the Groups identification and management disagreements with Ernst & Young LLP on any matters of accounting of risk and its associated controls.
principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope During 2014, KPMG carried out an external review into the and procedures which, if not resolved to the satisfaction of Ernst & Young effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
The review made a number LLP would have caused Ernst & Young LLP to make reference to the of recommendations regarding the role and remit of internal audit, the matter in their report.
resourcing of the function and the development of integrated working Resolutions will be put to the Annual General Meeting to be held on with other functions to provide a more holisitc approach to risk and 9 April 2015 proposing the appointment of KPMG LLP as the Companys assurance across the Group.
These recommendations were accepted Auditors and authorising the Board to determine their remuneration, and are being implemented.
on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Since this review, the Internal Audit function has been strengthened Disclosure of Information to the Auditors by the appointment of Jenny Morgan, the new Senior Vice President Internal Audit who has in turn restructured the function as In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the detailed above.
Directors serving at the time of approving the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit 78 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Tender of External Audit Services identification, audit approach to risks and audit scope.
These written tenders also included the proposed audit fee, as we EY and their predecessor firms have been the Companys auditors believed that as well as ensuring the quality of the audit, we since the Company listed in 1937.
We have been very satisfied with also needed to have regard to the sensible containment of costs.
the effectiveness of the external audit process and the quality of the audit and have undertaken a number of measures to ensure that 5.
Early July In the week leading up to the presentation, each the external auditor has continued to maintain its independence.
audit firm was asked to prepare a response to an audit query, However, in common with a number of other companies, as we the same query for each firm, to simulate real life working and explained in our Audit Committee Report last year, we recognised allow the Steering Committee to assess how well they responded in 2014, that it was the right time to put the external audit out to tender.
to a request at short notice and how they interacted with the Committee on a technical issue.
During the early summer of 2014, I led a process to select a new external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2015.
Early July Each firm was asked to make a presentation to the with the Groups procurement function and established a Steering Steering Committee explaining why we should select them Committee comprising myself, Brian Larcombe, member of the as our external auditors.
Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director, Julie Brown, the 7.
Early July Following the presentations and further discussions, Chief Financial Officer, Susan Swabey, the Company Secretary and the Audit Committee met and considered the recommendation Dan Baker, Senior Vice President Group Finance.
Given the size, of the Steering Committee and agreed to appoint KPMG LLP complexity and geographical scope of the business, we invited as our external auditors for the 2015 financial year.
A resolution Deloitte, KPMG and PwC to take part in the tender for carrying out to this effect will be submitted to shareholders for approval at the our external audit.
In addition, in light of the emerging rules from Annual General Meeting.
Europe, we reached mutual agreement with EY that they would not take part in the tender process.
Throughout the process, we were mindful of the need to preserve the independence of the external audit.
As part of the tender, each firm Prior to the commencement of the tender process, each firm was was required to disclose all existing relationships with the Company invited to make a presentation to the early April Audit Committee and explain their proposals for ensuring that these relationships meeting on a project on which they had recently been working would not cause any conflict of interest after 1 January 2015.
Given that with the Company.
This was to ensure that each firm had sufficient up until 2008, I was Senior Partner in London with KPMG, we were exposure to the Audit Committee prior to the financial tender.
aware that there might be some concerns about my independence.
We were conscious that the audit tender process is time and In order to address this, our Chairman Roberto Quarta joined the resource consuming, both for the firms involved and for the Steering Committee for the final stage of presentations to ensure Company, and were therefore determined to have a concise yet impartiality was maintained.
We also noted that other senior members thorough process, ensuring equivalent access to management for of the finance team had recently joined the Company from other each firm.
We undertook the following process over just six weeks: tendering firms.
Late May Issued the request for tender.
We chose KPMG to be our external auditors as we felt that they had demonstrated that they understood our business and risks well and 2.
Late May Participating firms attended a joint workshop over a could work both constructively and in a challenging manner with our period of two days.
This included a group meeting with all firms management and provide the Audit Committee with the assurances with a series of presentations from key members of management, we would need to fulfil our role.
explaining their key expectations from the external audit process, as well as a series of individual meetings with management.
The audit of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts will therefore be the last external audit to be conducted by EY.
Late May Each firm was granted access to key senior members like to record my thanks to EY and their partners and staff for their of management in a structured programme following the many years of excellent service to the shareholders of Smith & workshop, and then given access to senior managers and Nephew.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee for the past five years, finance staff throughout the Group to help them understand I have enjoyed working with them and have valued the insights and the business further.
professionalism they have brought to the AuditCommittee meetings.
End June Each firm submitted their written tender document covering predetermined areas of focus, including risk We requested and reviewed a report mapping Group level risks Risk Management and Internal Control and related control assurance.
On behalf of the Board, we reviewed the system of internal financial We requested various reports from management relating control and satisfied ourselves that we are meeting required standards to specific risks identified through the risk management process.
both for the year ended 31 December 2014 and up to the date of approval Our Risk Management Framework is underpinned by Business of this Annual Report.
No concerns were raised with us in 2014 about and Functional Risk Registers that highlight the risks identified and possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting.
the probability and impact of risk to the Group, as well as mitigation In coming to this conclusion: plans.
The most significant of these risks are considered by the Group Risk Committee for inclusion on a Group Risk Register.
The We received regular reports from the Internal Audit and Group effectiveness of the framework is reviewed annually by Internal Finance functions on their findings from the reviews undertaken Audit and by the Audit Committee.
In 2014, the Audit Committee throughout the year, both from an internal audit perspective and also concluded that the framework was effective.
with regard to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 79 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Accountability continued Evaluation of Internal Controls financial year to 31 December 2014 and included the period up to the approval of this Annual Report.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a15 f and The main elements of this annual review are as follows: 15d15 f under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have There is an established system of internal control throughout the evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Group and our Divisions.
The main elements of the internal control Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2014. framework are: Based upon this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded on 23 February 2015 that the disclosure The management of each Division is responsible for the establishment controls were effective as at 31 December 2014. and review of effective financial controls within their Division.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining The Group Finance manual sets out, amongst other things, adequate internal control over financial reporting.
Management financial and accounting policies and minimum internal financial assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over control standards.
financial reporting as at 31 December 2014 in accordance with The Internal Audit function agrees an annual work plan and scope of the requirements in the US under s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley work with the Audit Committee.
In making that assessment, they used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway The Audit Committee reviewed reports from Internal Audit on their Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
Based on findings on internal financial controls.
their assessment, management concluded and reported that, as The Audit Committee reviews the Group whistle-blower procedures.
at 31 December 2014, the Groups internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.
The Audit Committee reviews regular reports from the Senior Vice President, Group Finance and the heads of the Financial Controls and Having received the report from management, the Audit Committee Compliance, Taxation and Treasury functions.
reports to the Board on the effectiveness of controls.
An independent registered public accounting firm This system of internal control has been designed to manage rather issued an audit report on the Groups internal control over financial than eliminate material risks to the achievement of our strategic reporting as at 31 December 2014.
This report appears on page 105. and business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Because of Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers inherent limitation, our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements.
In addition, our projections of any We have adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, which evaluation of effectiveness in future periods are subject to the risk that applies to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, Senior Vice President Group Finance and the Groups senior financial or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures officers.
There have been no waivers to any of the Codes provisions may deteriorate.
The system of internal control is not applied to the nor have there been any amendments to the Code during 2013 or up entities in which the Group does not hold a controlling interest.
A copy of the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial process complies with the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Officers can be found on our website at www.
Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and In addition every individual in the finance function certifies to the additionally contributes to our compliance with the obligations under Chief Financial Officer that they have complied with the Finance Code the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and other internal assurance activities.
Other than the integration of ArthroCare there has been no change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting during the Evaluation of Effectiveness of the Audit Committee period covered by this Annual Report that has materially affected, or is The effectiveness of the Audit Committee was evaluated as part of reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internal control over the review into the effectiveness of the Board conducted at the end of financial reporting.
The results of this review are described on pages 66 to 67 of this The Board is responsible overall for reviewing and approving the Annual Report.
adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management framework and Yours sincerely, the system of internal controls over financial, operational including quality management and ethical compliance processes operated by the Group.
The Board has delegated responsibility for this review to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee, through the Internal Audit function, reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control procedures and identifies any weaknesses and ensures these are remediated within agreed timelines.
The latest review covered the Ian Barlow Chairman of the Audit Committee 80 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014
