STRATEGIC REPORT Our marketplace Changing demands In the US, healthcare-acquired infections cost Market trends Self-Care and Prevention almost $10 billion annually, with surgical site The combination of ageing populations Self-care and prevention is regarded as infections being the largest contribution to and increasing prevalence of obesity and an important element of healthcare in that overall cost.
associated chronic illness is expanding the it will help protect society from potential Product innovation has been the primary gap between the demand for healthcare health threats by minimising the risk factors response by some suppliers in meeting and ability of governments to supply it.
Governments have been patient and healthcare provider demands to changing balance in ageing populations also investing in programmes and providing tools improve outcomes, simplify procedures and means that there is a potential decrease to encourage and support healthier behaviour reduce cost.
in funds available for healthcare raised to reduce the strain on healthcare systems through taxes on the working population.
Additionally, pressure New commercial models, together with Consequentially, governments and healthcare is gradually being applied on the food industry product innovation, are being adopted by providers are looking for various ways to to reduce saturated fats, sugar and salt in health systems as a solution to improving constrain their healthcare expenditure.
products and increase nutritional labelling resource allocation.
There is a recent trend in an effort to tackle rising rates of obesity by health systems to shift towards payment and diabetes.
for performance schemes in an effort to Cost and Outcomes promote high quality care and increase the Healthcare providers, in an effort to reduce effectiveness of treatments.
Additionally, Regulatory standards spending, are increasingly focusing on the suppliers of healthcare products and devices and compliance in the cost of the whole treatment, rather than are providing lower cost or reduced service the individual components.
This is leading healthcare industry offerings to those segments of the market governments and hospitals to seek greater more sensitive to price.
The international medical device industry is transparency of product pricing.
Regulatory requirements are The healthcare industry is also seeing As a result, health economic data is being important in determining whether substances protectionism localisation playing a part used to obtain reimbursement or justify and materials can be developed into safe in the product selection process as some product pricing.
Health economic data and effective products and done so in an jurisdictions are implementing laws to show currently forms an integral part in shaping environmentally sustainable way.
bias towards locally manufactured products.
the recommendations from the National This already exists in Brazil for major tender National regulatory authorities administer Institute for Health and Care Excellence NICE offers and China is considering incentives and enforce a complex series of laws in the UK and in the US, the Affordable Care to encourage hospitals to use locally made and regulations that govern the design, Act has committed budget spend to carry medical devices.
development, approval, manufacture, out comparative effectiveness research labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare The increased demand for healthcare on treatments.
They also review data supporting products and the limitation of available As well as the focus on suppliers of the safety and efficacy of such products.
Of resources is widening the funding gap.
healthcare products, some providers are also particular importance is the requirement in Providing technologies that deliver value by implementing incentives for better health many countries that products be authorised improving clinical outcomes while reducing outcomes to reduce the costs associated or registered prior to the placement on market the consumption of overall healthcare with repeated patient treatments or reduced and that such authorisation or registration resources is vital for the success and hospital stay.
The major sustainability of medical device businesses.
regulatory agencies forSmith & Nephews Governments are beginning to impose products include the Food and Drug penalties on healthcare facilities for acute Administration FDA in the US, the Medicines patient re-admissions or for infections and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency acquired within the health system which in the UK, the Ministry of Health, Labour and present an additional economic burden on Welfare in Japan, the China Food and Drug health care systems.
Administration and the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration.
18 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION In general, with the aforementioned industry Dependence on government or for an entire procedure.
We are exposed to trends, safety standards and regulations in changes in reimbursement policy, tax policy andotherfunding the medical device industry are becoming and pricing which may have an adverse In most markets throughout the world, more stringent.
Regulatory agencies are impact on revenue and operating profit.
There expenditure on medicaldevices is ultimately intensifying audits of manufacturing facilities may be an increased risk of adverse changes controlled to a large extent by governments.
and the approval time for new products has to government funding policies arising Funds may be made available or withdrawn lengthened.
Legislation covering corruption from the deterioration in macro-economic from healthcare budgets as a result of and bribery such as the UK Bribery Act and conditions in some of our markets.
Weare therefore the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act business largely dependent on future governments also apply to all our global operations.
Competitors providing increased funds commensurate We are committed to assuring a high level of with the increased demand arising from Competition exists among healthcare regulatory compliance and to doing business demographic trends.
providers to gain patients on the basis of with integrity andwelcome the trend to higher quality, service and price.
Providers are under Pricing of our products is largely influenced standards in the healthcare industry.
We and pressure to reduce the total cost of healthcare in most developed markets by governmental other companies in the industry are subject to delivery.
In order to achieve this there has reimbursement authorities.
Initiatives regular inspections and audits by regulatory been some consolidation in our customer sponsored by government agencies, agencies and notified bodies, and in some base, as well as amongst our competitors, legislative bodies and the private sector to cases, remediation activities have and will and these trends are expected to continue limit the growth of healthcare costs, including continue to require significant financial and in the long term.
We compete against both price regulation, excise taxes and competitive resource investment.
See Legal proceedings local and multinational corporations, including pricing, are ongoing in markets where we on page 146. some with greater financial, marketing and operate.
This control may be exercised by other resources.
determining prices for an individual product Manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China.
Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 19 COLOPLAST 4% STRATEGIC REPORT Our marketplace continued Smith & Nephew estimates that the global sports medicine segment include Arthrex, which receive revenue from private health orthopaedic reconstruction segment is worth Conmed, DePuy Mitek a division of Johnson insurance and government reimbursement approximately $14 billion and increased by & Johnson and Stryker.
Medicare is the major source approximately 3% in 2014.
Competitors in the of reimbursement in the US forknee and hip Smith & Nephew estimates that the global orthopaedic reconstruction segment include reconstruction procedures and for wound wound management segment is worth Biomet, DePuy Synthes a division of Johnson treatment regimes.
In the emerging markets, approximately $7 billion and grew by 4% & Johnson, Stryker and Zimmer.
demand is driven by self-pay patients.
Global competitors vary across Smith & Nephew estimates that the global our product areas and geographies and orthopaedic trauma segment is worth include Acelity, Coloplast, ConvaTec, 3M Seasonality approximately $5 billion and grew by and Molnlycke.
Orthopaedic and sports medicine procedures approximately 6% in 2014.
Competitors in the tend to be higher in the winter months when orthopaedic trauma segment include Biomet, Customers accidents and sports related injuries are DePuy Synthes, Stryker and Zimmer.
Conversely, elective procedures tend In certain parts of the world, including the Smith & Nephew estimates that the global to slow down in the summer months due UK, much of Continental Europe, Canada sports medicine segment representing to holidays.
and Japan, the healthcare providers are access, resection and repair products is largely government organisations funded Due to the nature of our product range, there worth approximately $5 billion and grew by by taxrevenues.
In the US, our major is little seasonal impact on the Advanced approximately 8% in 2014.
Competitors in the customers are public and private hospitals, Wound Management business.
Market Segment and Leadership Data: 2014 estimates generated by Smith & Nephewbased upon public sources and internal analysis.
Hip & Knee Implants Sports Medicine R epresenting access, resection and repair products.
BIOMET SMITH & NEPHEW LINVATEC A division of Johnson & Johnson.
4% 11% 5% ZIMMER 23% ARTHREX STRYKER 29% BIOMET 11% 12% $14bn $5bn OTHER 12% 3% 8% OTHER 14% DEPUY SYNTHES 21% DEPUY MITEK SMITH & NEPHEW 15% 24% STRYKER 19% Trauma & Extremities Advanced Wound Management ZIMMER CONVATEC 6% BIOMET 8% 6% OTHER OTHER 8% MOLNLYCKE 36% 13% SMITH & NEPHEW DEPUY $7bn $5bn 10% SYNTHES 47% 4% 6% SMITH & NEPHEW 19% STRYKER 23% 20 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 ACELITY 20%
