STRATEGIC REPORT Segment performance: Advanced Wound Management Advanced Wound Management 1 2 Revenue Trading profit Franchise areas Advanced Wound Care -1% $245m Advanced Wound Devices Advanced Wound Bioactives $1,319m Revenue split by franchise area % ADVANCED WOUND BIOACTIVES 24% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2 $1,319m ADVANCED Operating profit Trading profit margin WOUND CARE 61% $123m -200bps ADVANCED WOUND DEVICES 15% 18.6% 1 Revenue by franchise area $m -4% -9% 15% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Manufacturing sites US and Canada: Oklahoma City OK, Fort Worth TX, Calgary Canada UK: Hull China: Suzhou Other: Curaao 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Service centres ADVANCED ADVANCED ADVANCED WOUND CARE WOUND DEVICES WOUND BIOACTIVES US, UK, Germany, Japan and Australia 1 T he underlying percentage increases decreases are after adjusting for the effect of currency translation and the inclusion of the comparative impact of acquisitions.
2 Explanation of these non-GAAP financial measures are provided on pages 176 to 179.
30 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 220 912 232 1,019 214 1,029 190 1,336 123 1,319 25.6 233 24.3 247 23.1 237 20.6 275 18.6 245 843 805 213 192 280 322 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION The main products within the AWM business We have also experienced a significant Overview are for management of wound exudate, increase in the utilisation of ALLEVYN Life treatment and prevention of wound infections, as a prophylactic measure to help prevent In Advanced Wound Management negative pressure wound therapy NPWT pressure ulcers, driven by the dressings AWM we offer products from and bioactive therapies.
The portfolio unique multi-layer design which gives it initial wound bed preparation is grouped into disposable wound care superior pressure redistribution properties.
products Advanced Wound Care, electrical through to full wound closure.
Throughout 2014, we have continued to invest equipment for wound therapy Advanced These products are targeted at in customer insights and the generation of Wound Devices and bioactives Advanced meaningful clinical and health economic chronic wounds associated with Wound Bioactives.
evidence to ensure that our ALLEVYN portfolio the elderly population, such as is in a sustainable, category leading position pressure sores and venous leg Advanced Wound Care and delivers to our customers expectations.
There are also products Exudate management for the treatment of acute wounds Infection management such as burns and invasive surgery Exudate management products focus on AWM has two significant technologies in effectively and efficiently managing wound that impact the wider population.
its infection management portfolio, silver fluid and creating an optimal healing ACTICOAT, DURAFIBER Ag and ALLEVYN environment to promote improved healing Ag and iodine IODOSORB.
Our key brands in this space are based IODOSORB product has continued ALLEVYN foam dressings and DURAFIBER to gain interest due to the unique properties gelling fibre dressings.
of the cadexomer iodine molecule and their In 2014, we continued to invest in the impact on biofilms, which have become a development and commercialisation of our well-recognised barrier to healing in wound flagship ALLEVYN brand, with significant sales care.
IODOSORB benefits from one of the and marketing efforts in key countries.
The most comprehensive evidence bases in ALLEVYN brand is evolving towards ALLEVYN wound care.
Life, our latest innovation in foam dressings, We are also experiencing strong interest which was designed to provide a better in ACTICOAT, particularly in post-surgical patient experience, and greater wear time.
wounds to prevent the complications This leads to improved patient outcomes and associated with surgical site infection and economic savings for payers, which has now indelayed healing chronic wounds.
been demonstrated in several studies.
Other AWM offers a wide range of other wound care products, resulting in Smith & Nephew having one of the most comprehensive ranges of wound care solutions in the industry.
These products include our film and post-operative dressings, skincare products and gels.
IV3000: AWMs specialist breathable premium IV dressing, utilising REALTIC film technology and unique patterned adhesive, continues to perform well, particularly driven by emerging markets.
In 2014, the IV3000 range benefited from several product upgrades reinforcing its differentiation as a premium offering.
Success in the emerging markets has created an opportunity for a mid-tier offering, which will be introduced in 2015.
ALLEVYN Life An innovative multi-layered dressing designed for people living their everyday lives.
Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 31 STRATEGIC REPORT Segment performance: Advanced Wound Management continued OPSITE Post-Op Visible: This is our innovative VERSAJET dressing that combines the qualities of a The VERSAJET II Hydrosurgery system is a premium dressing with the ability to see and mechanical debridement device used by monitor the incision.
This unique product surgeons to excise and evacuate non-viable continues to deliver strong growth in both tissue, bacteria and contaminants from our Established Markets and Emerging wounds, burns and soft tissue injuries.
& International Markets, supported by investment in clinical evidence.
Advanced Wound Bioactives Advanced Wound Devices Smith & Nephew is the global market Advanced Wound Devices consists of two share leader in the bioactives segment, categories of products: NPWT and VERSAJET.
which is the fastest growing category of wound therapeutics.
Our diversified biotherapeutic portfolio offers differentiated, NPWT cost-effective solutions for tissue repair and Our NPWT solutions include traditional NPWT healing, addressing the full spectrum of products RENASYS products and the singlehard-to-heal wounds.
use portfolio PICO and KALYPTO products.
Currently, our leading bioactive brand is We are also progressing with launch plans for Collagenase SANTYL Ointment, the only FDAour next-generation traditional NPWT product.
approved biologic enzymatic debriding agent for chronic dermal ulcers and severe burns.
In 2014, During 2014, we were required to initiate Smith & Nephew launched anew 90g package a distribution hold in the US on RENASYS size to bring convenience and economy to products as the FDA indicated new regulatory providers and patients treating large dermal clearances were required in respect of certain ulcers and burns with SANTYL.
We are working to consistent with Smith & Nephews scientific obtain these and RENASYS remains available leadership strategy, new clinical data highlighting outside of the US.
the benefits of using SANTYL adjunctively with The PICO system, our single-use, canistersharp debridement was released early in the free solution, is revolutionising NPWT.
As year and was closely followed by initiation of familiar and easy to use as an advanced a larger, follow-on study of similar design to wound dressing, PICO provides an active corroborate the initial findings.
intervention to help promote optimal healing REGRANEX Gel is the first and only FDA for early discharge and enhanced outcomes approved recombinant platelet-derived in complex cases.
PICO simplifies the delivery growth factor indicated for use as an adjunct of negative pressure, which benefits patients to good ulcer care in the treatment of lower and caregivers alike.
Physicians increased their prescribing of REGRANEX throughout the year, in part due to REGRANEX 360, a novel programme launched by Smith & Nephew to help patients maximise the benefits of the brand by informing about insurance coverage, shipping the medication directly to the patients home or office and providing expert consultation on how to use the brand appropriately.
Collagenase SANTYL Ointment The only enzymatic debrider approved by the FDA for use in the US.
It selectively removes necrotic tissue without harming surrounding healthy tissue.
32 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION ACTICOAT Silver-Coated Antimicrobial Dressing For use on chronic, acute or burn wounds ACTICOAT features the unique nanocrystalline SILCRYST silver.
OASIS, a family of naturally-derived, Regulatory approvals extracellular matrix replacement products In 2014, regulatory clearance was obtained indicated for the management of both chronic for both ALLEVYN Life and DURAFIBER and traumatic wounds completes Smith & in Japan making the latest absorbent Nephews bioactive portfolio.
dressing technologies available to this In October 2014, we announced the top-line important market.
results of the Phase 3 study of HP802-247, PICO, our single use NPWT system was a living cell spray-on therapy designed approved for the first time in Japan.
In to stimulate healing of venous leg ulcers.
addition, a significant enhancement to the HP802-247 did not meet the primary PICO product, in the form of the new Soft Port endpoint in this trial and we have taken the dressing and tubing set, was approved in the decision to stop the Phase 3 programme.
We remain committed to investing in developing pioneering Advanced Wound Other registration activities during the year Bioactive treatments.
include expanding the geographic footprint of established products within the emerging markets and the ongoing expansion of Smith & Nephew Medical Suzhou as a new supply site for multiple wound care products.
