STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT Our business Helping healthcare professionals improve quality of life SUTUREFIX ULTRA By investing in R&D, Smith & Nephew continues pioneering hip and shoulder repair, launching the new SUTUREFIX Ultra all-suture based soft anchor.
Delivering advanced Research and Development Strict criteria are applied to ensure new products fulfil an unmet clinical need, medical technologies We have a deep knowledge of the needs have a strong commercial case, and are of surgeons, physicians and nurses, we Smith & Nephews business model, set out technologically feasible.
Our R&D teams also understand the economic pressures on page 12, supports our mission to deliver work closely with manufacturing and supply healthcare payers work under, and we advanced medical technologies to help chain management to ensure we can produce recognise that patients are demanding better healthcare professionals, our customers, new products to clinical, cost and time treatment options to restore quality of life.
improve the quality of life for their patients.
Our products undergo clinical These factors inform our Research and and health economic assessment both Through it we create value.
This value Development R&D strategy, which is at the during their development and post launch.
creation process is actioned through five heart of our business model.
In 2014, we launched many exciting products, Open innovation Research & Development including a cruciate retaining version of our As part of our R&D strategy, Smith & Nephew Ethics & Compliance JOURNEY II natural-motion knee, a first-ofsupports and works with numerous small its-kind DYONICS PLAN surgical planning Manufacturing companies looking for help with developing tool for hip arthroscopy, and the HAT-TRICK and commercialising new technologies.
Medical Education Lesser Toe Repair System.
We have a strong We scout globally for new technologies and new product pipeline for 2015, with many Sales & Marketing services to meet the needs of our customers.
Our business model is underpinned by our We are a primary sponsor of the These new products, and many more Capital Allocation Framework.
This enables Massachusetts Medical Device Development currently in development, are a result of our us to invest for the future, both in organic Center M2D2 New Venture Competition, focus on R&D.
We invested $235 million in growth and through acquisitions, whilst also supporting entrepreneurial product this area in 2014, in-line with our commitment, generating value for shareholders today development by early-stage medical device stated in 2011, to increase our investment through a progressive dividend policy and companies.
We also work with MassChallenge, level to around 5% of revenue.
commitment to return any excess capital.
a global start-up competition and accelerator We are highly disciplined in project selection.
programme, to support emerging companies Our R&D experts in the UK, US, Europe, China that fit with our strategic areas of interest.
and India have extensive customer and sector knowledge, which is augmented by ongoing interaction with our marketing teams.
Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 21 STRATEGIC REPORT Our business continued We continued in 2014 as the commercial Ethics and compliance Managing Directors complete an annual partner in SWAN-iCare, an EU-funded certification to the CEO to confirm initiative to bring multidisciplinary European Code of conduct and implementation of required programmes.
research teams together to deliver a next Managers and employees make an annual business principles generation integrated autonomous solution compliance certification, and executive Smith & Nephew earns trust with patients, for monitoring and adapting personalised management, managers and employees customers, healthcare professionals, authorities therapy of foot and leg ulcers.
have a compliance performance objective and the public by acting in an honest and fair customised to their level in the organisation.
Smith & Nephew also welcomes new manner in all aspects of its operations.
Through In 2014, we developed and piloted a face-to-face We expect the same from those with whom our InVentures programme we collaborate course for new managers, which supplements we do business, including distributors and to bring ideas to reality.
InVentures evaluates the on-line manager certification training.
independent agents that sell our products.
surgeon concepts for technical and market In 2015, all new managers will be required Our Code of Conduct and Business Principles viability and our development team works to complete both the on-line and the face-toCode governs the way we operate to hand-in-hand with surgeons to deliver face course.
new products that advance healing.
New distributors and other higher risk third Commercialised products benefit from Smith & Nephew takes into account ethical, parties are subject to screening and are the global selling power of Smith & Nephew.
social, environmental, legal and financial contractually obligated to comply with applicable considerations as part of its operating In addition, Smith & Nephew invests in laws and our Code.
We have a robust whistle-blowing early stage technologies relevant to our required to take compliance training and system in all jurisdictions in which Smith business.
Recent examples include UK-based certify that they will ensure their employees & Nephew operates.
We are committed to Michelson Diagnostics that is developing a and agents comply with the law and our upholding our promise in our Code that we point-of-care tissue-imaging system that for Code.
They also receive a CD-ROM with tools will not retaliate against anyone who makes the first time allows users to see below the to assist them with their own compliance a report in good faith.
surface of the skin: and an incubator fund programmes.
We have expanded our oversight investing in orthopaedic technologies close of independent agents and distributors with New employees receive training on our Code, tocommercial launch.
on-site assessments to check compliance and we assign annual compliance training to controls and monitoring visits to review a sample employees.
In 2014, we updated our Code We continue to scout for further opportunities of transactions from their books and records.
The new module is more interactive, where we can access new disruptive role-based and allows individuals to apply the technologies in our areas of specialism.
In 2014, Smith & Nephew filed its first report in Code in different scenarios.
Individuals can These investments are typically in technologies compliance with the US Physician Payments earn trust points and achievement badges that are not yet ready for acquisition but that Sunshine Act, which comprised over if they make the right choices in the scenarios.
we believe hold great promise.
As well as 22,000 transactions with nearly $18million Individuals who show an understanding of funding, we may bring R&D, management and in payments and expenses to reportable the Code by selecting the right behaviour manufacturing expertise, and gain privileged individuals and entities.
in a scenario can move through the module access to or rights to the technology.
We aim In early 2015, Smith & Nephew submitted more quickly than individuals who choose to accelerate the journey to market and may the final report to the US Department of the incorrect behaviour and are then subject ultimately acquire the business.
Justice DoJ and the US Securities and to remediation.
Exchange Commission SEC required under Intellectual property the Companys Foreign Corrupt Practices Global compliance programme Act settlement agreement.
We also filed our We protect the results of our research and first report under the deferred prosecution development through patents and other Smith & Nephew has implemented what we agreement we inherited with the ArthroCare forms of intellectual property.
The Groups believe is a world-class Global Compliance acquisition see Note 17.3 of the Notes to the patent portfolio currently includes in excess Programme that helps our businesses comply Group accounts.
of 5,000 patents and patent applications.
Our comprehensive Patent protection for our products is sought compliance programme includes global routinely in our principal markets.
policies and procedures: on-boarding and annual training for employees and managers: We also have a policy of protecting our monitoring and auditing processes: and products by registering trademarks under reporting channels.
the local laws of markets in which such products are sold.
We vigorously protect Through a global intranet website, we provide our trademarks against infringement.
resources and tools to guide employees to make decisions that comply with the law and In addition to protecting our market position our Code and earn trust.
We conduct advance by filing and enforcing patents and trademarks, review and approval for significant interactions we may oppose third party patents and with healthcare professionals or government trademark filings where appropriate in officials.
We regularly assess existing and those areas that might conflict with our emerging risks in the countries in which business interests.
In the ordinary course of business, we enter into a number of licensing arrangements with respect to our products.
None of these arrangements individually is considered material to our current operations and financial results.
22 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION High quality manufacturing An employee at our manufacturing plant in Tuttlingen, Germany, working on a polished cementless hip stem.
Manufacturing We outsource certain parts of our manufacturing The Aarau, Tuttlingen, Beijing and Warwick processes where necessary to obtain facilities produce a large number of products We operate manufacturing facilities in a specialised expertise or gain lower cost including key trauma products, the PLUS number of countries across the globe, and without undue risk to our intellectual property.
knee and hip range and the BIRMINGHAM a number of central distribution facilities in Suppliers of outsourced products and services Hip Resurfacing System.
The facility in key geographical areas in which we operate.
are selected based on their ability to deliver Oklahoma City deals mainly with the Products are shipped to individual country products and services to our specification, and assembly of surgical digital equipment, such locations which hold small amounts of adhere to and maintain an appropriate quality as HD560 Camera.
inventory locally for immediate supply to system.
Our specialist teams work with and meet customer requirements.
We have a We operate three main holding warehouses, monitor suppliers through on-site assessments defined manufacturing and facility footprint one in each of Memphis Tennessee, US, and performance audits to ensure the required plan in-line with our commercial strategy Baar Switzerland and Singapore.
These levels of quality, service and delivery.
which wereview on a regular basis.
facilities consolidate and ship to local country Our largest manufacturing operation for and distributor facilities.
We continue to implement improved Advanced Surgical Devices is based in processes such as Lean Manufacturing The Advanced Wound Management Memphis Tennessee, US, with additional throughout our factories, the global supply manufacturing is primarily managed from production and assembly plants based in chain and the supporting operations to our factory and offices in Hull UK.
Wound Mansfield Massachusetts, US, Oklahoma improve and sustain the levels of safety, Management products are also made at our City Oklahoma, US, Austin Texas, US, quality, delivery, productivity and efficiency.
facilities in Suzhou China, Curaao Dutch Aarau Switzerland, Tuttlingen Germany, We have numerous Core Competences Caribbean, Alberta Canada and Oklahoma Beijing China, Calgary Canada, including: materials technology: precision City Oklahoma, US.
Warwick UK, Heredia Costa Rica and machining, high volume and automated Sangameshwar India.
The products made at the Hull site cover manufacturing for both our Advanced the therapies of Exudate management Surgical Devices and Advanced Wound The Memphis facilities produce key products Foam products principally ALLEVYN, Management products.
and instrumentation in our Knee Implants, Burns treatment ACTICOAT and Wound Hip Implant and Trauma franchises.
These We procure raw materials, components, Closure OPSITE film products.
Several include the JOURNEY II and LEGION knees, finished products and packaging materials products produced in Hull, such as JELONET the ANTHOLOGY Primary Hip System and from key suppliers.
These purchases include and BACTIGRAS, transitioned to Suzhou key Trauma products such as the PERI-LOC metal forgings and stampings for orthopaedic in 2014, as part of our global footprint Ankle Fusion Plating System and TRIGEN products, optical and electronic suboptimisation programme.
In addition to this, components for sports medicine products, Memphis is the home to the design and active ingredients and semi-finished manufacturing process of the VISIONAIRE goods for Advanced Wound Management patient matched instrumentation sets.
as well as packaging materials across all product ranges.
The Mansfield facility focuses on sports medicine related products for minimally Suppliers are selected, and standardised invasive surgery including the FAST FIX contracts negotiated, by a centralised 360 Meniscal Repair System, FOOTPRINT PK procurement team wherever possible, with Suture Anchor, DYONICS Platinum Shaver a view to ensure value for money based Blades, ENDOBUTTON CL Ultra and the on the total spend across the Group.
Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 23 STRATEGIC REPORT Our business continued OPSITE Post-Op Visible A waterproof, bacteria-proof dressing with see-through absorbant pad.
Unique design allows continual monitoring of the incision site without the need to disrupt the healing process.
A key base material used in the production of a Advanced Wound Management distribution Sales and marketing large number of dressings is the intermediate hubs are located in Neunkirchen Germany Our customers are the providers of medical bulk rolls of film which are manufactured in the and Derby UK for international distribution, and surgical treatments and services in over Gilberdyke UK facility.
The facility in Alberta Bedford UK for UK domestic distribution 100 countries worldwide.
Canada provides specific expertise in the and Lawrenceville Georgia, US for addition of silver coatings onto the ACTICOAT US distribution.
The largest single customer worldwide is burns range prior to shipping to Hull for the final a purchasing group based in the UK that conversion process into finished dressings.
represented less than 5% of our worldwide Medical education The facility in Gilberdyke UK was sold in 2014, revenue in 2014. and will continue to supply sub components to Smith & Nephew is dedicated to helping In our Established Markets, our Advanced other facilities until 2016.
The processes at the healthcare professionals improve the quality Surgical Devices are principally shipped and Alberta facility are being transferred to the of care for patients.
We are proud to support invoiced directly to healthcare providers, hospitals Hull site during 2015. the professional development of surgeons and other healthcare facilities.
Certain Advanced and nurses by providing them with medical The Suzhou facility opened in 2009 initially Wound Management products are shipped and education and training on our Advanced to manufacture some Foam products within invoiced to wholesale distributors and others are Surgical Devices and Advanced Wound Exudate management.
It has since expanded consigned to distributors that lease the devices Management products.
to take on production of some Film Wound to healthcare providers, hospitals and other Closure products.
Every year thousands of customers attend healthcare facilities and end-users.
our state-of-the-art training centres in the The majority of the NPWT components are Our US sales forces consist of a mixture of US, UK and China and Smith & Nephew bought in from third parties and assembled independent contract workers and employees.
courses at multiple hospitals and facilities in the Advanced Surgical Devices Oklahoma Sales agents are contractually prohibited around the world.
City facility, with the exception of the from selling products that compete with our dressings used for the PICO product In 2014, we provided training to more than products.
In most other Established Markets which are manufactured in Hull.
Working under expert country-specific commercial organisations guidance, attendees refine techniques manage employee sales forces directly.
Manufacturing for Advanced Wound Bioactives and learn new skills, whilst experiencing takes place in Curaao, and at various third party In our Emerging & International Markets we the safe and effective use of our products.
The products are distributed operate through direct selling and marketing We also support healthcare professionals from a third party logistics facility in San Antonio operations, and through distributors.
In these through our on-line resources such as Texas, US.
Advanced Wound Bioactives has markets, our Advanced Surgical Devices the Global Wound Academy, The Wound facilities for the development and possible franchises frequently share sales resources.
Institute and, for surgeons, our Education and production of cell based therapies in Fort Worth The Advanced Wound Management sales Evidence website.
force may be separate where it calls on different customers.
24 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Smith & Nephew strives to create a highly We aim to provide an open, challenging, Our people engaged and productive workforce.
We foster productive and participative environment Smith & Nephew is committed to attracting, this goal with targeted initiatives to ensure based on constructive relationships.
engaging, developing and retaining employees.
understanding of the Companys mission and We maintain open and transparent In 2014, we had more than 14,000 employees direction, encourage employee involvement, communication with employees through dedicated to our core values of Innovation, and ensure focus and adaptability to our regular and timely information and Trust and Performance.
These values represent customers and market place.
We clearly communicate our the foundation of our culture, and underpin our employee feedback via regular surveys and business goals and performance standards, commitment to be an employer of choice as focus groups, and we act on this feedback in and provide the training, information and well as a responsible corporate citizen.
the spirit of continuous improvement.
authority needed to achieve them.
We Investing in our people and communities provide fair recognition and reward based helps ensure the long-term sustainability Diversity at Smith & Nephew on performance.
Our annual CEO Award, of our business.
Smith & Nephew strives open to all employees worldwide, recognises Smith & Nephew believes that diversity fuels to create a more engaged and productive employees who deliver exceptional results innovation.
We are committed to employment workforce and focuses on measures to drive in line with our core values, encouraging practices based on equality of opportunity, employee engagement.
These include an innovation and a spirit of continuous regardless of colour, creed, race, national understanding of the Groups mission and improvement at all levels.
We are committed origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual direction, sense of employee involvement, to working with employees to develop orientation or mental or physical disability focus and adaptability to customers and each individuals talents, skills and abilities.
unrelated to the ability of the person to market place.
We continue to listen to our We provide encouragement to learn and perform the essential functions of the job.
employees, via regular surveys and focus continuously improve.
We recruit, employ groups, and we value their opinions.
In 2014, Smith & Nephew has a Human Resource and promote employees on the sole basis we conducted a Global Employee survey to Global Standard for diversity and inclusion in of the qualifications and abilities needed for measure progress against our actions and the workplace and is committed to creating the work to be performed.
We do not tolerate were named Great Place to Work in Spain.
an inclusive environment that embraces and discrimination on any grounds and provide promotes diversity.
equal opportunity based on merit.
Attracting the best talent and developing and engaging our employees are critical The Board and Executive officers continue We are committed to building diversity in a to achieving and sustaining our business to recognise the importance of diversity and working environment where there is mutual objectives and overall performance.
Employee over the last two years have expanded their trust and respect and where everyone advancement is merit-based, based on own diversity profile: three of our ten Board feels responsible for the performance and performance as well as demonstration of core members are female.
We are committed competencies which include our core values to providing healthy and safe working On 31 December 2014, Smith & Nephew had with an emphasis on ethics and integrity.
We conditions for all employees.
We achieve the following breakdown of employees: prioritise the development and promotion of this by ensuring that health and safety and our existing employees whenever possible.
the working environment are managed as 1 Number of Employees an integral part of the business, and we Each year, Smith & Nephew conducts a Board of recognise employee involvement as a key part comprehensive global development and Directors of that process.
capability review process to identify highpotential employees and ensure they have Male 7 We do not use any form of forced, compulsory robust career development plans.
We support the Universal Female 3 employees are provided with opportunities Declaration of Human Rights of the United to develop their skills and career through new Total 10 Nations.
This means we respect the human assignments and on the job experiences.
rights, dignity and privacy of the individual Current programmes include our Chief and the right of employees to freedom of 2 Executive Officer CEO Forum where small Senior Managers and above association, freedom of expression and the groups of high potential and emerging talent right to be heard.
Male 562 are given the opportunity to learn more about the business from the Companys Female 168 most senior leaders and to benefit from peer Total 730 mentorship and the annual Managing Directors Meeting where country and regional commercial leaders begin the year in Total employees alignment with the Groups strategy and goals.
In addition, the Board reviews succession Male 8,485 plans for key executive roles and succession Female 5,757 plans are in place for critical positions across our business.
Total 14,242 Our performance management process 1 Number of employees as at 31 December 2014 ensures all employees set objectives which including part time employees and employees on leave of absence.
align to our overall business goals and have 2 Senior Managers and above includes all employees clear line-of-sight to how their individual classed as Directors, senior Directors, Vice Presidents contributions benefit the Company.
Our and Executive officers and includes all statutory performance management system assesses Directors of our subsidiary companies.
and rewards both performance and behaviour, in line with our Code of Conduct.
All employees have a specific annual objective to adhere to the Code of Conduct and to complete training and certify their adherence to this Code.
