Operational review Flex-Tek Flex-Tek 50 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Gas transfer savings As US businesses increasingly switch from oil to cheaper natural gas, a Flex-Tek company has developed an advanced delivery hose for customers with no access to the gas network.
Titeflexs Virtual Pipeline Hose can withstand the immense pressure needed for transferring Compressed Natural Gas while its advanced polymer lining helps maintain flexibility in temperatures as low as -100F.
This allows the easy transfer of CNG from cylinder trucks to specialised off-loading stations at major customers such as hospitals, paper mills and asphalt plants.
The gas is then decompressed and heated for immediate use, providing savings of up to 40% on energy bills.
By spotting an opportunity in a promising market for a cleaner and less expensive fuel, we were able to work with customers to develop a hose application that fully matched the markets needs, explained product manager Joe Marinaccio, Titeflex.
Perry Dow, High Pressure Utility Operator, US Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 51 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review Flex-Tek Flex-Tek A global provider of engineered components that heat and move fluids and gases for the aerospace, medical, industrial, construction and domestic appliance markets.
Our flexible hosing and rigid tubing provide fluid management for fuel and hydraulic applications on Tedd Smith commercial and military aircraft, deliver fuel gas President, Flex-Tek and conditioned air in residential and commercial Revenue by sector buildings, and provide respiratory care for medical 1 Fluid Management 33% 2 Construction Products 30% applications.
Flex-Tek heating elements and thermal 3 Heat Solutions 23% systems improve the performance of a range of devices, 4 Flexible Solutions 14% from medical and diagnostic equipment to domestic appliances such as clothes tumble dryers and HVAC equipment.
4 1 Revenue performance Customers m We serve mainly aerospace engine 3 and airframe manufacturers, domestic 250m 1 % appliance manufacturers and the US construction industry.
Large customers 2 2014 250 include Boeing, Airbus, Pratt & Whitney, 2013 253 GE Aerospace, Whirlpool, Electrolux, Fluid Management 2012 233 Trane, and Carrier.
Our notable distributors in the US construction 2011 221 33% market include Ferguson and Watsco.
2010 212 Competitors Competitors for our Fluid Management Contribution to 2014 Group revenue business include specialty segments of Construction Products Parker-Hannifin, Eaton, and Kongsberg: as well as vertically integrated capacity 30% 9% from key customers.
Heat Solutions competitors in the US include: Zoppas, Contribution to 2014 Nibe, Watlow and Chromalox: and in Group headline operating profit China, Kawai and Dongfang manufacture Heat Solutions a wide variety of electric heaters.
Flex-Teks Construction Products 23% 9% compete with US manufacturers: Hitachi, Percentage relates to headline operating profit Atco, Omega-Flex, Hart & Cooley and before corporate costs Goodman.
Flexible Solutions competes globally with a number of smaller Flexible Solutions Principal operations regions privately owned businesses which Flex-Tek operations are mainly located in manufacture specialty hoses.
14% the US and Mexico with Asian operations Suppliers located in India, China, and Malaysia, Flex-Tek sources key raw materials and European facilities in France from world-class companies including andGermany.
electrical resistance wire from Sandvik, fibreglass insulation from Owens Corning, specialty plastic resins from DuPont and PolyOne, and stainless steel from Allegheny Ludlum.
Each of these supply chain partners is chosen based on its ability to provide exceptional quality, service and value.
52 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Markets and trends Heat Solutions Strategy Flex-Tek designs and manufactures As the worlds largest manufacturer of In Fluid Management we are focused on engineered components which heat and open coil heating elements, our products securing positions on the next-generation move fluids and gases for aerospace, serve customers that manufacture airframes and engines in order to support consumer products, construction, medical, tumble dryers, HVAC equipment, medical the delivery of the commercial aircraft and industrial applications.
The diverse devices, and bespoke applications.
Our Construction Products nature of these markets reduces FlexOurspecialised elements and thermal segment is positioned to continue to grow Teks reliance on any specific technology, systems provide consistent temperature revenue and market share in a recovering although the division is highly leveraged controls which improve system efficiency US housing market.
In Heat Solutions we to the US economy.
Revenue growth is driven are expanding our product portfolio and by the US appliance and housing market application range through new product Flex-Tek is organised under four marketdemands, along with an increasing number development.
We are also continuing to specific segments focusing on superior of specialty heating applications in North seek out strategic bolt-on acquisitions to technology and service: America and Asia.
support business development, through Fluid Management expansion of our product portfolio and Construction Products We are a market-leading manufacturer market share gains.
Quality, safety, Flex-Tek manufactures market-leading of specialty high-performance, flexible environmental impact reductions and flexible gas piping and HVAC flexible and rigid tubing assemblies for aerospace, people development provide the basis ducting for the US construction market.
industrial and automotive applications for sustainable growth.
Our customers are large national worldwide.
Our specialised tubing provides wholesale distributors in North America, Competitive strengths reliable and efficient delivery of hydraulic supplying both plumbing and HVAC Manufacturer of qualified components fluids and jet fuel for both commercial and tradesmen.
The recovering US housing for the aerospace industry military aircraft.
Automotive applications market is driving positive revenue and Largest supplier of open coil heating include petrol and brake fluid delivery market share gains.
elements worldwide in traditional automobiles as well as Leading manufacturer of flexible next-generation fuels for natural gas Flexible Solutions gas piping and HVAC ducting for and hydrogen-powered vehicles.
Flexible Solutions hose assemblies are US construction market focused into three distinct markets: The strong demand for more fuel-efficient, medical respiratory care, floorcare Growth drivers quieter commercial aircraft has driven the appliances, and industrial ventilation.
Leveraged to the improving US OEM backlog to an all-time high of over The business performance generally residential construction market 11,000 units this is equivalent to over follows macroeconomic indicators such as Strong backlog for commercial eight years of production and represents healthcare spending, US GDP, and capital aerospace customers a key growth driver for the business.
Smiths in the making 1938 Tutco was founded by the redoubtable Madeline Ma Tuttle as a manufacturer of automobile heating elements.
During World War II, it also supplied components for bomb racks on US warplanes to prevent icing at high altitudes.
Now central to Flex-Teks Heating Solutions business, Tutco is the worlds largest supplier of open coil heating elements.
They are found in countless applications: from refrigeration and HVAC to laboratory and vending equipment.
Tutco is not just about supplying customers.
We work as partners to provide engineering solutions to their particular requirements, said Director of Engineering, Brad Campbell.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 53 1938 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review Flex-Tek 2014 2013 Reported Underlying In Fluid Management, new product m m growth growth development spending continues to Revenue 250 253 1 % 3% be focused on requirements for the next generation of quieter, more fuel-efficient Headline operating profit 47 43 9% 14% Headline operating margin 18.9% 17.1% 180 bps aircraft, and developments in 3000 psi and 5000 psi hoses are expected to drive Statutory operating profit 37 36 Return on capital employed 34% 30.8% 320 bps futurerevenues.
We also continue to focus on opportunities Key operational highlights Sales of our flexible gas piping and HVAC to develop specialty heating elements that Margin improvement from efficiency ducting to the construction market rose 8%.
open up higher margin markets and create gains, pricing, and higher volumes Revenue growth benefitted from industry scope for additional revenue growth.
Successfully achieved qualification for consolidation among wholesalers and Outlook tubing on next-generation airframes and industry buying groups, as our customers Both the underlying aerospace market engines acquired competitors.
Increased volumes demand and increasing output rates of Improving ROCE supports continued are expected to improve operational the primary OEMs continue to be positive investment in the business efficiency, while the concentration of indications for the Fluid Management buying power will potentially intensify Performance business.
US residential housing numbers pricing pressure.
Our efforts to crossFlex-Tek revenues grew 3%, or 8m, are expected to show modest improvement, sell our ducting, flexible gas piping and on an underlying basis.
Reported revenue although higher interest rates, higher HVAC heating element product lines to was affected by 11m of foreign exchange home prices, and stricter lending practices the US distribution market continue to be translation which resulted in a decline could adversely affect anticipated growth.
successful as we gain market share.
Continued revenue Improved general economic conditions new sales efforts introducing our flexible growth from sales to the reviving US are expected to benefit the Heat Solutions gas piping into the UK market have met residential construction market and and Flexible Solutions growth in specialty early success, with plans for expansion.
growth of specialty heating elements applications, along with continued and flexible hoses formed the basis for Heat Solutions underlying revenue grew economic development in China.
Fluid Management 7% over the prior year, driven by a mix of Priorities for 2015 revenues declined 2% from last year, as sales growth in specialty heating elements Increased R&D investment in new demand on new engine platform awards and flat demand in the appliance sector.
products, technologies, and approvals was deferred into next year.
This segment Prices for nickel, the primary component Well positioned to meet opportunities also had some exposure to declines in in electrical heating elements, remained in the US residential construction market defence spending, and reduced trading in stable for the year.
Improved sales to Expansion of our manufacturing the power generation segment.
Headline distributors, via cross-selling efforts with resources to meet global aerospace operating margin rose 180 basis points to ducting and gas piping, countered lower demand 18.9% with increased volumes and positive revenue from OEM HVAC equipment mix from specialty application solutions.
Revenues from our custom Medium-term operating ranges The underlying increase in operating heating elements continue to grow and we Underlying growth: mid-single digits profit of 14% 6m stemmed from higher have increased our R&D investments in 3-6% volumes, pricing and the improved sales new technologies.
Sales in China exceeded Headline operating margin: margin .
last years results by almost 21%.
range 15-20% Return on capital employed rose to 34%, Underlying revenue at Flexible Solutions an increase of 320 basis points, on the back was flat, with higher sales for medical hose of the improved profitability.
products in the sleep apnoea market and sales growth in the US industrial market The difference between statutory and offset by continued market size reduction in headline operating profit principally reflects floor care.
Growth in specialty applications exceptional litigation costs of 10m.
and R&D investment in medical products In Fluid Management, the timing of initial continue to deliver positive results.
shipments to aerospace customers for Research and development awards on new platforms versus rampWe are seeing commercial success downs for existing engine platforms from our increased R&D investment for affected this years revenue, down 2%.
approvals on next-generation airplanes Underlying demand remains strong, with and new heating technologies.
We continue major airframe manufacturers Airbus and to seek acquisition opportunities that build Boeing and engine manufacturers Pratt on the strength of the businesses and the & Whitney, GE, and Rolls-Royce placing management team.
new orders which have pushed the large commercial jet backlog to record levels.
Our sales into automotive fuel and brake applications were up 21% over prior year.
com for more information 54 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Successful blend Flex-Tek has teamed up with two global companies to create a resistance wire alloy designed specifically for clothes dryer elements which rely on highacceleration heat transfer.
Its engineers worked with Swedish materials group Sandvik and Whirlpool, the US home appliance company, to develop the component which, though using 25% less nickel than normal, provides excellent corrosion resistance and heated mechanical strength.
Aside from its performance and durability, the new wire alloy is attractive to customers because it is less exposed to nickel prices which are normally both high and volatile, said Pat Lollar, Director of Technology at Tutco, the FlexTek company behind the breakthrough.
The product is due to go to market later this year.
Johnny Allison, R&D Lab Technician, US Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 55 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
