Litigation Titeflex Corporation litigation Smiths Group is committed to operating within the Titeflex Corporation, a subsidiary of law in all applicable jurisdictions, and seeks to benefit the Group in the Flex-Tek division, has received a number of claims in recent from the rights and protections afforded by relevant years from insurance companies seeking laws.
The Group aims to anticipate and meet the recompense on a subrogated basis for the effects of damage allegedly caused changing requirements of the markets it serves, by its flexible gas piping products being as legal and regulatory reforms impact those markets.
It has also received a number of product liability It acts to defend and, where appropriate, to assert its claims relating to this product, some in the legitimate interests.
form of purported class actions.
Titeflex Corporation believes that its products are a safe and effective means of delivering Litigation The litigation involves claims for a gas when installed in accordance with the Smiths Group faces different types of number of allegedly asbestos-related manufacturers instructions and local and litigation in different jurisdictions.
The high diseases, withawards, when made, for national codes: however some claims have level of activity in the US, for example, mesothelioma tending to be larger than been settled on an individual basis without exposes the Company to the likelihood of those for the other diseases.
JCIs ability to admission of liability.
various types of litigation commonplace in defend mesothelioma cases successfully is, that country, such as mass tort and class therefore, likely to have a significant impact At 31 July 2014, provision of 61m has been action litigation, legal challenges to the on its annual aggregate adverse judgment made for the costs which the Group expects scope and validity of patents and product and defence costs.
to incur in respect of these claims.
Because liability and insurance subrogation claims.
of the significant uncertainty associated JCI continues to actively monitor the These types of proceedings or the threat with the future level of claims and of the conduct and effect of its current and of them are also used to create pressure costs arising out of the related litigation, expected asbestos litigation, including the to encourage negotiated settlement of there is no guarantee that the assumptions efficacious presentation of its safe product disputes.
used to estimate the provision will result in defence, and intends to resist these an accurate prediction of the actual costs John Crane, Inc. litigation asbestos cases based on this defence.
John Crane, Inc. JCI, a subsidiary Approximately 235,000 claims against JCI of the Group, is currently one of many have been dismissed before trial over the co-defendants in litigation in the USA last 35 years.
JCI is currently a defendant relating to products previously in cases involving approximately 80,000 manufactured which contained asbestos.
Despite these large numbers of This litigation began more than 30 years claims, since the inception of litigation ago and, typically, involves claims for a JCI has had final judgments against it number of diseases including asbestosis, in 131 cases, and has had to pay awards lung cancer and mesothelioma.
The JCI amounting to approximately US $149m.
products generally referred to in these At 31 July 2014, the aggregate provision cases consist of industrial sealing for JCI asbestos litigation, including for products, primarily packing and gaskets.
adverse judgments and defence costs, The asbestos was encapsulated within amounted to 204m expressed at the these products in such a manner that, then current exchange rate.
In deciding according to tests conducted on behalf of upon the amount of the provision, JCI has JCI, the products were safe.
John Crane relied on independent expert advice from ceased manufacturing products containing a specialist.
Moreover, in establishing this asbestos in 1985. provision no account has been taken of any Read more in note 23 recoveries from insurers as their nature on pages 165-167 and timing are subject to pending litigation.
Because of the significant uncertainty associated with the future level of asbestos claims and of the costs arising out of the related litigation, there is no guarantee that the assumptions used to estimate the provision will result in an accurate prediction of the actual costs that may be incurred.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 59 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
