The investment case Smiths Group offers a clear proposition to investors.
We have a portfolio of fundamentally strong businesses, which gives us six key benefits: Strong market positions in sectors Leading-edge technologies and service Further scope for operational with long-term profitable growth levels that command high margins improvement and margin enhancement Our businesses are either market We stay at the forefront of technology Operational efficiencies will drive leaders or are well placed in attractive by understanding the needs of our our margins higher.
This allows us to benefit from customers and investing in research programme has already delivered the long-term growth drivers in their and development to meet those needs.
significant value, with more to come industries.
Across our portfolio, these Our technological strengths give us in the next two years.
growth drivers include: a competitive advantage and create We have invested to improve our systems, customer loyalty, enabling us to earn global demand for energy with enterprise resource planning attractive margins.
systems installed in Smiths Detection, healthcare needs of ageing populations Our businesses often provide significant Smiths Medical and John Crane.
Better threat of terrorism levels of aftermarket service and essential information enables us to leverage the consumables.
This helps us retain Groups scale and deliver further savings.
expansion of wireless communications customers and provide recurring income Portfolio profitability reviews are also aerospace demand as well as insight into customer needs.
US residential construction Read more on Read more on Read more on pages 10-11 and 26-55 pages 10-17 page 23 Opportunity to realise value through High returns on capital employed Strong cash generation to reinvest in portfolio management top-line growth and increase dividends We also assess portfolio management Our divisions generate attractive margins Closely managing our working capital opportunities where we see the potential and tend to specialise in small-batch, enables us to convert most of our to create a more focused portfolio through low-cost manufacturing.
As a result, operating profit into cash-flow.
Improved a targeted programme of acquisitions they have low capital intensity and deliver business data will continue to drive anddisposals.
returns above our weighted average cost cashgeneration.
We invest in business acquisitions to Our focus on cash ensures we have increase our exposure to attractive and We have opportunities to invest for growth the resources needed to reinvest in our adjacent growing sectors as well as to in our businesses to generate attractive businesses through targeted acquisitions, expand our current businesses.
incremental returns for our shareholders.
and in organic growth drivers such as We maintain a strong discipline to ensure product development, and sales and we make informed investment choices.
At the same time, it allows us to increase dividend payments to shareholders, whilemaintaining an efficient balance sheet and meeting the obligations of our legacy liabilities, such as pensions and product liability litigation.
Read more on Read more on Read more on pages 22-25 and 56, and in pages 14-15 and 20-21 pages 22-25 and 57 note 27 on page 169 and on page 170 Read more on pages 60-65 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 19 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
