Operational review Smiths Detection Smiths Detection 38 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Investing in growth Greater focus on the aftermarket is paying off for Smiths Detection by not only delivering revenue growth but also improving customer satisfaction and loyalty.
The recently opened Training & Service Center for the Americas has provided crucial support for aftermarket maintenance and support services, an increasingly important growth lever which now makes up about 30% of total revenues.
Our investment in this stateof-the-art facility is a good example of our long-term commitment to providing customers the best possible follow-up solutions, training and support, said Brian Bark, Vice President of Global Service.
In July 2014 a major four-year logistical support contract was signed to provide training, supplies, parts and services for X-ray and explosives trace systems in around 400 US airports.
John David Johnson, Training Instructor, US Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 39 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review Smiths Detection Smiths Detection A world-leading designer and manufacturer of sensors that detect and identify explosives, weapons, chemical agents, biohazards, nuclear & radioactive material, narcotics and contraband.
Our comprehensive range of detection technologies, including X-ray, trace detection and infra-red Richard Ingram spectroscopy help customers in the global President, Smiths Detection transportation, ports and borders, critical infrastructure, Revenue by sector military and emergency responder markets.
1 Transportation 51% 2 Ports and borders 15% 3 Military 12% Revenue performance Customers 4 Emergency responders 3% m A significant majority of sales 5 Critical infrastructure 19% are influenced by more than 100 512m 8 % governments and their agencies, including homeland security authorities, 2014 512 customs authorities, emergency 5 2013 559 responders and the military.
These 2012 519 include the US Department of 4 Defense, US Transportation Security 2011 510 1 Administration TSA, and the UK Ministry 3 2010 574 of Defence.
All US sales and support activities are controlled under a Special 2 Contribution to 2014 Security Agreement with the US Group revenue Department of Defense and managed by the operating subsidiary Smiths Transportation Detection Inc. to provide independent 17% oversight of the business, its classified 51% Contribution to 2014 contracts and work.
Group headline operating profit Competitors Smiths Detections exposure to the Ports and borders homeland security and defence sectors 5% brings it into competition with a wide 15% Percentage relates to headline operating profit range of companies in each end-use before corporate costs market.
Principal competitors include: Morpho air transportation, Rapiscan Principal operations regions air transportation, ports and borders, Our manufacturing centres are Military critical infrastructure, L-3 Security & concentrated in North America, Germany, Detection Systems air transportation, 12% France, Malaysia and the UK.
We sell Nuctech ports and borders, critical to over 180 countries around the world infrastructure, Astrophysics critical either direct or through third-party infrastructure, AS&E ports and borders, distributors.
Leidos air transportation, ports and Emergency borders, Chemring military, Bruker responders military, emergency responders, and Thermo Fisher military, emergency 3% responders.
Suppliers We are achieving increased synergies Critical across manufacturing sites and aligning infrastructure purchasing activity to ensure that we fully leverage the size of our business.
19% These developments are ongoing and take into account the requirement for local content from some of our major customers, as well as our stringent quality and delivery standards.
40 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Markets and trends In the ports and borders market, demand and has driven much of the Smiths Detection produces equipment for continuing globalisation of trade combined innovation in this market but future growth customers in the air transportation, ports with increasing regulatory standards will arise from increased procurement and borders, critical infrastructure, military will drive the growth in demand for in Asia Pacific, Middle East and other and emergency responders end-use security screening equipment.
markets, to help them assure the safety technologies are required to address Strategy and security of people and critical assets.
a variety of threats as governments Smiths Detection is focused on leveraging become increasingly concerned about the Demand for detection equipment is its technology leadership, the engineering smuggling of explosives, weapons and forecast to continue to grow at mid-single integrity of its equipment and its global radiological materials, while continuing to digits per annum over the near term, reach, to exceed the changing expectations recognise the strong revenue-generating driven by on-going geo-political unrest of customers.
The divisions product and potential from contraband detection.
and the resulting terrorist and criminal technology strategy directly supports its threats, but there is considerable variation The critical infrastructure market is large end-use market strategies and will be by geography and end-use market.
The but fragmented and unregulated.
Growth driven increasingly by greater customer growing installed equipment base creates in demand continues at more than 5% as insight, in order to satisfy customers significant opportunities for aftermarket public and private sector organisations current and future requirements.
Product service and support revenues.
seek to provide better protection for their development priorities remain competitive assets and staff.
As the market develops, differentiation and ease of installation, Regionally, the Americas remain the customers are increasingly demanding service and up-grade.
Better aftermarket principal source of demand but will products tailored to their specific needs: penetration to generate revenues, experience a lower annual growth rate smaller, lighter and considerably cheaper which help to smooth out the traditional than the Asia Pacific region, where demand equipment, which can fit into existing volatility of prime contracting, is being levels are expected to match those in the buildings and be operated by less successfullyachieved.
EMEA region within five years, fuelled wellqualified staff.
largely by the requirements of the critical Competitive strengths infrastructure and ports & borders sectors.
Global demand for chemical warfare agent Market leader with strong global brand Protection of military forces in Asia Pacific detection equipment and other threatOperates in several regulated markets is also expected to become a bigger factor, specific sensors required by the military that require product certification in response to rising local tensions.
is forecast to grow steadily.
It is driven Technologies leveraged across a broad by governments need to protect troops, range of markets and applications The heavily regulated air transportation equipment and infrastructure from threats, c. 30% of sales from aftermarket service sector is the largest market for the division.
irrespective of where they are deployed: in and growing Rising passenger volumes are resulting theatre: domestically: or held in readiness in new airport investment, especially in Growth drivers for rapid deployment.
In addition, new the Middle East and Southeast Asia.
This, Persistent and evolving terror threats equipment must be capable of detecting together with continuing security threats, a Changing security regulations for cargo a wider range of threats whilst becoming strong replacement cycle and globalisation and passengers smaller, lighter and more sensitive.
of trade, boosting air freight volumes, is Equipment replacement cycle typically expected to continue to support market Demand in the emergency responder 7-10 years growth.
There is additional focus on the end-use market, the smallest of the five New product and technology innovation efficiency and effectiveness of the screening key sectors for Smiths Detection, is driven benefitting mature markets processes based on the analysis of by customers needing to deploy equipment Growth of security infrastructure operational data, creating the requirement to detect and identify chemical releases in emerging markets for integration of aviation information as a consequence of both terrorist and systems with screening equipment.
The US dominates Smiths in the making 1997 The Detection business was born, almost by accident.
Graseby Dynamics, a niche player in chem-bio identification, was a small part of Graseby plc bought by Smiths to expand its medical portfolio.
Graseby Dynamics scientists had developed the IMS Ion Mobility Spectrometry technology used in chemical agent and trace detectors made by Barringer Instruments.
Barringer itself was bought just before the 9 11 terrorist attacks in 2001 and, as securityrelated demand surged, the subsequent purchase of X-ray scanner specialist Heimann established Smiths Detection as a world leader.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 41 1997 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review Smiths Detection 2014 2013 Reported Underlying The focus on price competitiveness has m m growth growth been partly driven by evidence of price Revenue 512 559 8 % 5 % deflation in some markets, notably for certain X-ray screening systems.
Among Headline operating profit 25 58 58 % 57 % Headline operating margin 4.8% 10.4% 560 bps our responses, we have implemented a number of value engineering projects, Statutory operating profit 23 52 Return on capital employed 3.9% 8.8% 490 bps not only to deliver savings in the design and manufacturing processes but also to enhance product appeal in key markets.
Key operational highlights programme delivery costs, working capital This will increase sales margins and drive Revenues declined 5% underlying in and restructuring.
The net impact of these long-term value from the portfolio.
tough trading environment movements was a 57% underlying decline Aftermarket revenues now more than in headline operating profit: margins fell Opportunities presented by higher growth 30% of sales 560 basis points to 4.8%.
economies are being vigorously pursued, Radical business improvement with China becoming a principal focus for The difference between statutory and programme instigated 2015, following the appointment of two headline operating profit includes new distributors.
The recent strengthening Performance exceptional restructuring costs 7m, of local support for Middle East sales is Revenue at Smiths Detection declined 5% gains on adjustment to deferred delivering results with new contract wins.
or 25m on an underlying basis against consideration 2m and profit on disposal a strong comparator period.
Return on capital Transportation revenue fell 5%underlying exchange translation had a further 22m declined 490 basis points to 3.9%, reflecting in the face of strong competitive activity impact, reducing reported revenues by the reduced profitability.
Detections in all regions and limited investment in 47m to 512m.
Customer budgets, notably operating environment has undergone new airports.
Major contracts included those of many national governments, major changes in the past five years with two orders from the US Transportation remained constrained, resulting in contracts becoming more programmeSecurity Administration, totalling almost aggressive pricing strategies by many based often requiring additional services $70m, for automatic explosives scanners direct competitors.
such as infrastructure enabling works and and a system to identify hazardous liquids networking.
We have been slow to adapt to in bottles.
In a tough trading environment, demand these changes but we have strengthened weakened in the transportation, ports and An underlying fall in revenues of 16% in the management team to address these borders, and military markets.
There was the ports and borders market reflected shortcomings.
Richard Ingram, the little compensating growth in the critical lower contract activity.
A review of the new divisional president, has a strong infrastructure and emergency responders product portfolio of high-value cargo background in programme management sectors which remained broadly flat.
X-ray scanners, under the Fuel for Growth and long experience of driving operational programme, will simplify the product In May we announced that, following improvements and manufacturing offering for a large majority of market an assessment of all major contracts efficiencies.
We expect that these initiatives opportunities.
and programmes, we had concluded a to tackle low-margin programmes and review of working capital requirements.
other ongoing productivity initiatives will Critical infrastructure, covering public and This review, combined with the adoption take another year to 18 months to commercial buildings and key installations, of new divisional policies, resulted in deliver results.
is both diverse and unregulated.
Underlying an additional charge of 15m for the revenues rose 11%, despite an increasingly Under Fuel for Growth, Smiths Detection associated adjustments to inventory and competitive environment.
During the year, we have also improvement programme towards the end An underlying fall of 10% in military sales incurred additional programme delivery of the period and has identified a number continued the trend of a variable annual costs of 8m for certain long-running of priority areas to stabilise and grow the cycle of activity in a largely contract-driven large contracts.
We also incurred a charge business.
It will deliver annual savings of sector.
The overall trend is downwards as of 7m in connection with price audits of some 14m at an expected total cost of pressure on government defence budgets overhead cost recovery charges associated 34m by the end of FY16 17.
Costs of 5m leads to fewer replacement programmes with certain historical supply agreements.
were incurred in the year.
for those long-term projects now coming Together, these have resulted in one-off to an end.
However, under the US JCAD costs in the year of 30m.
A reduction in the number of program for chemical agent detectors, manufacturing facilities is among the Profitability was also affected by volume a further $20m follow-on production early initiatives to cut costs and restore declines 8m, adverse price mix 8m order was received from the Department competitiveness.
During 2015, three sites and an increase in the level of expensed of Defense.
in North America will be closed and their research and development costs activities consolidated at existing facilities Across all sectors, aftermarket revenues 8m.
Together, these more than offset in the US and UK.
Production of small have delivered underlying growth of 10% operational efficiencies 7m.
Foreign X-ray systems at our Malaysia facility and now represent 30% of sales.
Planned exchange transaction losses totalled will be increased to exploit their existing business improvements will capitalise on 4m.
In the prior year, we also incurred manufacturing efficiencies.
the steady income potential of this activity, costs of 19m largely associated with in order to generate further growth.
42 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Research and development Following the launch of the HI-SCAN Priorities for 2015 Smiths Detection remains committed to 10080 XCT explosives detection system Restore competitiveness in core markets investing in the development of its main for hold baggage, after a three-year Streamline product development: technologies and new products, to maintain development programme, the first targeted R&D investment its competitive position, through investment contracts were received for installation Focus on growth markets which increasingly will be specifically in airports at Santiago, Bremen, and Deliver further growth in service targeted to support a streamlined product Marrakesh, Morocco.
Company-funded R&D was 37m Improve delivery, quality, and Outlook or 7.3% of revenue 2013: 36m or 6.5%.
responsiveness for greater customer The order book is at a similar level to last This includes 10m of capitalised projects satisfaction year which is expected deliver flat revenues 2013: 16m, which reduced from last year in the coming year, although we expect Medium-term operating ranges as the mix of projects changed with the a bias to the second half.
The trading Revenue growth: variable, averaging completion of developments such as the environment is still challenging: mid-single digits 4-6% HI-SCAN 10080 XCT.
In addition, customer government capital spending remains Headline operating margin: margin and government support for R&D totalled constrained and pricing is increasingly range 14-20% 4m in the period 2013: 6m.
Margins should improve ahead, we expect to focus our investment against a weak comparator.
Pricing more tightly on fewer projects, which will pressures are expected to be partially result in lower spend.
mitigated by the benefits of our recently Main developments in the period included announced productivity initiatives and the launch of a light vehicle scanner as other cost savings bear fruit over the for checkpoints and two new portable next 12-18 months.
identifiers, one for illicit drugs and the other to analyse explosive substances.
com for more information Delivering value Smiths Detection is exploring how Value Engineering five can improve its competitiveness in tough global markets.
A close review of cost-function relationships in the manufacture of one of its high-energy cargo scanners is helping deliver a product more closely aligned to market requirements, while achieving significant savings.
Several sub-systems have been integrated into one section for easier assembly: the range of models on offer is being halved: and the installation time has been cut by two-thirds.
The simplified design and configurations lead to shorter production schedules and lower installation and delivery costs, said Karen Jacques, Head of Value Engineering and Operations Strategy.
This particular example of five in action has resulted in potential six-figure savings on eachscanner.
Aboubacar Diarra, Assembly Expert, France Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 43 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
