Our geographic reach and end markets The Group has operations in more than 50 countries, with a network of dealers and distributors in many more.
North America accounts for half our revenue and we are investing to grow our presence in high-growth emerging markets.
We serve markets that are well positioned to deliver long-term profitable growth, as well as strong and stable cash-flows.
Group manufacturing and service locations Group revenue by destination 1 North America 50% 2 United Kingdom 4% 3 Europe other 20% 4 Rest of World 26% 4 1 3 2 Read more in note 1 US employees on page 138 8,300 Location of assets 1 North America 54% 2 United Kingdom 14% 3 Europe other 20% 4 Rest of World 12% Analysis excludes cash Countries with and cash equivalents direct operations 4 50 3 1 2 Smiths Group is investing to expand Revenue from emerging and its emerging market presence developed markets Smiths Group has grown its exposure to 1 High-growth emerging markets 16% high-growth emerging markets through a 2 Developed markets 84% targeted investment in sales and marketing capabilities over the past five years.
At 16% of Group revenue, our presence in these markets is not yet where we would like it to be and there are further opportunities 1 to expand our footprint.
John Crane has the highest proportion with some 22% of revenue in the emerging markets, building on a long-term presence in countries such as Brazil over 50 years and China around 30 years.
Smiths Medical has invested 2 to build its long-term position in these markets.
Smiths Interconnect and Smiths Detection have built their coverage through acquisitions over several years.
We will continue to seek opportunities to grow our share in these important markets.
10 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 We have strong and stable cash-flows Revenue from equipment sales driven by the high level of revenue from and aftermarket consumables aftermarket service and single-use 1 Equipment sales 52% consumables 2 Aftermarket consumables 48% We derive around half our revenue from servicing the aftermarket needs of our customers or supplying single-use consumables that are used as part of everyday processes.
For example, almost two-thirds of John Cranes revenues are from the aftermarket servicing of equipment, reflecting a very high capture 2 1 rate following the original sale to the original equipment manufacturers OEMs.
In Smiths Medical, over 80% of sales are from the supply of single-use consumables that may be used in conjunction with their hardware equipment such as an infusion pump or as part of everyday hospital procedures.
In Smiths Detection, around a third of revenues are from the supply of servicing and spares for their equipment.
As a result, Smiths Group generates strong and stable cash-flows.
Percentage of revenue from emerging markets 16% Countries our products and services reach 200 Smiths Group benefits from a wide range Revenue by end market 11 10 of end markets 1 Healthcare 28% 9 Our businesses are either market leaders 8 2 Oil, gas and petrochemical 19% in their sectors or are well placed in 1 3 Homeland security 15% 7 attractive niches.
These typically have 4 Industrial 12% 6 scope for long-term profitable growth with 5 Defence 6% strong growth drivers.
They include the 6 Aerospace, space 4% 5 demand for healthcare from increasing 7 Chemical and pharma 4% spend in emerging markets and ageing 8 T elecoms 3% populations in developed markets, the 9 Semiconductors, data centres 3% global demand for energy, security threats 10 US residential construction 3% and challenges, the expansion of wireless 11 Household appliances 3% 4 communications, the demand for new Industrial includes power generation, 2 fuel-efficient aircraft and the need for alternative energy, mining, test, rail and other general industrial applications new homes in the US.
3 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 11 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
