Operational review Smiths Interconnect Smiths Interconnect 44 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Cockpit connections The first Chinese-built commercial airliner, due in service from 2016, will feature ultra-high-speed data equipment using connectors developed by Smiths Interconnect to maximise performance of the new planes advanced digital cockpit systems.
COMAC Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China has designed its C919, a narrow-bodied jet that can carry 170 people, to compete with established aircraft giants like Boeing and Airbus.
It chose Smiths Interconnects Quadrax connectors, especially adapted for the C919, to secure data transfer for the airliners sophisticated array of cockpit video displays.
Mike Carlson, of Smiths Interconnect, explained: Our customer appreciates that we offer the utmost in high-speed connectors with superior mechanical robustness and exceptional electrical performance an entire interconnect system solution from box to box.
Kwang Kim, Senior Design Engineer, US Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 45 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review Smiths Interconnect Smiths Interconnect A recognised leader in technically differentiated electronic components and sub-systems providing signal, power and microwave solutions.
We design and manufacture products that connect, protect and control critical systems for the global data centre, wireless telecommunications, aerospace, Roland Carter defence, space, medical, rail, test and industrial Interim President, Smiths Interconnect markets.
Revenue by sector 1 Connectors 34% Our products are application-specific and incorporate 2 Microwave 45% 3 Power 21% innovative technologies to provide our customers with a competitive advantage.
Revenue performance Customers m Smiths Interconnect supplies to multiple levels of the supply chain and 3 445m 3 % its blue chip customers include prime 1 contractors and service providers, 2014 445 OEMs, system suppliers and sub-system 2013 461 manufacturers.
Amongst our largest 2012 449 customers are Raytheon, Finmeccanica, 2 BAE Systems, Boeing, EADS, AAI Textron, 2011 379 Northrop Grumman, General Dynamics, 2010 340 Lockheed Martin, Row 44, Ericsson, Connectors Motorola, AT&T, Verizon, Sprint, China Contribution to 2014 Mobile, Facebook, APC, Foxconn, GE Group revenue 34% Healthcare, Varian, Qualcomm, NVIDIA and Alstom.
15% Competitors Smiths Interconnect operates in Microwave Contribution to 2014 relatively fragmented markets with many Group headline operating profit small, medium and larger competitors 45% in various product and technology areas.
Connector competitors include 13% Amphenol, TE Connectivity, MultiTest Percentage relates to headline operating profit part of Xcerra, Yokowo, Glenair, ODU Power before corporate costs and Harting.
Microwave competes with, 21% amongst others, Anaren, KMW, Dover, Principal operations regions CommScope, Cobham, Honeywell and Smiths Interconnect operates globally Teledyne.
Emerson Network Power, and has locations in the US, Mexico, Costa Cyberex part of ABB, Eaton, Starline Rica, UK, France, Germany, Italy, Tunisia, part of Universal Electric, Huber & India, Singapore, China and Australia.
Suhner, Dehn Shne and Phoenix Contact offer competitive power management products.
Suppliers Smiths Interconnect maintains a strong supply base with machined parts and electronic components together representing approximately half of the total spend.
No individual supplier accounts for more than 4% of total purchased value.
46 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Markets and trends The commercial aerospace market remains of electronic devices, high rate of technology Smiths Interconnect comprises three strong, driven by increasing passenger and refresh, increased functionality and greater technology-focused business units: freight demand particularly in developing connectivity requirements are key drivers regions, and the need to upgrade fleets to for these markets.
Connectors provides application-specific, more efficient aircraft.
Smiths Interconnect high-reliability electrical interconnect Strategy provides connector and satellite solutions, from highly integrated Smiths Interconnect is continuing its communications antenna solutions for assemblies to microminiature connectors transition from lower-growth governmentvarious aircraft and space applications.
funded markets to higher-growth The wireless telecommunications commercial markets.
Investment in Microwave provides components, subinfrastructure market continues to be business development resources has assemblies and systems for defence, driven by network improvements and helped identify market opportunities aerospace, wireless telecommunications in-building capacity increases to enable and then meet these with innovative and electronic test applications.
higher data rates and bandwidth utilisation.
We leverage our Power provides distribution, conditioning, These support the proliferation of mobile strong technology and deep customer protection and monitoring solutions for data communication devices and their datarelationships facilitated by teams of highly centres, wireless communications and other intensive applications.
Diversified end critical or high-value electrical systems.
supplies niche, high-performance markets provide resilience, and we allocate microwave components used in cell sites resources to markets, customers and Smiths Interconnect addresses a variety of and in-building networks, as well as regions with the most attractive prospects, end markets, particularly defence, wireless products and test equipment that help particularly wireless telecommunications, telecommunications, data centres, test and optimise network performance, and protect data centres, test, commercial aerospace, measurement, and semiconductor test.
high-value infrastructure from lightning Asia and other emerging geographies.
Global defence spending is stabilising strikes and power surges.
Restructuring and efficiency initiatives, but likely to remain constrained as including lean and value engineering, Data centre demand is mainly influenced western governments maintain tight deliver the funds for investment as well as by internet traffic growth due to the control of their budgets.
Investment is the framework for our people strategy and expansion of web-enabled devices and expected to focus on system upgrades EHS commitments.
applications, virtualisation or cloud rather than new platforms.
Critical areas computing, and by industry-specific Competitive strengths such as intelligence, surveillance and regulatory drivers, for example in financial Innovative and technically differentiated reconnaissance ISR, improved battle services and healthcare.
Co-location data technologies space awareness and force protection centre providers have grown significantly Ultra-high reliability solutions used are likely to remain priorities.
Military as companies chose to outsource rather in demanding applications applications for Smiths Interconnect than fund large capital projects.
Smiths High degree of customer intimacy technology include unmanned aerial Interconnects conditioning, distribution, and product customisation systems UAS, next-generation ground protection and monitoring solutions ensure Addressing highly regulated markets vehicles, communications systems, power quality is delivered to sensitive IT with strong barriers to entry radars and electronic warfare systems, equipment and enable accurate monitoring surveillance systems and self-protection Growth drivers and metering, an increasingly important systems.
Our microwave technology, Proliferation of electronic devices issue as electricity costs increase.
ruggedised connectors and EMP protection Demand for greater connectivity solutions are deployed in the most extreme Smiths Interconnect provides connector and Growth in high data rate applications environments, such as enabling sensor and cable assembly solutions to semiconductor Increasing sophistication of customer communications systems and protecting test and test and measurement needs in emerging markets military personnel in combat zones.
The continued proliferation Smiths in the making 1995 The rights to hyperboloid technology were acquired outright, its revolutionary design ideal for enabling connectors to achieve demanding electrical standards in harsh environments.
The tightness of the socket contact is formed by hyperbolically arranged wires encasing a pin when mated.
The mesh ensures a robust link suited to functions with high connect-disconnect repetition and zero failure tolerance.
Now a crucial component for the medical, defence and commercial aerospace industries, this connector is a cornerstone technology of Smiths Interconnect.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 47 1995 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review Smiths Interconnect 2014 2013 Reported Underlying previous year, effectively choking the m m growth growth supply chain.
However, project wins for Revenue 445 461 3 % 1% our Busway products in international markets such as India and Brazil offset Headline operating profit 71 69 4% 9% Headline operating margin 16.0% 14.9% 110 bps the US softness to provide overall growth in the global data centre market.
Statutory operating profit 49 49 Return on capital employed 13.7% 12.4% 130 bps Furthermore, Power was selected to provide equipment for a large new US government data centre project and there Key operational highlights application: and a high-speed connector are early signs of an increase in build Strong H2 performance delivers modest being used on a Chinese commercial rates of enterprise data centres.
Revenues full-year revenue growth aerospace project.
Geographically, we into the industrial market also increased Microwave benefitting from focus on continued to build our capabilities in Asia primarily due to a significant contract commercial markets by adding resources and establishing for furnace power controllers for LED Investment in new products up 5% an entity in Singapore to provide local crystal growth applications.
Demand for Emerging markets sales up 15% customer service and engineering support.
our power protection products remained underlying, comprising 18% of total Operationally, Connectors significantly weak mainly because changes in our core Margins up 110 bps on productivity gains reduced manufacturing in California and wireless telecoms market reduced the the UK as part of the ongoing process of Performance need for our technology.
Consequently, we consolidating production capabilities.
Reported revenue declined 3%, or 16m, exited the commoditised Chinese market, due mainly to a 20m foreign exchange In Microwave, a similar but more restructured our local presence into a headwind and a minor divestment 2m.
pronounced story of growth in commercial low cost manufacturing facility servicing Excluding these, underlying revenue rose markets and contraction in defence export markets, and we are closing our 1%, or 6m.
Strong performance in the markets delivered underlying revenue Bangalore facility.
Although military sales Microwave business in the second half, growth of 5%.
Lower defence budgets and of EMP electromagnetic pulse protection particularly in commercial markets, the US withdrawal from Afghanistan cut products also declined in the year, there offset a modest decline in Connectors.
demand for some of our products including are signs of a potential uptick as the US Power was flat.
unmanned aerial vehicle datalinks and Department of Defense appears to be ground vehicle self-protection radar expanding the assets requiring protection Reported headline operating profit systems.
After appropriate restructuring to include ground vehicles, aircraft and increased 4%, or 2m despite a foreign measures were taken, our defence helicopters.
In addition, new potential exchange hit of 3m.
Underlying headline businesses have now stabilised.
We markets for EMP or GMD geomagnetic operating profit grew by 9% or 5m.
continue to support several ongoing disturbance protections such as utilities, The difference between statutory defence programmes that are less data centres and financial institutions are and headline operating profit reflects susceptible to budget changes whilst under discussion.
amortisation of acquired intangible assets also focusing on redirecting resources Research and development of 17m and exceptional restructuring to commercial applications and the Total R&D of 27m increased as a costs of 5m.
more strategically important sectors proportion of revenue by 40 basis points within defence such as ISR Intelligence, Margins grew in all three business to 6.1%.
Company-funded R&D of 24m Surveillance, and Reconnaissance.
In units contributing to a 110 basis points or 5.3% of revenue increased 5% on commercial aerospace sales declined improvement for the division.
New investment as the primary customer for our current benefits came from improvements in was targeted towards higher growth airborne antenna system did not secure any productivity, restructuring, increased opportunities in commercial markets.
However we volumes and procurement savings.
Connectors projects include new continue to pursue new opportunities with Collectively these more than offset technology and products for medical, alternative customers and next-generation pricing pressure and labour inflation, aerospace and oil and gas applications.
In wireless and supported continued reinvestment in In Microwave, the focus has remained on telecoms, the combination of new products growth enablers, particularly new product enhancing the features and capabilities of and healthy demand drove exceptional development and geographic expansion our market-leading PIM test equipment growth.
There was strong global demand within Connectors.
and next-generation airborne satellite for the next-generation version of our communication antenna systems.
Return on capital improved by 130 basis PIM passive intermodulation test Recognising the trend towards higher points to 13.7%, mostly driven by the equipment, particularly from US operators density data centres, Power extended its increase in profitability.
to support long-term evolution LTE Busway and static transfer switch product network build-outs.
Sales of our Lab-Flex The Connectors business unit continued lines with higher power variants and also high-performance cable assemblies also to face tough market conditions in launched JCOMM, a new branch circuit increased significantly, with the highest Western Europe and the Americas with monitoring system that provides greater demand in production test applications continued delays and cancellations of functionality, increases safety and reduces for wireless devices such as smartphones major defence projects, particularly the installation time.
This Customer-funded R&D increased 30% led to a decline in underlying revenue of Underlying revenue in Power was flat as to 3m, with funding for next-generation 2%.
A focus on commercial markets such modest growth in the second half offset defence projects including ground-based as aerospace, medical and semiconductor the first half small decline.
US data centre satellite communications terminals and test provided pockets of growth.
Several demand slowed as co-location providers enhanced visual situational awareness new products performed well, including cut spending to enable customer demand systems for helicopters.
an ultra-fine pitch socket for testing to catch up with capacity built out in the semiconductor chips used in gaming and The vitality index, the proportion of revenue networking applications: a spring probefrom products developed in the last three based connector for a disposable catheter years, was maintained at over 30%.
48 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Outlook Priorities for 2015 The defence market has stabilised but is Continued focus on commercial market expected to continue to be challenged by opportunities constrained budgets.
Sustained growth International expansion, particularly is expected in commercial markets, Asia particularly semiconductor, wireless Further investment in new product telecoms and data centres but at lower launches targeted at higher growth rates as certain projects in the second and nascent segments half will not carry over.
The drive towards Improve cost base through further site emerging markets, especially Asia, will rationalisation, quality improvements continue and is likely to support modest and value engineering overall growth.
Investments to support Medium-term operating ranges long-term growth are expected to Underlying growth: low to mid-single suppress margins, but on an underlying digits 3-5% basis margins should remain steady as Headline operating margin: improving ongoing and new productivity initiatives are margin trend over the medium term expected to offset pricing and inflationary 16-18% pressures.
Normal seasonality in certain markets and the timing of benefits from investments will again bias performance towards the second half.
com for more information Testing excellence Feature-rich wireless devices like smartphones, tablets and wearable technology are fundamentally changing the way we work, play and communicate.
Our apparently insatiable appetite for constant connectivity in turn drives demand for test equipment that should be just as robust and reliable as the products they are trusted to evaluate.
Smiths Interconnects suite of Lab-Flex high-performance test cable assemblies meets that challenge in a range of ways.
The proprietary designs, which preserve signal strength and boast an extremely high-frequency response, also use stainless steel connectors and solder sleeves.
This ensures an exceptionally strong cable-to-connector termination, minimising irregular electrical performance and maximising the physical strength of the connection.
These features, combined with a flexible business model, mean our customers can test millions of wireless devices as quickly as possible and so gain competitive advantage through early delivery to market, explained Brian DuPell of Smiths Interconnect.
Wendy Calderon, Production Operator, Costa Rica Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 49 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
