Managing risk in delivering our strategy Our bottom-up divisional approach Smiths Group is exposed to a wide range of risks in involves the identification, management running its businesses.
We regularly review these risks and monitoring of the material risks in each of our divisions.
Each division is required and ensure we have the appropriate processes and to maintain risk registers and monitor policies for managing them.
their significant risks on an ongoing basis.
Eachdivision attends one Audit Committee Our approach to risk governance Our approach to risk management a year, to explain and discuss the inherent Smiths Group is exposed to a wide range In delivering our strategy, it is important risks and challenges faced by the division.
of risks in running its businesses.
The that we understand and manage the risks Additionally, the strategic risks are Company and its divisions consider these that face us.
We achieve this through our further debated at the divisional strategy risks on a regular basis and seek to put embedded risk management approach, presentations which are made annually in place appropriate risk management combining a top-down strategic view of to the Group Board.
The divisions are also processes, policies and other measures, risks with a bottom-up divisional process.
required to provide an update regarding including insurance where appropriate.
their risk mitigation actions at the Quarterly Our top-down approach involves a review of Business Reviews held with the Chief The Board has overall responsibility the external and internal environment, and Executive and Finance Director.
for our risk management policies and an assessment by the Executive Committee ensuring we have an effective system This dual process provides a framework regarding the key risks that face Smiths of internal control.
This review is formalised twice a such that the Groups strategic, financial and operational risks are adequately for identifying, evaluating and managing year.
A risk owner is assigned to each risk significant business risks is reviewed by with the responsibility to monitor the risk considered and discussed by the Executive Committee and the Board.
the Audit Committee and monitored by and ensure the agreed mitigation actions the Group Internal Audit Department.
There can be no assurance that our An outline of this years review process These Group-wide risks are categorised approach to risk management will be by the Board and Audit Committee is set as either: effective in any particular case.
If any of the out on pages 83 to 89.
A description of risks which we identify, or other unforeseen the Companys internal controls and risk Major business challenges risks, materialise, they could have a management processes is given in the Risks caused by uncontrollable significant adverse effect not only on our Corporate Governance statement on external factors business and financial condition but also on pages 83 to 84. our reputation and the trading prices and Other risks liquidity of our securities.
This could lead to A summary of these Group-wide risks is a loss for investors of part of or, in a worst presented for discussion at the July Board case scenario, all of their investment.
In reviewing the major risks, the Board determines the level of risk which we are prepared to accept in the pursuit of our business goals this is our risk tolerance.
Where the risk impact is greater than that which we are prepared to accept, further mitigation actions are agreed to reduce the potential impact.
Where further mitigation actions are not possible or are considered to be cost prohibitive, the risk isclosely monitored.
60 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Our Group-wide risks as assessed by the Board Risks caused by uncontrollable external factors Economic outlook and geo-political environment Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium The Group operates in more than 50 countries and is affected The Group has a diversified portfolio by global economic conditions, particularly in the US and Europe.
of businesses that mitigates exposure Our business is also affected by government spending priorities and to any one country or sector.
the willingness of governments to commit substantial resources to Trend The divisions regularly monitor their homeland security and defence.
No change order flows and other leading indicators, While current global economic and financial market conditions where available, so that they may have stabilised due largely to the impact of quantitative easing, respond quickly to deteriorating trading tapering or other reduction in such activity may cause increased conditions.
volatility and uncertainty about inflation, interest rates, exchange In the event of a significant economic rates and investment levels.
Equally there is a risk of asset bubbles downturn, there may be opportunities developing and impacting investor confidence and bank lending.
to identify and implement cost-reduction These factors may affect the Groups operational performance measures to offset the impact on and financial condition.
Adverse economic and financial market margins from deteriorating sales.
conditions may cause our customers to terminate existing orders, to reduce their purchases, or to be unable to meet their obligations to pay outstanding debts to the Group.
These market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to the Group or to change the credit terms they extend to us.
The risk of a Eurozone break-up has reduced over the past twelve months, although there is increasing potential that the UK may leave the EU, which may have policy and economic considerations.
Ongoing geo-political unrest in areas such as the Middle East, Ukraine and Russia may also affect the Groups supply chain and customers.
Compliance with legislation and regulations Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Low to medium There is a risk that the Group may not always be in complete Environmental, health and safety data compliance with laws, regulations or permits, for example are reported to the Quarterly Business concerning environmental or safety requirements.
The Group Reviews, Executive Committee and the could be held responsible for liabilities and consequences arising Board, along with actions to improve Trend from past or future environmental damage, including potentially performance over time.
No change significant remedial costs.
There can also be no assurance that any Smiths Medical has dedicated staff who provisions for expected environmental liabilities and remediation maintain close contact with the US Food costs will adequately cover these liabilities or costs.
and Drug Administration and other key The Group operates in highly regulated sectors.
Smiths Interconnect and Smiths Medical are particularly subject to All divisions have trade compliance regulation, with certain customers, regulators or other enforcement advice and training.
This includes bodies routinely inspecting the Groups practices, processes and training on the Groups Code of Business premises.
Ethics and assessments to support Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect manufacture security compliance.
products and components, which are subject to numerous export Divisional and Group General Counsel controls, technology licensing and other government regulations.
monitor legislative changes assisted by In addition, new legislation, regulations or certification requirements Government Relations staff and report may require additional expense, restrict commercial flexibility and monitor actions as necessary.
This and business strategies or introduce additional liabilities for the may require modifications to our supply Company or directors.
There also appears to be a growing trend chains and customer arrangements.
for legislation that could be described as protectionist, which may affect our businesses.
Should a regulators approval process take a particularly long time, our products may be delayed in getting to market, which could lead to a loss of revenue or benefit a competitor with a similar product.
Corruption on the part of a single employee can entail severe consequences for the Group.
Failure to comply with certain regulations may result in significant financial penalties, debarment from government contracts and or reputational damage.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 61 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Managing risk in delivering our strategy Continued Risks caused by uncontrollable external factors Pension funding Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation High At 31 July 2014, the Group has legacy defined benefit pension plans, All major schemes US UK have been with aggregate liabilities of around 4bn on an accounting basis.
Changes in discount rates, inflation, asset returns or mortality Agreed funding plans are in place Trend assumptions could lead to a materially higher deficit.
For example, with the major UK schemes following Reduced slightly the cost of a buyout on a discontinued basis, and therefore using the last triennial reviews.
The Group more conservative assumptions, is likely to be significantly higher seeks a good working relationship with than the accounting deficit.
In addition, there is a risk that the plans the trustees through regular update assets, such as investments in equity and debt securities, will not be meetings.
sufficient to cover the value of those benefits.
There are plans in place to reduce the The implications of a higher pension deficit include a direct mismatch between assets classes and impact on valuation, credit rating and potential additional funding liabilities, as relative outperformance of requirements at subsequent triennial reviews.
However, following the assets versus liabilities is achieved, the 2012 triennial review, cash payments to the principal UK pension although there is no downside protection schemes remained at the levels agreed in the 2009 review.
in place should this not occur.
In the event of a major disposal that generates significant cash Pension matters are regularly reported proceeds that are returned to shareholders, the Group may be to the Board.
required to make additional cash payments to the schemes or Read more in note 9 provide additional security.
on pages 145-150 Financial risks foreign exchange, funding, tax and insurance Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium Foreign exchange: Exchange rate fluctuations have had, and Foreign exchange: The Groups hedging could continue to have, a material impact on the reported results.
strategy, whereby larger transactions The Group is exposed to two types of currency risk: transaction and are hedge accounted, mitigates the translation.
The Groups reported results will fluctuate as average risk to profitability to some extent.
Net Trend exchange rates change.
The Groups reported net assets will investment hedging of overseas assets No change fluctuate as the year-end exchange rate changes.
of approximately 50% through borrowing in non-sterling currencies mitigates the Funding: The Groups ability to refinance its borrowings in the impact of exchange rate fluctuations bank or capital markets is dependent on market conditions and the onnet assets.
proper functioning of financial markets.
The Group may be unable to refinance its debt when due.
Funding: The Groups debt maturity is staggered so that the refinancing risk is Tax: The Groups future profitability, particularly in the US where minimised.
As at 31 July 2014, US$620m there are higher rates of corporation tax, may cause the headline of an US$800m committed revolving tax rate to increase over time.
Changes in tax and fiscal regulations credit facility was undrawn.
and transfer pricing rules in the countries in which we operate could affect the Group, particularly at times when public sector Tax: The Groups taxation staff codebt is high.
Taxation costs could rise and earnings per share could ordinate tax management to mitigate deteriorate, which could affect the Groups market valuation.
possible increases in the effective tax rate.
Regular reporting to the Board of Insurance: The Group cannot be certain that it will be able to obtain tax risks and exposures provides good insurance on acceptable terms or at all.
Furthermore, the Group visibility of issues.
cannot be certain that its insurance will cover losses arising from events or that insurers will not dispute coverage.
In addition, even if Insurance: Insurance risk is spread our coverage is sufficient, the insurance industry is subject to credit across a number of carriers to risk, particularly in the event of a catastrophe or where an insurer minimise individual insured risk has substantial exposure to a specific risk.
If insurance cover is and counterpartyrisk.
inadequate or does not pay out as expected, the Group could be exposed to an unexpected material cash outflow, which may impact Read more on page 58 on the Groups liquidity and or share price.
62 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Business challenges thematic risks Product liability and litigation Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium In the ordinary course of its business, the Group is subject to Quality assurance processes are litigation such as product liability claims and lawsuits, including embedded in our manufacturing potential class actions, alleging that the Groups products have locations for critical equipment, resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury.
In addition, supporting compliance with Trend manufacturing flaws, component failures or design defects could industryregulations.
No change require us to recall products.
Many of our products are used in A global best practice programme is critical applications where the consequences of a failure could be continuing to enhance product quality extremely serious and, in some cases, potentially catastrophic.
This is Products sold to the aviation, security, healthcare, energy and sponsored by the Executive Committee consumer domestic industries are particularly critical in nature.
and leverages the ongoing work in Smiths Medical and John Crane.
Furthermore, over half the Groups sales are in the US, where there is potentially increased litigation risk.
The divisions have procedures for dealing with product liability issues Any liability claim against the Group, with or without merit, could and potential product recalls.
These be costly to defend and could increase our insurance premiums.
procedures are informed by crisis Some claims might not be covered by our insurance policies, either management planning workshops adequately or at all.
An adverse event involving one of our products andrehearsals.
could damage our reputation and reduce market acceptance and The Group has insurance cover demand for all of our products.
for certain product liability risks.
The US Safety Act provides legislative protection for certain Smiths Detection products in the US: and we support efforts to implement similar legislation in other markets.
Any litigation is managed under the supervision of the Groups legal function.
We have detailed action plans to manage actual or threatened litigation.
Read more on page 59 and in note 23 on pages 165-167 Global supply chain and business process transformation Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium The Groups business depends on the availability and timely delivery Business continuity and disaster of raw materials and purchased components, and could be affected recovery plans are in place and tested by a disruption to its supply chain.
In particular, we rely on sole for critical locations, to reduce the suppliers to provide raw materials or components for some impact of an event.
Slightly higher Single-source supplier risks are The Groups manufacturing facilities are exposed to a number of identified and, where possible, key natural catastrophe risks, which, like other external events such materials or components are dual as terrorist attacks or a disease pandemic, could have significant sourced to mitigate the impact of adverse consequences.
The Group is also affected by the social, anevent.
economic, regulatory and political conditions in the countries where The Group regularly evaluates its key it operates, which are often unpredictable and outside its control, sites for a range of risk factors using particularly in developing countries.
externally benchmarked assessments, The concentration of manufacturing in lower cost countries, in and takes action to improve these particular in Mexico and China, increases the length of the supply ratings, where appropriate.
chain and means that an adverse event could have more significant The Group has business interruption consequences for our ability to supply customers on time.
longer supply chain also affects transport costs, which could be exacerbated by energy cost inflation.
Transformation programme and project management is in place in John Crane, As part of the Fuel for Growth initiative, there are significant Smiths Medical, Smiths Detection and restructuring and reorganisation initiatives underway across Smiths Interconnect.
These include site rationalisation and consolidation of manufacturing.
There is a risk that these initiatives could cause All transformation projects are approved disruption to the business, including manufacturing processes, by the Group Chief Executive and Finance supply chain, fulfilment of customer demand, and business systems Director.
We are experienced in driving and processes, or lead to industrial action.
change programmes and all projects are subject to ongoing monitoring at Group and divisional levels.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 63 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Managing risk in delivering our strategy Continued Business challenges thematic risks Government customers Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation High We derive a significant proportion of our revenues in mature The Group has a diversified portfolio Western economies and some 35% of the Groups revenues are of businesses that mitigates exposure directly related to government spend.
Additionally, a high proportion to any one country or sector.
of our products and services are in some way influenced by Trend Some of our government-related government regulation and certification.
No change business has a services or consumables Smiths Detection, Smiths Medical and Smiths Interconnect component, which can be more resilient frequently tender for government contracts.
The timing of contract during an economic downturn.
awards and payments under these contracts may be uncertain The Group has a government relations and uneven over a given financial year.
function so that it can inform policy Any significant disruption or deterioration in relationship with these and maintain close relationships governments could result in fewer contracts and lower revenues.
At a time when government finances are under pressure, these headwinds may lead to slower growth across the business.
Adecrease in spending by key government customers could materially affect the Groups results and financial condition.
Delays in awarding government contracts can affect the Groups sales, margins and cash conversion in a particular reporting period.
Technology and innovation Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium Developing new products and improving existing products is critical The Group has a diversified to our business and competitors may innovate more effectively.
technology portfolio in a range The emergence of a disruptive technology could have an impact of sectors and geographies.
on a major cash-flow contributor to the Group over time.
Trend Our continued investment in R&D No change The speed of innovation in certain markets may lead to shorter supports new product and service product lifecycles, increasing the need for innovation.
There is an increased the entry of new competitors, the consolidation of existing focus on new product development competitors and changed or irrational competitor behaviour processes across the Group.
could all significantly affect the Groups business.
The Group looks to expand the The failure of the Group to develop its products and services, or more addressable markets of its key effective innovation by a competitor, could have a materially adverse businesses by building capabilities effect on sales growth.
in adjacent markets, through organic investment and targeted acquisitions.
Talent and succession planning Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium The loss of key personnel, or the failure to plan adequately for Each division or function holds talent succession or develop new talent may impact the reputation of and succession plan reviews at least the Group, or lead to a disruption in the leadership of the business.
These plans are reviewed by the Nomination Committee.
Trend Competition for personnel is intense and the Group may not be No change successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, particularly Remuneration packages, including engineering professionals.
In addition, certain personnel may be variable and long-term elements required to receive security clearance and substantial training of the compensation arrangements, to work on certain programmes.
The loss of key employees, the are evaluated regularly against Groups inability to attract new or adequately trained employees, market practice.
or a delay in hiring key personnel, could seriously harm the The Chief Executive assesses, Groups business.
on an annual basis, the Top 25 people Over time, our competitive advantage is defined by the quality of in the organisation for performance, our people should we fail to attract, develop and retain key talent, skills and competencies and presents in time our competitive advantage will erode, leading to weaker development and succession plans growth potential or returns.
Two leadership development programmes and formal career counselling support the talent pipeline.
Read more on pages 20-24 and 70-71 64 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Business challenges thematic risks Programme delivery Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium to high Failure to deliver, in a timely fashion or at all, the products Contracts are managed and delivered and services Smiths is obliged to deliver, or any fault in contract by programme management teams that execution due to delays or breaches by its suppliers or other regularly review contract risks and take counterparties, may lead to higher costs, liquidated damages appropriate action.
Higher A new Group-level procedure has Differences between the estimated costs in Smiths mediumand been implemented for reviewing and long-term contracts and actual costs may arise from a number of approving high-risk contracts.
factors including production delays, cost overruns and other items.
Divisional boards review significant Certain of Smiths contracts, particularly those with governments, contracts.
may include terms that provide for unlimited liabilities on Smiths The diversified nature of the Group part or allow the government body or counterparty to terminate mitigates the exposure to any single unilaterally, reduce or modify the relevant contracts or seek contract.
alternative sources of supply at Smiths expense.
Acquisitions and disposals Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Low to medium Targeted acquisitions and selected disposals form part of the The Executive Committee and Board Groups growth strategy.
The success of our acquisition strategy review the acquisition pipeline.
There depends on identifying targets, obtaining authorisations and are monthly reviews with strategy leads having the necessary financing.
Even if an acquisition is completed, for each division.
Trend the acquired products and technologies may not be successful No change We perform comprehensive strategic or may require significantly greater resources and investment and financial reviews of all opportunities.
Detailed due diligence including an The Group may not be able to integrate the businesses that it assessment of the targets talent and acquires.
If integration is unsuccessful, anticipated benefits are not competencies and integration work is realised or trading by acquired businesses falls below expectations, undertaken and reviewed in accordance it may be necessary to impair the carrying value of these assets.
In recent years, the Group has disposed of a number of businesses, The Board only authorises acquisitions including its Aerospace operations, where it has given indemnities, after completion of due diligence, and warranties and guarantees to counterparties.
The Group is approval is subject to meeting the capital also party to a number of contracts relating to formerly owned allocation and other financial hurdles businesses which it has not yet novated to the purchasers of set by the Board.
The Board regularly these businesses.
reviews post-acquisition performance The Groups return on capital employed may fall if acquisition hurdle and integration.
The Groups financial performance may suffer On disposals, the Group seeks to from goodwill or other acquisition-related impairment charges.
minimise its exposure to indemnities Insufficient allowance for indemnities and warranties given at and warranties and any that are provided disposal may affect our financial position.
are reviewed on a regular basis.
Information technology and cyber-security Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium to high The Groups information systems, personnel and facilities are Extensive controls and reviews are subject to security risk.
The Group is dependent on information undertaken to maintain the integrity and technology systems for both internal and external communications efficiency of IT infrastructure and data.
and for the day-to-day management of its operations.
The incidence Trend There are also processes to deal of cyber-security crime is on the rise and some Smiths Group Higher with significant IT security incidents.
companies operate in sectors where cyber-criminals are active.
A Group-wide information security Any disruption to the information systems could have significant awareness programme has been adverse consequences for the Groups operations or its ability to launched.
It could result in the loss of confidential information and intellectual property, which could affect the Groups competitive position and cause reputational damage.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 65 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
