Board of directors Sir George Buckley Philip Bowman Peter Turner Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Aged 67, Sir George Buckley joined the Aged 61, Philip Bowman is Australian Aged 44, Peter Turner is British with a BA Board on 1 August 2013 as a non-executive with an MA in Natural Sciences.
He has in Natural Science Chemistry.
He qualified director and Deputy Chairman and extensive experience of leadership at major as a Chartered Accountant whilst working succeeded Donald Brydon as Chairman on international public companies and was for .
He became Donalds planned retirement at the close of appointed Chief Executive of Smiths Group Finance Director of Smiths Group in 2010. the AGM on 19 November 2013.
Strengths and experience both the UK and US, Sir George has a PhD Strengths and experience Peter joined Smiths Group from the in Electrical Engineering.
Philip was previously Chief Executive of independent oil company, Venture Strengths and experience Scottish Power plc and Allied Domecq plc.
Production plc, where he was the Finance Sir George retired in 2012 as Chairman and He also held non-executive directorships Director.
He previously held a number of CEO of 3M, the US-based global technology at British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, senior finance posts at the global gases company and Dow Jones 30 component, Scottish and Newcastle Group plc and group, BOC Group plc, including Director after a long and successful business career Coles Myer Limited as well as having of Taxation and Treasury and Finance spent mainly in the United States.
He was been Chairman of Liberty plc and Coral Director of the Groups largest division.
previously Chairman and CEO of Brunswick Eurobet plc.
His earlier career included Peter has wide knowledge and experience Corporation and Chief Technology Officer five years as a director of Bass plc, where of multinational operations, including the at Emerson Electric Company.
Sir Georges he held the roles of Chief Financial Officer oil and gas sector.
expertise in engineering and innovation, and subsequently Chief Executive of combined with his extensive experience BassTaverns.
of multi-industry businesses that operate External appointments in global markets, are of huge benefit Senior Independent Director and toSmiths.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee membership of Burberry Group plc Nomination Committee Non-executive director of Better Capital Remuneration Committee PCC Limited External appointments Chairman of The Miller Group Chairman of Ownership Capital UK Limited and Chairman of its Remuneration Committee and a member Chairman of Arle Capital of its Audit Committee Non-executive director of Hitachi, Ltd. Non-executive director of PepsiCo Non-executive director of Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. 74 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Bruno Angelici David Challen, CBE Tanya Fratto Non-executive director Senior Independent Director Non-executive director Aged 67, Bruno Angelici is French with an Aged 71, David Challen CBE was appointed Aged 53, Tanya Fratto was appointed MBA Kellogg School of Management and to the Board in 2004.
He is British with a BA to the Board in 2012.
An American, Business and Law degrees from Reims.
in Mathematics, a BSc in Natural Science she is a qualified electrical engineer He was appointed to the Board in 2010.
Physics and an MBA from Harvard.
with a BSc in Electrical Engineering.
Strengths and experience Strengths and experience Strengths and experience Brunos career includes senior David had a long and distinguished career Tanya was CEO of Diamond Innovations management roles in pharmaceutical and in investment banking.
He is a former Inc. a world-leading manufacturer of medical device companies.
Bruno retired Chairman of J Henry Schroder & Co, where super-abrasive products for the material from AstraZeneca in 2010 as Executive Vice he spent most of his professional career.
Before President, International after a 20-year He was the first chairman of the Financial that she enjoyed a successful 20-year career.
He was responsible for Europe, Services Practitioner Panel set upunder career with GE.
She held a number of Japan, Asia Pacific, Latin America, Middle the act which created the Financial senior positions in product management, East and Africa and originally joined as Services Authority.
He has an in-depth operations, Six Sigma and supply chain President of ICI Pharma France.
Prior understanding of capital markets and management.
Tanya provides Smiths with to this, he was at Baxter, a US-based provides valuable support to the Group wide experience in product innovation and global supplier of medical devices.
He on key financial matters.
sales and marketing in a range of sectors.
has extensive international experience, Committee membership Committee membership including in the US, and brings a deep Chairman of the Audit Committee Audit Committee understanding to the Group of the medical device and pharmaceutical industries.
Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Committee memberships Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee External appointments External appointments Nomination Committee Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel Non-executive director and member of the Remuneration Committee of Remuneration Committee Member of the Financial Reporting Boart Longyear Ltd, an Australian-listed, Councils advisory group of audit External appointments US-based mining products and services committee chairmen Member of the Global Advisory Board company of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd, Non-executive director and member Japan of the Audit Committee of Advanced Non-executive director and member Drainage Systems, Inc. a US-listed water of the Nomination Committee of Novo management and drainage company Nordisk A S, a Danish healthcare company Member of the Supervisory Board and the Audit Committee of Wolters Kluwer nv, a Dutch-based information services and publishing company Chairman and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees of Vectura Group plc, a specialty pharmaceutical company Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 75 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Board of directors Continued Anne Quinn, CBE Bill Seeger Sir Kevin Tebbit, KCB, CMG Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Aged 63, Anne Quinn was appointed Aged 62, Bill Seeger was appointed to Aged 67, Sir Kevin Tebbit was appointed to to the Board in 2009.
She is from New the Board in May 2014 as Chairman-elect the Board in June 2006.
Sir Kevin is British Zealand and has a BCom and MSc of the Audit Committee.
He is a US citizen and has a BA in History.
with a BA in Economics and an MBA, Strengths and experience both from UCLA University of California, Strengths and experience Sir Kevin held policy management and Los Angeles.
Anne spent her early career with NZ Forest finance posts in the MoD, Foreign and Products Limited and the US management Strengths and experience Commonwealth Office and NATO.
These consulting company, Resource Planning Bill joined GKN plc, the global engineering included three years service in Washington Associates.
She has extensive overseas company, in 2003 as Senior Vice-President as Defence and European Counsellor at the experience in the oil and gas sector, having and Chief Financial Officer of Aerospace.
British Embassy before becoming Director enjoyed a successful 20-year career In 2007 he became a member of the of GCHQ and finally Permanent Under with BP.
She held a number of executive Executive Committee as President and Secretary at the Ministry of Defence from positions including Group Vice President Chief Executive Propulsion Systems and 1998 to 2005.
Sir Kevins career as a former in the US, Belgium, Colombia and the UK.
Special Products before being appointed senior British civil servant provides Smiths Following her career with BP, Anne was to the Board as Group Finance Director with considerable experience in the defence a director of Riverstone LLP, an energy the same year.
He retired from GKN in and security sector and in government private equity group.
Bill previously held a number relations issues.
is a great benefit to the Group in its of senior finance posts during a 28-year Committee memberships development of new geographic markets career with TRW, the US-based automotive Audit Committee and its exposure to the oil and gas sector.
His long career in finance in the engineering sector and Nomination Committee Committee memberships in-depth knowledge of global markets, Chair of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee contracting and strategy execution will Audit Committee greatly benefit Smiths.
External appointments Senior Adviser to URS Corporation Nomination Committee Committee memberships and to Hewlett Packard Chairman-elect of the Audit Committee External appointments Senior Associate Fellow at Royal United Senior Independent Director and Chair Nomination Committee Services Institute of the Remuneration Committee of Remuneration Committee Mondi plc and Mondi Limited, a company Visiting Professor at Kings College, dual-listed in the UK and South Africa London Member of the Advisory Board of the Imperial College Institute for Security, Science and Technology Board balance and diversity Nationality The Smiths Group Board increased Five nationalities are represented on the Board United Kingdom, France, Australia, from eight members to nine members United States and New Zealand, although the international experience of Board in 2013 14, with the addition of Bill members is much wider than this.
The charts below illustrate as at 31July2014 the diversity of the Board in relation to tenure, gender and nationality.
United Kingdom France Australia United States New Zealand Executive balance Gender balance Board tenure 1 Executive 1 Female 1 From 0 to 2 years 2 Non-executive 2 Male 2 From 3 to 6 years 3 From 7 to 10 years The Board has two executive directors, the Chief There are two women on the Board, Anne Quinn and Executive and Finance Director.
The majority of the Tanya Fratto.
Further details on the tenure of each director are Board are independent non-executives, who bring a shown on pages 74 to 76. wealth of skills and experience to Smiths.
