Operational review Smiths Medical Smiths Medical 32 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Aiding localised delivery As clinicians move to minimally invasive surgery, Smiths Medical has designed a catheter that allows far greater scope to carry out procedures safely and effectively while delivering local anaesthetic.
The EchoGlo, which carries anaesthetic directly to a localised area to numb pain, is made of an air-embedded nylon material that appears as a distinct image during ultrasound scanning.
This gives surgeons a vital tool for precise nerve cluster location, clinical effectiveness and constant monitoring while eliminating the need for a general anaesthetic, which invariably carries greater risks.
The patented technology of EchoGlo means less anaesthesia is required, recovery times are faster, and patients suffer less nausea and post-operative pain, said Jaime LaMontagne, VP of Smiths Medicals Global Product Management, Therapeutics.
Marisa Steele, Global Product Manager, US: Dwight Skinner, Senior Project Manager, US: Tina Greathouse, Product Engineering Manager, US Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 33 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review Smiths Medical Smiths Medical A leading supplier of specialty medical devices and consumables for global markets.
In medication delivery, our devices help treat patients with acute and chronic disease and relieve pain.
Our vital care products help reduce hospital-acquired infections, manage patients airways before, during and Jeff McCaulley after surgery, maintain body temperature and assist President & CEO, Smiths Medical reproduction through IVF therapy.
Our safety products Revenue by sector protect health workers by helping prevent needlestick 1 Medication delivery 30% 2 Vital care 41% injuries and reducing cross-infections.
3 Safety devices 29% Headline revenue performance Customers m Three-quarters of our end customers are hospitals, with the remainder 804m 5 % comprising the alternate care market such as homecare, clinics 2014 804 3 1 and other surgery centres, as well as 2013 850 OEM relationships.
We have a direct 2012 864 sales presence in over 20 countries, and distribution arrangements in 2011 838 approximately 100 others.
2010 858 2 Competitors The competitive landscape for Smiths Contribution to 2014 Medical is complex as we compete Group revenue Medication delivery with different companies across our product portfolio.
Our major competitors 30% 27% include Covidien, Teleflex, B Braun, Becton Dickinson, C R Bard, 3M Contribution to 2014 Arizant, Hospira and CareFusion.
We Group headline operating profit often compete with a portion of a major Vital care competitors medical business as well as single product line companies trying to 30% 41% enter a particular market.
In emerging Percentage relates to headline operating profit markets, we compete with both large before corporate costs multinational companies and smaller domestic players.
Safety devices Principal operations regions Suppliers We have operations in over 30 countries 29% Our strategy is to engage suppliers in with manufacturing concentrated product innovation, value engineering and in Mexico, US, UK, Italy, Germany, a commitment to quality.
Our goal is to Czech Republic and China.
We sell to reduce product and supply chain costs, approximately 120 markets and, while improve delivery performance and ensure the US continues to be our largest single supply continuity plans.
The majority of market with around 50% of sales, we our direct spending is on resins, plastic continue to build our presence in select injection mouldings, and electronics.
34 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Markets and trends through the increasing treatment of chronic intensifies.
Smiths is well positioned to Despite market challenges, the medical conditions, the integration of medication capitalise on the advancement of sharps device sector remains attractive, driven delivery devices with hospital IT systems, safety initiatives, including directives in by population trends, safety legislation, and the move to alternate care settings.
the EU and Brazil designed to protect device interoperability and increasing Our CADD brand is a leader in ambulatory healthcare workers from needlestick prosperity particularly in emerging infusion and we have a strong position in injuries.
Our latest innovations in IV markets.
Procedure growth rates are the syringe pump market with our Graseby catheters ViaValve, which offers blood improving slightly, although they continue and Medfusion products.
control and needlestick injury protection, to be constrained by reduced healthcare and IntuitIV, a passive safety catheter Vital care budgets, relatively high unemployment and remain well positioned for growth.
Smiths Medicals products manage patient employer cost shifting.
At the same time, airways before, during and after surgery Strategy pressure continues from the rising costs Portex, alleviate breathing difficulties Our primary focus is on improving patient of healthcare, leading to price deflation, Portex, Pneupac, help maintain body outcomes and reducing the total cost of increased regulatory hurdles and health temperature Level 1, monitor vital signs care by helping customers solve their system reforms.
such as blood pressure, blood oxygen clinical and cost challenges.
This drives The global market served by Smiths saturation and heart rate BCI, Medex, investment in new product development, Medical is estimated to be almost 7bn, manage pain in acute and chronic care manufacturing optimisation, improvements with further opportunities in target settings Portex and assist reproduction in our supply chain and marketing and adjacent markets.
Smiths Medical has through in-vitro fertilisation therapy distribution models.
We are driving growth strong design, production and distribution Wallace.
The vital care market, estimated in selected markets, especially emerging capabilities to seize global opportunities.
to be over 2.5bn, has been affected markets.
We are well-positioned to take by procedure rate slowdowns, but we advantage of the ongoing shift in healthcare Our product ranges serve three main expect future growth driven by increasing delivery from hospitals to alternate sites markets medication delivery, vital chronic disease incidence rates, ageing eg clinics and home care.
Smiths Medical is well populations and rising healthcare spend placed in lower-risk, short-residency, Competitive strengths in emergingmarkets.
interventional devices, applicable in a wide Strong market positions in select variety of procedures.
Our broad portfolio Safety clinical areas includes strong brands in hardware and Smiths Medicals safety portfolio protects Highly recognised and respected brands consumable products as well as software healthcare workers and patients from Reputation for quality and safety and services for both hospital and alternate the risk of infection and injury through Differentiated lower risk, short caresettings.
the use of safety enabled devices.
Smiths residency, interventional devices pioneered safety devices including the first Innovative pipeline and new product Medication delivery safety peripheral intravenous catheter launches Smiths Medical designs and manufactures ProtectIV, and the first port for delivery Extensive global sales network drug delivery systems that relieve acute of chemotherapeutic agents PORT-Aand chronic pain, treat the most at-risk Growth drivers CATH.
Smiths portfolio covers a range of patients in high care units Medfusion, Ageing populations functions including drawing blood samples, Graseby, and treat patients with conditions Safety focus and legislation administering injections and vaccinations such as cancer, pulmonary hypertension requirements Jelco, and delivering chemotherapeutic and Parkinsons disease at home CADD.
Growing incidence of chronic diseases agents for cancer patients Deltec.
The The global market for medication delivery Growth of alternate site care served global market for Smiths related products in which Smiths Medical Rising healthcare spend in developing products is estimated to be almost 3bn, competes is estimated to be 1.3bn.
markets, offsetting budget constraints and is expected to grow as the focus on We expect continued market growth in developed markets safety and reducing the risk of infection Smiths in the making 1986 Emergency treatment of massive blood loss was transformed by the launch of Smiths Medicals Level 1 H-500 fluid warmer.
Until then doctors treating trauma or medical emergencies were hampered by the limited capacity of fluid warming devices which were vital for raising the temperature of refrigerated blood for immediate transfusion.
Any heating failure and patients could die of hypothermia.
By providing a fluid flow rate 10 times the previous speed, Level 1 has saved countless lives and established the brand as the world leader in fluid temperature management.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 35 1986 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review Smiths Medical 2014 2013 Reported Underlying Medication delivery underlying revenue m m growth growth grew by 7% with continued success of Revenue 804 850 5 % 1 % our CADD-Solis pumps and disposables globally, including CADD-Solis PIB and Headline operating profit 159 189 16 % 12 % Headline operating margin 19.8% 22.2% 240 bps CADD-Solis VIP launched recently in the US.
Medfusion pump systems business Statutory operating profit 142 179 Return on capital employed 14.5% 16.6% 210 bps was robust in the US, with strong second half growth following a soft start.
Key operational highlights We are simplifying our manufacturing Vital care underlying revenue ended down Strong medication delivery growth offset footprint and fixed cost base as part 2%, reflecting sluggish procedure volumes safety and vital care declines of the Fuel for Growth restructuring and pricing pressures, compounded Emerging markets down 5% on China programme, and expect to deliver 23m by distributor destocking in the US.
infusion and distributor issues of savings by the end of FY17.
We have Tracheostomy and assisted reproduction Margins impacted by US medical device incurred costs to date of 10m.
In the both grew, offset by declines in respiratory, tax and price erosion year, we announced the closure of our general anaesthesia, temperature New product development investment Rossendale and Rockland facilities as management and patient monitoring.
Our up 5% activities are consolidated in our network.
US respiratory business was particularly hit Production started at our newly established by channel inventory movements: however, Performance Czechfacility.
underlying demand for our products Revenue declined 5%, or 46m, remains robust.
representing an underlying fall in revenue Developed market trading conditions of 4m 1% and adverse currency remained soft with sales impacted by price Safety devices underlying revenue declined translation of 42m.
First half revenues erosion, capital spending constraints, and 4% for the year, reflecting an improved fell due to tough trading conditions in relatively flat procedure growth rates.
second half down 1% as marketing developed markets, compounded by US Against this backdrop, underlying sales activities and pricing actions mitigated first distributor destocking, and continued in developed markets grew 3% in the half declines of 7%.
In developed markets, underperformance in emerging markets.
second half to end the year flat following competition is increasing in safety devices Second half revenues increased 3%, albeit declines in the first half.
Infusion sales as customers convert from conventional against a weak comparator, on sequential in these markets showed good growth products, resulting in pricing pressures improvement in every product franchise through strong competitive positioning and share loss.
Medication of ambulatory pumps in the second half.
Research and development delivery saw especially strong sales.
For Safety sales were hit in the first half by Investment in new product development the year, hardware revenue grew 4%, PIVC share losses, but stabilised in the remains a priority, growing to 4.8% of driven by ambulatory infusion pump sales, second half.
Marketing initiatives to retain revenue 2013: 4.4% with total R&D spend which were up 16%.
Consumables, which and grow the business gained traction and of 38m 2013: 38m.
Continuing our comprise almost 85% of total revenue, OEM sales improved in the second half.
initiative to streamline the organisation, were down 2% due to price pressure on Vital care sales also stabilised following upgrade talent and improve processes peripheral intravenous catheter PIVC the 3% decline in the first half, which in R&D, we have appointed a new Chief in developed markets, distributor market reflected channel inventory movements Technology Officer.
We continue to invest pressures and channel destocking in US.
particularly in our respiratory products.
in emerging market R&D and now have Second half performance reflects a focus Headline operating profit declined 16% an established product development on airway and temperature management 30m and headline operating margin team in Shanghai with particular focus service-level improvements.
End-user fell 240 basis points to 19.8%.
Foreign on infusion for the China market.
We sales performance of our bronchial hygiene exchange translation accounted for 7m have also increased our investment in distribution arrangement in the US has also of the decline while underlying profit clinical research to deliver evidence of been strong.
Underlying profit the effectiveness and economic benefit was hit by price erosion 9m, foreign Emerging market performance declined ofourproducts.
China revenues declined 7% as Our vitality index, measured as sales from theincremental effect of US medical device infusion performance held back sales products launched in the last three years, tax 3m, and non-recurrence of 2013 pending the introduction of new products.
This primarily insurance credits 6m, partially offset However, second half sales stabilised as reflects strong sales of ambulatory infusion byproductivity savings.
the business refocused on driving growth products during the second half of the from other franchises.
We saw challenging The difference between statutory year.
Launches during the year included conditions in many smaller markets with and headline operating profit reflects Medfusion 3500 v6 US and CADD-Solis currency controls in Venezuela, slow amortisation of acquired intangible assets PIB US and other markets.
Our recently government payments in South Africa, of 9m and restructuring costs of 10m.
launched ViaValve safety IV catheter and the adverse impact on distributor North America and Jelco IntuitIV safety IV Return on capital employed fell 210 exports from weakening currencies.
catheter Europe are both gaining traction basis points to 14.5% as a result of the InIndia, the transition of business from in their respective markets, despite strong reduced profitability and increased capital our former distributor to our onshore price competition.
In emerging markets, expenditure, which included investment in India operation was completed in October the broadening of portfolios through new product development, manufacturing and direct management of the channel registration of existing products is starting tooling and upgrade of our Oracle ERP has driven sales growth of 137% in the to bear fruit, particularly in Brazil and India.
second half up 74% for the year.
Brazil continued to deliver double digit growth up 12% following the salesforce expansion lastyear.
36 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Outlook Priorities for 2015 Trading conditions in developed markets Build a highly competitive portfolio are likely to remain challenging in the of products and services through medium term due to healthcare cost investment in high-impact projects controls and pricing pressures.
We expect supported by rigorous execution to see continued robust performance Improve marketing and sales force in infusion on the strength of product impact in both developed markets launches over the past couple of years and emerging markets and strong marketing programmes.
Medium-term operating ranges Additionally, the introduction of new Underlying revenue growth: low single products to refresh our infusion range digits 0-3% in China in 2015 will improve our Headline operating margin: margin competitiveness in this important market.
range 20-24% We will drive cost savings through variable and fixed cost productivity initiatives as well as site rationalisation.
These cost savings will be largely reinvested in revenue growthdrivers.
com for more information US home infusion benefits Having anticipated rapid growth in the US home infusion market, Smiths Medical is now reaping the benefits from assigning dedicated account managers to work with national agencies on how best to deliver homecare medication.
The opportunity arose from a diverse combination of issues: from cost pressures on hospital care and competitor limitations to the positive impact of so-called Obamacare.
It presented an ideal opening for Smiths Medicals CADD range of advanced home infusion products.
The result was the conversion of thousands of competitors pumps to CADDs smart ambulatory devices which meet the demands of todays home healthcare environment, said Cindy Lougheed, Area VP of Alternate Care in the US.
The focused approach helped produce record growth in the sector of 35% in FY2014.
Sandi Smith, Senior Global Product Manager, US: Cindy Lougheed, Area Vice President, Alternate Care, US Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 37 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
