Group directors report Results and dividends Post balance sheet events The results for the financial year ended 31 July 2014 are set There have been no post-balance sheet events.
out in the Consolidated income statement.
Revenues for the year Political donations amounted to 2,952m 2013: 3,109m.
The profit for the year The Group made contributions to non-EU political parties totalling after taxation amounted to 234.7m 2013: 316.6m.
The political contributions An interim dividend of 12.75p per ordinary share of 37.5p was were made on a bi-partisan basis in the US, in accordance with paid on 25 April 2014.
The directors recommend for payment US state and federal election laws, in order to raise awareness and on 21 November 2014 a final cash dividend of 27.5p on each to promote the interests of the Company.
The Group has a number ordinary share of 37.5p, making a total dividend of 40.25p of key manufacturing sites and approximately 8,300 employees for the financialyear.
Directors Interests in voting rights Messrs B. F. J. Angelici, P. Bowman, D. J. Challen, CBE and P. A.
As at 31 July 2014 the Company had been notified, pursuant to the Turner: Ms T. D. Fratto: Ms A. C. Quinn, CBE: and Sir Kevin Tebbit, FCAs Disclosure & Transparency Rules, of notifiable voting rights KCB, CMG all served as directors of the Company throughout the in its issued share capital or had received disclosures pursuant to year.
Mr D. H. Brydon, CBE retired from the board and as Chairman the 2006 Act of shareholding interests in excess of three percent on 19 November 2013.
Sir George Buckley was appointed as a nonof its share capital, as follows: executive director and as Deputy Chairman on 1 August 2013 and Percentage succeeded Mr Brydon as Chairman on 19 November 2013.
Mr W. C. of issued Date of Seeger was appointed as a non-executive director on 12 May 2014.
Number of ordinary notification or shares share capital disclosure Reappointment of directors Ameriprise Financial In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the Threadneedle Asset Not directors, except for Mr Seeger, will retire voluntarily from office at Management disclosed 5.0% 13 06 2014 the AGM and will seek re-election.
Mr Seeger will retire at the AGM BlackRock Investment under Article 49 of the Companys Articles of Association, following Management UK Ltd 16.4m 4.2% 30 07 2012 his appointment during the year, and will seek election.
Separate Harris Associates LP 20.2m 5.1% 15 05 2013 resolutions to re-elect or elect each of them as a director of the M&G Investment 17.4m 4.4% 29 08 2012 Company will be proposed at the AGM.
Biographical details Massachusetts Financial of all the directors are set out on pages 74 to 76.
Services Company 18.5m 4.7% 31 08 2012 Directors remuneration report and policy The Directors remuneration report and the proposed Directors During the period 1 August to 15 September 2014 the Company remuneration policy are on pages 92 to 109. has received the following notifications or disclosures: Ordinary resolutions to approve the report and to adopt the policy Percentage of issued Date of will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Number of ordinary notification or shares share capital disclosure Directors interests in contracts Details of the executive directors service contracts are disclosed in Ameriprise Financial Threadneedle Asset the service contracts section of the Directors remuneration report on page 99.
Details of the interests of the executive directors in Management 19.9m 5.0% 10 09 2014 BlackRock Investment the Companys share option schemes and plans are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 108 and 109.
Management UK Ltd 20.0m 5.1% 14 08 2014 Harris Associates LP 29.3m 7.4% 15 08 2014 Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by section M&G Investment 15.7m 4.0% 15 08 2014 234 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act have remained in Massachusetts Financial force for the directors during the financial year ended 31 July 2014 Services Company 17.1m 4.1% 11 08 2014 and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the current directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which Percentage of ordinary share capital in issue on 31 July 2014. they may incur or may have incurred to third parties in the course Note: The Disclosure & Transparency Rules oblige shareholders of their professional duties for the Company.
to notify to a company when interests in the voting rights of that Apart from the exceptions referred to above, no director had an companys shares exceed or fall below 3% of the companys issued interest in any significant contract to which the Company or its share capital and every whole percentage point above 3%.
Where subsidiaries was a party during the year.
the voting rights in shares are managed by an investment manager under certain defined schemes, the manager is obliged to notify Changes in the Company and its interests during a company when its interests in the voting rights in the shares it the financial year manages under such schemes exceed or fall below 5% or 10% On 2 August 2013 the Company announced that discussions about of the companys issued share capital.
the possible sale of the Medical division had been terminated.
The interests of the directors, their families and any connected On 20 February 2014 the Company completed the refinancing of persons in the issued share capital of the Company are shown its existing US$800m bank facility, which had been due to mature in the Directors remuneration report on page 107. in December 2015.
The new US$800m committed revolving credit facility will mature in February 2019, with two one-year extensionoptions.
On 21 July 2014 the Company celebrated the centenary of the first listing of its shares on the London Stock Exchange.
110 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate responsibility At 31 July 2014 the Group had available cash and short-term The Company has Group policies on environmental, employee deposit resources of 189m and US$620 million undrawn of the and health & safety matters and operates a Code of Business committed revolving credit facility of US$800m which is due to Ethics.
The Company seeks to minimise, as far as is reasonably mature in February 2019 unless otherwise extended or reviewed.
practicable, any detrimental effects on the environment of its Whilst these facilities have certain financial covenants they are not operations and products.
The Group HR director has responsibility expected to prevent full utilisation of the facilities if required.
This, for environmental, health and safety matters, which are subject together with the maturity profile of debt, provides confidence that to preventative, investigatory and consultative systems, overseen the Group has sufficient financial resources for the foreseeable by the Group Environment, Health and Safety Committee, and future.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Company reports regularly to the Board on these matters.
Issues relevant is well placed to manage its business.
In coming to this conclusion, to the Company pension schemes are likewise covered by the directors have taken account of the Groups risk management means of structured committees, including representation process, described on pages 60 to 65, and have paid particular from recognisedtrade unions.
attention to the financial and pension funding risks and their mitigation see page 62.
Further information on environmental, employee and health and safety matters, including key performance indicators, The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a is contained in the Corporate responsibility summary on pages reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 66 to 71.
The full Corporate responsibility report is available adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the online at www.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual accounts of the Corporate governance statement Company and the Group.
The Corporate governance statement is on pages 74 to 91 and is incorporated in this Directors report by reference.
Share capital and control  LLP has reviewed the Companys As at 31 July 2014, the Companys issued share capital was statements as to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance 147,921,051 and comprised 394,456,135 ordinary shares of Code, to the extent required by the UK Listing Authority Listing 37.5p each nominal value ordinary shares.
The results of its review are set out in the Independent are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company has an auditors report on pages 119 to 123.
American Depositary Receipt ADR programme for which J. P. Morgan acts as Depositary and transfer agent.
One ADR equates Strategic report to one Smiths Group ordinary share which trade as a level 1 ADR The statements and reviews on pages 6 to 71 comprise the Group over-the-counter programme under the ticker symbol SMGZY.
Strategic report which contains certain information, outlined below, Atthe year-end, 5,672,747 ordinary shares were held by the that is incorporated into this Directors report by reference: nominee of the programme depositary in respect of the same an indication of the Groups likely future business developments: number of ADRs in issue at that time.
an indication of the Groups research and development activities: The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys reports and accounts: to attend and speak at general meetings of information on the Companys policies for the employment of the Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
disabled persons and employee involvement: and There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding the Groups disclosures regarding greenhouse gas emissions.
of any class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of Branches any transfers.
None of the shares carries any special rights with The Company does not operate through any branches.
Some regard to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the Group subsidiary companies have established branch operations voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares other than a 48 hour outside the UK.
cut-off for the casting of proxy votes prior to a general meeting.
There are no arrangements of which the directors are aware under Financial instruments which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of The financial risk management objectives and policies of the the shares and no known agreements relating to or restrictions on Group: the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted share transfers or voting rights.
transaction for which hedge accounting is used: and the exposure of the Group to foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, price risk, Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans financial credit risk, liquidity risk and cash-flow risk is outlined rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special in note 19 of the Group accounts.
The Company operates an employee benefit trust, with an independent trustee, to hold shares pending employees becoming Going concern entitled to them under the Companys share schemes and The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to plans.
On 31July2014 the trust held 855 ordinary shares in the affect its future development, performance and position are set out Company.
The trust waives all but 0.1p per share of each dividend in the Strategic report on pages 6 to 71.
The financial position of the entitlement on its holding and abstains from voting the shares Company, its cash-flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities atgeneralmeetings.
are described in the Financial review on pages 56 to 58.
In addition, the notes to the accounts include the Companys objectives, The table on page 110 sets out the notifications, received by the policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk Company pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure & Transparency Rules management objectives: details of its financial instruments and and the 2006 Act, as at 31 July 2014 and any changes thereto up to hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
15 September 2014, from persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the Companys share capital.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and legislation in force from time to time.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 111 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Group directors report Continued The powers of the directors are determined by English law and Approval of the directors remuneration policy the Articles of Association of the Company in force from time At the AGM shareholders will be asked to approve the directors to time.
The directors have been authorised to issue and allot remuneration policy, as shown on pages 93 to100, which ordinary shares, pursuant to Article 5.
The directors have authority gives details of the remuneration policy being proposed by to make market purchases of ordinary shares.
The powers to issue the Remuneration Committee for the executive directors, the and allot shares and, subject to specified limits, to allot shares on Chairman and the non-executive directors.
Under new regulations a non pre-emptive basis and on a pre-emptive basis, are referred which now form part of the Companies Act 2006, the remuneration to the shareholders at the AGM each year for renewal.
At the AGM policy must be put to a binding shareholder vote at least once every the shareholders are also requested to renew the power to make three years.
Shareholders will be invited to approve the directors market purchases of ordinary shares.
Any ordinary shares so remuneration policy 2014 at the AGM.
If so approved, the policy purchased may be cancelled or held in treasury.
will take effect at the conclusion of the meeting.
Onceeffective, all future payments to directors, past and present, must comply The Company has in place credit facility agreements under which with the terms of the policy, unless specifically approved by a change in control would trigger prepayment clauses and has shareholders in general meeting.
bonds in issue the terms of which would allow bondholders to exercise put options and require the Company to buy back the Authority to issue shares bonds at their principal amount plus interest if a rating downgrade At the AGM shareholders will be asked to renew and extend occurs at the same time as a change of control takes effect.
The the authority, given to the directors at the last AGM, to allot shares Companys share schemes and plans contain clauses which may in the Company, or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any cause options and awards to vest on a change in control, in some security into, shares in the Company for the purposes of Section cases subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions at that 551 of the 2006 Act the Allotment Resolution.
The Company is not party to any other significant agreements The authority in the first part of the Allotment Resolution will allow that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control the directors to allot new shares in the Company or to grant rights following a takeover.
to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company If there is a change in control of the Company, the terms of up to a nominal value which is equivalent to approximately one-third MrBowmans service contract require that all available discretions of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the will be exercised under the Companys share schemes and in latest practical date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
default the Company must indemnify Mr Bowman for the value The authority in the second part of the Allotment Resolution of any awards that do not vest on the change in control.
will allow the directors to allot new shares or to grant rights to No other director or employee is contractually entitled to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a only in connection with a rights issue up to a nominal value which change in control except that provisions of the Companys share is equivalent to approximately one-third of the total issued ordinary schemes may cause options and awards granted to employees share capital of the Company as at the latest practical date prior to under such schemes to vest on a change in control, in some cases the publication of the Notice of AGM.
This is in line with corporate subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions at that time.
The Board has undertaken to seek the re-election of each director annually by the shareholders, whether Purchase of shares or not this authority were to be used.
No shares were either purchased or acquired or charged or disposed of by the Company during the financial year ended At 15 September 2014, the Company did not hold any shares 31 July 2014. in treasury.
com There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot The 2006 Act recognises the growing importance of electronic new shares other than in connection with the Companys share communication e-communication and enables companies to option schemes and plans.
The directors intend to take note of provide documentation and communications to shareholders via relevant corporate governance guidelines on the use of such their websites, except to those shareholders who elect to receive powers in the event that the authority is exercised.
hard printed paper copies by post.
E-communication allows If the resolution is passed the authority will expire on the earlier of shareholders faster access to important information about the 31 January 2016 and the end of the next AGM, due to be held in 2015.
Company: saves the Company considerable overheads, by reducing its print production costs and postage: and helps the environment Also at the AGM shareholders will be asked to pass a special by saving the energy and raw materials that would otherwise be resolution to renew the power granted to directors to disapply used in producing and dispatching printed documents.
At the shareholders pre-emption rights under certain circumstances Extraordinary General Meeting held on 11 June 2007 shareholders the Pre-emption Resolution.
approved the adoption of electronic communications.
If the directors wish to allot new shares and other equity securities, Electronic copies of the Annual Report 2014 and the Notice of or sell treasury shares, for cash other than in connection with AGM will be posted on the Companys website, www.
an employee share scheme company law requires that these The Companys announcements to the Stock Exchange and press shares are offered first to shareholders in proportion to their releases are available online through the website.
details and practical help on share transfers and changes of The purpose of the first part of the Pre-emption Resolution is address can be found at www.
to authorise the directors to allot new shares, pursuant to the Shareholders wishing to change their election and receive authority given by the first part of the Allotment Resolution, documents in hard copy form can do so at any time by contacting or to sell treasury shares for cash: the Companys Registrar or by logging on to www.
a in connection with a pre-emptive offer: and or Annual General Meeting AGM b otherwise up to a nominal value equivalent to 5% of the total The 2014 AGM will be held at on Tuesday 18 November 2014 issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the latest at 10:30 am.
The Notice of the AGM will be published on the practical date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM, Companys website, www.
com, on or around 13 October 2014. in each case without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
112 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 The purpose of the second part of the Pre-emption Resolution Political donations is to authorise the directors to allot new shares, pursuant to the A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the authority, authority given by the second part of the Allotment Resolution, granted by the shareholders at the last AGM to the Company and or to sell treasury shares for cash in connection with a rights issue, its UK subsidiaries, to make donations to political organisations without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in and to incur political expenditure.
proportion to their existing holdings.
This is in line with corporate Part 14 of the 2006 Act requires companies to obtain shareholders governance guidelines.
authority for donations to registered political parties and other The directors intend to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-emption political organisations in the EU totalling more than 5,000 in Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of any twelve-month period, and for any political expenditure in authorities within a rolling three-year period where the Principles the EU, subject to limited exceptions.
The definition of donation provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place in this context is very wide and extends to bodies such as those without prior consultation with the Investment Committees of concerned with policy review, law reform and the representation the Association of British Insurers and the National Association ofthe business community.
It could include special interest groups, of Pension Funds.
such as those involved with the environment, which the Company and its UK subsidiaries might wish to support, even though these During the financial year ended 31 July 2014, the following ordinary activities are not designed to support or influence support for a shares in the Company were issued: particularparty.
637,625 ordinary shares of 37.5p pursuant to the terms of the It is the policy of the Company not to make political donations Companys shareholder-approved share option schemes and or incur political expenditure in the EU, as those expressions are share plans.
To avoid inadvertent infringement of the Authority to purchase shares 2006 Act, the directors are seeking shareholders authority for At the AGM the Company will seek to renew the authority, granted the Company and its UK subsidiaries to make political donations at the last AGM to the directors, to purchase the Companys as defined in the 2006 Act and to incur political expenditure as ordinary shares in the market.
defined in the 2006 Act for the period from the date of the AGM to the conclusion of next years AGM up to a maximum aggregate The effect of the resolution is to renew the authority granted to the amount of 50,000.
Company to purchase its own ordinary shares until the next AGM due to be held in 2015 or 31 January 2016 whichever is the earlier.
Auditors This authority is limited to 10% of the ordinary shares in issue as Resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to reappoint at the latest practical date prior to the publication of the Notice of  LLP as independent auditors, to hold AGM and the Companys exercise of this authority is subject to the office until the next meeting at which the accounts are laid, and to stated upper and lower limits on the price payable, which reflect authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
the requirements of the Listing Rules.
Notice period for extraordinary general meetings Pursuant to the 2006 Act as amended, the Company can hold the A special resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the shares which have been purchased as treasury shares and either authority, granted by the shareholders at the last AGM to the resell them for cash, cancel them, either immediately or at a point Company, to call a general meeting of the Company other than in the future, or use them for the purposes of its employee share an AGM with a minimum notice period of 14 clear days.
The directors believe that it is desirable for the Company made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders Rights Regulations to have this choice as holding the purchased shares as treasury increased the notice period required for general meetings of the shares would give the Company the ability to resell or transfer Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice them in the future, and so provide the Company with additional period, which cannot, however, be less than 14 clear days.
AGMs flexibility in the management of its capital base.
No dividends will will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
be paid on, and no voting rights will be exercised in respect of, Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights treasury shares.
However, it is not the Companys present intention Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call to hold shares in treasury in the event that any shares were to be general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice purchased under this authority.
without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve Shares will only be purchased if the directors consider such this ability, such approval is sought at the AGM.
Any exercise of this purchases to be in the best interests of shareholders generally and power by the Company will be conducted in accordance with any that they can be expected to result in an increase in earnings per relevant corporate governance guidelines applicable at the time.
The authority will only be used after careful consideration, In particular, the shorter notice period will only be used where taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
The approval overall financial position of the Company.
Shares held as treasury will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended shares will not automatically be cancelled and will not be taken into that a similar resolution will be proposed.
account in future calculations of earnings per share unless they The Company will comply with the requirement to provide are subsequently resold or transferred out of treasury.
appropriate facilities for all shareholders to vote by electronic If any shares purchased by the Company are held in treasury means at general meetings held on less than 21 clear days notice.
and used for the purposes of its employee share schemes, the Employee share purchase plan for US employees Company will count those shares towards the limits on the number An ordinary resolution will be proposed at the AGM to adopt an allof new shares which may be issued under such schemes.
employee, savings-based, share purchase plan for the employees of our US subsidiary companies.
Full details of the proposed scheme are included with the Notice of AGM.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 113 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Group directors report Continued Disclosure table pursuant to Listing Rule LR9.8.
4C Listing Rule Information to be included Disclosure 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group 2.0m interest was capitalised as part of the costs of development projects 9.8.
18 The supplementary US dollar financial statements on pages 171 to 175.
The Group financial record 2010-2014 on page 170 9.8.
4 4 Long-term incentive scheme only involving a director None LR9.4.
4 5 Directors waivers of emoluments None 9.8.
4 6 Directors waivers of future emoluments None 9.8.
4 7 Non pro-rata allotments for cash issuer Shares have been issued and allotted pursuant to the exercise of options awarded under shareholder-approved schemes 9.8.
4 8 Non pro-rata allotments for cash major subsidiaries None 9.8.
4 9 Listed company is a subsidiary of another company Not applicable 9.8.
4 10 Contracts of significance involving a director None 9.8.
4 11 Contracts of significance involving a controlling Not applicable shareholder 9.8.
4 12 Waivers of dividends Waiver by Greenwood Nominees Limited 581722 a c per pro the Smiths Industries Employee Share Trust of all but 0.1p per share per dividend 855 shares : and full waiver of all dividends by Reuter File Limited 2 shares 9.8.
4 13 Waivers of future dividends See above 9.8.
4 14 Agreement with a controlling shareholder Not applicable LR9.2.
6 Listing Rule Information to be included Disclosure 9.8.
6 1 Directors and their connected persons interests in See page 107 above Smiths shares at year-end and at not more than one month prior to date of the Notice of AGM 9.8.
6 2 Interests in Smiths shares disclosed under DTR5 at See page 110 above year-end and not more than one month prior to date of the Notice of AGM 9.8.
6 3 The going concern statement See page 111 above 9.8.
6 4 a Amount of the authority to purchase own shares Authority available in full at year-end available at year-end 9.8.
6 4 b Off-market purchases of own shares during the year None 9.8.
6 4 c Off-market purchases of own shares post year-end None 9.8.
6 4 d Non pro-rata sales of treasury shares during the year None 9.8.
6 5 Compliance with the Main Principles of the UK See the Corporate governance statement on page 79 Corporate Governance Code 9.8.
6 6 b Details of non-compliance with UK Corporate See the Corporate governance statement on page 79 Governance Code 9.8.
6 7 Re directors proposed for re-election: the unexpired Details of the executive directors service contracts are given term of any directors service contract and a in the Directors remuneration report on page 99. statement about directors with no service contracts The Chairman and the non-executive directors serve under letters of appointment see page 99 114 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Electronic proxy voting Disclosure of information to the auditors The Company continues to provide electronic proxy voting for this As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there years AGM.
Shareholders who are not Crest members can appoint is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors a proxy and vote online for or against or consciously not vote on are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps he or she the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM by visiting the website should have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself www.
The onscreen instructions will give details aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the on how to complete the appointment and voting process.
Crest Companys auditors are aware of that information.
members, Crest personal members and other Crest-sponsored Recommendation members should consult the Crest Manual or their sponsor Your directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the or voting service provider for instructions on electronic proxy AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders appointment and voting.
The Company may treat as invalid a Crest as a whole and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of the proxy voting instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation resolutions.
The directors intend to vote in favour of the resolutions 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
Paper proxy cards will be distributed with the Notice of AGM to By Order of the Board all shareholders other than those who have elected for notification by email.
Sarah Cameron Secretary Shareholders who will not be able to attend the AGM on Smiths Group plc 18November 2014 in person are encouraged to vote their shares 2nd Floor, Cardinal Place by appointing a proxy and issuing voting instructions either 80 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL electronically or by completing and returning their proxy cards.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions 16 September 2014 must be received by the Companys Registrar not later than 48hours before the AGM in order to be valid.
Registrar The address and contact details of Equiniti Limited, the Companys Registrar, are listed on the inside back cover of this report.
Individual shareholders access to their personal shareholder information is available online, through the www.
The UK shareholder helpline telephone number is0871384 2943.
Note: calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.
Helpline services are available from 08:30 to 17:30, Monday to Friday including UK Bank Holidays.
The international shareholder helpline telephone number is 44 0 121 415 7047.
Important information If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take in relation to the resolutions being proposed at the AGM, you are recommended to consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you received this document in printed form from the Company and have recently sold or transferred all your shares in Smiths Group plc, please pass this document to the purchaser or transferee or to the agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 115 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Bringing technology to life Making the world more productive John Cranes seals, filters and bearings help extract and transport oil and gas safely and efficiently to provide the energy that powers our everyday lives.
Its global network of service centres ensures that its energy services customers, from production and transmission to storage and refining, can rely on the most comprehensive technical support even in the harshest operating environments.
116 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Accounts This section contains the financial statements, the auditors report, Bringing technology to life the accounting policies and the notes to the accounts Statement of directors Making the world more productive responsibilities 118 Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc 119 Consolidated income statement 124 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 125 Consolidated balance sheet 126 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 127 Consolidated cash-flow statement 128 Accounting policies 129 Income statement notes 1 Segment information 135 2 Operating profit 138 3 Headline profit measures 139 4 Exceptional items 140 5 Net finance costs 141 6 Earnings per share 141 Taxation notes 7 Taxation 142 Employee costs notes 8 Employees and key management 144 9 Post-retirement benefits 145 10 Employee share schemes 150 Balance sheet notes 11 Intangible assets 152 12 Impairment testing 153 13 Property, plant and equipment 155 14 Inventories 155 15 Trade and other receivables 156 16 Trade and other payable 156 Financial instruments notes 17 Financial assets 157 18 Borrowings and net debt 157 19 Financial risk management 158 20 Derivative financial instruments 163 21 Fair value of financial instruments 164 22 Commitments 164 Provisions notes 23 Provisions and contingent liabilities 165 Reserves notes 24 Share capital 168 25 Dividends 168 26 Reserves 168 Cash-flow notes 27 Cash-flow 169 Group financial record 2010-2014 170 US dollar primary statements 171 Smiths Group plc company accounts 177 Financial calendar 186 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 117 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
