Driving competitive advantage through innovation Innovation is our lifeblood as a technology company.
Our long-standing commitment to new product development has underpinned our sustained success and is a key driver of future revenue and margin growth.
Company-funded investment in new products was 109m last year, up almost 60% over the past seven years.
We completed several new product launches over the past twelve months below are just a few examples of our commitment to technology leadership.
Reducing installation time Building on the success of its marketleading Type 3740 split seal, John Crane has introduced a larger version ideally suited for large,  pumps, mixers and rotating equipment.
The unique technology allows the seal to be installed without dismantling the equipment, potentially cutting installation time by more than 50%.
Maintenance costs are correspondingly reduced.
The targeted market is power facilities, waste water and desalination plants, pulp and paper mills, and mines.
Real-time monitoring Smiths Interconnects next-generation branch circuit monitoring system, JCOMM, allows data centre customers real-time supervision of power to the circuits that drive their servers.
This state-of-the-art system enables usage, billing, capacity allocation and overload protection planning.
JCOMMs preengineered cable system also reduces installation time significantly while its versatility allows configuration for both new data centres and retrofits.
16 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Compact threat detection The HI-SCAN 6040-2is can provide airport-quality screening in a wide range of locations because of its advanced detection features and small footprint.
Launched only last year, the X-ray inspection system automatically detects explosives and threat liquids.
Its compact size and light weight make it ideal for deployment in the lobbies of secure buildings such as government departments, utility plants, courthouses and jails.
It offers dual-view inspection of parcels and hand luggage and can penetrate 35mm of steel.
Helping children breathe Bivona FlexTend tracheostomy tubes are specifically designed to improve access when dealing with children.
The permanent flexible tube extension on the neck flange helps keep connections away from the neck, chin, and aperture, enhancing patient mobility and comfort.
The silicone remains particularly soft and flexible in the trachea and a nonferrous wire that reinforces the tube has improved visibility in MRI scans.
A special coating applied to the surfaces aids tube insertion, removal, cleaning and reinsertion.
Special element Engineers working on a revolutionary home laundry appliance that can rid clothes of wrinkles and odours quickly realised they needed a specialised heating element that was compact, rapid-heating and corrosion-resistant.
Building on a long relationship with Whirlpool, which helped develop the Swash device, Flex-Tek adapted its Tutco patented low wattage element to suit.
After a spray solution is misted on the garment, the bespoke element supplies a rapid thermal drying function to leave it dry and wrinkle-free in only 10 minutes.
Swash, co-designed with Procter & Gamble, was launched into the US market this year.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 17 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
