Operational review John Crane John Crane 26 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Expanding in China A high-growth market with diverse energy needs, China is home to John Cranes third and newest global R&D centre.
This years upgrade of the Tianjin facility near Beijing reflects our commitment to innovation and new technologies for the global market, while strengthening local expertise specifically for the Chinese market.
Close collaboration with top universities and research institutes including nearby Tsinghua University is also key to leveraging Chinese talent and facilities.
Revenue from China has almost doubled in the past five years and this new R&D centre will enhance our offering to local customers from cost-effective testing and research capabilities to enhanced product design and closer collaboration with state enterprises.
It also brings additional confidence and marketing advantage in the region, explained Amrat Parmar, the engineer in charge of the project.
Jiao Yang Materials Technologist, Global R&D, China Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 27 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review John Crane John Crane A leading provider of engineered products and services to global energy services customers.
Our products and services help ensure the reliability of mission-critical equipment in challenging operating environments.
In addition to lowering total cost of ownership of equipment, our products reduce Duncan Gillis emissions and help our customers meet environmental President & CEO responsibilities.
For nearly 100 years, our customers Revenue by sector have depended on our global service network and OEM: 38% 1 Original equipment manufacture 38% technical excellence.
Aftermarket: 62% 2 Oil, gas and petrochemical 37% Revenue performance Customers 3 Chemical and pharmaceutical 9% m John Crane serves major companies 4 Distributors 7% in the energy services sector 5 General industry 9% 941m 5 % including production, transmission 5 &storage, refining, power generation, 4 2014 941 petrochemical, as well as pump and 1 2013 986 3 compressor manufacturers.
Its main 2012 973 customers include Chevron, BP, China Petroleum, Suncor Petro Canada, Valero, 2011 894 Petrobras, ExxonMobil, Gazprom, TOTAL, 2010 786 2 Sabic, PDVSA, Pemex, Saudi Aramco, Shell, Petrom, Sulzer, ITT Goulds, Contribution to 2014 Flowserve, GE Energy, Andritz Hydro, Group revenue Rolls Royce, Siemens, Mitsubishi, Solar Revenue by product A broad portfolio from seals and bearings Turbines, Elliot, York, BASF, Weir Group, Bayer, and Dow.
No customer is larger to couplings and artificial lift equipment 32% than 3% of revenue.
Contribution to 2014 Competitors Mechanical seals Group headline operating profit and systems For rotating equipment technologies, John Cranes main competitors are 76% Flowserve and Eagle Burgmann 43% Industries mechanical seals : Kingsbury Percentage relates to headline operating profit and Waukesha engineered bearings : before corporate costs Couplings Pall and Hydac filtration systems : Rexnord and Emerson couplings.
For 5% Principal operations regions equipment in upstream energy, John John Crane is a global business with a Cranes principal global competitors presence in more than 50 countries.
We include Weatherford and Dover.
have the largest global service network in Suppliers the industry with 17 super service centres Bearings John Crane operates a global supply around the globe supported by more than chain, using regional and local 5% 230 sales and service centre locations.
partnerships to meet the required We have 19 manufacturing sites in service levels.
Major suppliers include 14countries and global R&D centres Morgan Advanced Materials, CoorsTek, in the US and UK.
Penn United Carbide, Schunk, Metalized Filtration systems Carbon, 3M, Earle M. Jorgensen, BE Group, DuPont and Greene Tweed.
5% Artificial lift 9% 28 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Markets and trends Demand for John Crane products Competitive strengths Recognised globally across the energy and services continues to grow, being Strong proprietary technology with services sector, John Crane provides influenced by a number of factors expertise in applied engineering engineered solutions that drive reliability including the global demand for energy Market leader in mechanical seals improvements and sustain the effective and an increasing desire for national Two-thirds of sales in aftermarket operation of customers rotating equipment energy independence, and more stringent Global network of c. 230 sales and and other machinery.
The comprehensive environmental and safety requirements.
service centres product portfolio includes mechanical John Crane is a market leader in its Growth drivers seals, seal support systems, engineered traditional product areas mechanical Growing demand for energy bearings, power transmission couplings seals and seal support systems.
There is Investment in oil and gas infrastructure and specialised filtration systems.
John opportunity to continue growing market Expansion in emerging markets Crane also helps maintain and enhance share across all product areas.
Developing new products and oilfield productivity through the servicing John Cranes global network is a key applications and provision of onshore down-hole asset which allows for quick-response artificial lift pumping hardware and and effective aftermarket service close systems.
This technology is supported to customers operations.
These facilities by the industrys largest global sales provide a range of value-added services and service network that provides including repair and refurbishment,  services utilising cause analysis, alignment and condition expertise developed from decades of monitoring: all designed to improve the technology leadership coupled with proven performance of customers rotating field experience.
Service teams in more equipment and to reduce operational than 50 countries maintain and support downtime.
The geographic footprint customers mission-critical operations continues to expand through opening throughout the economic lifetime of additional service centres in key markets, ourproducts.
in support of our growth strategy in Approximately two-thirds of John Cranes selected high-growth markets.
sales stem from the aftermarket servicing Strategy and support of existing installed equipment, The divisions business strategy is while the remaining one-third are from the focused on sustaining a cycle of growth design and supply of products to original and productivity.
It is built around four equipment manufacturers.
The business core priorities: to expand the installed serves a range of process industries base, build-out selected growth markets, including oil and gas, chemical, and maximise aftermarket performance powergeneration.
Our company values remain a key element in delivering our strategy: a relentless focus on customer service, improving quality, developing our people, business ethics andsafety.
Smiths in the making 1970 John Crane was awarded a patent for spiral groove technology for its pioneering dry gas seals.
They eliminate oil contamination of process gas, cut emissions and increase compressor output.
The non-contact seals, which maintain a sealing gap of th 200 of a millimeter between rotating and stationary rings, were the industry standard by the mid-1990s because of low operating cost and high reliability.
Now featuring innovations like high-pressure capability and corrosive gas resistance, over 20,000 John Crane dry gas seals operateworldwide.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 29 1970 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review John Crane 2014 2013 Reported Underlying significantly strengthened customer service m m growth growth capabilities in the region.
John Crane also Revenue 941 986 5 % 2% strengthened capabilities in Australia and ASEAN countries, highlighted by a new Headline operating profit 234 231 2% 8% Headline operating margin 24.9% 23.4% 150 bps service centre in Gladstone, Australia, and a new sales and service office in Statutory operating profit 166 206 Return on capital employed 26.7% 25.7% 100 bps Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
Profit growth during the period resulted Key operational highlights John Crane is benefiting from the from both increased underlying revenues Implemented global operating structure reopening of dormant refineries on and ongoing productivity efforts, some Expanded installed base in focus North Americas East Coast to meet of which are part of our Fuel for Growth markets growing infrastructure needs, driven by programme.
This programme is expected Increased global service network increased production from unconventional to deliver 13m of annualised savings by productivity sources.
Customer investments in shale 2017 on an investment of 25m, which Leveraged procurement scale development have remained steady and will be reported as exceptional.
7m of Accelerated growth in selected are expected to continue so in North exceptional items under this programme businesses America in the near term.
In addition, the were incurred during this period.
push to invest in clean fuels is increasing Reinvestments from the programme are Performance the need to retrofit pipelines.
To continue successfully repositioning the business John Crane delivered strong profit strengthening aftermarket customer towards growth and value creation.
They improvement on the back of higher support capabilities in the US, a new super span several areas: factory and service underlying revenues and ongoing service centre opened in Texas to support centre network optimisation, information productivity initiatives.
Reported headline the oil and gas turbine and compressor system infrastructure improvements, and operating profit grew 2% 3m, driven by markets.
In Canada, the expansion of new product innovation.
John Crane is an 8% 17m underlying increase offset the Edmonton service centre supports also investing in manufacturing capacity by adverse currency translation of 14m.
the growing demand from the Canadian tosupport the strong order book.
The order book at the end of the year was oilindustry.
Headline operating margin Research and development increased by 150 basis points to 24.9%, Our upstream oil services business, John Crane increased investment in R&D also a record.
reported as part of our aftermarket by 13% compared to the prior year, again revenue, experienced a sharp decline illustrating its commitment to address The difference between statutory and this year before showing recent signs future market needs.
Our focus remains headline operating profit reflects the cost of stabilising on a monthly sequential on developing engineered solutions that of John Crane, Inc. asbestos litigation of basis.
The decline was mainly due to address customers growing processing 49m, amortisation of acquired intangible anincreasingly competitive US operating demands while supporting reduced assets of 12m and restructuring costs of environment and severe winter weather environmental impact and improved 7m.
Return on capital employed improved inNorth America.
Operating conditions 100 basis points to 26.7% because of are ever more challenging as customers increased profitability.
Underlying sales of first-fit original face increasingly higher pressure and equipment rose 4%, with demand fuelled Underlying revenue grew 2% 17m, offset speed requirements while exploring by original equipment manufacturers by 62m of adverse foreign exchange more .
exporting to high-growth regions such translation, leaving reported revenue down as the Middle East.
This was illustrated During the period, John Crane launched 5%.
The underlying improvement reflects by contract wins for the Zadco oil and the Type 3740XL seal, a next-generation, increased revenue in the aftermarket gas project and Adco Bab field in the larger mechanical split seal.
This new and first-fit rotating equipment business, United Arab Emirates, Jizan refinery in model is used for large, difficult-tooffset by declining sales in our upstream Saudi Arabia, and Zubair Oil Field in Iraq.
maintain pumps, mixers and rotating oil services segment.
Excluding this Additionally, China experienced doubleequipment.
Its split seal technology can upstream segment, revenues showed digit first-fit revenue growth.
Overall, we reduce costs for customers by potentially a 4% underlying increase.
continue to see customer confidence in the cutting installation time by more than 50% Overall aftermarket revenues grew 1% oil and gas pump segment, whereas the in challenging operating environments.
However, excluding power generation turbomachinery segment John Crane was also awarded a patent sales from our upstream oil services remains challenging.
for a breakthrough technology that will business, sales grew 4% on the back monitor the condition of a gas seal to Revenue from emerging markets rose 6% of strong demand from energy services improve product performance, extend and now represents 22% of John Crane customers across the Middle East, Latin average product lifespan and aid emission sales.
Revenue increased 9% year over America and North America.
Key renewals reduction in operations across the year in ASEAN countries, 16% in Saudi and new aftermarket service contracts energy sector.
John Crane was issued Arabia, 10% in India, and 6% in China.
signed with global customers such as 26 new patents in fiscal year 2014 and, Market demands in China were behind the Shell, Chevron, Valero, Colombia-based in total, has more than 230 patents and opening of a new service centre in Dalian Ecopetrol Reficar, and Brazil-based Suzano patentapplications.
and a second in Chengdu, increasing the Pulp and Paper, should contribute to steady number of service centres in the region To support growth from new product mid-term growth.
Additional wins with BP to eight.
Combined with several other development and generate new product Rumalia, Petrochina, and Pemex Refinery investments in our Tianjin, China facility ideas, we have established a Scientific Pipelines in Mexico contributed to the a new global R&D centre, improvements Advisory Board comprising external record order book.
in the training centre, and increased academics and thought leaders.
manufacturing capacity we have 30 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Outlook Priorities for 2015 John Cranes record high order book is Expand installed base expected to support sales growth from the Build-out selected growth markets midand downstream segment in the first Maximise aftermarket performance half of fiscal year 2015.
However, we foresee Drive continuous productivity revenue growth below our medium-term Medium-term operating ranges operating range in the first half because Underlying revenue growth: mid-single of the challenging upstream market digits 4-6% conditions and some manufacturing Headline operating margin: margin constraints.
We anticipate these conditions expansion to support top quartile will improve slightly as the year progresses.
margins 22-25% We expect operating margins for the year to continue to be at the top end of the guidance provided, with further expansion in the near term being limited due to Go to www.
com increased investment in growth initiatives.
for more information Driving high performance An unrivalled service programme combined with the largest global support network in the industry has delivered more than a decade of steady growth in John Cranes aftermarket business.
Using on-site engineers and technicians, some 170 Performance Plus PP contracts have been completed, helping oil, gas and diverse processing companies around the world improve operations and cut costs through bespoke, high-level reliability support.
Shell Jurong Island, Valero Energy and Chevron are a few of the leading companies to have benefited recently from PP programmes which are typically rolling five-year contracts.
Around two thirds of John Cranes revenues now come from the aftermarket, said Jason Wall, Director of Global Business Solutions.
This is largely down to PP which analyses root cause failures, identifies improvement focal points and implements performance-based solutions.
In this way, reliability can be improved by more than 50% because of the dramatic reduction in equipment outages and plant downtime.
Bhalchandra Shinde, Gas Seal Service Engineer, Singapore Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 31 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
