Our business model Smiths Groups business model operates at two levels.
The Group manages our portfolio to create value for shareholders, while the five divisions manage their businesses to meet customers needs and create value for the Group.
The Groups role We have a lean corporate centre, which sets our strategic priorities and allocates capital to manage the portfolio and drive returns.
It also co-ordinates strategic Optimise capital initiatives across the divisions and fosters structure for balance a common culture of responsibility and sheet efficiency accountability wherever we work around Maintain investmentthe world.
grade rating The corporate centre focuses on a number of core activities: Fund legacy liabilities Generate Strategy Pensions and litigation shareholder returns Sets Group strategy and ensures Progressive dividend divisional strategies are aligned with policy Group strategy.
Allocate Budgeting, planning and reporting capital Agrees and reviews annual Group and effectively divisional budgets.
Governance Invest in driving Manage the portfolio Provides an effective governance efficiencies Targeted acquisitions framework and ensures good governance Creating fuel for and selected disposals is embedded across the business.
investment and enhancing returns Risk management Sets risk appetite, ensures a strong risk management framework is in place and Invest in organic growth provides effective oversight.
Product innovation, sales & marketing excellence, Performance monitoring manufacturing capacity, etc.
Regularly reviews performance against agreed targets with the divisions.
Information systems Capital allocation Funding legacy liabilities, such as our Makes sure the right business systems The corporate centre is responsible for defined benefit pension schemes and and processes are in place so that the effective allocation of capital across legacy product liability issues, in order to decisions are made efficiently based on the business.
This is important in a minimise their impact on value creation.
multi-industry organisation where our These are managed at either Group or Ethics and compliance businesses are strongly cash generative divisional level, as appropriate.
Approves policies and provides oversight and have limited need for fixed capital.
Targeted acquisitions and selected to ensure a strong culture of ethical We do this through: disposals.
We buy businesses that behaviour and compliance.
Securing financing and optimising the add complementary technologies and EHS, talent and retention Groups capital structure for balance products, expand our geographical Sets the Groups environment, health sheet efficiency.
We seek to maintain footprint, particularly in emerging and safety, and people development a strong investment-grade credit rating markets, or allow us to leverage our policies and monitors compliance and and net debt EBITDA gearing at 1.5-2x.
existing scale and infrastructure in order performance.
We are Generating shareholder returns through also active in disposing of businesses that Best practice dividend payments and capital returns.
Shares best practice in areas such as Our focus on cash generation enables us sales and marketing excellence, quality to reinvest in the business to drive growth Investing in organic growth through and innovation.
and to generate attractive shareholder new product development, sales and returns.
We have a progressive dividend marketing initiatives and manufacturing policy, while maintaining 2.5 times cover.
Investing in driving efficiencies to create the fuel for growth investment and to enhance returns.
12 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 h t w o r g c i n a g r o l e u f The divisional business model Our diversified portfolio offers a wide range of long-term growth markets with different customers, demand drivers and competitors.
It makes our business relatively resilient throughout the economic cycle.
Our businesses also share a common 5: Generate 1: Develop business model: cash and launch creating sustainable technological innovative new differentiation by developing products products to meet customers specific needs achieving operational excellence through low-cost, flexible manufacturing: and Customer developing strong, lasting customer intimacy relationships by providing outstanding and market 4: Deliver 2: Excel in aftermarket services.
knowledge aftermarket operations and Our decentralised structure ensures services supply chain our businesses are close to their target management markets and customers and encourages a culture of entrepreneurship.
Our divisions are responsible for actively managing their risks, ensuring that a 3: Sell products strong culture of ethics and compliance is embedded across their businesses, effectively and developing and retaining their people, with regular reporting back to the Groupcentre.
Create a differentiated market 2: Excel in operations and supply chain 5: Generate cash understanding and customer intimacy management By emphasising working capital Our businesses consistently refine their The majority of the manufacturing process management, particularly our debtors and knowledge of their markets.
This includes is in small-batch, low-cost assembly, inventories, we are able to convert a high segmenting those markets, understanding much of which is made to meet specific proportion of headline operating profit their dynamics, analysing competitors and customer orders.
their activities, identifying opportunities light and flexible.
6: Re-invest cash to fuel organic growth to improve our services and assessing Where appropriate, we have established Our strong cash-flow enables us to potential sources of competitive advantage.
production facilities in lower-cost reinvest in the business to drive topThis helps us anticipate and respond countries, such as Mexico, China, India, the line growth by investing in new product todevelopments.
Czech Republic, Costa Rica and Tunisia.
development, optimising our systems This deep market knowledge enables and operations and expanding our 3: Sell products effectively us to achieve a high degree of customer sales and marketing presence in key We take our products to market through intimacy, allowing us to anticipate their growthmarkets.
our own sales and marketing teams and a specific needs.
This in turn helps us to network of dealers and distributors around This investment enables us to maintain keep our customers for the long term.
Our focus on building long-term our technology leadership and accelerates 1: Develop and launch innovative customer relationships is fundamental to sales and margin growth across the products the success of our sales force.
business, providing a platform for R&D is the key driver of sales growth sustained growth.
4: Develop lasting relationships through and margins.
It enables us to keep at outstanding aftermarket services the forefront of technology and develop Many of our businesses provide a high products that meet our customers level of aftersales service.
sell significant quantities of singleWe fund the majority of our R&D and we use consumables.
These activities also seek funding from our customers.
help us to retain customer loyalty, Our spend is focused more on product improve our understanding of how our development than pure research.
In 2014, products perform over their lifetime and we invested 117m in R&D, of which 8m increase our resilience throughout the was customer-funded.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 13 o t h s a c t s e v n i e R : 6 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
