GOVERNANCE 64 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED POLICY TABLE UNAUDITED The policy table below summarises the remuneration policy which is effective from 12 June 2014 following shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
The whole policy report, which is available on the Companys website, is intended to apply for three years.
However, the Committee monitors the remuneration policy on a continuing basis including consideration of evolving market practice and relevant guidance: shareholder views and results of previous voting: policies applied to the wider employee base: and with due regard to the current economic climate.
Should the Committee resolve that the remuneration policy should be revised: such revisions will be subject to a binding shareholder vote.
POLICY TABLE FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FIXED PAY BASE SALARY Purpose and link to strategy: Core element of remuneration set at a sufficient level to attract and retain people of the necessary calibre to shape and execute the Companys strategy.
OPERATION MAXIMUM Contractual fixed cash amount paid monthly.
Although the Committee do not consider it appropriate to set a maximum salary level, any salary adjustments will normally be in Particular care is given in fixing the appropriate salary level line with those of the wider workforce.
considering that incentive pay is generally set at a fraction or multiple of base salary.
The Committee retains discretion to award higher increases in certain circumstances such as increased scope and responsibility The Committee takes into account a number of factors when of the role, or in the case of new Executive Directors who are setting salaries, including but not limited to : positioned on a lower salary initially, as they gain experience size and scope of individuals responsibilities over time.
skills and experience of the individual performance of the Company and the individual appropriate market data pay and conditions elsewhere in SOCO.
Base salaries are normally reviewed annually.
Results of benchmarking exercises are monitored for indications of potential unwarranted upward ratcheting.
BENEFITS Purpose and link to strategy: To provide Executive Directors with market competitive benefits consistent with the role.
OPERATION MAXIMUM Executive Directors receive benefits which may include but are Although the Committee do not consider it appropriate to set a not limited to medical care and insurance, permanent health maximum benefits level, benefits are positioned at an insurance, life assurance cover, critical illness cover, travel benefits, appropriate market level for the nature and location of the role.
expatriate benefits, car benefits and relocation expenses.
PENSION Purpose and link to strategy: To provide retirement benefits consistent with the role.
OPERATION MAXIMUM Pension benefits are delivered through contributions to 20% of base salary per annum.
SOCOs money purchase plan up to relevant plan limits and or a cash supplement.
65 VARIABLE PAY ANNUAL BONUS Purpose and link to strategy: Incentivises and rewards for the delivery of the strategic plan on an annual basis.
OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE FRAMEWORK Payments are based on performance in the relevant 150% of base salary per The annual bonus is based on individual and financial year.
annum, including cash and corporate performance during the year.
At the beginning of the year, the Committee sets Corporate goals are set annually and may include objectives which it considers are critical to the delivery of monitored measures for particular projects: the business strategy.
portfolio objectives: corporate strategic goals: safety, social and environmental measures: financial Performance against these key strategic objectives is measures and other measures as may be deemed assessed by the Committee at the end of the year.
appropriate and relevant to the period for delivery The Committee retains the discretion to amend the of the business strategy.
bonus payout negatively or positively to ensure it If the Committee determines that a minimum level reflects the performance of either the individual or of performance has not been achieved, no bonus the Company.
Thereafter, the bonus will begin Payments up to 100% of salary are normally made paying out, up to the maximum of 150% of salary.
The Committee determines the appropriate Any bonus above 100% of salary will normally be weighting of the metrics each year.
deferred into awards of SOCO shares which vest after at least two years.
LTIP Purpose and link to strategy: Incentivises and rewards for the Companys strategic plan of building shareholder value.
OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE FRAMEWORK Typically a contingent award of shares is made annually in Usually 200% of base salary Awards vest based on performance against December, in the course of the annual review cycle.
financial, operational and or share price measures, as set by the Committee, which are aligned with the Vesting of the awards is dependent on the achievement In circumstances which the long term strategic objectives of SOCO.
of performance targets, which are typically measured Committee determines to be over a three-year performance period.
exceptional, annual awards of No less than 50% of the award will be based on up to 400% of base salary per share price measures.
The remainder will be based annum may be made.
on financial, operational or share price measures.
The maximum limit set out If an event occurs which causes the Committee to above applies to the total consider that a waiver of, or amendment to, the grants made each year under performance conditions would be a fairer measure both the LTIP and share of performance and there has been a sustained option plan per annum.
improvement in financial performance, the performance conditions may be waived or amended.
For threshold levels of performance, 25% of the award vests.
100% of the award will vest for maximum performance.
Pro-rating applies between these points and between ranking positions.
SHARE OPTION PLAN Purpose and link to strategy: Incentivises and rewards for the Companys strategic plan of building shareholder value.
OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE FRAMEWORK Although Executive Directors are not currently granted If determined appropriate, Awards vest based on performance against market value options under the plan, flexibility is being awards may be made in lieu performance conditions as the Committee maintained to do so if determined appropriate.
determine to be appropriate at that time.
Operation of the plan for Executive Directors would The maximum limit set out Taking into account the interests of shareholders, generally be consistent with the principles for operation in the LTIP section above the Committee may vary the performance of the LTIP set out above.
applies to the total grants conditions in certain circumstances following the made under both the grant of an award so as to achieve their original Options may be exercised between three and ten years LTIP and share option purpose, but not to make their achievement any following grant, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant plan per annum.
more or less difficult to satisfy.
OTHER POLICY SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES Purpose and link to strategy: Further increases alignment between Executive Directors and shareholders.
OPERATION The Board has a policy requiring Executive Directors to build a minimum shareholding in SOCO shares equivalent to 100% of salary.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
