21 POST-FRAC FLOW RATE AT LXM-101 WELL BOPD 4,800 SERGE LESCAUT GENERAL MANAGER, AFRICA REGION 56 64 fixed choke with a flowing wellhead DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF pressure of 778 psi following the successful CONGO KINSHASA execution of the stimulation frac.
SOCO holds its onshore interest in the The well results are being analysed to determine DRC though its 85% owned subsidiary, continuity with the nearby discovery on SOCO E&P DRC.
SOCO E&P DRC holds an Marine XII and discussions with the authorities 85% working interest and is the designated are ongoing to submit the documentation operator in Block V, situated in the southern required to allow unitisation with that field.
Albertine Graben in eastern DRC.
NANGA II A BLOCK V Following the completion of the interpretation After receiving all necessary regulatory of the reprocessed seismic data, the exploitation approvals, the lake bed seismic survey on Lake licence expired in October 2014.
We are no Edward was completed in June 2014.
Safety longer undertaking work on Nanga II A but of the crew was of primary importance.
The have approached the Congolese Ministry survey was successfully completed in six weeks of Hydrocarbons to discuss a potential work amid challenging conditions with no lost time programme and commercial terms for a injuries.
Processing of the seismic data has been possible Production Sharing Agreement for the completed.
Data interpretation is currently area.
Discussions are ongoing at this time.
underway in the UK and should be completed by mid-2015.
The Company no longer has any MER PROFONDE SUD personnel on Block V and after providing the DRC government with interpretation of the The Companys farm-in to acquire a 60% results of the seismic anticipates no further working interest in the offshore MPS Block involvement in the Block.
It is our intention to has been completed following government leave behind all the humanitarian aid that SOCO approval of the commencement of the relevant has provided in medical, water purification and two year licence period from 1 June 2014. communications facilities for the benefit of We have been working with our partners on the people.
a detailed well location study and are very optimistic about the exploration potential of the MPS Block.
However, given the prevailing market conditions in early 2015, drilling of the ANGOLA well has been delayed until 2016.
CABINDA NORTH Following incorporation of the results from the 2013 drilling programme, the detailed plans for operations in 2015 have been reviewed by the partnership.
The licence expires at the end of March 2015, however a three year licence extension for the continuation of exploration activities has been requested effective from 1 April 2015 with a new contractor group interested to continue their involvement.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
