GOVERNANCE 46 KEY Committees A Audit and Risk R Remuneration N Nominations Membership Committee chair Committee member Committee advisor 1.
ROBERT CATHERY Non-Executive Chairman, 59 Non-Executive Director, 70 Appointed: July 1999 Appointed: June 2001 Rui fide Sousa has approximately 35 years experience in the energy sector.
Robert Cathery has over 45 years of City experience.
He was formerly He was formerly a director of Gazprombank-Invest Lebanon SAL, the the Managing Director and Head of Oil and Gas at Canaccord Capital Chairman of Carbon Resource Management Ltd. and the President of Europe Limited, Head of Corporate Sales at SG Securities London Ltd. Quantic Mining.
Rui is currently a director of Quantic Limited.
director of Vickers da Costa and director of Schroders Securities.
Robert is also currently a non-executive director of Salamander Energy PLC and 2.
ED STORY Central Asia Metals Limited.
President and Chief Executive Officer, 71 8.
ETTORE CONTINI Appointed: April 1997 Ed Story has over 45 years experience in the oil and gas industry, Non-Executive Director, 40 beginning with Exxon Corporation, where he held various positions Appointed: December 2001 including seven years resident in the Far East.
He was formerly the Ettore Contini was formerly a director of Energia E Servize SpA and an Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Superior Oil Company, asset manager in the private banking division of Banca del Gottardo.
a co-founder and Vice Chairman of Conquest Exploration Company Ettore is currently also a director of Eurowatt-Commerce.
and a co-founder and President of Snyder Oil Corporations international subsidiary.
Ed was a non-executive director of Cairn Energy PLC until 9.
MARIANNE DARYABEGUI 2008 and is currently a non-executive director of Cairn India Limited.
ROGER CAGLE Appointed: October 2013 Marianne Daryabegui is currently the Managing Director of the Corporate Deputy Chief Executive Officer, 67 Finance Oil and Gas Team at BNP Paribas in Paris, France.
Marianne has Appointed: April 1997 extensive experience in oil and gas corporate transactions, including Roger Cagle has over 40 years of experience in the oil and gas industry structured financing and reserve based lending facilities, and has advised including succeeding positions of responsibility with Exxon Corporation a wide number of oil companies across the sector.
Prior to joining the Oil and senior management roles with Superior Oil Company.
He was formerly and Gas Team in 2006, Marianne worked for eight years in BNP Paribas the Chief Financial Officer of Conquest Exploration Company and the Energy Commodities Export Project Department where she headed Chief Financial Officer of Snyder Oil Corporations international subsidiary.
the Commodity Structure Finance team for the Middle East, North and West Africa.
Prior to joining BNP Paribas, Marianne spent eight years 4.
CYNTHIA CAGLE at TOTAL, working amongst other activities on upstream acquisitions and divestments in Europe and Africa.
Marianne has a Masters degree Executive Vice President and Company Secretary, 60 in Finance and Capital Markets from Sciences Po University, Paris and a Appointed: December 2012 Masters in Tax and Corporate Law.
Cynthia Cagle has over 35 years experience in the oil and gas industry.
She was one of the founders of SOCO International plc and has been 10.
ANTNIO MONTEIRO an officer of the Group, and a Director of its significant subsidiaries, since its inception in 1997.
Prior to joining SOCO, Cynthia gained her Non-Executive Director, 71 industry experience through senior accounting positions in Snyder Oil Appointed: June 2009 Corporations international subsidiary, Conquest Exploration Company Ambassador Antnio Monteiro has over 45 years of experience with and Superior Oil Company, and additional financial experience with Texas the Portuguese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including as Foreign Minister Commerce Bancshares.
of Portugal, and with international organisations, including as UN High Representative for Elections in Cte dIvoire and as a member of the UN 5.
ROB GRAY Secretary-Generals Panel on the Referenda in the Sudan.
He was formerly the Ambassador of Portugal to France and the Permanent Representative Non-Executive and Senior Independent Director, 61 of Portugal to the United Nations, where posts included being President Appointed: December 2013 of the Security Council and of the Security Councils Committee Rob Gray has been an advisor to the natural resources sector for more established by Resolution 661 1990.
Antnio is currently also Chairman than 30 years.
Rob qualified as a solicitor in 1981 at Allen & Overy and of the Board of Directors of the Portuguese Bank Millenium BCP Banco then went on to help establish James Capel & Co. Petroleum Services, Comercial Portugus, a non-executive member of the Board of the a successful advisory and Mergers & Acquisitions practice.
Robs Angolan Bank BPA Banco Privado Atlntico, a non-executive member experience includes thirteen years at Deutsche Bank where he was latterly of the Board of the Spanish bank Sabadell, and Chairman of the Advisory a Senior Advisor having been Chairman of UK Investment Banking for five Council of Gulbenkians Foundation Program for Development Assistance.
years and formerly Global Head of Natural Resources.
Rob was previously a Director and Head of the Natural Resource Group at Robert Fleming 11.
JOHN NORTON & Co. Ltd. for four years, a group which he established.
Between 2000 and 2010, Rob was an Advisory Board Member for Heerema Marine Non-Executive Director, 77 Contractors.
Rob is also one of a number of industry advisors to Bluewater Appointed: April 1997 Energy.
Rob was a co-founder of RegEnersys, a natural resources John Norton is a Chartered Accountant by profession and was a partner investment entity and is currently the principal of ReVysion LLP.
at Arthur Andersen, heading the oil and gas practice in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, until his retirement in 1995.
OLIVIER BARBAROUX a member of the Oil Industry Accounting Committee and a director of the Arab-British Chamber of Commerce.
MIKE WATTS Olivier Barbaroux has over 25 years experience in the energy and utilities sector.
He was the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Dalkia and Non-Executive Director, 59 a member of the Executive Committee of Veolia Environment until 2011.
Appointed: August 2009 Formerly, he was the Managing Director of Compagnie Gnrale des Dr Mike Watts has over 35 years experience in the oil and gas industry.
Eaux, President and Chief Operating Officer of Vivendi Water S. A. the He was formerly the Deputy Chief Executive of Cairn Energy PLC and the Head of the Energy Sector of Paribas and the Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of the Amsterdam listed of the oil and gas production and exploration company Holland Sea Search, which was acquired by Cairn Energy PLC in 1995, Coparex International.
and has held senior technical and management roles with Premier, Burmah and Shell.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
