GOVERNANCE 48 he Directors present their annual SHARE CAPITAL report, along with the audited Financial Statements of the Group Details of changes to share capital in the period for the year ended 31 December are set out in Note 24 to the Financial Statements.
Information on pages 46 to 47 and 48 to 72 is incorporated herein In October 2014, a return of value was made to by reference and forms part of this all shareholders amounting to approximately TDirectors report.
73 million in cash by way of a B C share scheme.
Further information can be found above and in DEVELOPMENTS FOLLOWING Note 26 to the Financial Statements.
THE 2014 REPORTING PERIOD As part of this scheme, 107,078,451 B shares An indication of the likely future developments and 224,876,192 C shares were issued.
On in the business of the Group is included in the 30 September 2014, all of the B shares were CYNTHIA CAGLE Strategic Report on pages 4 to 45. redeemed at 22 pence per share and a dividend of 22 pence per share was paid on the C shares.
EXECUTIVE VICE RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The C shares were then automatically reclassified PRESIDENT AND as deferred shares.
COMPANY SECRETARY The audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 are set out on pages 77 The Company therefore, currently has two classes to 97.
During the year, the Company announced of shares in issue, ordinary shares of 0.05 each, a return of value to shareholders of 22 pence per and deferred shares of 0.0000001 pence each, all Ordinary Share amounting to approximately of which are fully paid.
73 million $119.2 million in cash by way of a B C share scheme, which gave shareholders other Each ordinary share in issue carries equal rights than certain overseas shareholders a choice including one vote per share on a poll at general between receiving cash in the form of income or meetings of the Company, subject to the terms in the form of capital.
The return of value, which of the Articles and law.
Shares held in treasury was approved by shareholders on 22 September carry no such rights for so long as they are held in 2014, became effective on 30 September 2014. treasury.
Votes may be exercised by shareholders The Board has recommended a final dividend of attending or otherwise duly represented at 10 pence per Ordinary Share, which amounts to general meetings.
Deadlines for the exercise approximately $50 million, and which if approved of voting rights by proxy on a poll at a general at the AGM will be paid on 19 June 2015 to meeting are detailed in the notice of meeting and shareholders on the register at the close of proxy cards issued in connection with the relevant business on 29 May 2015. meeting.
Voting rights relating to the ordinary shares held by the SOCO Employee Benefit DIRECTORS Trust are not exercised.
The Articles may only be amended by a resolution of the shareholders.
The business of the Company is managed by the Directors who may exercise all powers of the Each deferred share carries no voting rights Company subject to the Articles of Association and no rights to participate in the profits of the Articles and law.
The Directors who held office Company.
On a winding-up or other return of during the year, and the dates of their current capital, the holders of deferred shares have service contracts or letters of appointment, extremely limited rights.
A resolution will be which are available for inspection, are listed in proposed at the 2015 AGM to approve a contract the table on page 51.
All Directors held office to buy back all of the deferred shares for the throughout the year except as noted in the table.
aggregate consideration of one pence and, in In accordance with the provisions of the 2012 UK accordance with the Articles, following such Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will buy back, the deferred shares will be cancelled.
retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, Further information regarding this resolution is set offer themselves for reappointment.
Relevant out in the circular to shareholders.
details of the Directors, which include their Committee memberships, are set out on pages No shareholder, unless the Board decides 46 and 47.
SOCO provides liability insurance for otherwise, is entitled to attend or to vote either its Directors and officers.
The annual cost of the personally or by proxy at a general meeting or cover is not material to the Group.
The Companys to exercise any other right conferred by being Articles allow it to provide an indemnity for the a shareholder if he or she or any person with an benefit of its Directors, which is a qualifying interest in ordinary shares has been sent a notice indemnity provision for the purpose of section 233 under section 793 of the 2006 Act which confers of the Companies Act 2006 2006 Act.
upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their CONTRIBUTIONS voting shares and he or she or any interested person failed to supply the Company with the The Groups policies prohibit political donations.
information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 49 days after receipt by the Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the IN OCTOBER 2014, information required by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever is earlier.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share THE COMPANY which is not a fully-paid share, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way which the Financial Conduct Authority regards as RETURNED TO preventing dealings in shares of that class from taking place on an open or proper basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse any transfer of a SHAREHOLDERS share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other 22 PENCE PER restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws ORDINARY SHARE, and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority whereby certain APPROXIMATELY employees of the Company require approval of the Company to deal in the Companys shares.
73 MILLION The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Resolutions will be proposed at the 2015 AGM, as is customary, to authorise the Directors to exercise all powers to allot shares and approve a limited disapplication of preemption rights.
Further information regarding these resolutions is set out in the circular to shareholders.
A resolution will also be proposed at the 2015 AGM, as is also customary, to renew as a Director, having made such enquiries of the Directors existing authority to make market fellow Directors and the auditors and taken such purchases of the Companys ordinary share other steps as are required under their duties capital, and to limit such authority to purchases as a Director, to make themself aware of any of up to 34,107,691 ordinary shares of 0.05 relevant audit information and to establish that each, representing approximately 10% of the the auditors are aware of that information.
This Companys issued ordinary share capital at confirmation is given and should be interpreted 11 March 2015.
Shares purchased under this in accordance with the provisions of section 418 authority may either be cancelled or held as of the 2006 Act.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS AUDITORS As at 11 March 2015, the Company had been A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Companys auditors will be proposed by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
Deloitte interests in the shares of the Company as set also provide non-audit services to the Group, out in the table on page 51. which are set out in Note 9 to the Financial Statements.
All non-audit services are approved GREENHOUSE GAS by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Directors EMISSIONS REPORTING are currently satisfied, and will continue to ensure, that this range of services is delivered in Reporting on emission sources, as required compliance with the relevant ethical guidance under the Large and Medium-Sized Companies of the accountancy profession and does not and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations impair the judgement or independence of the 2008 as amended in August 2013, is included in auditors.
Further details of the Group policy on the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report non-audit services are set out in the Audit and on pages 34 to 45.
Risk Committee Report on pages 60 to 62.
The Directors at the date of approval of this report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information needed by the auditors in connection with preparing their report, of which the auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE 50 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED REQUIREMENTS OF THE LISTING RULES The table below provides references to where the information required by the listing rule 9.8.
4R is disclosed: LISTING RULE REQUIREMENT A statement of the amount of interest capitalised by the group during the period under review with an Not applicable indication of the amount and treatment of any related tax relief.
Any information required by LR 9.2.
18 R Publication of unaudited financial information.
Not applicable Details of any long term incentive schemes as required by LR 9.4.
3 R. Directors Remuneration Report page 65 Details of any arrangements under which a director of the company has waived or agreed to waive any No such waivers emoluments from the company or any subsidiary undertaking.
Where a director has agreed to waive future emoluments, details of such waiver together with those relating to emoluments which were waived during the period under review.
Details required in the case of any allotment for cash of equity securities made during the period under No such share allotments review otherwise than to the holders of the companys equity shares in proportion to their holdings of such equity shares and which has not been specifically authorised by the companys shareholders.
Where a listed company has listed shares in issue and is a subsidiary undertaking of another Not applicable company, details of the participation by the parent undertaking in any placing made during the period under review.
Details of any contract of significance subsisting during the period under review: Note 32 page 97 a to which the listed company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, is a party and in which a director of the listed company is or was materially interested: and b between the listed company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, and a controlling shareholder.
Details of contracts for the provision of services to the company or any of its subsidiary Not applicable undertakings by the controlling shareholder.
Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends, Note 25 page 93 where a shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends, details of such waiver together with those relating to dividends which are payable during the period under review.
Board statement in respect of relationship agreement with the controlling shareholder.
Not applicable GOING CONCERN The Directors are required to prepare Financial The Directors are responsible for the Statements for each financial year that give a maintenance and integrity of the corporate and It should be recognised that any consideration true and fair view of the financial position of the financial information included on the Companys of the foreseeable future involves making a Company and of the Group and the financial website.
Information published on the internet is judgement, at a particular point in time, about performance and cash flows of the Group for that accessible in many countries with different legal future events which are inherently uncertain.
In preparing those accounts the Directors requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Nevertheless, at the time of preparation of are required to select suitable accounting policies governing the preparation and dissemination of these accounts and after making enquiries, and then apply them consistently: present Financial Statements may differ from legislation in the Directors have a reasonable expectation information and accounting policies in a manner other jurisdictions.
that the Group has adequate resources to that provides relevant, reliable and comparable continue operating for the foreseeable future.
information: and state that the Company and the For this reason, and taking into consideration Group have complied with applicable accounting the additional factors in the Financial Review on standards, subject to any material departures pages 24 to 28, they continue to adopt the going disclosed and explained in the accounts.
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Directors are responsible for keeping DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR proper accounting records which disclose with THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and The Directors are responsible for preparing the enable them to ensure that the accounts annual report and the Financial Statements in comply with relevant legislation.
They are also accordance with applicable United Kingdom law responsible for safeguarding the assets of and IFRS as adopted by the European Union the Company and the Group and hence for both for the Group and the Company.
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
51 SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS ISSUED SHARES NAME OF HOLDER NUMBER % HELD As at 11 March 2015, the Company had been notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Blue Albacore Business Ltd 27,444,382 8.27 Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Globe Deals Ltd 27,444,382 8.27 interests in the shares of the Company as set out in the table on the right: 1 Liquid Business Ltd 27,444,381 8.27 Chemsa Ltd 23,600,000 7.11 2 Edward T Story 13,191,131 3.97 1 Liquid Business Ltd is a connected person to Mr E Contini, a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
An additional 220,000 Shares are held personally by Mr E Contini.
For further information see the Directors Interest table on page 69.
2 11,516,131 Shares are held personally by Mr E Story, an Executive Director of the Company.
1,675,000 Shares are held through The Story Family Trust, a connected person to Mr E Story.
DIRECTORS DIRECTORS HOLDING RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OFFICE DURING 2014 The Directors confirm that, to the best of each DATE OF persons knowledge: DIRECTOR CONTRACT Rui C fide Sousa 12.07.99 a the Financial Statements set out on pages 73 Chairman to 97, which have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and IFRS Robert G Gray 09.12.13 as adopted by the European Union, give a true Senior Independent Director and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Olivier M G Barbaroux 12.07.99 position and loss of the Company and profit of the Group taken as a whole: Roger D Cagle 14.05.97 Cynthia B Cagle 14.05.97 b this Directors Report along with the Strategic Report, including each of the management Robert M Cathery 19.06.01 reports forming part of these reports, includes a Ettore P M Contini 11.12.01 fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Marianne Daryabegui 01.10.13 Company and the Group taken as a whole, Antnio V Monteiro 10.06.09 together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and John C Norton 14.05.97 Edward T Story 14.05.97 c the annual report and the Financial Michael J Watts 21.09.09 Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide Denotes those determined by the Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors as described in the Corporate Governance the information necessary for the shareholders Report on pages 52 to 59. to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board 11 March 2015 Cynthia Cagle Company Secretary | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
