STRATEGIC REPORT 42 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCO measures the KPIs it believes are useful such an incident would have upon a natural in assessing the Groups performance against habitat as well as upon the business.
Other new strategic priorities, HSES polices, and business KPIs include the quantity of solid hazardous and plans.
These metrics are kept under periodic non-hazardous waste, as has become an industry review and are regularly tested for relevance standard disclosure.
Reporting the number of HSE against strategy and policy.
In 2014, further KPIs regulatory non-compliances with the target of were added to better align performance to zero reflect the Companys excellent HSE record strategy.
SOCO tracks both financial and nonto date and the intention of the management to financial metrics to facilitate better management maintain this high standard.
of long term performance and the delivery of sustainable responsible business plans.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION Reflecting the importance that operating safety has in the priorities of the Company, as well as to Executive Director Remuneration is directly the industry as a whole, the Company measures linked to SOCOs performance.
To help ensure the number of lost time injuries per million that the focus of the Board and management is man-hours on all projects where the Company aligned with the interests of our shareholders, is the designated operator or the joint operator.
certain of these measures are reflected in To further reinforce this priority, a KPI has been the annual bonus element of executive added which flags the frequency rate of fatal remuneration.
Directors performance-related accidents, with the firm ambition to maintain pay is decided by a balanced scorecard of this number at zero.
The introduction of a new financial and non-financial objectives.
KPI measuring the number of oil spills of over 100 litres acknowledges the serious impact that More on p64 2014 SEISMIC SURVEY ON LAKE EDWARD KPI NON-FINANCIAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SUSTAINABILITY We completed a seismic TARGET 2014 survey on Lake Edward in 1 Lost time injury frequency rate 0.3 2014.
After providing the 2 DRC Government with Fatal accident frequency rate interpretation of the two 3 Employee tenure years N A 8 seismic results, SOCO will have no further 4 Employee turnover % N A involvement in the Block.
Emissions million tonnes of CO equivalent 2 5 based on equity share N A 0.11 6 Oil spills 7 Solid non-hazardous waste tonnes Set per project 498.4 8 Solid hazardous waste tonnes Set per project 401.3 9 HSE regulatory non-compliances 1 The number of LTIs per million man-hours on projects operated by SOCO or jointly operated companies.
2 The number of fatal accidents per hundred million man-hours on projects operated by SOCO or jointly operated companies.
3 Average length of UK-based employee tenure.
4 Rate of UK-based employee resignations.
5 Scope One and Two emissions from the Groups operated and joint operated projects on an equity share basis calculated pro-rata to its ownership interest.
7 Total non-hazardous waste requiring disposal, by gross project interest.
8 Total hazardous waste requiring disposal, by gross project interest.
9 HSE regulations and permit conditions applicable to country of operation.
KPI See Additional Information Key Performance Indicators on page 99 for all KPIs reported and their definitions.
