The survey lasted six weeks and SOCOs request for assistance in evidencing BLOCK V, EASTERN was completed on 13 June 2014. the allegations, the exercise has been defined and focused by Clifford Chance in terms of DRC NO FURTHER geological studies on land.
The studies the evidence considered.
The Company has INVOLVEMENT were carried out by three geologists using provided access to all the available personnel, small handheld tools.
The objective was processes and documents requested by the to inspect rock formations on land and to law firm in order for them to conduct a focused gather samples for laboratory study.
Inside review and sufficient for them to advise the Virunga National Park, the studies were Board as to the appropriate steps to be taken.
ollowing SOCOs public commitment completed on 22 July 2014 and elsewhere Upon the conclusion of the independent review, announced jointly with WWF in June on 11 August 2014. the Company will take any necessary steps and 2014, SOCOs operations in eastern advise its stakeholders.
DRC ceased inside Virunga National Processing of the seismic data has been FPark on 22 July 2014 and elsewhere in completed and data interpretation is currently While we acknowledge that the DRC Block V on 11 August 2014.
The Company no underway in the UK and should be completed government is anticipating discussions with longer has any personnel in Block V. by mid-2015.
UNESCO involving the future of the Virunga National Park: we have no involvement in Prior to August 2014, the extent of SOCOs In the summer of 2014, the Company engaged these discussions.
After providing the DRC operational activities within Virunga National Clifford Chance to carry out an independent review Government with interpretation of the seismic Park had been: to assess whether there is evidence supporting results, SOCO will have no further involvement allegations of wrongdoing made by various in the Block.
Consequently, all costs incurred a bathymetry survey on Lake Edward.
The NGOs and media members of its activities in the on Block V to date and any further costs objective of this survey was to map the depth DRC.
The law firm was also asked to advise as to anticipated in the course of 2015 have been of the lake.
The survey lasted one month and whether, in the materials reviewed, there was any written off as exploration expense in 2014. was completed in November 2013. evidence contradicting the Companys conclusion, It is our intention to leave behind all the based on its own internal review, that neither humanitarian aid that SOCO has provided in a seismic survey on Lake Edward.
The SOCO nor its employees have been complicit water purification and communications facilities objective of this survey was to gather data in any intimidation and or human rights abuses.
for the benefit of the people.
about subsurface rock formations under Given the absence of a response from NGOs to | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
