Strategic Report Business Review Manufacturing and Supply Our investment in production facilities, continuous improvement initiatives and quality management systems helps us deliver our medicines to patients as efficiently as possible.
Our manufacturing strategy seeks to pipeline as well as the growing demand Overview combine innovative internal capabilities with for biologics, which represent nearly 50% cost-efficient external resources.
Focused on combining internal efficiencies can be achieved, we consider capabilities with cost-efficient external outsourcing production while retaining the Product quality and supply chain resources final stages of production internally.
This We are committed to high product quality, helps ensure product integrity and quality which underpins the safety and efficacy of Completed our new facility in China and assurance while providing cost efficiency our medicines.
To help assure compliance continued to develop our new facility in and volume flexibility.
and quality, we maintain a comprehensive Russia to better supply local markets quality management system.
Announced plans to invest more than Progress on our two new key production $200 million in our US biologics centre facilities continued during 2014.
In October Our continuous improvement programme to meet growing demand 2014, our facility at Taizhou, China delivered allows us to upgrade our systems and its first commercial product, with the project minimise environmental impact.
By focusing Reduced manufacturing lead times, completed ahead of schedule and under on increasing efficiency and cutting waste, average stock levels and inventory budget.
Our facility in Vorsino, Russia we have reduced manufacturing lead times, costs while improving customer continued to complete regulatory validation, average stock levels and inventory costs.
responsiveness through continuous and commercial production is expected to We have also improved customer improvement initiatives commence in 2015.
Implemented new software system to improve our ability to supply local markets.
improve global supply chain processes Also during 2014, we announced plans to We apply Lean production business invest more than $200 million to expand our improvement tools and methods to Implemented new process for third biologics manufacturing centre in Frederick, our manufacturing plants and entire party risk management including Maryland US.
This project will increase supply chain to improve efficiency, suppliers, their partners and local production capacity to support our maturing quality, lead times and overall equipment business development partners Committed to minimising our environmental impact through energy 2014 third party risk management assessments efficiency, waste management and water conservation efforts Step 4 Step 1 Initial Step 2 Risk Step 3 Due Extended assessment assessment diligence due diligence Assessments 3,224 1,290 624 17 Completed process 1,933 525 210 1 2014 assessments by region Region Number of assessments Global 123 Asia Pacific 1,607 Europe 723 Americas 438 Middle East & Africa 333 Total 3,224 56 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Strategic Report compliance responsibility and supported by dedicated compliance teams.
Our Internal Audit Services IA function provides We seek to work independent assurance.
only with those Working with suppliers suppliers whose Due to our strategy to outsource most API manufacturing, we need an uninterrupted standards of ethical supply of high quality raw materials.
As behaviour are such, we place great importance on our global procurement policies and integrated consistent with risk management processes.
We purchase our own materials from a wide range of suppliers and work to mitigate supply risks, such as disasters that disrupt supply chains or the unavailability of raw materials.
Contingency plans include using dual or multiple Case study suppliers where appropriate, maintaining adequate stock levels and working to Pharmaceuticals in the effectiveness.
For example, in 2014, we mitigate the effect of pricing fluctuations environment implemented an innovative software system in raw materials.
to provide real-time data on our supply Pharmaceuticals, including chain performance to reduce variability, We also seek to manage reputational risk.
AstraZenecas active pharmaceutical increase speed and identify improvement Our ethical standards are integral to our ingredients APIs, are frequently opportunities.
We also continue to establish procurement and partnering activities and detected in the environment as more efficient processes, with global we continuously monitor compliance an inevitable consequence of supply chain experts providing support through assessments and improvement manufacturing, patient use and throughout the organisation.
We seek to work only with disposal.
We are committed to those suppliers whose standards of ethical the environmental stewardship Regulation and compliance behaviour are consistent with our own and of our APIsand, to ensure our Manufacturing facilities and processes are will not use suppliers who are unable or manufacturing discharges are subject to rigorous regulatory standards, unwilling to meet our standards.
safe, we have developed which continuously evolve and are not the concept of environmental harmonised globally.
They are also subject In 2014, we implemented a new process for reference concentrations ERCs, to inspections by regulatory authorities who third party risk management.
This process, or safe discharge concentrations, are authorised to mandate improvements to which consists of four steps and applies to for each of our APIs.
facilities and processes, halt production and all our suppliers, downstream supply chain impose conditions for production to resume.
partners and local business development 42 ERCs established for APIs partners, assesses risk based upon defined 100% of AstraZeneca In 2014, we hosted 36 independent criteria, including that related to anti-bribery manufacturing operations comply inspections from 20 regulatory authorities.
and anti-corruption, data privacy, the with ERCs We reviewed observations from these environment and wages.
Each step of the 72 ERC assessments carried out inspections, together with the outcomes process provides an additional level of on external suppliers in 2014 of internal audits, and, where necessary, assessment, and we conduct more detailed 10.2m, four-year Innovative implemented improvement actions.
assessments on those relationships Medicines Initiative project, identified as higher risk.
Through this co-funded by the European We review and comment upon evolving process we seek to better understand the Commission, initiated to assess national and international compliance partners risk approach, ensure the partner the environmental risks posed by regulations through our membership of understands and can meet our standards human medicines earlier in the industry associations.
For example, we and mitigate risk.
The tables opposite show drug discovery and development work with the European Federation of the assessments we conducted, by step process and enable environmental Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations and region, since the process began in May data gaps for established products EFPIA and the Pharmaceutical Research 2014.
This new risk management process to be prioritised and tested.
and Manufacturers of America PhRMA to builds on the 7,587 supplier assessments improve supply chain security and minimise we completed since 2009 through our drug shortages.
Our manufacturing and supply strategy In addition, we conducted 40 audits on reflects our commitment to maintaining the direct materials suppliers to ensure they highest ethical standards and compliance employ appropriate quality, health and with internal policies, laws and regulations.
Thirty seven percent of Line managers are charged with primary suppliers met our expectations and 54% AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 57 Strategic Report Business Review Manufacturing and Supply continued implemented improvements to address revenues since 2010 due principally to Operational greenhouse gas footprint minor instances of non-compliance.
During changing production patterns and a major emissions thousand tonnes our due diligence process, we identified investment at our manufacturing site in the 2014 and rejected 33 suppliers, including five UK to enable recycling and reuse of solvent 738 2013 for reputational-related concerns.
Our non-hazardous waste indexed 717 2012 against staff numbers has not improved due 739 Environmental impact to staff reductions since the baseline Our 2014 targets included reducing wasset.
Waste production operational greenhouse gas footprint to We recognise the need to use water thousand tonnes 758,000 tonnes CO per year responsibly and, where possible, to 2 2014 35.8 hazardous waste to 0.66 tonnes $m sales minimise water use in our facilities.
To 2013 32.8 and non-hazardous waste to 0.49 tonnes reach our 2015 water use reduction target 2012 43.6 per employee of 25% from 2010 levels, we initiated water 3 water use to 3.7 million m. conservation plans at our largest sites.
In 3 2014, our water use was 3.8 million m, a We are working to reduce our greenhouse reduction of 17% from our 2010 baseline.
Water use 3 gas emissions by, among other things, Water use indexed to revenues was million m 3 improving energy efficiency and pursuing 145m $m 5% from 2010 baseline.
lower-carbon alternatives to fossil fuels.
Weare also working to ensure that we 2014 3.8 During 2014, our air and road travel and measure and report the environmental 2013 3.7 freight transport emissions increased due to impact of our external manufacturing 2012 3.6 greater business activity in our pursuit of a activity, and that our suppliers have return to growth.
We are working, however, appropriate environmental targets.
to ensure that our travel and transport Webelieve we have captured data for activities are as efficient as possible.
morethan 90% of the globally managed outsourced manufacture of key Some of our respiratory therapies, intermediates and APIs, formulation and specifically the pMDIs that rely on packaging for our established brands.
hydrofluoroalkane HFA propellants, affect our carbon footprint.
com responsibility ozone depletion potential and a third or less of the global warming potential than the We continue to integrate environmental chlorofluorocarbons CFCs they replace, considerations across a medicines they are still greenhouse gases.
By the end entire life-cycle, from discovery, research of 2015, we aim to reduce our operational and development to manufacturing, greenhouse gas footprint excluding commercialisation and disposal.
We emissions from patient use of our inhaler follow a progressive compliance programme therapies by 20% from our 2010 levels.
to ensure that our manufacturing emissions In 2014, our operational greenhouse gas of APIs do not exceed our standards footprint totalled 738,000 metric tonnes, for safe discharges at our manufacturing areduction of 18% from our 2010 baseline.
sites and periodically conduct compliance For more information on carbon reporting, assessments.
We also follow a progressive please see Responsible Business from approach to ensure ecopharmacovigilance.
This involves regularly reviewing emerging science and literature for new information Waste management is another key aspect that might inform the environmental risk of our commitment to minimise our management plans for our products.
By the end of 2015, We published our approach in the we aim to reduce our hazardous and Drug Safety journal in July 2013.
Further non-hazardous waste by 15% from our information, including environmental 2010 levels.
While waste prevention is our risk assessment data for our medicines, goal, we seek to minimise waste through is available on our website, treatment, recycling and the avoidance www.
of landfill disposal when prevention is Further information on AstraZenecas approach to impractical.
In 2014, our total waste was responsible business can be found in Responsible 35,800 metric tonnes with a tonnes $m Business from page 227 and on our website, www.
We reduced hazardous waste Figures have been revised from those previously published by 36% a reduction of 18% indexed to $m to incorporate our biologics capabilities into our targets.
Our targets for 2011 to 2015 were set in 2010.
58 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014
