Strategic Report Strategy Senior Executive Team as at 31 December 2014 1 2 3 6 7 8 11 12 13 1 Pascal Soriot 4 Fiona Cicconi Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and CEO Executive Vice-President, Human Resources Associations EFPIA.
In 2011, he was Chairman of the Asia division of Pharmaceutical Research and Fiona joined AstraZeneca in September 2014 as See page 28.
Ruud began his career Executive Vice-President, Human Resources.
She as a scientist, researching in the field of immunology 2 Marc Dunoyer started her career at General Electric where she held and ageing.
He holds a doctorate in immunology CFO various human resources roles within the Oil & Gas from the University of Leiden in the Netherlands.
business, which included experience in major global See page 28.
6 Paul Hudson acquisitions and driving change.
Subsequently, 3 Katarina Ageborg President, AstraZeneca, US and Executive Fiona spent a number of years at Cisco, before Chief Compliance Officer Vice-President, North America joining Roche in 2006 where she was most recently responsible for global human resources for Pharma Katarina was appointed Chief Compliance Officer Paul was appointed Executive Vice-President, North Technical Operations where her primary focus was in July 2011 and has overall responsibility for America in January 2013 and leads AstraZenecas to build one culture between Roche and Genentech the design, delivery and implementation of commercial operations in North America.
In this and identify and develop a sustainable supply of AstraZenecas compliance responsibilities.
Since capacity, he is accountable for driving growth leadership and talent from within the organisation.
joining AstraZeneca in 1998, she has held various and maximising the contribution of North America senior legal roles supporting Commercial and 5 Ruud Dobber to AstraZenecas global business.
Paul joined Regulatory and most recently led the Global IP Executive Vice-President, Europe AstraZeneca in 2006 as Vice-President and Primary function from 2008 to 2011.
Before joining Care Director, UK and was later appointed President Ruud was appointed Executive Vice-President, AstraZeneca, she established her own law firm in of AstraZeneca K. K. AstraZenecas Japanese Europe in January 2013 and leads AstraZenecas Sweden and worked as a lawyer practising on civil subsidiary, and President of AstraZenecas business commercial operations in Europe.
In this capacity, and criminal cases.
Katarina holds a Master of Law in Spain.
He has served as a Standing Board Ruud is responsible for sales, marketing and from Uppsala University School of Law in Sweden.
Member of the Japan Pharmaceuticals commercial operations across AstraZenecas Manufacturers Association and EFPIA in Japan.
businesses in the 28 EU member states.
He served Before joining AstraZeneca, Paul worked for as Interim Executive Vice-President, GPPS from Schering-Plough, where he held senior global December 2013 until May 2014.
He received a degree in economics AstraZeneca in 1997 and has held various senior from Manchester Metropolitan University and a commercial roles, including Regional Vice-President DipM from the UKs Chartered Institute of Marketing.
of AstraZenecas European, Middle East and African division and Regional Vice-President for the Asia Pacific region.
Since 2012, Ruud has been an Executive Committee Member of the European 30 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Strategic Report 11 Dr Menelas Pangalos Executive Vice-President, IMED Menelas Mene was appointed Executive Vice-President, IMED in January 2013 and leads AstraZenecas small molecule discovery research and early-stage development activities.
Mene joined AstraZeneca from Pfizer, where he was Senior Vice-President and Chief Scientific Officer of 4 5 Neuroscience Research.
Previously, he held senior discovery and neuroscience roles at Wyeth and GSK.
He completed his undergraduate degree in biochemistry at the Imperial College of Science and Technology, London and earned a doctorate in neurochemistry from the University of London.
He is a Visiting Professor of Neuroscience at Kings College, London.
In the UK, Mene serves on the Medical Research Council and the Innovation Board for the Association of the British 9 10 Pharmaceutical Industry.
12 Jeff Pott 7 Dr Bahija Jallal 9 Luke Miels General Counsel Executive Vice-President, MedImmune Executive Vice-President, GPPS Jeff was appointed General Counsel in January Bahija was appointed Executive Vice-President, Luke was appointed Executive Vice-President, 2009 and has overall responsibility for all aspects MedImmune in January 2013 and is responsible GPPS in May 2014 leading AstraZenecas global of AstraZenecas Legal and IP function.
He joined for biologics research activities.
Bahija is tasked marketing and commercial operations.
Luke began AstraZeneca in 1995 and has worked in various with advancing the biologic pipeline of drugs.
She his career in 1995 with AstraZeneca in Australia as litigation roles, where he has had responsibility for IP, joined MedImmune in 2006 as Vice-President, a Sales Representative and Product Manager for anti-trust and product liability litigation.
Before joining Translational Sciences and has held roles of Plendil and Diprivan.
He joined Aventis in 2000 as AstraZeneca, he spent five years at the US legal firm increasing responsibility at AstraZeneca.
Prior to Marketing and Strategic Planning Manager in Drinker Biddle and Reath LLP, where he specialised joining AstraZeneca, Bahija worked with Chiron Australia and held roles of increasing seniority, from in pharmaceutical product liability litigation and Corporation where she served as Vice-President, Country Manager for New Zealand and Thailand to anti-trust advice and litigation.
He received his Drug Assessment and Development.
Bahija leading the Analytics and Commercial Effectiveness bachelors degree in political science from Wheaton received a masters degree in biology from the function of Aventis US.
Following the Sanofi-Aventis College and his Juris Doctor Degree from Villanova Universit fide Paris VII and her doctorate in merger, he led the integration office in the US and University School of Law.
physiology from the Universit Pierre et Marie Curie, was then appointed Vice-President of Sales for 13 David Smith Paris.
She conducted her post-doctoral research Metabolism.
Luke joined Roche in 2006 as Head of Executive Vice-President, Operations & at the Max-Planck Institute of Biochemistry in Metabolism for Global Marketing and in 2009, was Information Services Martinsried, Germany.
She is a member of the appointed Regional Vice-President Asia Pacific for American Association of Cancer Research, the Pharmaceuticals Division, joining the Leadership David joined AstraZeneca in 2006 as Executive the American Association of Science, the Team of the Pharmaceuticals Division.
He leads AstraZenecas Pharmacogenomics Working Group and the Board BSc in biology from Flinders University in Adelaide global manufacturing and supply organisation of Directors of the Association of Women in Science.
and an MBA from the Macquarie University, Sydney.
and is responsible for the Safety, Health and Environment, Regulatory Compliance, Procurement 8 Mark Mallon 10 Dr Briggs Morrison and Engineering functions.
David also has overall Executive Vice-President, International Executive Vice-President, GMD and Chief responsibility for Information Services.
He spent Medical Officer Mark was appointed Executive Vice-President, his early career in pharmaceuticals, initially with the International in January 2013 and is responsible for Briggs was appointed Executive Vice-President, Wellcome Foundation in the UK, and then spent the growth and performance of AstraZenecas GMD in January 2013 and leads our global nine years in the consumer goods sector working commercial businesses in various regions, including late-stage development organisation for both small for Este Lauder Inc. and Timberland LLC in Asia Pacific, Russia, Latin America, the Middle East molecules and biologics.
He is also the Companys senior supply chain roles.
In 2003, he returned and Africa.
Since joining AstraZeneca in 1994, Mark Chief Medical Officer.
He joined AstraZeneca in to the pharmaceutical sector, joining Novartis has held multiple senior sales and marketing roles, 2012 from Pfizer, where he was Head of Medical in Switzerland.
including Regional Vice-President for Asia Pacific, Excellence, overseeing development, medical affairs President of AstraZenecas Chinese and Italian and safety and regulatory affairs for Pfizers human subsidiaries, Chief Operating Officer of health businesses.
Briggs has a track record of AstraZenecas Japanese subsidiary and Vicesuccessfully developing novel medicines in roles President of AstraZenecas US gastrointestinal and at both Pfizer and Merck.
He has a biology degree respiratory businesses.
He has served as a member from Georgetown University and a medical of the Board of Directors for Christiana Care, the doctorate from the University of Connecticut.
largest hospital system in Delaware, and an Briggs has also undertaken an internship and Executive Committee Member for R&D-based residency in internal medicine at the Massachusetts Pharmaceutical Association Committee, the China General Hospital, a fellowship in medical oncology industry association for innovative pharmaceutical at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and a companies.
Mark began his career in the post-doctoral research fellowship in genetics at pharmaceutical industry in management consulting.
He holds a degree in chemical engineering from the University of Pennsylvania and an MBA in marketing and finance from the Wharton School of Business.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 31
