Strategic Report Strategy Marketplace Despite global economic, political and social challenges, the pharmaceutical industry is expected to enjoy longterm growth due to favourable demographic trends and significant unmet medical need.
Continuing recovery pursued a strategy focused on branded Overview The global economy continues to prescription pharmaceuticals while others recover from the 2008 2009 financial crisis.
have diversified by acquiring or building Global pharmaceutical sales grew Risks remain, however, and geopolitical branded generics businesses or consumer by 8.3% in 2014 developments could threaten more portfolios.
A number of companies are balanced, sustainable growth.
focused on improving R&D productivity The sector remains highly competitive and operational efficiency, while others Patient populations are expanding As shown in the table opposite, global have expanded geographically, especially in and ageing pharmaceutical sales grew by 8.3% in 2014.
Throughout Established Markets saw average revenue the industry, business development, Non-communicable diseases account growth of 7.3% while Emerging Markets including licensing and collaborations, for over two-thirds of deaths globally revenue growth was 58% higher at 11.6%.
and competition for business development Improving R&D productivity is a critical The US, Japan, China, Germany and France opportunities, increased in 2014. pharmaceutical challenge are the worlds top five pharmaceutical markets.
In 2014, the US had 40.4% of The industry shift away from developing A highly regulated sector reflects the global sales 2013: 39.1%: 2012: 40.2%.
primary care medicines continued, with demand for safe, effective and an increased emphasis on oncology and high-quality medicines While demand for healthcare continues to other specialty care diseases with high Pricing and reimbursement continue increase a favourable trend for long-term unmet medical need.
In 2014, primary care to be challenging industry growth challenges remain.
medicines only accounted for approximately Such challenges include expiring patents, one-quarter of new FDA-approved NMEs.
Patents are expiring on some of the competition from and growing use of biggest-selling drugs ever produced generic medicines, obtaining regulatory Growth drivers The sector faces challenges in building approval, securing reimbursement for new Expanding patient populations and maintaining trust medicines, improving R&D productivity The worlds population is expected to rise and attaining pricing and sales sufficient from some seven billion today to nine billion to generate revenue and sustain the cycle by 2050.
Also increasing is the number of of innovation.
people accessing healthcare and healthcare spending, particularly by the elderly.
In the Competition five years to 2018, the number of people Our industry remains highly competitive.
over the age of 65 will rise by some It includes large, research-based 83 million, constituting almost 30% of pharmaceutical companies such as the worlds population growth.
AstraZeneca that discover, develop and sell innovative, patent-protected As the diagram overleaf shows, we prescription medicines and vaccines, expect developing markets to continue to smaller biotechnology and vaccine spearhead pharmaceutical growth.
Sales businesses, and companies that produce are expected to rise at double-digit rates generic medicines.
While many of our peers across much of Asia, Latin America and face similar challenges, they tackle them Africa.
Sales in the US grew in 2014 for in different ways.
Some companies have the first time in two years.
14 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Strategic Report Technological breakthroughs in the design Global pharmaceutical sales and testing of novel compounds present fresh opportunities for using small World $bn The global economy molecules as the basis for new medicines.
The use of large molecules, or biologics, continues to recover 2014 903 has also become an important source of 2013 834 fromthe 2008 2009 innovation.
Biologics are among the most 2012 810 commercially successful new products.
Risks 2020, biologics are expected to account for remain, however more than half of the worlds top 100 $903bn 8.3% pharmaceutical products.
In 2013, the figure was 45%, having risen from 21% in 2006.
US $bn As such, most pharmaceutical companies now pursue R&D in both small molecules and biologics.
2014 365 2013 326 The challenges 2012 326 R&D productivity Improving R&D productivity is a critical $365bn 11.8% Unmet medical need challenge for the pharmaceutical industry.
The prevalence of non-communicable Global R&D investment reached an diseases NCDs, such as cancer and estimated $141 billion in 2014, a 31% Europe $bn cardiovascular, metabolic and respiratory increase from $108 billion in 2006.
While diseases, is increasing worldwide.
the growth rate of R&D spend has slowed NCDs are often associated with ageing in recent years, pharmaceutical companies 2014 populations and lifestyle choices, including continue to deliver new medicines.
In 2014, 216 2013 smoking, diet and lack of exercise and the FDA approved 41 NMEs the highest 209 2012 many require long-term management.
206 2012, NCDs accounted for 68% of deaths $216bn 3.3% globally: nearly three-quarters of these To ensure sustainable returns on R&D deaths were in lowand middle-income investment, the industry is working to countries.
By 2030, deaths from increase its success rate in developing Established ROW $bn cardiovascular diseases are likely to rise commercially viable new drugs while to 23.3 million annually.
Annual cancer achieving a lower, more flexible cost base.
cases are forecast to increase from Regulators and payers, however, are 2014 114 14 million in 2012 to 22 million worldwide demanding greater evidence of comparative 2013 112 over the next 20 years.
effectiveness of medicines, which increases 2012 110 development times and costs.
Advances in science and technology $114bn 1.8% Innovation is critical to addressing unmet Fortunately, innovative technology is helping medical need.
The delivery of new accelerate product approvals.
A greater medicines will rely on a more advanced emphasis on Proof of Concept is also Emerging Markets $bn understanding of disease and the use of helping improve productivity and reduce new technology and approaches, such costs by showing the potential efficacy of as personalised healthcare PHC and drugs earlier in the development process.
2013 187 2012 168 $208bn 11.6% 83m Data based on world market sales using AstraZeneca market definitions as set out in the Market definitions on page 239.
Source: IMS Health, IMS Midas Quantum Q3 2014 including In the five years to 2018, the number of people over USdata.
Reported values and growth are based at CER.
Valuefigures are rounded to the nearest billion and growth the age of 65 is forecast to rise by approximately percentages are rounded to the nearesttenth.
83 million, accounting for nearly 30% of the worlds population growth.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 15 Strategic Report Strategy M Ma ar rk ke et tp pla lac ce e c co on nt tinu inue ed d Estimated pharmaceutical sales and market growth 2018 North America EU South East & Japan East Asia $489bn $251bn $212bn $103bn 6.3% 2.4% 9.7% 2.7% Latin America CIS Africa Indian Subcontinent $143bn $36bn $31bn $30bn 14% 8.6% 9.9% 10.8% Other Europe Middle East Oceania Non-EU countries $20bn $23bn $15bn 3.5% 7.4% 0.6% 1 2 Estimated pharmaceutical sales 2018 Estimated pharmaceutical market growth 2013 to 2018 1 Ex-manufacturer prices at CER.
Regulatory requirements registration of biosimilar products.
In most a programme to implement adaptive A highly regulated industry reflects public countries, these frameworks impose robust licensing approaches, or staggered demand for safe, effective and high-quality standards to ensure product safety, efficacy approval, to improve timely patient access medicines.
Delivering such medicines and quality.
For more information about to new medicines.
In contrast, recent requires responsible testing, manufacturing biosimilars, please see Patent expiries and changes in Chinas regulatory review and marketing, as well as maintaining genericisation opposite.
process are lengthening new medicine important relationships worldwide with approval periods to as long as five years, regulatory authorities.
Such authorities Increasingly, regulation and policy are challenging the ability of pharmaceutical include the FDA in the US, the EMA in aimed at fostering innovation.
In the US, for companies to deliver life-changing the EU, the PMDA in Japan and the CFDA example, the 21st Century Cures initiative, medicines and treat unmet medical need in China.
a bipartisan effort driven by the Energy and inChina.
However, proposed revisions to Commerce Committee of the US House of Chinas Drug Administration Law, which There is a global trend towards greater Representatives, is focused on accelerating are currently under review, may address transparency of, and public access to, the the discovery, development and delivery of thisissue.
regulatory submissions that support the promising new treatments for patients.
Draft approvals of new medicines.
A recent legislation is expected to be introduced Despite efforts to harmonise regulations example is the new EMA policy on in2015.
andachieve global convergence, regulations publication of clinical data for medicinal and their impact are increasing worldwide.
products for human use, which provides In Japan, the SAKIGAKE strategy is Clinical trials that support product for the publication of clinical reports that fostering a more favourable environment registration in a regulated jurisdiction must underpin the EMAs decision making.
fordrug development and accelerating be relevant to the population and many theavailability of currently unapproved countries require the inclusion of local In 2014, several regulatory authorities medicines for serious and life-threatening patients in multinational studies.
This can introduced regulatory frameworks for the diseases.
The EU is currently piloting increase development complexity and costs.
Also, regulatory authorities continue to implement new requirements and processes for patient safety data preandpost-approval and to demand risk $141bn management plans and tailored postapproval commitments.
Global investment in pharmaceutical R&D reached an estimated $141 billion in 2014, a 31% increase The growing complexity and globalisation of from $108 billion in 2006. clinical studies, combined with pressure on industry and healthcare budgets, have led to an increase in public-private consortia.
Such consortia, which include industry, academia 16 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Strategic Report and government bodies, aim to drive In Europe, governments continue to arelaunching products at risk, for example, innovation, streamline regulatory processes implement drug price control measures, before resolution of the relevant patent and define and clarify approval requirements including mandatory discounts, clawbacks litigation.
This trend, which is likely to for new technology and approaches.
These measures are continue, creates significant market decreasing drug prices, particularly in the presence for the generic version while the Pricing pressure distressed economies of Spain, Romania litigation remains unresolved.
Given the Pricing and reimbursement remain and Greece.
In France, price negotiations unpredictable nature of patent litigation, challenging in many markets.
Most are particularly challenging due to budget some companies have settled such pharmaceutical sales are generated in pressures.
In Germany, Europes largest challenges on terms acceptable to the highlyregulated markets where pharmaceutical market, manufacturers innovator and generic manufacturer.
governments, insurers and other private must now prove the added benefit of their Whilecompetition authorities generally payers exert various controls on pricing drug over existing alternatives.
If no added accept such agreements as a legitimate and reimbursement, such as limitations on benefit is shown, the drug is relegated to wayto settle these disputes, they have pharmaceutical spending and readmission the German reference pricing system, questioned some settlements as being costs.
Austerity programmes are further which provides a single reimbursement potentially problematic.
constraining healthcare providers, while level or reference for each drug group.
difficult economic conditions burden Biologics typically sustain longer periods patients who pay out-of-pocket for In China, pricing practices remain a priority of exclusivity than traditional small molecule medicines.
The triennial maximum retail pharmaceuticals, with less generic must now expend significant resources drug price review continued in 2013, and, competition.
With limited experience to date, todemonstrate the economic as well as in 2014, authorities proposed plans to the substitution of biosimilars for the original therapeutic value of their medicines.
deregulate existing pricing controls and branded product has not followed the same increasingly focus on setting and controlling pattern as generic substitution in small In the US, the Affordable Care Act ACA has reimbursement prices of drugs on the molecule products and, as a result, erosion had a direct impact on healthcare activities.
Regional and National Drug List.
In India, of branded market share has not been as It continues to reshape the market through the government imposed price controls rapid.
This is due to biologics complex various provisions designed to reduce on approximately 100 cardiovascular and manufacturing processes and the inherent cost and improve healthcare and patient diabetes drugs, including Crestor.
In difficulties in producing a biosimilar, which outcomes.
The ACAs financial requirements Japan, mandated biennial cuts are likely could require additional clinical trials.
include increased and expanded Medicaid to continue.
In Latin America, pricing is However, with regulatory authorities in mandatory rebates, the branded increasingly controlled by governments Europe and the US continuing to implement prescription drug fee, and efforts to close as, for example, in Colombia.
abbreviated approval pathways for biosimilar the coverage gap in the Medicare Part D versions, innovative biologics are likely to prescription drug programme.
We, along For more information about price controls face increased competition.
with other pharmaceutical companies, are and reductions and US healthcare reform, please working with policymakers and regulators see Risk from page 203 Building trust to help contain costs, improve outcomes The pharmaceutical industry faces and promote an environment that fosters For more information about price regulation challenges in building and maintaining medical and scientific innovation.
in our major markets, please see Geographical trust, particularly with governments and Review from page 220 regulators.
This reflects the past decades Due to the US congressional failure to legal disputes between pharmaceutical reach an agreement on raising the federal Patent expiries and genericisation companies and governmental and debt ceiling, sequestration took effect Patent protection for pharmaceutical regulatory authorities.
Sequestration, which will products is finite.
Patents are expiring challenge, companies are embedding a remain in place until 2024, has resulted on some of the biggest-selling drugs ever culture of ethics and integrity, adopting in broad federal spending cuts, including produced and payers, physicians and higher governance standards and improving a 2% reduction in Medicare payments to patients have greater access to generic relationships with employees, shareholders healthcare providers.
This reduction affects alternatives both substitutable and and other stakeholders.
Medicare reimbursement rates for analogue in many important drug classes.
 products, which, These generic alternatives are primarily Numerous companies, including those in turn, places additional pricing pressure lower priced because generic manufacturers in the pharmaceutical industry, have been on our industry.
are largely spared the costs of R&D and investigated by the China Public Security market development.
As a result, demand Bureau following allegations of bribery, and for generics is high.
For prescriptions criminal and financial penalties have been dispensed in the US in 2014, generics imposed.
Investigations by the DOJ and constituted 83.3% of the market by volume SEC under the Foreign Corrupt Practices 60% 2013: 82.2%.
World pharmaceutical market sales Generic competition can also result have increased by over 60% over the frompatent disputes or challenges before last ten years.
Increasingly, generics companies AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 17
