Strategic Report Strategic Report Resources Review Infrastructure The Group owns and operates R&D and production facilities and conducts sales and marketing activities around the world.
These activities are supported by significant information technology and information services resources.
R&D resources Manufacturing and supply resources In the beginning of 2014, we launched a We have approximately 9,000 employees Our principal small molecule manufacturing wide-ranging IT Transformation Programme in our R&D organisation in various sites facilities are in the UK Avlon and to better support our business priorities.
Our small molecule Macclesfield, Sweden Grtuna and We have made various changes to our sites are located in the UK Alderley Park, Sdertlje, the US Newark, Delaware: operating model and organisational Cambridge and Macclesfield, Sweden Westborough, Massachusetts: and West structure to improve efficiency, Mlndal, the US Gaithersburg, Maryland responsiveness and innovation.
Chester, Ohio, China Wuxi and Taizhou, and Waltham, Massachusetts, Japan Russia Vorsino, France Reims and Osaka and China Shanghai.
Our biologics Our IT vision is to deliver world-class Dunkerque, Japan Maihara, Australia sites are located in the UK Cambridge performance in terms of speed, quality, North Ryde, Indonesia Jakarta, Egypt and in the US Gaithersburg, Maryland cost and innovation.
Achieving this requires Cairo, India Bangalore, Puerto Rico and Mountain View, California.
Our improving our current performance Canvanas, Germany Wedel, Mexico Gaithersburg, Maryland site focuses on significantly while reducing our overall Lomas Verdes, Brazil Cotia and Argentina late-stage development for small molecules spend.
Success in achieving our vision Buenos Aires.
and biologics across our entire portfolio.
In will be measured by metrics, which include March 2014, we announced the sale of our customer satisfaction, the number of We operate sites for the manufacture of Alderley Park, UK site as part of our plan severe business impacting incidents, the APIs in the UK and Sweden, complemented to focus resources on developing our speed with which we respond to and by the efficient use of external sourcing.
new global R&D centre in Cambridge, mitigate such incidents, and project delivery Our principal tablet and capsule formulation UK.
Our strategic expansion in Emerging and cost absolute and as a percentage sites are in the UK, Sweden, Puerto Rico Markets continues and includes the of revenue as compared with industry and the US.
We also have major formulation ongoing growth of our R&D facility in China benchmarks.
sites for the global supply of parenteral and Shanghai.
In 2014, we closed our R&D or inhalation products in Sweden, France, site in India Bangalore.
Protecting our IT systems, IP and confidential Australia and the UK.
information against cyberattacks is a key R&D spend analysis concern.
As such, our IT organisation works For biologics, our principal commercial to develop and implement robust, effective manufacturing facilities are in the US 2014 2013 2012 and agile risk-based approaches to protect Frederick, Maryland and greater Discovery our resources and keep pace with the and early-stage Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the UK Speke, development 47% 55% 60% rapidly evolving cybersecurity risk landscape.
and the Netherlands Nijmegen with To help protect against cybercrime, we have Late-stage capabilities in process development, development 53% 45% 40% adopted a comprehensive cybersecurity manufacturing and distribution of biologics, process and policy, which we regularly Core R&D including global supply of MAbs and 1 expenditure $4,941m $4,269m $4,241m review and update.
Also, we continuously influenza vaccines.
monitor our systems and data with 1 R eported R&D expenditure was $5.6 billion 2013: $4.8 billion: sophisticated technology, a team of skilled 2012: $5.2 billion.
At the end of 2014, approximately 10,200 IT personnel and various other resources.
people at 25 sites in 16 countries were We also educate employees regarding In 2014, Core R&D expenditure was working on the manufacture and supply cybercrime, internet use and best practices $4.9 billion in our R&D organisation of our products.
to mitigate the risk of an attack.
Inaddition, we spent $907 million on Information technology and acquiring product rights such as information services resources in-licensing 2013: $635 million: 2012: At the end of 2014, our IT organisation $5,228 million and invested $497 million comprised approximately 1,400 people onthe implementation of our R&D across our sites in the UK Alderley Park restructuring strategy 2013: $490 million: and Macclesfield, Sweden Sdertlje 2012: $791 million.
The allocations of and Mlndal, the US Wilmington, Delaware spendby early-stage and late-stage and Gaithersburg, Maryland, and our development are presented in the R&D new technology centre in India Chennai, spend analysis table above.
together with people embedded in our R&D and Operations sites, and our key marketing companies.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 69
