Strategic Report Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases We push the boundaries of science to create innovative medicines that address multiple cardiovascular risk factors, offer individualised approaches for diabetes patients, treat chronic kidney disease and ultimately save lives.
Our marketed products Kombiglyze XR saxagliptin and metformin XR Our strategic priorities combines saxagliptin Onglyza and metformin We are a leader in the treatment of CVMD, Cardiovascular disease extended release metformin metformin XR in 1 Atacand Atacand HCT Atacand Plus focused on bringing life-changing medicines a once daily tablet for Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
candesartan cilexetil is an angiotensin II antagonist to patients for thrombosis blood clotting, Komboglyze saxagliptin and metformin HCl for the 1st line treatment of hypertension and atherosclerosis hardening of the arteries, symptomatic heart failure.
combines saxagliptin Onglyza and metformin immediate release metformin IR in a twice daily dyslipidaemia, hypertension and metabolic Brilinta Brilique ticagrelor is an oral antiplatelet tablet for Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
diseases, including diabetes and related for acute coronary syndromes ACS.
5 Myalept metreleptin for injection is a complications.
2 Crestor rosuvastatin calcium is a statin for recombinant analogue of human leptin indicated dyslipidaemia and hypercholesterolemia.
In some in the US as an adjunct to diet as replacement markets, it is also indicated to slow the progression of Despite improvements in the diagnosis and therapy to treat the complications of leptin atherosclerosis and reduce the risk of first CV events.
deficiency in patients with congenital or acquired treatment of CVMD, unmet medical need Plendil felodipine is a calcium antagonist for generalised lipodystrophy.
Also, the prevalence of these hypertension and angina.
Onglyza saxagliptin is an oral dipeptidyl diseases and associated complications is peptidase 4 DPP-4 inhibitor for Type 2 diabetes Seloken Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate is increasing worldwide.
a beta-blocker once daily tablet for 24-hour control mellitus.
of hypertension, and heart failure and angina.
Symlin pramlintide acetate is an injected amylin Our strategy in CVMD focuses on 3 Tenormin atenolol is a cardioselective betaanalogue for Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes mellitus maximising and maintaining patient benefit in patients with inadequate glycaemic control on blocker for hypertension, angina pectoris and other CV disorders.
from our portfolio of medicines, ensuring 4 access to Brilinta Brilique and accelerating Zestril lisinopril dihydrate is an angiotensinXigduo dapagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride combines dapagliflozin Farxiga converting enzyme inhibitor for a wide range clinical programmes and potential new of CV diseases, including hypertension.
Forxiga, an SGLT-2 inhibitor, and metformin therapies through innovative science hydrochloride, in a twice daily tablet to improve Metabolic disease and collaboration.
glycaemic control in adult patients with Type 2 Byetta exenatide injection is an injectable medicine diabetes mellitus who are inadequately controlled indicated to improve blood sugar glucose control, by metformin alone.
We are also investing heavily in clinical along with diet and exercise in adults with Type 2 Xigduo XR dapagliflozin and metformin diabetes mellitus.
hydrochloride extended-release combines Nearly 60,000 patients participate in Bydureon exenatide extended-release for injectable dapagliflozin Farxiga Forxiga, an SGLT-2 suspension is a once weekly injectable medicine our R&D-led CV trials at more than inhibitor, and metformin hydrochloride indicated to improve blood sugar glucose, along extended-release, in a once daily tablet to 5,700 sites worldwide.
We are also with diet and exercise in adults with Type 2 diabetes improve glycaemic control in adult patients with focusing on diabetes research, which mellitus.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus who are inadequately includes more than 50 clinical studies controlled by metformin alone.
Bydureon Pen exenatide extended-release for worldwide in which nearly 40,000 patients injectable suspension delivers exenatide via 1 Licensed from Takeda Chemicals Industries Ltd. 2 microsphere technology in a once weekly dose are expected to be enrolled.
The extension of the global requiring no titration.
licence agreement with Shionogi for Crestor and the modification of the royalty structure became effective Farxiga Forxiga dapagliflozin is a selective inhibitor We are expanding our core capabilities and 1January 2014.
3 of human sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 SGLT-2 D ivested US rights to Tenormin to Alvogen Pharma research programmes into new modalities inhibitor to improve glycaemic control in adult US Inc. effective 9 January 2015.
4 and regenerative medicine to provide new L icensed from Merck.
Divested US rights to Zestril to patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Alvogen Pharma US Inc. effective 9 January 2015. treatment paradigms for heart failure, 5 Divested to Aegerion effective 9 January 2015. diabetes and chronic kidney disease.
To help achieve scientific leadership, we are engaging in collaborations that focus on scientific innovation in CV, metabolic and renal diseases.
For example, during 2014, 23.3m we entered into collaborations with Max Planck Institute of Molecular By 2030, almost 23.3 million people will die annually Physiology to create a satellite unit to from CV disease, mainly from heart disease and stroke, study areas of new modality chemistry meaning that CV disease will remain the leading cause in CV, metabolic and renal diseases of death.
Source: WHO Factsheet 2013 data from 2008.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 35 Strategic Report Make hearts healthier Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases CVMD Phase I Phase II Phase III LCM projects What science can do Large molecule Small molecule Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule MEDI6012 AZD4901 Brilinta Brilique Myalept Brilinta Brilique Farxiga Forxiga EUCLID DECLARE-TIMI 58 Cardiac regeneration # MEDI8111 tenapanor Epanova Brilinta Brilique Farxiga Forxiga # AZD1722 approved but not launched PEGASUS-TIMI 54 Type 1 diabetes mRNA being read by a ribosome to produce signalling proteins.
These signals Farxiga Forxiga Brilinta Brilique Kombiglyze XR SOCRATES Komboglyze cause stem cells in the heart to proliferate and differentiate to new cardiac cells # roxadustat Brilinta Brilique Onglyza THEMIS SAVOR-TIMI 53 thatcan repair damage in the heart.
Weare researching medicines that Brilinta Brilique saxagliptin F HESTIA dapagliflozin FDC generate these signals and functional effects in the heart.
Bydureon Xigduo XR EXSCEL Xigduo Bydureon Dual Chamber Pen Key Addition # Partnered product Bydureon No change Farxiga in the US: Forxiga in weekly suspension Progression the rest of the world F New filing Kombiglyze XR in the US: Epanova Approved launched Komboglyze in the EU STRENGTH 36 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Strategic Report Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases continued Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation adenosine diphospate ADP receptor Lastly, in January 2015, we announced in the area of diabetic nephropathy to antagonists that act on the P2Y12 that the PEGASUS-TIMI 54 study, a largevalidate and progress novel research ADP-receptor.
Brilinta Brilique is approved scale outcomes trial involving over 21,000 targets and molecules into clinical in over 100 countries, including the US, patients under the PARTHENON development Canada and Brazil under the trade name programme, successfully met its primary Shanghai Institutes of Biological Sciences Brilinta, and in the EU, Iceland and Norway efficacy endpoint.
The study investigated in the area of CV diseases to study newly under the trade name Brilique.
It is currently two doses of Brilinta Brilique on formed coronary vessels.
under regulatory review in three additional a background of low-dose aspirin versus countries.
Brilinta Brilique is the first P2Y12 placebo plus low-dose aspirin, in patients Cardiovascular disease receptor antagonist that also increases local aged 50 and older with a history of heart endogenous adenosine levels by inhibiting attack and one additional CV risk factor.
Hypertension high blood pressure and ENT-1.
Since launch, more than one million The primary efficacy endpoint was a dyslipidaemia abnormal levels of blood patients have been treated with Brilinta composite of CV death, MI or stroke.
lipids damage the arterial wall, which leads Brilique, and it has been included in 13 While full evaluation of the data is ongoing, to atherosclerosis.
Lipid-modifying therapy, major ACS treatment guidelines globally.
preliminary analysis did not reveal any primarily statins, is the primary treatment for unexpected safety issues.
There were several important developments on our understanding of the benefits of for Brilinta Brilique in 2014.
In July, the EMA Brilinta Brilique for patients with ACS and Acute Coronary Syndromes ACS is an updated the EU Summary of Product offer important clinical insights into its umbrella term for sudden chest pain and Characteristics providing further regulatory potential role for the longer-term prevention other symptoms due to insufficient blood validation that Brilinta Brilique differs from of CV events.
supply ischaemia to the heart.
ACS is thienopyridines in its mode of action and associated with considerable mortality and by offering flexible oral administration.
In Crestor is approved in 109 countries morbidity and a significant need exists to August, the DOJ confirmed that it was for the treatment of dyslipidaemia and improve patient outcomes and reduce closing its investigation into PLATO, a .
In some markets, treatment costs.
The closure of it is also indicated to slow the progression the investigation, which related to a 2013 of atherosclerosis and reduce the risk of civil investigative demand, reaffirms our first CV events.
Crestor has been shown We are a leader in the treatment confidence in Brilinta Brilique and the to more effectively lower low-density integrity of the PLATO trial, and allows us lipoprotein LDL-C so-called bad of CVMD focused on bringing lifeto focus on delivering the full potential of cholesterol and achieve LDL-C goals than changing medicines to patients Brilinta Brilique to patients.
In September, other statins, and to increase high-density results from the Phase IV ATLANTIC study lipoprotein cholesterol HDL-C so-called Our 2014 focus indicated that the profile of Brilinta Brilique good cholesterol and reduce Brilinta Brilique, one of our growth platforms, is comparable whether administered in a atherosclerotic plaque.
Crestor, however, is an oral antiplatelet treatment for ACS in a pre-hospital or in-hospital setting to ST faces competition from atorvastatin Lipitor new chemical class called cyclo-pentylsegment elevation myocardial infarction and other generic products, and patents triazolo-pyrimidines, which are selective STEMI patients.
These results allow us to protecting Crestor have been challenged in better understand the role of Brilinta Brilique various jurisdictions.
Details of these matters in treating STEMI patients and indicate that are included in Note 27 to the Financial Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases CVMD Brilinta Brilique may be initiated in STEMI Statements, from page 182. patients pre-hospital or in-hospital with no Phase I Phase II Phase III LCM projects adverse impact on bleeding.
In addition, Large molecule Small molecule Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule in September 2014, the American Heart MEDI6012 AZD4901 Brilinta Brilique Myalept Brilinta Brilique Farxiga Forxiga EUCLID DECLARE-TIMI 58 Association AHA and the American College of Cardiology ACC updated # MEDI8111 tenapanor Epanova Brilinta Brilique Farxiga Forxiga # AZD1722 approved but not launched PEGASUS-TIMI 54 Type 1 diabetes their guidelines for the management of Therapy area world market non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome MAT Q3 14 Farxiga Forxiga Brilinta Brilique Kombiglyze XR SOCRATES Komboglyze NSTE-ACS patients to support Brilinta as the preferred P2Y12 inhibitor for the High blood # roxadustat Brilinta Brilique Onglyza pressure $46.0bn THEMIS SAVOR-TIMI 53 management of NSTE-ACS patients who Abnormal levels of undergo an early invasive or ischaemiablood cholesterol $29.6bn Brilinta Brilique saxagliptin F HESTIA dapagliflozin FDC guided strategy, or those who receive a Diabetes $51.8bn Thrombosis $9.6bn coronary stent.
This is the first time the Bydureon Xigduo XR Other $41.5bn EXSCEL Xigduo AHA and ACC have recommended one oral antiplatelet over another in the treatment Bydureon Dual Chamber Pen of ACS.
Bydureon weekly suspension $178.6bn Annual worldwide market value Epanova STRENGTH AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 37 Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases continued Despite generic competition, Atacand Our 2014 focus remains an important treatment for In February 2014, we completed the hypertension and symptomatic heart acquisition of the entirety of BMSs interest failure.
It is approved for hypertension in in our joint diabetes alliance.
By obtaining more than 100 countries and symptomatic the IP and global rights for the development, heart failure in more than 80 countries.
manufacture and commercialisation of Atacand Plus candesartan cilexetil the diabetes business, which includes hydrochlorothiazide, which is approved Onglyza, Kombiglyze XR, Komboglyze, in more than 100 countries, is an FDC of Farxiga Forxiga, Xigduo, Xigduo XR, Atacand and the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide Byetta, Bydureon, Myalept and Symlin, we for the treatment of hypertension in enhanced our primary care and specialty patients who require more than one care portfolio and geographical reach.
We now have one of the broadest non-insulin anti-diabetic portfolios with In May 2014, the FDA approved Epanova products in three growing classes of 347m omega-3-carboxylic acids as an adjunct diabetes treatments DPP-4, SGLT-2 and to diet to reduce triglyceride levels in GLP-1.
For more information about this adults with severe  347 million people worldwide have diabetes: acquisition, please see Note 24 to the triglyceride levels greater than or equal WHO projects that diabetes will be the Financial Statements from page 170. to 500mg dL.
Epanova is the first FDAseventh leading cause of death in 2030. approved prescription omega-3 in free fatty Also in 2014, we entered into an agreement acid form and the first prescription omega-3 Source: WHO Factsheet 2011. with Aegerion to divest Myalept, an orphan in the US to have a dosing option as few product indicated to treat complications of as two capsules once a day.
leptin deficiency in patients with generalised Metabolic and renal diseases lipodystrophy.
Under the terms of the Clinical studies agreement, Aegerion will pay AstraZeneca In addition to the PEGASUS trial described Type 2 diabetes mellitus is a chronic $325 million to acquire the global rights to above, Brilinta Brilique is being studied progressive disease that accounts for develop, manufacture and commercialise in four other clinical trials under the more than 90% of diabetes cases Myalept, subject to an existing distributor PARTHENON programme.
Disease prevalence continues licence with Shionogi covering Japan, is AstraZenecas largest ever CV outcomes to grow, particularly among those at a South Korea and Taiwan.
Our divestment programme, involving nearly 80,000 patients younger age, and many patients require of Myalept reinforces our focus on our at high risk of CV events MI, stroke and or multiple medications.
strategic priorities and enables us to CV death due to their underlying disease.
concentrate our resources on disease areas It includes five key studies covering broad Various oral generic and branded where we can provide the greatest benefit patient populations across varying treatments, such as biguanides and to patients.
timescales and aims to support four new sulfonylureas, exist.
Newer classes of indications for Brilinta Brilique over the treatments, such as DPP-4 inhibitors, Farxiga Forxiga dapagliflozin is a next four years.
SGLT-2 inhibitors and glucagon-like first-in-class SGLT-2 inhibitor indicated as an peptide 1 GLP-1 agonists, however, adjunct to diet and exercise in combination PARTHENON programme case study are successfully entering the market.
with other glucose-lowering medicinal on page 51 The CV safety of these new classes has products, including insulin, or as a been the subject of recent regulatory monotherapy for the treatment of Type 2 Also in 2014, we initiated the STRENGTH reviews and guidance documents.
In 2014, we secured trial, a large, long-term outcomes trial approval for dapagliflozin in the US where involving 13,000 patients to evaluate the it is called Farxiga and Japan where it is safety and efficacy of Epanova on CV called Forxiga.
Starting with the EU in outcomes in combination with statin therapy 2012 where it is called Forxiga, it is now in patients with mixed dyslipidaemia who approved in over 50 countries.
It is under are at increased risk of CV disease.
As the regulatory review in 20 additional countries.
largest CV outcomes trial of any prescription omega-3, STRENGTH may provide Xigduo dapagliflozin and metformin important insights into the impact of hydrochloride was approved in January lowering triglycerides with Epanova.
2014 in the EU as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in 38 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Strategic Report Through our strategic collaboration DECLARE, a large CV outcomes trial to with FibroGen, we continue to develop assess the impact of Farxiga Forxiga on We now have one of the roxadustat, a first-in-class oral compound CV risk benefit, continued in 2014.
This trial for the treatment of anaemia associated evaluates whether Farxiga Forxiga 10mg, broadest non-insulin with chronic kidney disease CKD when added to a patients current anti-diabetic portfolios and end-stage renal disease ESRD.
anti-diabetes therapy, reduces CV events In Phase II clinical studies in the US, such as MI, ischaemic stroke and roxadustat met its primary objectives CV-related death, compared with placebo.
and an extensive roxadustat Phase III The trial will enrol approximately 17,000 adult development programme is currently patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus and patients aged 18 and over with Type 2 underway.
Phase III trials are planned is expected to be completed in 2019. diabetes mellitus who are inadequately in China, and we expect to submit controlled on their current metformin-based regulatory filings in China in 2016 and Results from the Phase II study of Farxiga treatment regimen or are being treated in the US in 2018.
Forxiga as compared with placebo in with dapagliflozin and metformin separately.
patients with Type 1 diabetes were Xigduo is approved in 33 countries, We are also developing tenapanor, a published in September 2014.
These including the US with Xigduo XR November first-in-class inhibitor of NHE-3, a sodium results demonstrated reductions in 24-hour 2014 the first and only once daily transporter in the gut, with Ardelyx, Inc. average glucose levels and glycaemic SGLT-2 inhibitor and extended release for the treatment of hyperphosphatemia variability, as well as a pharmacokinetic metformin FDC.
If development is successful, profile similar to that of patients with Type 2 tenapanor may fulfil a significant unmet diabetes mellitus.
In November 2014, we In the pipeline medical need for patients with CKD by commenced a Phase III trial for Farxiga We are developing an FDC of saxagliptin delaying the progression of CKD to ESRD, Forxiga in patients with Type 1 diabetes.
and dapagliflozin, which combines two and reducing mortality and morbidity.
complementary mechanisms designed to Tenapanor is also being studied as a The Exenatide Study of Cardiovascular help more patients reach their treatment treatment for irritable bowel syndrome Event Lowering EXSCEL study also goals.
In May 2014, we reported results of with constipation.
This study, the first clinical trial of this novel combination, which began in 2010 and is expected which demonstrated powerful glucose Clinical studies to end in 2017, evaluates whether there lowering and allowed more than twice as The CV outcome study SAVOR-TIMI 53 are favourable CV effects of exenatide many patients to reach the recognised Saxagliptin Assessment of Vascular treatment using Bydureon.
glucose goal than either agent alone.
We Outcomes Recorded in Patients with submitted an NDA to the FDA in December Type 2 diabetes mellitus was completed in 2014 and expect to submit a regulatory filing September 2013, making Onglyza one of in the EU in 2015. the most extensively studied anti-diabetic medications.
The trial involved 16,500 adult In 2014, we continued to develop delivery patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus with a systems for Bydureon and secured approval history of established CV disease or multiple for the Bydureon Pen in the US and EU.
The trial also fulfilled an FDA Bydureon Pen is a pre-filled, single-use pen post-marketing requirement.
In this study, injector that eliminates the need to transfer Onglyza met the primary safety objective of the medication between a vial and syringe non-inferiority but did not meet the primary during the self-injection process.
It was efficacy objective of superiority.
In July 2014, successfully launched in the US in the EMA updated the EU label to include September 2014 and is expected to these study results.
Other regulatory launchin the EU in early 2015.
We are also authorities are currently reviewing the data.
developing a once weekly suspension of Bydureon to be used in an autoinjector device.
The Phase III programme for this asset continues to progress and the first data was presented in 2014.
17.3m An estimated 17.3 million people die annually from CV disease, representing 30% of all global deaths.
More than 80% of these deaths occur in lowto middleincome countries.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 39
