Strategic Report Strategy Business model Our purpose and values drive what we do and how we do it.
This includes our role in the marketplace, strategic priorities, measures of risk and success, and determination to create value across every medicines life-cycle.
Our governance and remuneration support this approach.
Strategic priorities Inputs Business model Outputs Unmet medical need How we create and sustain value over the life-cycle Life-changing medicines E conomic, social and of a medicine across our chosen therapy areas Improved health outcomes political environment Improved access to healthcare Investment, including targeted business Investment, including targeted business Science and technology Reduced healthcare costs development, in the R&D, Manufacturing and Supply, development, in the R&D, Manufacturing and Supply, Employees Community development and Sales and Marketing of innovative medicines and Sales and Marketing of innovative medicines Relationships Revenue and cash flow IP Returns to shareholders Infrastructure Established products Growth platforms Pipeline Reinvestment of returns from sales, collaborations, out-licensing and divestments into the business and business development to develop and sustain the next generation of innovative medicines Purpose and values Why AstraZeneca is different Science-led biopharmaceutical company in three main therapy areas Productive R&D Strong business Sustainable organisation Platform of small molecules and biologics S trong portfolio of established products I nnovative, entrepreneurial culture Sustainable model and growing G lobal scale with Emerging Markets strength S trong talent base early-stage pipeline F ive platforms driving growth towards E fficient and productive organisation Growing late-stage pipeline with a balanced portfolio of primary care B alanced pipeline to drive immuno-oncology strength and specialty care medicines sustainable growth Protein engineering D urability through devices and companion diagnostics Disciplined capital allocation Commitment to progressive dividend 10 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Strategic Report Purpose and values and portfolio will enable us to build on our Our business model also includes value We push the boundaries of science leading position in Established Markets and creation through out-licensing and to deliver life-changing medicines achieve further growth in Emerging Markets.
In 2014, for example, we Our purpose underpins everything we established an alliance with Lilly to do.
Itgives us a reason to come to work Business Review from page 52 co-develop and commercialise our BACE every day.
It reminds us why we exist as inhibitor, AZD3293, for Alzheimers disease.
It helps us deliver benefits to Strategic priorities In January 2015, we divested Myalept to patients and create value for shareholders.
Our strategic priorities reflect how we aim Aegerion and our US rights to Zestril and Italso sets the context for our employees to achieve our purpose.
They are to Tenormin to Alvogen.
These transactions activities and the roles of our teams, allow us to leverage the capabilities and partners and other collaborators.
Achieve scientific leadership expertise of others, focus our resources 2.
Return to growth and deliver the greatest benefit to patients We follow the science.
These priorities reflect the choices we have The success of our business model These values determine how we work made to focus our R&D and commercial depends on the creation and protection together and the behaviours that are integral investments, prioritise and accelerate of our IP rights.
Developing a new medicine to our drive for success.
Our values guide promising assets and business development, is risky, costly and time consuming and our decision making, define our beliefs and transform our innovation model and the requires significant investment over many and foster a strong AstraZeneca culture.
years, with no guarantee of success.
For investments to be viable for our business Inputs Strategic priorities from page 18 and shareholders, we must protect new Demographic trends are favourable to our medicines from being copied for a industrys long-term growth and innovative Life-cycle of a medicine reasonable period of time.
scientific research continues to deliver For each of our therapy areas, our activities new ways of fulfilling unmet medical need.
span the entire life-cycle of a medicine, The loss of key product patents has affected As the Marketplace section from page 14 from Research and Development to sales significantly in recent years and will demonstrates, however, the economic, Manufacturing and Supply, and the global continue to do so.
As such, one of our main social and political environment presents Sales and Marketing of primary care and goals is to sustain the cycle of innovation not only significant opportunities but specialty care medicines.
and continually refresh our portfolio of challenges as well.
Life-cycle of a medicine overleaf To achieve our purpose, we seek to Outputs maximise the value of our resources, We operate according to what we believe Returns to shareholders including our employees, IP, partners is a disciplined value-creation framework.
Revenue from the sale of our medicines and collaborators.
This framework supports investment in our generates cash flow, which helps us portfolio, pipeline and growth platforms, fund business investment.
It also enables Resources Review from page 62 which generates cash flows that we return us to follow our progressive dividend policy to investors and reinvest into the business and meet our debt service obligations.
We believe that few pharmaceutical and business development.
Our business This involves balancing the interests of companies, if any, can match our development activities include alliances, our business, financial creditors and capabilities in small molecules, biologics, collaborations, in-licensing arrangements shareholders.
immunotherapies, protein engineering and acquisitions, such as our acquisition of and devices.
These distinctive capabilities BMSs interest in the diabetes alliance and Financial Review from page 70 allow us to produce combination therapies the strategic transaction with Almirall to such as antibody-drug conjugates and acquire its respiratory franchise and Improved health customisable molecules targeted to specific inhalation devices subsidiary.
Continuous scientific innovation is vital patient populations.
We have further to achieving sustainable healthcare and strengthened our portfolio, pipeline and Growth platforms creating value.
Innovation creates value, capabilities by investing in R&D and forexample, by pursuing licensing, acquisition and Brilinta Brilique collaboration opportunities.
Diabetes improving health outcomes and Emerging Markets transforming patients lives We also have strong commercial franchises Respiratory enabling healthcare systems to reduce that focus on Cardiovascular and Metabolic Japan costs and increase efficiency diseases, Oncology, and Respiratory, improving access to healthcare and Inflammation and Autoimmunity, and have Strategic priorities from page 18 healthcare infrastructure combined a broad portfolio of primary care helping develop the communities in and specialty care medicines with a global which we operate through local reach.
We believe our capabilities, pipeline employment and partnering.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 11
