Strategic Report Strategy Board of Directors as at 31 December 2014 1 2 3 6 7 8 11 12 13 1 Leif Johansson 63 2 Pascal Soriot 55 4 John Varley 58 Non-Executive Chairman of the Board Executive Director and CEO October 2012 Senior independent Non-Executive Director April 2012 July 2006 Skills and Experience Pascal brings significant Committee Membership Chairman of the experience in established and emerging markets, Committee Membership Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee and strength of strategic thinking, a successful track Remuneration Committee and member of the member of the Remuneration Committee record of managing change and executing strategy, Nomination and Governance Committee and the ability to lead a diverse organisation.
He Skills and Experience From 1997 to 2011, Leif was Skills and Experience John brings additional served as Chief Operating Officer of Roches Chief Executive Officer of AB Volvo.
Prior to that, he international, executive business leadership pharmaceuticals division from 2010 to September served at AB Electrolux, latterly as Chief Executive experience to the Board.
He was formerly Group 2012 and, prior to that, Chief Executive Officer of Officer from 1994 to 1997.
He was a Non-Executive Chief Executive of the Barclays Group, having held Genentech, a biologics business, where he led its Director of BMS from 1998 to September 2011, various senior positions with the bank during his successful merger with Roche.
Pascal joined the serving on the boards audit committee and career, including that of Group Finance Director.
pharmaceutical industry in 1986 and has worked compensation and management development Other Appointments John is a Non-Executive in senior management roles in numerous major committee.
He holds an MSc in engineering from Director of BlackRock, Inc. and Rio Tinto and companies around the world.
He is a doctor of Chalmers University of Technology, Gothenburg.
Chairman of Business Action on Homelessness veterinary medicine cole Nationale Vtrinaire Other Appointments Leif is Chairman of global andof Marie Curie Cancer Care.
dAlfort, Maisons-Alfort and holds an MBA from telecommunications company, LM Ericsson.
5 Genevive Berger 59 He holds board positions at Svenska Cellulosa Non-Executive Director April 2012 3 Marc Dunoyer 62 Aktiebolaget SCA and Ecolean AB, and has been Executive Director and CFO November 2013 Committee Membership Member of the Science a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences since 1994, serving as Committee Skills and Experience Marcs career in Chairman since 2012.
Leif is also a member pharmaceuticals, which has included periods Skills and Experience Genevive was Chief of the European Round Table of Industrialists with Roussel Uclaf, Hoechst Marion Roussel and Science Officer at Unilever PLC and a member of and Chairman of the International Advisory GlaxoSmithKline GSK, has given him extensive the Unilever Leadership Executive from 2008 to Board of the Nobel Foundation.
industry experience, including finance and April2014.
She holds three doctorates in physics, accounting: corporate strategy and planning: human biology and medicine and was appointed research and development: sales and marketing: Professor of Medicine at Universit Pierre et Marie business reorganisation: and business development.
Her previous positions include Marc qualified as an accountant and joined Professor and Hospital Practitioner at lHpital fide la AstraZeneca in 2013, serving as Executive Piti-Salptrire, Paris: Director of the Biotech and Vice-President, GPPS from June to October 2013.
Agri-Food Department, then Head of the Technology Prior to that, he served as Global Head of Rare Directorate at the French Ministry of Research and Diseases at GSK and concurrently Chairman, GSK Technology: Director General, Centre National fide la Japan.
He holds an MBA from HEC, Paris and a Recherche Scientifique: and Chairman of the Health Bachelor of Law degree from Paris University.
Advisory Board of the EU Commission.
28 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Strategic Report member of the operating and supervisory boards of the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office, Chairman of the supervisory board of Corbion NV formerly CSM NV, a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and a Fellow of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He served as a Non-Executive Director of the UK Financial Reporting Council from 2007 to 2012.
4 5 11 Nancy Rothwell 59 Non-Executive Director April 2006 Committee Membership Chairman of the Science Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee and Nomination and Governance Committee Skills and Experience Nancy oversees responsible business on behalf of the Board, as is described more fully in Responsible Business 9 10 from page 227.
She is a distinguished life scientist and academic.
Other Appointments Nancy is President and 6 Bruce Burlington 66 Previously, he was Finance Director of Aerospace Non-Executive Director August 2010 Services at the global engineering group GKN plc Vice-Chancellor of The University of Manchester.
She is also Co-Chair of the Prime Ministers Council from 2001 to 2003.
After starting his career with Committee Membership Member of the Audit Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte, he held various finance for Science and Technology and a member of the Committee and the Science Committee Science and Technology Honours Committee and roles in the industrial gases company The BOC Skills and Experience Bruce is a pharmaceutical Group plc now part of The Linde Group.
He is a the Royal Society Council.
Previously, she served as President of the British Neuroscience Association product development and regulatory affairs Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in consultant and brings extensive experience in those England and Wales and holds an MA Hons in and of the Society of Biology, and on the councils of the Medical Research Council, the Biotechnology areas.
He spent 17 years with the FDA, serving as chemistry from Oriel College, Oxford.
Director of its Center for Devices and Radiological and Biological Sciences Research Council, the 9 Jean-Philippe Courtois 54 Academy of Medical Sciences and Cancer Health as well as holding various senior roles in the Non-Executive Director February 2008 Center for Drug Evaluation and Research.
leaving the FDA, he held various senior executive Committee Membership Member of the Audit 12 Shriti Vadera 52 positions at Wyeth now part of Pfizer.
Committee Non-Executive Director January 2011 Other Appointments Bruce is a Non-Executive Skills and Experience Jean-Philippe has more Committee Membership Member of the Audit Director of the International Partnership for than 30 years experience in the global technology Committee Microbicides, and a member of the scientific industry.
He is President of Microsoft International Skills and Experience Shriti has significant advisory boards of the International Medica and previously served as Chief Executive Officer and Foundation and H. Lundbeck A S. President of Microsoft EMEA.
Jean-Philippe has also knowledge of global finance, emerging markets and public policy.
She has advised governments, banks served as Co-Chairman of the World Economic 7 Ann Cairns 57 and investors on the eurozone crisis, the banking Forums Global Digital Divide Initiative Task Force Non-Executive Director April 2014 sector, debt restructuring and markets and has and on the European Commission Information and Committee Membership Member of the Audit served as a G20 Adviser and a Minister in the UK Communication Technology Task Force.
In 2009, Cabinet Office and Business Department and Committee heserved as an EU Ambassador for the Year of International Development Department.
She has Creativity and Innovation and, in 2011, was named Skills and Experience Ann has more than 20 also served on the Council of Economic Advisers, one of Techs Top 25 by The Wall Street years in-depth financial and international business HM Treasury where she focused on business and JournalEurope.
experience and currently serves as President, international economic issues.
Prior to that, Shriti International Markets, for MasterCard.
Before joining Other Appointments Jean-Philippe is a board spent 14 years in investment banking with SG MasterCard in 2011, Ann oversaw the European member of PlaNet Finance, a leading international Warburg UBS.
liquidation of Lehman Brothers Holdings microfinance organisation.
International and was the Chief Executive, Other Appointments Shriti is Joint Deputy 10 Rudy Markham 68 Chairman of Santander UK and has been a Transaction Banking at ABN AMRO.
At the start Non-Executive Director September 2008 ofher career, Ann was an award-winning research Non-Executive Director of BHP Billiton since 2011. engineer, culminating as the head of Offshore Committee Membership Chairman of the Audit 13 Marcus Wallenberg 58 Engineer Planning for British Gas.
She holds a BSc Committee and member of the Remuneration Non-Executive Director April 1999 in pure mathematics from Sheffield University and an Committee and Nomination and Governance Committee Membership Member of the Science MSc with research into medical statistics from Committee Committee Newcastle University in the UK.
Skills and Experience Rudy takes a particular Skills and Experience Marcus has international 8 Graham Chipchase 51 interest on behalf of the Board in Safety, Health and Non-Executive Director April 2012 Environment SHE assurance.
He has significant business experience across various industry sectors, including the pharmaceutical industry international business and financial experience, Committee Membership Member of the having formerly held various senior commercial and from his directorship with Astra prior to 1999.
Remuneration Committee financial positions with Unilever, culminating in his Other Appointments Marcus is Chairman of Skills and Experience Graham has served as appointment as its Chief Financial Officer.
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, Saab AB and Chief Executive Officer of global consumer FAM.
He is a member of the boards of Investor AB, Other Appointments Rudy is Chairman and a packaging company, Rexam PLC Rexam since Temasek Holdings Limited and the Knut and Alice Non-Executive Director of Moorfields Eye Hospital 2010 after serving at Rexam as Group Director, Wallenberg Foundation.
NHS Foundation Trust and a non-executive member Plastic Packaging and Group Finance Director.
of the boards of United Parcel Services Inc. and Legal & General plc.
He is also a non-executive AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 29
