Strategic Report Resources Review Intellectual Property A well-functioning system of IP rights, which rewards innovation and underpins our business model.
Discovering and developing medicines pharmaceutical patent may not be Biologics License Application process, the requires a significant investment of FDA will grant 12 years data exclusivity for marketed for several years after filing due resources by research-based a new biologic to an innovator manufacturer.
to the duration of clinical trials and regulatory pharmaceutical companies over ten or more approval processes.
For this to be a viable investment, In the US, new chemical entities NCEs are Extensions PTE are available in certain new medicines must be safeguarded from entitled to a period of five years exclusivity major markets, including the EU and the US, being copied with a reasonable amount of under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic to compensate for these delays.
The term of certainty for a reasonable period of time.
This period of exclusivity runs parallel the PTE can vary from zero to five years to any pending or granted patent protection depending on the time taken to obtain any Our industrys principal economic safeguard and starts at the approval of the new marketing approval.
The maximum patent is a well-functioning patent system that application.
As with RDP, there are term, when including PTE, cannot exceed recognises our efforts and rewards circumstances where this protection could 15 years EU or 14 years US from the first innovation with appropriate protection, be the sole IP right protecting a product marketing authorisation.
allowing time to generate the revenue from being copied.
we need to reinvest in pharmaceutical Patent expiries innovation.
Patent rights are limited by Under orphan drug laws in the EU and US, The tables on pages 201 and 202 set out territory and duration, and a significant exclusivity is granted to an innovator who certain patent expiry dates and sales for our portion of a patents duration can be spent gains approval for a pharmaceutical product key marketed products.
on R&D before it is possible to launch the developed to treat a rare disease.
Therefore, we commit qualifies as a rare condition differs between Other exclusivities significant resources to establishing and the EU and US, and qualifying orphan drugs In addition to patent protection, regulatory defending our patent and related IP are granted ten years market exclusivity in data protection RDP or data exclusivity is protections for inventions.
the EU and seven years market exclusivity an important IP right, which arises in respect in the US.
of data which is required to be submitted to Patent process regulatory authorities to obtain marketing We file patent protection applications for our Under the Generating Antibiotics Incentives approvals for our medicines.
Significant inventions to safeguard the large investment Now Act, the FDA may grant Qualified investment is required to generate such required to obtain marketing approvals for Infectious Disease Product QIDP status.
data for example, through conducting potential new drugs.
As we further develop An antibiotic achieving QIDP status is global clinical trials and this proprietary data a product and its uses, new developments granted five years exclusivity while QIDPs is protected from use by third parties such may be protected by new patent filings.
We that are also NCEs such as AZD0914 are as generic manufacturers for a number apply for patents via patent offices around the entitled to ten years exclusivity and 12 years of years in a limited number of countries.
world, which assess whether our inventions if the disease state is an orphan.
The period The period of such protection, and the meet the strict legal requirements for a patent of exclusivity granted to a product with QIDP extent to which it is respected, differs to be granted.
Our competitors can challenge status runs concurrently with any pending significantly among countries.
RDP is an our patents in patent offices and or courts.
important protection for our products, We may face challenges early in the patent and we believe in enforcing our rights application process and throughout a patents Any of these additional protections may be to it, particularly as patent rights are life.
These challenges can be to the validity challenged by competitors or otherwise lost.
of a patent and or its effective scope and are based on ever-evolving legal precedents.
We Compulsory licensing The RDP period starts from the date of the are experiencing increased challenges in the Compulsory licensing the overruling of first marketing approval from the relevant US and elsewhere in the world such as in patent rights to allow patented medicines regulatory authority and runs parallel to any Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Europe and to be manufactured and sold by other pending patent protection.
RDP generally Japan and there can be no guarantee of parties is increasingly part of the access to expires prior to patent expiry in all major success for either party in patent proceedings.
We recognise the right of markets.
If a product takes an unusually For information about third party challenges to developing countries to use the flexibilities in long time to secure marketing approval, or patents protecting our products, see Note 27 the World Trade Organizations Agreement if patent protection has not been secured, to the Financial Statements from page 182. on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual has expired or has been lost, then RDP For more information on the risks relating to Property Rights TRIPS including the Doha may be the sole IP right protecting a product patent litigation and early loss and expiry of amendment in certain circumstances, such from copying, as generic manufacturers patents, please see Risk from page 203. as a public health emergency.
We believe should not be allowed to rely on this should apply only when all other ways AstraZenecas data to support the generic The basic term of a patent is typically 20 of meeting the emergency needs have products approval or marketing until the years from the filing of the patent application been considered and where healthcare RDP right has expired.
In the EU, the RDP with the relevant government patent office.
period is eight years followed by two years frameworks and safeguards exist to ensure However, a product protected by a marketing exclusivity.
In the US, under the the medicines reach those who need them.
68 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014
