Additional Information Additional Information Corporate Information History and development of the The Board may exercise all the powers of Ordinary Shares to receive the capital Company the Company to borrow money.
Variation paid up on those shares.
AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in of these borrowing powers would require Subject to the provisions of the England and Wales on 17 June 1992 under the passing of a special resolution of the Companies Act 2006, the Company the Companies Act 1985.
It is a public Companys shareholders.
has the right to redeem the Redeemable limited company domiciled in the UK.
The Preference Shares at any time on giving Companys registered number is 2723534 All Directors must retire from office at not less than seven days written notice.
and its registered office is at 2 Kingdom the Companys AGM each year and Street, London W2 6BD telephone 44 may present themselves for election or There are no specific restrictions on 0 20 7604 8000.
Directors are not prohibited, the transfer of shares in the Company, April 1999, the Company was called Zeneca upon reaching a particular age, from which is governed by the Articles and Group PLC.
On 6 April 1999, the Company submitting themselves for election prevailing legislation.
changed its name to AstraZeneca PLC.
The Company is not aware of any The Company was formed when the Within two months of the date of their agreements between holders of shares pharmaceutical, agrochemical and specialty appointment, Directors are required to that may result in restrictions on the transfer chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical beneficially own Ordinary Shares of an of shares or that may result in restrictions Industries PLC were demerged in 1993. aggregate nominal amount of at least $125, on voting rights.
In 1999, the Company sold the specialty which currently represents 500 shares.
Also in 1999, the Action necessary to change the rights Company merged with Astra of Sweden.
Rights, preferences and restrictions of shareholders In 2000, it demerged the agrochemical attaching to shares In order to vary the rights attached to any business and merged it with the similar As at 31 December 2014, the Company had class of shares, the consent in writing of the business of Novartis to form a new 1,263,143,338 Ordinary Shares and 50,000 holders of three-quarters in nominal value company called Syngenta AG.
Redeemable Preference Shares in issue.
of the issued shares of that class or the The Ordinary Shares represent 99.98% sanction of an extraordinary resolution In 2007, the Group acquired MedImmune, and the Redeemable Preference Shares passed at a general meeting of such holders a biologics and vaccines business based represent 0.02% of the Companys total is required.
share capital these percentages have been calculated by reference to the closing General meetings The Groups corporate office is at mid-point US$ GBP exchange rate on 31 AGMs and other general meetings, as 2 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD.
December 2014 as published in the London from time to time may be required, where edition of the Financial Times newspaper.
a special resolution is to be passed or a Articles Director is to be appointed, require 21 clear Objects As agreed by the shareholders at the days notice to shareholders.
Subject to The Companys objects are unrestricted.
Companys AGM held on 29 April 2010, the Companies Act 2006, other general the Articles were amended with immediate meetings require 14 clear days notice.
Any amendment to the Articles requires effect to remove the requirement for the the approval of shareholders by a special Company to have an authorised share For all general meetings, a quorum of resolution at a general meeting of capital, the concept of which was abolished two shareholders present in person or by the Company.
Each proxy, and entitled to vote on the business Ordinary Share carries the right to vote transacted, is required unless each of Directors at general meetings of the Company.
the two persons present is a corporate The Board has the authority to manage The rights and restrictions attaching to representative of the same corporation: the business of the Company, for example, the Redeemable Preference Shares differ or each of the two persons present is through powers to allot and repurchase from those attaching to Ordinary Shares a proxy of the same shareholder.
its shares, subject where required to as follows: shareholder resolutions.
Subject to certain Shareholders and their duly appointed exceptions, Directors do not have power to The Redeemable Preference Shares proxies and corporate representatives are vote at Board meetings on matters in which carry no rights to receive dividends.
entitled to be admitted to general meetings.
The holders of Redeemable Preference Shares have no rights to receive notices Limitations on the rights to own shares The quorum for meetings of the Board is a of, attend or vote at general meetings There are no limitations on the rights majority of the full Board, of whom at least except in certain limited circumstances.
four must be Non-Executive Directors.
In the They have one vote for every 50,000 absence of a quorum, the Directors do not Redeemable Preference Shares held.
Property have power to determine compensation On a distribution of assets of the Substantially all of our properties are held arrangements for themselves or any Company, on a winding-up or other return freehold, free of material encumbrances member of the Board.
of capital subject to certain exceptions, and are fit for their purpose.
the holders of Redeemable Preference Shares have priority over the holders of AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 237
