Strategic Report Strategic Report Business Review Sales and Marketing Our return to growth strategy is built on maximising the potential of our strong portfolio of primary care and specialty care medicines, as well as leveraging our global commercial presence, particularly in Emerging Markets.
We are investing in our growth platforms while focused business development supports our late-stage and marketed portfolio.
Organisation and approach In 2014, sales in the US increased by 4% Overview To improve health and bring benefits to to $10,120 million 2013: $9,691 million: patients around the world, we need to 2012: $10,655 million, driven by strong Sales and marketing teams in more ensure the right medicines are available and performance of our growth platforms, than 100 countries that patients have access to them.
To that including Symbicort and Brilinta, and the end, our sales and marketing teams, which impact of completing the acquisition of Sales increased by 22% in China, comprised around 34,800 employees at the BMSs share of the global diabetes alliance, which is now our second largest end of 2014, are active in more than 100 partially offset by declines in revenue from market countries.
In most countries, we sell our Nexium, Seroquel IR and Synagis.
Sales increased by 4% in the US due medicines through wholly-owned local to strong performance by Symbicort, marketing companies.
We also sell through The Affordable Care Act, which was Brilinta and the diabetes franchise distributors and local representative offices.
enacted in March 2010, has had, and is aided by the acquisition of BMSs expected to continue to have, a significant share in the diabetes alliance We market our products largely to impact on our US sales and the US primary care and specialty care physicians.
In 2014, the overall Despite an austere macroeconomic We aim to meet their needs by having reduction in our profit before tax for climate, we continued to launch highly accountable local leaders who the year, due to discounts on branded innovative medicines in Europe understand their customers and focus pharmaceutical sales to Medicare Part D Worked closely with payers and on business growth.
beneficiaries and an industry-wide excise providers to help deliver cost-effective fee, was $714 million 2013: $557 million.
medicines We group our Sales and Marketing function into three Commercial Regions North For more information on pricing pressure Increased access to healthcare America, Europe and International, together and the ACA, please see Marketplace from page through programmes in Latin America, with Japan, one of our growth platforms.
14 and Geographical Review from page 220 the Middle East and Africa, and Asia Our GPPS organisation develops global Pacific, serving some 2.7 million people product strategies and drives commercial While there is no direct governmental price Reaffirmed our commitment to ethical excellence, ensuring a strong customer control for commercial prescription drug sales and marketing activity through focus and commercial direction in managing sales in the US, some publicly funded employee training, monitoring, our pipeline and marketed products.
All our programmes, such as Medicaid and corrective actions and reporting efforts are underpinned by a commitment to TRICARE Department of Veterans Affairs, operating responsibly and conducting sales have statutorily mandated rebates and Began US government reporting on and marketing activity in accordance with discounts, which effectively serve as price payments to physicians and teaching applicable laws and our values.
Also, hospitals in compliance with The pressure on pricing and the availability and Physician Payments Sunshine Act US use of prescription drugs for commercial As the third largest prescription-based and public payers continues to increase.
pharmaceutical company in the US, This is due to, among other things, an we have a 5.2% market share of US increased focus on generic alternatives.
The increased use of generics is also due to rising patient co-insurance or co-payments for branded pharmaceuticals and budgetary AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 59 Strategic Report Business Review Sales and Marketing continued policies of healthcare systems and Established Rest of World ROW : Emerging Markets: expansion providers, including policies about the use of opportunities and challenges and collaboration generics only formularies.
In 2014, 83.3% In 2014, sales in Japan decreased by 3% to Emerging Markets, as defined in Market of prescriptions dispensed in the US were $2,227 million 2013: $2,485 million driven definitions on page 239, comprise generic compared with 82.2% in 2013. by generic competition and the impact of various countries with dynamic, growing While the adoption of a broad national mandated biennial price cuts, partially offset economies.
As outlined in Marketplace price-control scheme in the near future is by performance of growth platforms.
We from page 14, these countries represent unlikely, increased focus on pharmaceutical share the promotion of Crestor, Symbicort, a major growth opportunity for the prices and their impact on healthcare costs Nexium and Forxiga with Japanese pharmaceutical industry due to strong is likely to continue.
partners, who also distribute Nexium, demand and economic fundamentals.
In Japan, we are Geographical Review from page 220 ranked third in the oncology market by sales Emerging Markets are not immune, of medicines.
To maintain this important however, to economic downturn.
Market Europe franchise, we launched Janssen volatility is higher than in Established Our European business comprises Western Pharmaceutical K. K. and Janssen Markets and various political and economic and Eastern European markets, which Pharmaceutical NVs Zytiga abiraterone challenges exist, including regulatory and include France, Germany, Italy, the UK, acetate for castration-resistant prostate government interventions.
Spain, and the Nordic-Baltic countries.
The cancer in 2014 as part of a 2013 total European pharmaceutical market was co-promotion agreement with them.
AstraZeneca was the eighth largest, worth $216 billion in 2014.
We are the tenth as measured by sales, and the third largest pharmaceutical company in Europe In Canada, Provincial and Territorial payers, fastest-growing top 10 multinational with a 2.7% market share of prescription who represent nearly 55% of the market, pharmaceutical company in Emerging sales by value.
have developed a structure for panMarkets in 2014, with revenues of Canadian product listings, which could $5,827 million.
Our strongest growth In 2014, our sales in Europe decreased by restrict the introduction of new products into opportunities include China, Russia, Africa, 1% to $6,638 million 2013: $6,658 million.
Private sector India, Indonesia, Malaysia, South Korea, Key drivers of the decline were competition payers, representing the remaining 45%, Vietnam, Brazil, Argentina and Chile.
from Symbicort analogues, ongoing volume are experimenting with tiered access erosion of Atacand and Seroquel XR programmes for large public and private AstraZeneca is the second largest following loss of exclusivity and lower net employer groups.
While reimbursement for pharmaceutical company, as measured by pricing on Synagis.
The continued austere, new medicines is likely to remain, pricing sales, in China.
We are driving sustainable macroeconomic environment increased pressure will increase.
growth through strategic brands investment, government interventions for example, price expanded hospitals coverage and and volume interventions and increased Our sales in Australia and New Zealand systematic organisational capability trade across markets also affected sales.
Sales in China in 2014 Despite these conditions, we continue to due to the continued erosion of Crestor and increased by 22% to $2,242 million 2013: launch innovative medicines across Europe.
We delivered sales growth at exclusivity in Australia in 2014 and generic nearly double the growth rate of the market, Geographical Review from page 220 medicines were launched.
and initiated several long-term market expansion programmes in therapy areas.
Established ROW comprises Australia, Canada, New Zealand The healthcare environment in China and Japan.
remains dynamic with opportunities arising Geographical Review from page 220 from incremental healthcare investment, strong underlying demand and the emergence of innovative medicines.
Growth drivers for Emerging Markets include our new medicines, notably Brilinta, Confirmed external breaches Corrective actions and our diabetes, respiratory, oncology, CV Breaches of external sales and marketing Related to breaches of Code of Conduct and gastrointestinal portfolios.
To educate codes and regulations and Global Policies by Commercial physicians on our broad portfolio, we are employees and contractors selectively investing in sales capabilities 2014 6 where opportunities from unmet medical Number of persons 2013 11 need exist.
We are also expanding our Action taken 2014 2013 2012 10 reach through multi-channel marketing.
1 Removed from role 213 187 Formal warning 454 568 We are also engaging in innovative Guidance and or coaching 1,573 1,813 collaborations to access novel science, Total 2,240 2,568 technology and medicines to complement 1 and strengthen our portfolio such as I n the majority of cases, this means dismissal or contract termination, but it can include resignation and demotion.
60 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Strategic Report our collaboration with FibroGen in China as our Faz Bem Wellbeing programme control standards in our Commercial to develop and commercialise roxadustat, in Brazil, which provides discounts on Regions, including instances by contract a first-in-class oral compound for treating our medicines and other patient services, staff and other third parties 2013: 1,773. anaemia, and science collaborations and our Patient Access Card with research institutes in several programmes in Central and Eastern We removed 213 employees or contractors Emerging Markets.
We expanded our programmes from their roles as a result of these breaches across Latin America, the Middle East a single breach may involve more than one Geographical Review from page 220 and Africa, and Asia Pacific.
We also formally warned 454 of 2014, these programmes served others and provided further guidance or Pricing our medicines approximately 2.7 million patients coaching on our policies to 1,573 more.
Our global pricing policy provides the improving access, particularly in The most serious breaches are raised with framework to ensure appropriate patient developing countries where access can the Audit Committee.
access while optimising the sustained be a significant healthcare barrier.
In 2014, profitability of our products.
When setting we expanded efforts in Africa to enable US Corporate Integrity Agreement the price of a medicine, we consider its greater access to hypertension and The Physician Payments Sunshine full value to patients, payers and society medication and other essential services Act reporting generally.
We also pursue a flexible pricing for patients who are otherwise unable to In April 2010, AstraZeneca signed an approach.
For example, we support the access medication or other forms of agreement with the DOJ to settle an concept of differential pricing, provided treatment.
For more information, please investigation relating to the sales and that appropriate safeguards are in place see the Healthy Heart Africa case study marketing of Seroquel IR.
The requirements to help ensure lower-priced products on page 67. of the associated Corporate Integrity reach the patients who need them and Agreement CIA between AstraZeneca and are not diverted for sale and use in more Sales and marketing ethics the Office of the Inspector General of the US affluent markets.
We are committed to employing high ethical Department of Health and Human Services standards of sales and marketing practice OIG include a number of active monitoring Delivering value for payers worldwide and ensuring compliance with and self-reporting obligations that differ from Our medicines help treat unmet medical our Global Policy on Ethical Interactions.
the self-reporting required by authorities in need, improve health and create economic We report publicly on the number of the rest of the world.
To meet these and therapeutic benefits.
Effective obligations, AstraZeneca provides notices treatments can lower healthcare costs by confirmed breaches of external sales to the OIG describing the outcomes of reducing the need for more expensive care, and marketing codes particular investigations potentially relating preventing more serious and costly diseases failures to meet our standards by to violations of certain laws, as well as a and increasing productivity by reducing or employees and contractors in our separate annual report to the OIG preventing days lost to illness.
Nevertheless, Commercial Regions summarising monitoring and investigation as outlined in Pricing pressure, in corrective actions for breaches of our outcomes relevant to the CIA requirements.
Marketplace on page 17, pricing pressure Code of Conduct or supporting policies Under the CIA, AstraZeneca also discloses, remains.
We are acutely aware of the by employees and contractors in our on a publicly available website, certain economic challenges faced by payers and Commercial Regions.
payments to US physicians and institutions.
remain committed to delivering value to In addition, from March 2014, AstraZeneca payers and patients alike.
We work closely During 2014, we continued to train began reporting to the US government with payers and providers to understand employees on the global standards detailed information relating to payments to their priorities and requirements, and that govern the way we operate.
We physicians and teaching hospitals in the US, conduct real-world evidence studies to have comprehensive processes as well as required by The Physician Payments demonstrate how our products improve as dedicated compliance professionals Sunshine Act.
health outcomes, offer value and support who monitor adherence to our Code of Further information on AstraZenecas approach to responsible cost-effective healthcare.
Conduct and global policies and support business can be found in Responsible Business from page our line managers locally in supervising 227 and on our website, www.
Increasing access to healthcare their staff.
We also have a network of We are committed to increasing access nominated signatories who review our to healthcare for under-served patients.
promotional materials against applicable requirements.
In 2014, audit professionals Our access to healthcare strategy also conducted compliance audits on comprises three components selected marketing companies.
our mainstream business, which is the As shown in the Confirmed external prime enabler of access to our medicines breaches table opposite, we identified six improving affordability, which is confirmed breaches of external sales and particularly crucial among the growing marketing regulations or codes in 2014 middle class in Emerging Markets.
There were 1,847 instances, most continue to improve our capabilities and of them minor, of non-compliance with our build on the experience of initiatives, such Code of Conduct, Global Policies or related AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 61
