Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors Report The directors submit their Annual Report together with the APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company, Rules relating to the appointment and removal of the directors Spire Healthcare Group plc, for the year ended 31 December 2014. are contained within the Companys Articles of Association.
Certain disclosure requirements for inclusion in this report have been DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES incorporated by way of cross reference to the Strategic Report on See page 65 in the Corporate Governance section.
pages 1 to 55 and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 74 to AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 88, and should be read in conjunction with this report.
The following, The Company may only make amendments to the Articles included in the Strategic Report, also form part of this report: of Association of the Company, by way of special resolution greenhouse gas emissions, which can be found in Corporate Social of the shareholders, in accordance with the Companies Act.
Responsibility on page 45: EMPLOYEES employees, which can be found in Our People on pages 42 and 43: The Group is an equal opportunities employer and is committed to creating an environment which will attract, retain and motivate the Corporate Governance statement, set out on pages 59 to 66: its people, by creating a working environment in which individuals and are able to make best use of their skills, free from discrimination Our Strategy set out on pages 18 to 21. or harassment, and in which all decisions are based on merit.
Spire Healthcare employs people who consider themselves to have a Information regarding the Companys charitable donations can disability a physical or mental impairment which has a substantial be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on pages and long term adverse effect on their ability to carry out normal 44 and 45. day to day activities.
Employees who consider themselves to have LISTING ON THE LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE a disability are under no obligation to inform their employer of this, The Companys registered office and principal place of business is however, we are fully aware of, and comply with, our obligations at 3 Dorset Rise, London EC4Y 8EN.
On 23 July 2014, the entire issued in accordance with the relevant provisions of The Equality Act 2010. ordinary share capital of the Company was admitted to the premium The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for listing segment of the Official List of the Financial Conduct Authority employment from disabled persons.
Should an employee become and to unconditional trading on the London Stock Exchange plcs disabled during their employment with Spire Healthcare, every effort main market for listed securities.
is made to enable them to continue their service with the Group.
DIVIDEND Further information on our employees can be found in Our People The directors are recommending a final dividend in respect of 2014 on pages 42 and 43. of 1.8 pence per ordinary share which, if approved by shareholders at the AGM, will be paid on 30 June 2015 to shareholders on the register POLITICAL DONATIONS AND EXPENDITURE at 5 June 2015.
The Group made no political donations in the period since Admission.
Although the Company does not make, and does not intend to make, BOARD OF DIRECTORS donations to political parties, within the normal meaning of that The directors of the Company were all appointed in June 2014, prior expression, the definition of political donations under the Companies to Admission to Listing and their biographical information is set out Act 2006 is very broad and includes expenses legitimately incurred as on pages 56 and 57.
All directors will retire at the AGM and offer part of the process of talking to members of parliament and opinion themselves for re-election.
Further information on the contractual formers to ensure that the issues and concerns of the Group are arrangements of the executive directors is given on page 88.
These activities are not intended to non-executive directors do not have service agreements.
support any political party and the Groups policy is not to make POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS any donations for political purposes in the normally accepted sense.
The business of the Company is managed by the directors who A resolution continuing the approval granted by shareholders may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to any relevant as part of the IPO will therefore be proposed at the AGM seeking legislation, any directions given by the Company by passing a special shareholder approval for the directors to be given authority to make resolution and to the Companys Articles of Association.
The Articles, donations and incur expenditure which might otherwise be caught for example, contain specific provisions concerning the Companys by the terms of the Companies Act 2006.
The authority sought will power to borrow money and issue shares.
be limited to a maximum amount of 100,000.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 89 Governance Directors Report continued SHARE CAPITAL MATERIAL INTERESTS IN SHARES As at the date of this report, the Company had an issued share The Group has been notified in accordance with DTR 5 of the capital of 401,081,391 ordinary shares of 1 pence each, being the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests total number of Spire Healthcare Group plc shares with voting rights.
in its issued ordinary shares as at 23 March 2015: Current % The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary Cinven Funds 48.35 shares in the capital of the Company other than those which may be Woodford Investment Management 10.21 imposed by law from time to time.
There are no special control rights BlackRock Investment Management 4.18 in relation to the Companys shares and the Company is not aware Lazard Asset Management 3.84 of any agreements between holders of securities that may result Capital World Investors 3.82 in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights, except for the lock-ins agreed at the time of Admission as set out in the SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS Prosepctus.
In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency The following agreements are considered to be significant in terms Rules, certain employees are required to seek approval to deal of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole in Spire shares.
and could alter or terminate on a change of control of the Group: Further information relating to the Companys issued share capital the Groups bank facility agreement contains provisions entitling can be found in note 27 to the Company financial statements on the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the page 119. event of a change of control: ALLOT SHARES AND PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS there are a number of contracts which allow the counterparties Resolutions giving the directors the authority to allot further shares to alter or terminate those arrangements in the event of a change and make allotments of shares to persons other than existing of control of the Company.
These arrangements are commercially shareholders in certain circumstances will be proposed for the first sensitive and confidential and their disclosure could be seriously time at the AGM.
See the Notice of Meeting contained within the prejudicial to the Group: and AGM circular for additional detail.
the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating VOTING RIGHTS to a change of control and full details of these plans are provided in In a general meeting of the Company, on a show of hands, every the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 75 to 88.
Outstanding member who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable have one vote.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of performance proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are the holder.
conditions, if applicable, at that time.
RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING As disclosed in the Prospectus, the Relationship Agreement is a Unless the directors otherwise determine, a shareholder material agreement between the Company and Cinven Funds as the shall not be entitled to vote either personally or by proxy: principal shareholder.
The agreement does not include a change of control provision but does terminate upon the earlier of the Shares if any call or other sum presently payable to the Company ceasing to be listed and traded on the London Stock Exchanges main in respect of that share remains unpaid, or market for listed securities and the principal shareholders ceasing having been duly served with a notice to provide the Company to be entitled, in aggregate, to exercise or to control the exercise with information under Section 793 of the Companies Act, and has of 15 per cent.
or more of the votes to be cast on all or substantially failed to do so within 14 days, for so long as the default continues.
all matters of a general meeting of the Company.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARE COMPENSATION FOR LOSS OF OFFICE The directors share interests in the Company are detailed on page 87.
There are no agreements between the Group and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs as a result of change of control.
90 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER LISTING RULE 9.8.
4R RE-APPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR The following table is included to meet the requirements of Listing Rule Resolutions for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the section 9.8.
The information required to be disclosed by that section, Auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to determine where applicable to the Company, can be located in the Annual Report its remuneration are to be proposed at the AGM.
and financial statements at the references set out below.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING THE AGM Information required Location in annual report The Annual General Meeting of Spire Healthcare Group plc will be held at Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y Amount of interest capitalised Note 11 on page 109 1HS on Thursday 21 May 2015 at 11.00 am.
The notice of meeting Long-term incentive schemes See DRR pages 7488 is contained within the AGM circular.
Equity securities allotted for cash Note 27 on page 119 Parent and subsidiary undertakings Note 18 on page 114 The Directors Report has been approved by the Board and is signed Subsisting significant contracts Note 33 on page 125 on its behalf by: Controlling shareholder relationships Pages 60 and 90 Daniel Toner General Counsel and Group Company Secretary EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD 23 March 2015 There have been no material events affecting the Group or Company since 31 December 2014.
GOING CONCERN On Admission on 23 July 2014, the Group refinanced its bank loan facilities with a facility that matures in 2019.
The proceeds from the issue of new ordinary shares, existing resources and 425.0 million from the new term loans, were applied in the repayment of all of the existing bank loan and interest rate swap liabilities.
Loans from former parent undertakings were settled through the issue of new shares in the Company.
The directors have considered the Groups forecasts and projections, and the risks associated with their delivery, and are satisfied that the Group will be able to operate within the covenants imposed by the new bank loan facility for the foreseeable future.
In relation to available cash resources, the directors have had regard to both cash at bank and a 100 million committed, undrawn revolving credit facility.
Accordingly, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Companys auditor, each of the directors confirms that: to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and they have taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 91
