Strategic Report Clinical review Clinical quality and performance are at the heart of everything we do.
Clinical review MRSA Our Group Medical Director, Dr Jean-Jacques fide Gorter Dr Jean-Jacques fide Gorter, Group Medical Director is responsible for defining 0.00 our clinical governance and MRSA rate per 10,000 bed days quality strategy and his team 2014 0.00 audit, monitor and report on 2013 0.00 our quality performance.
In 2012 0.08 addition, the Clinical Services team supports our hospitals While the transition to becoming a public to comply with relevant company was an important milestone for C. DIFFICILE healthcare regulations across Spire in 2014, we worked hard to ensure that the process did not distract us from England, Scotland and Wales.
our primary purpose delivering safe and effective care for our patients.
It is pleasing, 0.30 therefore, that we continued to make C. difficile rate per 10,000 bed days improvements in clinical performance and that we were able to put in place a number 2014 0.30 of developments that will stand Spire in good stead for the future.
2013 0.51 CLINICAL PERFORMANCE 2012 0.24 For the second year running, there was not a single case of MRSA bacteraemia reported by our hospitals.
In addition, cases of C. difficile fell by 41%, year-on-year, and surgical site IN-PATIENT SURGICAL MORTALITY infections following hip and knee replacement PER 10,000 ANAESTHETIC EPISODES UNPLANNED RETURNS BY PATIENTS surgery remained low.
We report hospital RATE PER 100 PATIENTS acquired infection data MRSA, MSSA, E-coli bacteraemia and Clostridium Difficile 0.3 0.34 infection to Public Health England and participate in the surveillance programme 0.2 2014 0.34 for hip and knee replacement surgical site 2013 0.33 infection.
Our rates compare favourably 0.1 with published national averages.
2012 0.27 0 In terms of treatment effectiveness, in 2011 2012 2013 2014 Not post-operative mortality 2014, we reported the lowest-ever rate Unplanned returns to theatre of unplanned patient transfers and Unplanned readmissions readmissions.
This is a testament to the We continued a low level of returns, care and attention to detail shown by reflecting our strong record of our clinical teams.
Good teamwork, robust treatment effectiveness and up-to-date care pathways, and a 38 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information We continued to make improvements in clinical performance.
Dr Jean-Jacques fide Gorter Group Medical Director willingness to challenge, together create that treatment decisions are considered I love working here and theres nothing the platform for reliable and high-quality and agreed by a multi-disciplinary team.
like the sound of a happy team laughing care within our hospitals.
In 2014, we launched a transformation down the corridor to spur you on.
Nursing teams are able to call upon over 120 programme to facilitate these discussions Elaine Kennedy procedure-specific clinical care pathways.
and for the effectiveness of treatment Clinical nurse, Edinburgh Clinical care pathways are standardised recommendation to be recorded consistently.
across all our 39 hospitals and are printed In time, we expect to publish our performance off individually to form part of each patients in this regard in order to enable patients to medical records.
The pathways set out the make more informed choices regarding their routine activities that must be completed cancer treatment, as more and more options pre and post-operatively and contribute become available.
SAFETY CULTURE We monitor compliance with our pathways At the end of 2014, we undertook our first by auditing approximately 1,000 records Safety Culture survey, based on one used It is Elaines responsibility to oversee one every month and reporting our findings by the Agency for Healthcare Research and of the largest theatre departments in the every quarter.
Hospital compliance with key Quality AHRQ in the US.
This is helping us Group: Elaine and her team successfully nursing processes such as use of the Early to understand the importance of systems discharge over 1,300 patients per month Warning Score, venous thromboembolism and processes, as well as culture and from the six theatres across Murrayfield risk VTE assessment and the assessment leadership, when trying to make care safer and Shawfair Park.
Elaine makes sure the of post-operative pain remains for patients.
All employees and bank workers department is running to its optimum exceptionally high.
in our hospitals, pathology network, Lifescan, efficiency by scheduling surgical patients, mobile imaging and Perform at St Georges We are not complacent and will continue to liaising with consultants, addressing Park were invited to take part.
In summary, focus on compliance with our care pathways staffing issues and attending the senior Spire achieved a rating of 71%, compared and processes.
management meeting, which is the with the external benchmark of 63%.
opportunity to discuss the nuts and Our hospitals undertake a considerable While we were pleased to achieve a score bolts of the business.
volume of elective surgery, including many above the benchmark, we see this as only complex cases.
It is, therefore, particularly the first step in reinforcing safety as being significant that post-operative mortality central to our patient offering.
We will within 31 days of surgery fell by over 10% continue to monitor our culture in this year-on-year.
Over the past four years, our hospitals Our clinical teams are justifiably proud have been working to improve processes of their care and professionalism.
Strong for patient discharge and the planning clinical systems and processes create a necessary to ensure this is undertaken stable foundation to build on, supported by in a calm and efficient manner.
Patient a healthy culture that values and prioritises satisfaction with discharge processes safety and clinical quality.
We will continue increased for the fourth year in a row, to learn from the unexpected events making this the greatest improving that will always occur.
In terms of clinical satisfaction measure over this period.
performance, it is my view that Spire is well As we develop and broaden our cancer positioned to continue to deliver excellent treatment facilities, it is important that care to increasing numbers of patients, we support them with modern technology with evermore complex needs.
and working practices, including ensuring Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 39
