Strategic Report Our business model Spire provides a range of healthcare services to patients from 39 hospitals and 13 clinics across England, Wales and Scotland.
Each of our 39 hospitals provides Key activities hotel-style accommodation, up-to-date equipment, as well as dedicated doctor, nursing and specialist staff to support the Imaging Diagnostic practice of more than 3,750 consultants.
MRI CT scanning We are paid by private medical insurers Pathology and self-paying patients, and also direct 16% by the NHS for NHS-funded patients.
Spire aims to make access as easy as possible for all private patients while managing spare capacity and supporting the NHS.
Consulting Key services Out-patient Minor procedures services Treatments Health checks 15% Physiotherapy Orthopaedics 48.5% Orthopaedics In-patient daycase Gynaecology, plastic surgery, Cardiology procedures urology and others 28.8% Neurology High acuity services, including Oncology cardiology, cardiothoracic, neurosurgery, 69% General surgery oncology and general 22.7% Percentage of in-patient, daycase and out-patient revenue.
Source: Company 2014 in-patient and daycase revenue.
14 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The patient pathway to treatment in a private hospital The Group receives patients The Group accepts patients Below is a simplified illustration through multiple routes.
using all three funding methods: of a patients potential The patients journey typically Group hospitals may obtain journey through the private begins with a visit to their referrals for patients who healthcare system.
GP, who will either treat the cannot be accommodated patient directly or provide at local NHS Trusts NHS a referral to a consultant.
local contract or through The procedure or treatment the NHS Choose and Book provided by the consultant system, and PMI and self-pay can be funded by the NHS, patients can obtain a private a PMI provider or by the consultation where they are patient directly referred referred to a Group hospital.
NHS hospital including foundation trust Local contracting NHS Choose and Book Patient GP referral Private Spire Medical Hospital Insurance Open, direct or Consultant fee-capped referrals 1 Self-pay Our key relationships are with the referrers GPs and consultants, the payors PMI providers, self-pay and the NHS and, of course, our patients and staff.
Funding Sources NHS Source: Company.
Private 1 Some self-pay patients book directly with a consultant without requiring a GP referral.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 15
