Governance Our Board of Directors Garry Watts In preparation for the IPO, Non-executive Chairman Garry Watts, FCA, MBE, joined the Group the Board of Directors was as executive chairman in 2011 and became non-executive chairman at the time of the strengthened, increasing IPO in 2014.
Prior to joining Spire, he was CEO of SSL International plc for seven years its experience and diversity and, before that, its CFO.
SSL was a 2.5 billion international consumer healthcare brands company, which in order to achieve Spires was acquired by Reckitt Benckiser in late 2010.
Garry is also Chairman of BTG plc, and of Foxtons Group plc, deputy chairman of Stagecoach strategic aspirations.
Group plc and a non-executive director of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. A chartered accountant and former partner at KPMG, Garry was previously an executive director of Celltech plc and of Medeva plc, and a non-executive director of Protherics plc.
Other roles have included 17 years as a member of the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency Supervisory Board.
Garry is a member of the Clinical Governance and Safety Committee.
Rob Roger Chief Executive Officer Rob Roger has been CEO of Spire since May 2011.
Previously, he was appointed CFO when Spire Healthcare was formed in 2007.
Prior to joining Spire, Rob spent nine years with the Tussauds Group as CFO.
During this time, he also had responsibility for business development, was CEO acting in 20012002 and oversaw the opening of Madame Tussauds in six markets.
He oversaw the sale of the Tussauds Group to Merlin Entertainment in April 2007.
Prior to this, Rob was CFO of First Choice holidays and flights in 19951997, and was CFO of Pizza Hut in France in 19921995 overseeing the roll-out of 150 sites across France.
Rob qualified as a chartered accountant with  LLP.
Rob is a member of the Nomination Committee and Clinical Governance and Safety Committee.
Simon Gordon Chief Financial Officer Simon Gordon joined Spire in July 2011, having spent eight years as Group Finance Director of leading international health and fitness club business, Virgin Active.
During his time at Virgin Active, the business grew from breakeven to 150 million EBITDA, operating in five countries.
This growth was achieved by a successful combination of organic development and acquisition.
Prior to joining Virgin Active, Simon worked for KPMG on both audit and transaction advisory projects for both listed and private companies.
Simon qualified as a chartered accountant with KPMG.
Simon does not sit on any Board Committees.
56 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Tony Bourne Robert Lerwill Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Tony Bourne has been a non-executive Robert Lerwill is a chartered accountant director since June 2014.
He is also and has been a non-executive director since non-executive director at various June 2014.
He spent 13 years with Arthur companies, including Barchester Healthcare Andersen and 10 at WPP as CFO.
He then Limited, one of the UKs largest residential joined Cable & Wireless as CFO in 1996 and care home businesses, and Bioquell Plc, a subsequently became deputy CEO and CEO London Stock Exchange-listed company with a leading position of Cable & Wireless Regional, leaving in 2003.
In 2000, Robert in bio-decontamination and in testing, regulatory and compliance joined Aegis plc as a non-executive director and Chair of the Audit services.
Tony was Chief Executive of the British Medical Association Committee and then served as CEO of Aegis Group from 2005 to for nine years until 2013.
Prior to that, he was in investment banking 2008.
Robert also served as a non-executive director at Synergy for over 25 years, including as a partner at Hawkpoint and as global Health plc from 2005 to 2012, becoming Chairman of the Board in head of the equities division and a member of the managing Board 2010, and at British American Tobacco plc from 2005 to 2013, where of Paribas.
Tony has also previously served as a non-executive director he was Chair of the Audit Committee.
Robert currently serves as a of Southern Housing Group, from 2004 to 2013, and Scope, which non-executive director of ITC Limited a large Indian conglomerate, focuses on cerebral palsy and is one of the UKs largest charities.
DJI Holdings plc and the Payments Council Limited.
Robert has a BA degree from Nottingham University industrial economics and Tony is a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, the has also attended the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Clinical Governance and Safety Committee and is Chair Business School.
Robert is a member of the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration John Gildersleeve Committee and is Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Dr Supraj Rajagopalan John Gildersleeve has been the NonNon-executive Director Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Dr Supraj Rajagopalan has been a nonIndependent Director of Spire since June executive director since June 2014 and has 2014.
He has been chairman of The British served as a non-executive director of the Land Company plc since January 2013, prior Group since 2012.
He is a partner at Cinven, to which he served as a non-executive director of British Land from where he leads the firms activities in the September 2008 and as senior independent director from November healthcare sector.
John is also non-executive director of Dixons Carphone and Cinven, he has been involved in a wide variety of transactions, TalkTalk Telecom Group plc.
John served as a director of Tesco plc for most recently leading the firms investments in AMCo and Medpace.
20 years until he retired in 2004.
He was formerly chairman of EMI He has sat on the Board of several other Cinven portfolio companies, Group and Gallaher Group plc, and was also a non-executive director including Phadia and Ahlsell.
Prior to joining Cinven in 2004, Supraj of Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Vodafone Group.
worked at the Boston Consulting Group in London, advising corporate clients in the healthcare and financial services sectors.
Before this, John is a member of the Remuneration Committee and is Chair of the he was a doctor in the NHS.
Supraj graduated with undergraduate Nomination Committee.
and postgraduate degrees in Medical Sciences from the University Professor Dame Janet Husband of Cambridge.
Independent Non-executive Director Supraj does not sit on any Board Committees.
Dame Janet Husband has been a nonexecutive director since June 2014.
She Simon Rowlands holds the position of Emeritus Professor Non-executive Director of Radiology at the Institute of Cancer Simon Rowlands has been a non-executive Research and currently serves on the Boards director since June 2014 and has served as of Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust and a non-executive director of the Spire Group Nuada Medical Group as a non-executive director.
His other current appointments appointment with the Group, she also served as a Specially include non-executive directorships at Appointed Commissioner to the Royal Hospital Chelsea, was MD Medical Group and Avio.
Simon is a President of the Royal College of Radiologists and chaired the Founding Partner of European private equity firm Cinven Partners, National Cancer Research Institute in the UK.
She trained in medicine which he joined in 1986.
At Cinven, Simon established and led the at Guys Hospital Medical School and was appointed as Professor healthcare team and was involved in a number of transactions, of Diagnostic Radiology at the University of London, Institute of including: General Healthcare Group, Amicus and Partnerships in Cancer Research, in addition to more than 20 years as a practising Care in the UK: USP in Spain: and Gnrale fide Sant, Aprovia and consultant radiologist.
In July 2012, Simon became senior adviser at Cinven.
Prior to joining Cinven, Simon worked with an international Janet is a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, the consulting firm on multi-disciplinary engineering projects in the UK Nomination Committee and is Chair of the Clinical Governance and southern Africa.
He has an MBA in business, a BSc in engineering and Safety Committee.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 57
