Governance Executive management team The executive management team consists of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the following senior executives: Dr Jean-Jacques fide Gorter Antony Mannion Group Medical Director Investor Public Relations Director Dr Jean-Jacques fide Gorter is the Group Antony joined Spire as Investor and Public Medical Director and has overseen Spires Relations Director in March 2012, having clinical governance and quality for the past spent seven years at SSL International nine years.
Prior to this, he served as Director plc ending in its acquisition by Reckitt of Clinical Services for Bupa Hospitals and Benckiser in 2010 as Group Legal Director as a Medical Director for NHS Direct.
He is and Head of Acquisitions.
Prior to SSL, currently a non-executive director at the Milton Keynes Foundation Antony had started his career as a corporate lawyer at Freshfields Trust and chairs its Quality Committee.
Dr fide Gorter graduated with in London and Paris, and had then worked as an investment banker a Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery from Charing Cross at Citicorp Investment Bank in London and New York, and latterly and Westminster Medical School and subsequently completed his at Standard Chartered in Singapore.
Antony has a wide range of MBA degree at Cranfield School of Management.
experience in all areas of corporate finance, and has worked on significant acquisition and IPO transactions in the UK, Europe, the US, Daniel Toner South America, Asia Pacific, India, China and Russia.
Immediately prior General Counsel and to joining Spire, Antony had worked as a consultant at Hawkpoint.
Group Company Secretary Previously with Freshfields and the Neil McCullough commercial directorate at the Department Business Development Director of Health, Daniel joined Bupa hospitals as Following an early career in accounting Head of Legal in 2006, becoming General and finance, Neil moved into healthcare in Counsel and Company Secretary for Spire 1993 working with Bupa UK Membership, in September 2007. where he held a number of senior sales and relationship management roles.
Neil moved Peter Kahn into the Bupa hospitals business in 1998, Commercial Director holding hospital general manager roles in Birmingham and East Peter joined as Commercial Director in Anglia.
He then moved into preventative healthcare with Bupa August 2011 after being involved with Wellness in 2002, where, as sales director, he led the rapid expansion Spire as a management consultant for four of the business for five years.
Peter has over 18 years experience in hospital and health insurance management, Neil joined Spire Healthcare on its formation in 2007 as Hospital having held senior positions in several Director at Cambridge Lea before joining the executive team in companies, including Affinity Health, which was the largest hospital 2011.
In his role, Neil oversees Spires business development strategy group in Australia before it was sold to Ramsay Healthcare.
He was both at the local hospital level and corporately in the UK, as well Principal of the management consulting firm Intrinsix, which was as internationally.
established in 2005, providing strategic advice to healthcare Neil also oversees sales and marketing for Spire Healthcare, organisations in Australia and internationally.
leading Spires online and off-line marketing, brand development and communications, while supporting Spires local sales and marketing activity.
58 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014
