STRATEGIC REPORT 8 STRATEGY OBJECTIVE SO FAR WHAT NEXT?
IDENTIFY In-Store Our Shirebrook store is used as a centre of excellence where presentation techniques The Group continues to enhance its in-store offering with further dedicated are trialled and perfected.
areas for specialist product collections: The Group focuses on its stores to ensure the best presentation of our product European Golf range.
Our product collections provide a good better best presentation to ensure Swimshop.
co. uk our customers find the right product at the right price.
Our specialist collaborations DragonCarp Direct with SheRunsHeRuns and Soccer Scene @ the Boot Room provide a high level Field & Trek of customer service.
Our multi-channel approach also gives flexibility to our SheRunsHeRuns customers.
Acquisitions The Group has continued its expansion in Europe, acquiring the Sports Eybl and Acquisitions remain a high priority, in order to broaden the variety of customer Sports Experts Group EAG, as well as a majority shareholding in Sportland offering in all areas of the Group.
International Group SIG, which operate in Austria and Germany and the Baltic region, respectively.
In the UK the Group acquired a 51% stake in Yeomans Outdoors to add to the Sports Retail division.
A 51% stake in Pulp, and the remaining 20% stake in Cruise were also purchased, both being valuable additions to the Premium Lifestyle division.
In June 2013 the Brands division acquired the assets of Gelert.
INVEST Store Portfolio During FY14, we opened 32 stores in the UK, closing 10, and opened a further 15 The Group intends to continue to enhance its store portfolio in both the UK and stores in Europe, closing five.
As at 27 April 2014, Sports Retail operated in 19 internationally.
The Group will continue with the strategy to identify strategic countries in Europe, as well as in the UK.
partners in new territories while expanding operations in those countries where we currently have a presence.
Plans are in place to expand Sports Retail The Group also operates a store in Iceland as a joint venture and has a 50% stake operations into all the major countries in the European Economic Area.
in the Heatons chain in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
Our Shirebrook store has been extended to provide a total retail space of c. 78,000 sq.
This offers customers a huge range of products under one roof, enhancing their shopping experience.
We are aware that the dedication of our employees has been essential to the Due to the success of the first Employee Bonus Share Scheme, we continue to People success of the Group.
The commitment that they have shown does not go unnoticed.
encourage and motivate employees with the 2011 and 2015 Employee Bonus Share Schemes.
The Employee Bonus Share Schemes have been central to uniting our employees to work towards a shared goal.
The 2009 Employee Bonus Share Scheme has shown our employees what they can achieve with teamwork, and they are only one target away from meeting the 2011 Employee Bonus Share Scheme targets set.
The recently approved 2015 Bonus Share Scheme will further act as an incentive to focus the minds of our employees.
DEVELOP Website Online Retail sales currently represent 17.1% of Sports Retail revenue, an increase Online revenue continues to be an area of significant growth and the Group from 15.0% in FY13.
continues to look at opportunities to develop this revenue stream further.
The website has benefited from investment in improving the customer experience, Improvements to the site such as specialised landing pages and upgraded My including a more efficient checkout experience and parcel tracking services.
Account pages, offer the customer a more personal experience.
Recognition of the online brand has increased with 401 UK stores displaying the SPORTSDIRECT.
Investment in the mobile site means that it now fully supports language and currency conversion.
Mobile visits currently equate to 25% of visits to The introduction of gift cards that can be purchased and redeemed online will SPORTSDIRECT.
This will allow customers to use gift cards to purchase items from our whole product range.
PROMOTE The Groups portfolio includes a wide variety of world-famous sport, fashion and The Brands division is closely involved in the development of licensed products Brands lifestyle brands.
The Groups Retail division sells products under these Group brands and monitors licensees and their manufacturers to ensure product quality, in its stores, and the Brands division exploits the brands through its wholesale and presentation and consistency with the appropriate brand strategy.
division continues to sponsor a variety of prestigious events and retains a portfolio of globally-recognised, high-profile athletes.
The Brands division wholesale business sells the brands core products, such as Dunlop tennis rackets and Slazenger tennis balls, to wholesale customers and Acquisitions of key brands will remain high on the agenda.
This results in far wider distribution of the The Brands Division strategy is focused on further expansion into Asia, and the products than would be the case if their sale was restricted to Group stores.
Such expansion will provide us with more opportunities to expand the The Wholesale business also wholesales childrenswear and apparel.
The licensing global presence and international appeal of our Group brands.
business licenses third parties to apply Group-owned brands to non-core products In order to improve worldwide brand awareness, the Brands division will manufactured and distributed by those third parties.
The division currently has continue to invest in the development of core products for wholesale customers c. 270 licensees worldwide.
We manage these licensees to ensure global brand and distributors throughout the world.
consistency and the international success of our Group brands.
We recently added to our brand portfolio with the purchase of Gelert.
