SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 25 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors of Sports Direct International plc present their Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 27 April 2004.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW The Group was authorised to make market purchases of ordinary shares of 10p each in The Chief Executives Report on pages 13 to 17 provides a detailed review of the Groups the Company of up to a maximum aggregate number 59,846,486 representing 10% of current activities and potential future developments together with factors likely to affect the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
The future development, performance and conditions.
There is also a table of the principal above authority expires at the close of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
risks and uncertainties likely to affect the Group.
The financial position of the Group, SHAREHOLDERS its cash flow, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial No shareholder enjoys any special control rights, and, except as set out below, there are Review on pages 18 to 19.
The Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 20 to 23 no restrictions in the transfer of shares or of voting rights.
reports on environmental matters, including the impact of the Groups businesses on the environment, the Groups employees, and on social and community issues.
Mike Ashley has entered into a Relationship Agreement with the Company.
Under the terms of the Agreement Mike Ashley undertook that, for so long as he is entitled to The principal activities of the Group during the year remained unchanged and were: exercise, or to control the exercise of, 15% or more of the rights to vote at general retailing of sports and leisure clothing, footwear and equipment: meetings of the Company, he will: wholesale distribution and sale of sports and leisure clothing, footwear and conduct all transactions and relationships with any member of the Group on arms equipment under Group-owned or licensed brands: and length terms and on a normal commercial basis and with the approval of the Nonlicensing of Group brands.
Executive Directors: Further information of the Groups principal activities is set out in the front of this exercise his voting rights or other rights in support of the Company being managed document and in the Chief Executives Report on pages 13 to 17. in accordance with the Listing Rules and the principles of good governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and not exercise any of his voting or other rights RESULTS FOR THE YEAR AND DIVIDENDS and powers to procure any amendment to the Articles of Association of the Company: Revenue for the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2014 was 2,706.0m and profit before tax was other than through his interest in the Company, not have any interest in any business 239.5m compared with 2,185.6m and 207.2m in the prior year.
The trading results which sells sports apparel and equipment subject to certain rights, after notification for the year and the Groups financial position as at the end of the year are shown in the to the Company, to acquire any such interest of less than 20% of the business attached Financial Statements, and discussed further in the Chief Executives Report concerned, and certain other limited exceptions, without receiving the prior approval and Business Review and in the Financial Review on pages 13 to 17 and 18 to 19 of the Non-Executive Directors: and not solicit for employment or employ any senior respectively.
The Board has determined not to recommend a dividend this year.
The Company has been advised that the following parties had a significant direct or indirect shareholding in the shares of the Company: SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL The authorised share capital of the Company is 100,000,000 divided into 999,500,010 Percentage of issued ordinary share capital ordinary shares of 10p each and 499,990 redeemable preference shares of 10p each.
Number of shares held with voting rights held Nature of holding Further information regarding the Groups issued share capital can be found on page 63 MASH Holdings 345,400,000 57.71% Direct 1 of the financial statements.
Limited Odey Asset Details of Executive and employee share schemes are also set out on page 63.
No votes 47,939,325 8.01% Indirect 2 Management are cast in respect of the shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust and dividends would 3 be waived.
Black Rock 31,092,347 5.20% Indirect 1 MASH Holdings Limited is wholly-owned by Mike Ashley.
These figures are as at 17 July 2014.
There are 640,602,369 ordinary shares of 10p in issue and fully paid of which 2 Odey Asset Management indirectly held 4,171,529 shares in a contract for difference account.
These figures are 42,137,508 are currently held in Treasury.
as at 28 January 2014, being the last date on which the Company was notified of a change of the percentage of shares held by Odey.
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares, which are governed both by 3 Black Rock indirectly held 4,956,303 shares in a contract for difference account.
These figures are as at 02 June 2014, being the last date on which the Company was notified of a change of the percentage of shares held by Black the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares SUPPLIERS that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Group understands the importance of maintaining good relationships with suppliers The Directors were authorised to allot shares in the capital of the Group up to an and it is Group policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions with aggregate nominal amount of 19,948,829 being approximately one third of the then suppliers ranging from standard written terms to individually negotiated contracts issued share capital for the period expiring at 10 September 2014, the date of the next and for payment to be made in accordance with these terms, provided the supplier has 2014 Annual General Meeting.
In line with guidance from the Association of British Insurers the Company was also CONTRACTS ESSENTIAL TO THE BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY granted authority to issue a further third of the issued share capital to a nominal The Chief Executives Report on pages 13 to 17 details information about persons with amount of 39,897,658 being approximately 35% of the issued share capital in whom the Group has contractual or other arrangements and are deemed essential or connection with a rights issue.
material to the business of the Group.
A further authority to allot shares up to a maximum nominal value of 2,992,324 being TAKEOVERS approximately 5% of the then issued share capital as if statutory pre-emption rights The Directors do not believe that there are any significant contracts that may change did not apply, was also approved.
in the event of a successful takeover of the Company.
Details of the impact of any successful takeover of the Group on the Directors bonus and share schemes are set out The authorities expire at the close of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 40. but a contract to allot shares under these authorities may be made prior to the expiry of the authority and concluded in whole or part after the Annual General Meeting, and at EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES that meeting other authorities will be sought from shareholders.
Details of the Executive Bonus Share Schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 34 and details of the Employee Bonus Share Schemes on page 20 of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
GOVERNANCE 26 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT Copies of the service contracts of Executive Directors and of the appointment letters of The Group currently employees c. 28,000 employees in our stores, offices and the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys warehouses.
The contributions that employees have made to the Groups registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
accomplishments have played a vital role, and the overwhelming dedication shown No Director has a directorship in common or other significant links with any other has been the deciding factor in encouraging the Group to propose a third Bonus Share Director except in the case of the Executive Directors holding directorships of subsidiary Scheme.
The 2009 Employee Bonus Share Scheme vested in August 2012 and 2013.
The 2011 DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Employee Bonus Share Scheme is currently underway and three of the requisite The Board has formal procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interest.
During the underlying EBITDA targets have been achieved, with one target remaining.
year the Board reviewed and, where appropriate, approved certain situational conflicts The 2015 Bonus Share Scheme has recently been approved by shareholders at a of interest that were reported to it by Directors, and a register of those situational General Meeting which took place on 2 July 2014.
The EBITDA targets for the Scheme conflicts is maintained and reviewed.
The Board noted any transactional conflicts of are extremely stretching, and span from FY16 to FY19.
Unlike previous schemes interest concerning Directors that arose and were declared.
No Director took part in participation for the Scheme is more wide-reaching, being open for both employees and the discussion or determination of any matter in respect of which he had disclosed a Executive Directors to take part.
Employees are notified of announcements and major changes in the business via DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES Company news emails, noticeboard announcements and information transmitted The Group have granted the Directors with Qualifying Third-Party Indemnity provisions through line managers.
Employee training programmes and our annual conference within the meaning given to the term by Sections 234 and 235 of the 2006 Act.
This is allows employees an opportunity to increase their knowledge of the Group, learn about in respect of liabilities to which they may become liable in their capacity as Director the Groups objectives for the future, understand the brands and engage with one of the Company and of any Company within the Group.
Such indemnities were in force another.
throughout the financial year and will remain in force.
Further information on relationships with employees can be found in the Corporate ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Social Responsibility Report on pages 20 to 21.
The 2014 Annual General Meeting will be held on 10 September 2014 at Unit D, Brook Park East, Shirebrook, NG20 8RY.
The Meeting will commence at 3.00pm.
The Board EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES encourages shareholders to attend and participate in the meeting.
The Groups policy for employees and all applicants for employment is to match the capabilities and talents of each individual to the appropriate job.
Factors such as GOING CONCERN gender, race, religion or belief, sexual orientation, age, disability or ethnic origin The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future should be ignored and any decision which is made with regard to candidates should development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 13 be irrespective of these.
Discrimination in any form will not be tolerated under any to 17. circumstances within the Group.
The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full and fair consideration facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 18 to 19.
In addition, the for all vacancies, and are assessed in accordance with their particular skills and financial statements include the Companys objectives, policies and processes for abilities.
The Group does all that is practicable to meet its responsibilities towards managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial the training and employment of disabled people, and to ensure that training, career instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
development and promotion opportunities are available to all employees.
The Group is profitable, highly cash generative and has considerable financial The Group makes every effort to provide continuity of employment where current resources.
The Group is able to operate comfortably within its banking facilities and employees become disabled.
Attempts are made in every circumstance to provide covenants, which run until September 2018, and is well placed to take advantage of employment, whether this involves adapting the current job role and remaining in the strategic opportunities as they arise.
same job, or moving to a more appropriate job role.
Job retraining and job adaptation As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its are just two examples of how the Group works in the interests of employees to promote business risks successfully despite the continued uncertain economic outlook.
equal opportunities in order that the employees employment within the Group may continue.
The Group values the knowledge and expertise that employees have gained The Groups forecast and projections, taking account of reasonable possible changes in throughout their employment with us, and therefore does not wish to lose valued trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of employees.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Directors have thoroughly reviewed the Groups performance and position and the The Group designs clothing and some footwear for sale in stores and has arrangements Directors are therefore confident that the Group will continue in operational existence for with suppliers for the research and development of goods for the Brands division.
On this basis, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for the preparation of the Annual Report and financial statements.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS During the year, the Group made charitable donations of 146,569 2013: 25,132 ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT in the UK.
No political donations were made 2013: nil.
There have been a number of A statement by the Auditor can be found on page 42 detailing their reporting further donations of sporting equipment made to worthy causes, and these are set out responsibilities.
The Directors fulfil their responsibilities and these are set out in the on page 23. responsibility statement on page 41.
DIRECTORS AUDITOR Details of current Directors, dates of appointment, their roles, responsibilities and Grant Thornton UK LLP have expressed a willingness to continue in office.
In accordance significant external commitments are set out on page 24. with Section 489 4 of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions to determine remuneration are to be agreed at the Annual General Meeting.
Although the Companys Articles of Association require retirement by rotation of one third of Directors each year, the Group has chosen to comply with the 2012 UK Corporate By Order of the Board Governance Code and at each Annual General Meeting all of the Directors will retire and stand for reappointment.
Cameron Olsen Information on service contracts and details of the interests of the Directors and their Company Secretary families in the share capital of the Company at 27 April 2014 and at the date of this 17 July 2014 Report is shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 39.
