SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 7 OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our business model is focused on long-term sustainable growth.
Whilst we continue to grow our business in the UK, we are now keen to use the skills and knowledge we have gained to build and expand our Sports Retail business across the rest of Europe.
Our offering has developed further in specialist sports categories and more fashionThe Group has significant momentum and we must ensure that our product offering based retailing.
We are constantly refurbishing and upgrading our stores, in order and customer proposition continue to grow and develop in order to retain our current to provide our customers with a compelling consumer experience.
The continued customer base and to attract more customers in the future.
development of our dedicated specialist areas and on-going collaboration with Nike, Developing brand awareness is a key factor in ensuring a sustainable future, and adidas and Puma on in-store concepts are further examples of this.
the appropriate level of investment in advertising and technology are important Acquisitions and strategic investments in related businesses are an important part components in achieving this.
Opportunities to develop into new product categories or markets, or to Our international presence continues to grow through over 270 brand licensing strengthen our position in existing areas, will continue to be considered on a case by partners, our online presence and on-going European store openings.
appointment of  celebrities and sporting professionals We aim to maintain our position as the market leader in the Sports Retail sector in the as key ambassadors also promotes our brands on a global basis.
UK, whilst also gaining momentum in our expansion into Europe.
The business model provides guidance for the Group to implement an effective growth strategy to maintain and develop the success achieved so far.
It compares our recent successes with our future ambitions in order that we can assess how to progress in the future.
IDENTIFY Brand acquisitions and property enhancement 2.
INVEST Store portfolio and employees 3.
DEVELOP Website and mCommerce, enhanced product ranges 4.
ACHIEVE Targets and Group success
