GOVERNANCE 24 Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee THE BOARD DR KEITH HELLAWELL QPM SIMON BENTLEY Non-Executive Chairman, Chairman of Nomination Committee Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of Audit Committee Appointed: 24 November 2009 Appointed: 02 March 2007 Previous Roles: Prior to joining the team at Sports Direct International plc, Dr Hellawell Previous Roles: Simon qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1980 and in 1987 joined spent over 40 years in public sector management being a former Chief Constable of Blacks Leisure Group Plc where he was Chairman and Chief Executive for 12 years.
While working directly for the Prime Minister between 1998 Present Roles: Simon chairs and is on the board of a range of companies and and 2002, he wrote and coordinated the United Kingdom national and international organisations.
Among these, he is Chairman of the hair brand Umberto Giannini, is the anti-drugs policy.
principal owner and Chairman of the leading mobile ATM operator Cash on the Move, Present Roles: Dr Hellawell has been involved in the private sector since 1998 when and is Chairman of Yad Vashem UK Foundation.
he joined Evans of Leeds, a fully listed property company.
Since then he has served Key Skills Strengths: He has lengthy experience of the sporting goods industry.
on the boards of both Dalkia plc and Sterience Limited, subsidiaries of the French company Veolia Env.
Dr Hellawell is currently a Non-Executive Director of Mortice plc, a Singapore-based facilities management company and a Director of the Super-League DAVE SINGLETON team Huddersfield Giants.
He was Non-Executive Chairman of Goldshield Group plc, a Non-Executive Director, Chairman of Remuneration Committee marketing-led pharmaceutical and consumer health company, from May 2006 to its Appointed: 27 October 2007 sale in December 2009.
He has held a number of other Non-Executive Board positions Previous Roles: Dave spent 25 years with Reebok International Limited.
He stepped in private companies including vehicle manufacturing and IT.
He also runs his own down in April 2007 having assisted with the successful integration of Reebok following management and training consultancy company.
its acquisition by adidas Group in January 2006.
For eight years he was Vice President Key Skills Strengths: Dr Hellawell has worked in both the public and private sector for of Northern Europe Region & UK and then was Senior Vice President of Europe, Middle over 50 years.
Throughout this time he has built up a wealth of experience which he East & Africa.
brings to the Group to ensure the successful and effective operation of the Board.
Present Roles: Dave is Chairman of Bolton Lads & Girls Club, Chairman of Bolton Community Leisure Trust and a Trustee at Bolton Wanderers Community Trust.
MIKE ASHLEY Key Skills Strengths: Dave has an extensive Senior Management record and brings Executive Deputy Chairman valuable experience of international sports brand operations.
Appointed: 1982 founder Previous Roles: Mike established the business of the Group on leaving school in 1982 CHARLES MCCREEVY and was the sole owner until the Groups listing in March 2007.
Non-Executive Director Key Skills Strengths: Mike was the founder of the Group and has the necessary skills Appointed: 31 March 2011 for formulating the vision and commercial strategy of the Group.
With over 30 years in Previous Roles: Charles is a highly experienced politician who previously served as the sports retail business with Sports Direct, he is invaluable to the Group.
EU Commissioner for Internal Markets and Services between 2004-2010, and has held positions in several Irish Government Ministerial Offices, including Minister for Finance DAVE FORSEY between 1997-2004, Minister for Tourism & Trade between 1993-1994 and Minister for Group Chief Executive Social Welfare from 1992-1993.
Appointed: 1984 Present Roles: Charles currently holds Non-Executive Director positions at Ryanair Key Skills Strengths: Dave has been with the business for over 30 years, during Holdings plc, Sentenial Limited, Celsius Funds plc, Grove Limited and Barchester which time he has acquired significant knowledge and experience of the sports retail Holdco Jersey Limited.
In conjunction with the Deputy Chairman, he agrees strategy, appropriate Key Skills Strengths: Charles has extensive all-round business knowledge with objectives and policies for each of the businesses.
Dave has overall responsibility for particular relevance to the European Union.
the daily management of the Group.
CLAIRE JENKINS BOB MELLORS Non-Executive Director Group Finance Director Appointed: 25 May 2011 Appointed: 2004 Retired: 31 December 2013 Previous Roles: Claires most recent Executive role was as Group Director Corporate Affairs and a member of the Executive Leadership Team, responsible for the companys Previous Roles: A graduate in Economics, Bob qualified with  sustainability and communications activities, at Rexam plc, a leading global beverage in London before joining Eacott Worrall, where Sports Direct became a client in 1982. can maker.
Prior to that, she was a member of the Management Committee of He was Managing Partner and Head of Corporate Finance at Eacott Worrall before international tobacco company Gallaher Group plc acquired by Japan Tobacco in 2007 joining the Group.
where she was responsible for investor relations and Group planning.
Claire has also Key Skills Strengths: Bob qualified as a Chartered Accountant with gained corporate experience in various consulting roles and at Laing & Cruickshank,  and has extensive financial experience.
Bob has extensive and as a Non-Executive Director of Retro Classics Fund.
knowledge of Mergers and Acquisitions.
Present Roles: Claire is Chairman of Amicus, and a Non-Executive Director of Media For Development.
Key Skills Strengths: Claire has excellent all-round business experience and, in addition, has particular corporate governance and communication skills.
