Other statutory information Disclosures in Strategic Report Substantial shareholdings The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 As at 20 May 2014 the Company has been notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency to 57.
The Board has taken advantage of Section Rules of the interests in its shares as shown in the table below: 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006 to include Entity Number of shares Percentage Nature of holding disclosures in the Strategic Report on: The Capital Group Companies, Inc 67,168,118 6.95% Indirect Employment of disabled people on page 54.
Invesco Limited 45,775,918 4.69% Indirect Employee involvement on pages 52-56.
Norges Bank 40,121,600 4.15% Direct A summary of the principal risks facing the Company on page 26.
At date of disclosure by relevant entity.
An indication of likely future development in the business of the Company see pages Indemnification of directors Director has taken all the steps that ought 1 to 57. and insurance to have been taken in his or her duty as a Greenhouse gas emissions on page 57.
The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity Director to make himself or herself aware of Information on the Companys Research provision contained in the Companys Articles any relevant audit information and to establish and Development activities during the period of Association.
They also have been granted a that the Companys Auditors are aware of on page 56. qualifying third party indemnity provision which that information.
was in force throughout the financial year and Results and dividends remains in force.
The Company also purchased The Directors Report set out on pages 58 to 94 The Group profit attributable to Ordinary and maintained throughout the financial year has been approved by the Board of Directors Shareholders for the financial year amounted Directors and Officers liability insurance in in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. to 323.1m.
The Directors recommend a final respect of itself and for its Directors and Officers.
dividend of 60.7p per Ordinary Share which, By Order of the Board subject to approval at the 2014 AGM, will be Additional information payable on 19 September 2014 to shareholders Where not provided elsewhere in the Directors on the Register of Members at close of business Report, the following provides the information Vincent Donnelly on 25 July 2014.
With the interim dividend of required to be disclosed by Section 992 of the Company Secretary 26p per Ordinary Share paid on 21 March 2014, Companies Act 2006.
20 May 2014 this makes a total dividend of 86.7p per Ordinary Share.
Each Ordinary Share of the Company carries one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the Directors have There are no restrictions on the transfer of a reasonable expectation that the Company Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company and the Group have adequate resources to other than certain restrictions which may from continue in operational existence for the time-to-time be imposed by law for example, foreseeable future.
The Financial Statements insider trading law.
In accordance with the are therefore prepared on a Going Concern Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, basis.
Further details of the Groups liquidity certain employees are required to seek the position and Going Concern review are provided approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
in Note 33 to the Financial Statements.
Employees who participate in the Share Share capital Incentive Plan whose shares remain in the Details of the Companys issued share capital schemes trusts give directions to the trustees as at 31 March 2014, which includes options to vote on their behalf by way of a Form of granted under the Groups employee share Direction.
option schemes, are set out in Notes 28 and 32 to the Financial Statements.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in Authority to purchase shares restrictions on the transfer of securities The Company was authorised at the 2013 AGM and or voting rights.
The rules governing the to purchase its own shares within certain limits.
appointment and replacement of Directors are During 2013 14, SSE did not purchase any shares set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Directors will, however, The Companys Articles of Association may only seek renewal of their authority to purchase in be amended by a special resolution at a general the market the Companys own shares at the meeting of shareholders.
2014 AGM and this remains a benchmark against which financial decisions are taken.
The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which it is party that take effect, Accounting policies, financial alter or terminate upon a change of control of instruments and risk the Company following a takeover.
Details of the Groups accounting policies, together with details of financial instruments and Each of the Directors who held office at the risk, are provided in Note 33 and Accompanying date of approval of this Directors Report Information, A1.
Basis of consolidation and confirms that, so far as each Director is aware, significant accounting policies to the Financial there is no relevant audit information of which Statements.
the Companys Auditors are unaware and each 93
