Energy Supply Supplying energy and related 4.66 million household electricity accounts services across the Great Britain in GB: and Ireland markets Fulfilling key responsibilities 3.21 million household gas accounts in GB: SSEs Retail segment comprises two business as an energy supplier 0.42 million business electricity and gas areas: Energy Supply and Energy-related The key responsibilities of the Energy Supply accounts in GB: and Services.
SSE is the second largest energy business are to: 0.81 million electricity and gas accounts in supplier in the competitive markets in Great Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
At 31 March 2014, it ensure it secures enough electricity and gas supplied electricity and gas to 9.10 million to meet customers needs: The decline in customer account numbers household and business accounts.
It also arrange for electricity and gas to be reflects the highly competitive market conditions provides other energy-related products and distributed to customers premises through in Great Britain, in which there are 10 suppliers services to over 350,000 customers, covering the relevant networks: of scale with at least 100,000 customers aiming three main areas: home services: metering: and provide customers with necessary associated to retain and gain customers.
Despite this, SSEs mechanical and electrical contracting.
services such as metering and billing: and energy customer account numbers are still less meet its obligations in respect of energy than 6% below their peak in March 2011 and its Financial performance in Retail efficiency and any related social or price freeze to 2016 is a very positive Operating profit in Retail in 2013 14 was environmental schemes promoted by commitment to household customers in 292.0m compared with 409.1m in 2012 13 government.
This amounted to 15.5% of SSEs total operating profit in 2013 14 SSE appreciates that its customers rely on its Meeting customers need for energy and comprised: core products of electricity and gas to heat and The decrease in SSEs operating profit in Energy power their homes in order to live comfortably.
Supply was in part due to a decrease in energy 246.2m in Energy Supply, compared with It has, therefore, led the energy supply industry consumed by customers as a result of the 363.2m in 2012 13 and 271.7m in 2011 12: on the issue of energy affordability and in the relatively mild winter in 2013 14 compared with and year to 31 March 2014 it: the previous year.
This is illustrated by the 45.8m in Energy-related Services, compared fact that: with 45.9m in 2012 13 and 49.9m in became the only supplier to freeze 2011 12. unconditionally household energy prices in the average temperature of 5.2C in Great Britain until 2016: December, January and February 2013-14 In 2013 14 SSEs profit margin operating profit was one of only two suppliers to cut prices was 1.5C above the 1981-2010 average and as a percentage of revenue in Energy Supply for all household customers in Great Britain, the fifth highest in the series since 1910: and was 2.9% before tax compared with 4.2% in including fixed and capped price customers: snowfalls were largely confined to the 2012 13, and 3.5% in 2011 12.
Energy Supply and Scottish mountains with fewer air frosts for profit margin has therefore averaged 3.5% over continued to lead the debate on the need the UK than for any other winter in the series the past three years.
to take costs out of energy bills and to fund from 1961. energy policies more progressively through Evidence such as the Consolidated Segmental taxation, to ensure greater fairness and help As a result, SSE estimates its household Statements submitted to Ofgem shows that SSE the vulnerable.
customers in Great Britain used, on average is an efficient energy supplier with relatively low comparisons with the previous year : operating costs, and as an efficient company, SSEs Energy Supply business buys the electricity SSE has consistently stated that it aims to make and gas it needs through SSEs Energy Portfolio 465 therms of gas 544 : and a profit margin of around 5% on average over Management division.
The associated cost to the 3,991kWh of electricity 4,299. the medium-term ie three to five years across Energy Supply business comprises the weighted its entire Energy Supply business.
To put this average cost of both electricity and gas which in In addition to the mild weather conditions, another way, SSE believes that five pence in turn accounts for just under half an average SSE this reduction reflects sustained investment every pound is a fair amount to earn from household customer bill.
Around a further in improving energy efficiency.
While annual supplying efficiently energy to customers.
quarter of an average bill comes from delivery consumption varies, customers use of electricity costs with 11% of bill costs now coming from and gas is now around 17% lower than it was Consolidated Segmental Statements government environmental and social schemes.
5years ago measured on an underlying basis.
Since 2010, Ofgem has required the leading The remaining 16% of the bill is split between energy suppliers in Great Britain to publish a VAT, SSEs customer service and IT costs and Working with politicians Consolidated Segmental Statement CSS setting its profit.
to tackle energy bills out the revenues, costs and profits or losses of SSE is committed to working with all their electricity generation and energy supply This means that SSEs operating profit from the stakeholders to minimise the bills that customers businesses.
supply of electricity and gas to a household in pay and has, over the last few years, highlighted Great Britain was an average of around 48 that the outlook for energy bills was increasing Although it is not required to do so until during 2013 14.
From this operating profit, SSE due to upward cost pressures from: 30September 2014, SSE expects to publish by is required to pay tax and interest.
31July its CSS for the year to 31 March 2014. the increased cost of buying energy on The CSS, which will be externally reviewed Supplying energy to customers wholesale markets: before publication, is expected to show that across Great Britain and Ireland paying for the investment to upgrade SSEs profit margin in its domestic electricity and In the year to 31 March 2014, SSEs energy electricity and gas networks to deliver energy gas supply business in Great Britain was 3.9% customer accounts in Great Britain and Ireland to customers: and before tax.
In the year to March 2013 it was fell from 9.47 million to 9.10 million.
This social and environmental levies put on energy 6.4% before tax and we expect that the average comprised: bills by successive governments.
for the 5 years up to and including March 14 was 4.9%.
47 Strategic Report Retail continued In the autumn of 2013 energy became an annual profit margin across its entire Nevertheless, and despite the welcome changes particularly politicised.
It was a key topic at UK Energy Supply business that is lower than the made by the UK government, SSE remains party political conferences and continued to be 4.2% before tax it achieved in 2012 13: and, concerned about the impact of this scheme so after SSE made the difficult decision to within this because: respond to the upward cost pressures through an annual profit margin in its household announcing an average price rise of 8.2% for electricity and gas supply business in Great it is volatile and clearly subject to significant household customers in Great Britain, effective Britain that is lower than the 6.4% before tax political change: from 15 November.
The decision to make that it achieved in 2012 13. it has a negative impact on competition changes to household tariffs was not taken because of the exclusion of smaller suppliers: lightly, and at the time SSE urged politicians of SSE would like to extend its price freeze beyond and all parties to take steps to remove social and 2016, or even cut prices if further costs can be the cost of this and other government environmental levies from energy bills and taken out of energy.
It believes further savings schemes levied on energy bills is not being fund the policy objectives they are designed for consumers worth around 100 forecast paid for fairly.
to achieve through general taxation.
to rise to around 200 by 2020 could be made with political action to end the practice of Once the ECO comes to an end in 2017, SSE This raised customer and political awareness levying policy costs on energy bills.
Recouping believes that nationally significant infrastructure and understanding of the issues and SSE the cost through energy bills takes no account projects such as insulating the UKs housing welcomed the decision by the UK government of an individuals ability to pay and is therefore stock should be government-led, funded to undertake a consultation on changes to socially regressive.
SSE wrote to all the major through general taxation and have far greater improve the cost-effectiveness of the Energy political parties in March 2014, calling for more local authority involvement.
In the meantime, Company Obligation ECO, and other changes of these levies to be moved into general SSE welcomes efforts to enhance the level of to these schemes.
Over the course of 2014 15, taxation, making bills cheaper and helping transparency in how the costs of delivering ECO the impact of these changes should see a typical those less able to pay.
are reported, as long as its ability to deliver the customer benefit by around 50 as a specific programme in the most cost-effective manner is result of: Delivering the Energy Company not compromised.
It has responded to DECCs Obligation ECO request for information about ECO delivery.
This the extension by two years and simplification ECO itself was introduced in January 2013 and has shown that the changes made by the UK of the ECO, reducing the annual cost per is a government-mandated energy efficiency government have reduced the costs of ECO and customer by around 33: programme that requires the largest energy this has been reflected in a price reduction for all a government-funded rebate of 12 paid to companies to deliver certain household energy of SSEs household customers and SSEs decision every electricity customer in the autumn for efficiency improvements targeted at specific to freeze its tariffs in Great Britain until at least the next two years: and vulnerable customer groups.
However, the programme remains distribution network operators DNOs supportive of the aims of ECO and in 2013 14 inherently complicated and delivery costs are making a voluntary commitment to reduce around 85,000 homes were helped through unpredictable.
SSE will continue to work with network costs in 2014 15, funding a one-off the scheme.
DECC to ensure that the programme is delivered reduction of around 5 per customer.
in the most cost-effective manner possible.
SSE started to pass on the resulting savings to customers from March 2014 and unlike some of its competitors has also passed on the cost saving to customers on fixed and capped price tariffs.
Making a In March 2014, SSE also announced a household energy price freeze in Great Britain until at least January 2016 the longest ever in the sector.
difference The move came in response to SSEs: research among its own customers which found that 80% were concerned about prices rising in the next two years: ability to model fully the costs of the new ECO scheme and its impact on customer bills: and ability to secure successfully energy in longterm wholesale markets.
In order to deliver its price freeze, SSE stated in March 2014 that it accepted that its profit SSE has a long standing commitment to putting customers first and margins from supplying customers with in 2013 it was voted number one for customer service for the eighth electricity and gas are unlikely to recover to consecutive year by uSwitch.
the level seen in 2012 13 before 2016 17 at the earliest.
In that period, it is now expecting to earn: 48 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 #1 as voted by uSwitch 1.
Helping vulnerable customers SSE has already implemented its own clear calls to potential customers in Great Britain, In addition to campaigning on energy bills and and tangible commitments.
These are enshrined recognising that they are unwelcome and freezing household prices until at least January in its Customer Charter and backed up by its intrusive.
SSE and its supply brands will only 2016, SSE helps vulnerable customers manage Customer Service Guarantee, through which contact customers they already have a the impact of high energy prices in a number of SSE promises to meet five key customer service relationship with or potential customers who other ways.
standards or give customers 20. have previously agreed to a call.
In February 2014, SSE announced that it During 2013 14, SSE spent over 50m Providing customers with will issue automatic refunds to direct debit providing assistance to over 330,000 sector-leading service customers with more than 5 credit at the vulnerable customers through the Warm SSE puts high standards of customer service at end of their yearly billing cycle.
Previously, Home Discount WHD scheme.
This scheme the heart of everything it does.
During 2013 14 although customers have been able to enables pensioners and vulnerable customers SSE was ranked number one for customer request their credit to be refunded at any to receive help with their fuel bills.
service in the uSwitch Customer Satisfaction time, automatic refunds were made on Under the WHD scheme, two groups of Report with customers voting SSE into top balances of 100 or more.
SSE will reduce this customers a core group of pensioners and spot for the eighth year in a row.
The annual threshold to 5 at customers annual reviews, a broader group of other vulnerable survey, carried out for uSwitch by YouGov, asked and also begin reviewing all direct debit customers were given 135 to help with the more than 5,000 energy customers for their customer accounts twice a year to provide cost of energy over the winter.
Over 240,000 feedback on their energy supplier.
As well as further reassurance that payments are set at of SSEs customers have received core group winning the Customer Service award, SSE was the right level for customers usage.
SSE exceeded its broader group named Most Likely To Be Recommended and obligation target of 58,000 by helping over best for Billing Services.
Delivering for small business customers 99,000 vulnerable customers.
This was SSE believes that small businesses play an achieved via promotion by front line advisors A Citizens Advice study formerly by Consumer important role in the UK economy and in August and by working with external partners such as Futures, The Energy Supplier Performance 2013, with support from the Government and Citizens Advice, National Energy Action and Report, ranked SSE as the best performing of the Federation of Small Businesses, it Energy Action Scotland to identify those most the major energy suppliers in terms of customer announced changes to make life easier for its in need of help.
The findings are deemed an small business customers.
These changes mean As part of the Warm Homes Discount important guide for customers looking to switch that SSE has ended the practice of automatic Scheme, the Priority Assistance Fund provides their energy supplier.
SSE had the lowest rate of contract rollovers for small business customers, additional support to help low income and complaints of the major energy suppliers, with as well as extending to these customers its vulnerable customers.
existing commitment not to back-bill microfund provided more than 4m of assistance business customers for more than 12 months to vulnerable customers, including debt relief, SSE also led the field in the energy industrys where they have previously been under-billed free energy-efficient appliances, energy satisfaction charts for the third year in a row, due to a genuine billing error on SSEs part.
efficiency advice, help with bespoke payment coming joint first in the latest National Customer arrangements and signposting to other Satisfaction Index UK NCSI-UK.
The NCSI is So now, when a small business customer comes organisations for help with more specialist an independent online satisfaction survey, to the end of a fixed-term contract with SSE and issues.
capturing customers views on the quality of does not make arrangements to terminate or SSE also operates a free Careline priority service and products they have purchased from enter into a new contract, instead of being service, dedicated to helping customers who UK companies.
Customers give their feedback automatically locked in to a new deal, the are elderly, disabled or have special medical in five areas Customer Expectations, customer will move to SSEs Variable Business needs.
Tailored and flexible payment Perceived Quality, Perceived Value, Customer Rates.
This allows these customers to move to arrangements are provided to pay for the Complaints and Customer Loyalty with a new deal with no exit fee, once their fixed electricity and gas that they use.
companies then given a ranking out of 100. period contract ends, as long as they give Between the start of December and the end SSE achieved a ranking of 71, joint highest of 30days notice.
of February or longer if the weather is any major energy supplier.
unseasonably cold outside this time, SSE These changes will help SSEs small business commits to a no disconnection policy Taking further action to make customers, enabling them to focus on the more covering all customers.
a difference for customers important challenge of running and growing Through its partnership with Social Enterprise To build on its position, SSE offered a series of their companies.
SSE will continue to seek ways Direct part of Citizens Advice SSE helped 210 new initiatives during 2013 14, including: to help improve the service it provides to its customers increase their household income, business customers.
with an average increase of 3,765 per annum In July 2013, SSE introduced a new energy bill 72 per week.
design to be clearer and simpler for Working with customers to manage customers.
Over 1,000 SSE customers energy-related debt Treating customers fairly provided input, and the new bill features ten At 31 March 2014, the total aged debt i. e. debt In August 2013 SSE launched Treating key pieces of information and design features that is overdue by more than six months of SSEs Customers Fairly, setting out the standards of which customers requested.
These include domestic and small business electricity and gas conduct its customers can expect.
In practice, a simple front page summary and financial customers in Great Britain and Ireland was it means ensuring customers are treated fairly position, a clear presentation of billing 117.8m, compared with 90.4m at 31 March and that SSE works in a transparent, honest and periods and dates, easy-to understand prices 2013.
A bad debt-related charge of 67.8m was professional way.
The introduction of such and charges, easy to find contact information, recognised in the period compared to 50.7m standards is good news for customers as they and clear identification of whether the bill is in same period last year.
are now enforceable by Ofgem, which has estimated or actual.
powers to investigate, and if appropriate, fine In August 2013, SSE announced that it had companies who fail to meet them.
ended the practice of unsolicited telephone 49 Strategic Report Retail continued The increase in the bad debt charge of 17.1m SSE has established a Smart Meter Operations SSE Airtricity is the only energy supply brand to was driven by an increase in the cost of energy Centre SMOC in Havant, which will oversee operate in each of the competitive gas and and increased energy consumption following the installation and future operations of its electricity markets across the island: the cold winter of 2012 13, set against a smart meters.
backdrop of continued pressures on disposable Northern Ireland gas : SSE Airtricity is the incomes.
Whilst the number of customers Supplying energy to customers in Ireland regulated supplier of natural gas to 120,000 with an energy debt continues to fall, average SSE is the second largest energy provider across household and business accounts in the balances per customer and subsequently the island of Ireland.
The company supplies Greater Belfast area approximately 75% of gross aged debts have risen.
With affordability electricity and gas to 810,000 household and gas customers in Northern Ireland.
The remaining a real challenge there has been an business accounts in the Republic of Ireland setting of SSE Airtricitys regulated gas prices, increased reliance on structured repayment and Northern Ireland under its SSE Airtricity including any changes to those prices, options such as the use of payment plans and previously Airtricity brand.
The new SSE requires the formal approval of Northern prepayment meters to help customers manage Airtricity brand leverages the scale of SSEs Irelands Utility Regulator under a defined bills.
This in turn has extended repayment investment so far in Ireland while building on the annual Price Control review process.
On periods and has led to a greater proportion strong brand presence and heritage of Airtricity 1April 2013 SSE Airtricitys regulated gas of receivables requiring additional provision.
as Irelands greenest energy provider.
SSE prices increased by 8.5% following approval Airtricity delivers distinct characteristics to by the Utility Regulator.
In February 2014 SSE This coming year will see an increased emphasis Irelands retail energy markets: Airtricity announced that it would hold on engaging with customers with arrears as early regulated prices for its domestic and small as possible, securing payment arrangements it provides Irelands greenest energy supply, business customers at current levels until the that have lower balances at their inception and with around 40% of the electricity it supplies next interim Price Control review by the helping to spread the cost of energy across the to customers on an all-island basis coming Regulator in October 2014.
This will require an increase in pro-active from renewable sources: SSE Airtricitys gas customers in NI will enjoy customer contact with a greater use of data and it delivers award-winning customer service stable prices for a period of at least 18 months customer insight to target effort most effectively.
including a particular focus on supporting since the company last changed its tariffs.
It This proactive approach is in the best interests of vulnerable customers: and also demonstrates the price stability delivered SSE and the customers concerned.
it provides customers with an award-winning to its Northern Ireland gas customers since it online digital mobile platform from where acquired Phoenix Supply Ltd. in June 2012.
Transforming energy supply around 60% of all customer interactions are Northern Ireland electricity : in this with smart meters performed.
regulated electricity market, SSE Airtricity Smart meters have the potential to transform increased its prices by 17.8% from 1 July 2013. energy supply in Great Britain.
They allow the At 31 March 2014, SSE Airtricity had a 21% share This followed Regulator-approved changes to quantity and value of electricity and gas used by customer numbers of the total combined the regulated electricity tariff and followed a to be continuously monitored by the customer gas and electricity market on the island, up from decrease of similar proportions nine months and exchanged with the supplier electronically.
just 1% when it first entered Irelands competitive previously, in October 2012.
SSE Airtricity Around 53 million smart meters are due to be domestic energy supply market in 2009. echoed the view of the First Minister and installed in around 30 million homes and businesses by the end of 2020.
Of these, SSE is set to install around nine million meters.
SSE is supportive of the smart meter roll-out as it will bring increased information and control to customers but is working closely Rewarding with government and industry to make sure implementation is as cost-effective as possible for customers.
In particular, SSE believes that customers the objective of the smart meter roll-out should be to comply with, but not necessarily exceed, EU requirements.
SSE is progressing well through the foundation phase of the roll out which involves building and testing the systems.
Throughout this stage, SSE has endeavoured to keep installation volumes low due to its focus on a cost-effective roll-out and the lack of maturity in the smart meter supply chain.
To date, SSE has installed over 900 smart meters In October 2013 the new 13,000 seater SSE Hydro opened in in customers homes and undertaken multiple Glasgow.
Since then it has welcomed nearly one million visitors and trials and pilots to refine solutions and to prove the biggest live acts.
The SSE Reward scheme means our customers the stability and affordability of this emerging can buy tickets 48 hours in advance of general sale, win tickets and technology.
Up to 75,000 meters will be upgrades and enjoy VIP treatment.
installed over the next financial year, with mass deployment Initial Live Operations anticipated in late 2015, in line with the current DECC plans.
