S St tr ra at teg egi ic c R Re epo por rt t Wholesale Market-based businesses Securing and producing the energy people need Key Metrics Wholesale operating profit m Thermal generation capacity GW Thermal generation output TWh 634.6 8.34 26.7 24.8% -14.8% -9.0% The businesses in SSEs Wholesale segment SSE has wholly-owned gas-fired power stations Thermal generation output covers the amount source, produce and store energy through at Keadby, Medway and Peterhead and coalof electricity generated by gasand coal-fired energy portfolio management, electricity fired power stations at Ferrybridge and power stations in which SSE has an ownership generation, gas production and gas storage.
Gas production million therms Renewable generation capacity GW Renewable generation output TWh 414.1 3.33 9.2 225.3% 2.7% 26.1% Gas Production is responsible for the efficient Renewable generation capacity covers hydro Renewable generation output is output from delivery of gas from the physical gas fields that electric schemes conventional and pumped SSEs conventional hydro electric schemes, SSE has a shared ownership in.
storage, wind farms onshore and offshore wind farms and dedicated biomass plant.
Output is affected by the amount of plant in operation and by weather conditions.
Sustainably sourcing winter gas prices resulting in a lower Standard an annual minimum price for a tonne of and producing energy Bundled Unit price being achieved.
carbon that applies only in the UK the SSEs long-term priority for the businesses in Carbon Price Support Rate : its Wholesale segment is sustainability in energy Protecting customers from wholesale long-term contracts, allocation of which will production through a diverse portfolio that energy price volatility begin in October 2014, that will effectively fix helps keep the lights on by being available to The wholesale price of energy can fluctuate the price received by generators for each unit produce energy when it is required and is flexible significantly due to a number of factors including of electricity produced from new low carbon enough to respond to changes in demand when the economy, the weather, customer demand, sources the Contract for Difference Feed-in they occur.
infrastructure availability, and world events.
Tariffs : EPM and Electricity Generation seek to minimise a mechanism to address the security of SSEs Wholesale segment delivers this through the impact of these variables by maintaining a supply challenges resulting from plant the following business activities: diverse and well-balanced portfolio of contracts closures and the changing nature of and assets, both long and short term.
In doing electricity generation the Capacity Market, Energy Portfolio Management EPM is so, SSE has: with a first auction for capacity contracts responsible for: ensuring SSE has the energy planned for November 2014: and supplies it requires to meet the needs of its greater ability to manage wholesale energy maximum emissions levels for electricity customers: procuring the fuel required by price volatility, thereby protecting customers generation technologies the Emissions the generation plants that SSE owns or has a from it and ensuring greater retail price Performance Standard.
contractual interest in: and selling the power stability: output from this plant in the wholesale lower risk from wholesale prices through Energy Portfolio market.
reduced exposure to volatility in any single Management EPM Electricity Generation is responsible for the commodity: and operation and management of SSEs more scope to deliver the investment needed Managing an energy portfolio generation assets, their maintenance and in Generation and Gas Production because In recent years, SSE has typically required around ensuring these assets are available for use the risks associated with large-scale and eight million therms of gas per day to supply all by EPM.
long-term investments are balanced by the its customers and to fuel its power stations, and Gas Production is responsible for the efficient demand from electricity and gas customers.
around 140GWh of electricity per day to supply delivery of gas from the physical gas fields all its customers.
EPM has three primary routes that SSE has a shared ownership in.
Responding to key trends to procure competitively and sustainably the in the energy sector fuels and energy it needs to meet this demand: Separately, Gas Storage is responsible for the The energy sector is undergoing a period of operation and management of SSEs gas storage profound change which is creating a range of assets: including upstream gas exploration facilities, their maintenance and ensuring they opportunities and challenges for SSEs and production and thermal and renewable are available for use by SSE and third parties.
The main public policy generation: drivers of this change are those of the energy contracts: long-term gas producer contracts, EPM and Electricity Generation form a single trilemma European and UK-led power purchase agreements with SSEprofit centre with a focus on the efficient decarbonisation policy: security of energy owned plant and third parties and solid fuel procurement and, in the case of renewable supplies: and price competitiveness contracts: and sources, capture of energy and efficient affordability.
These policy objectives are trading: where energy contracts are operation of electricity generation plant.
influencing and in turn being impacted by: transparently traded on international In doing so it ensures it is consistent with all exchanges or through over the counter regulatory requirements, including the EU the extent of economic growth, which has markets, with 100% of SSEs electricity supply Regulation on Energy Market Integrity and a direct impact on energy demand: and demand traded on the day-ahead Transparency REMIT.
forecasts of tightening generation capacity auction market.
in Great Britain as older plant including coal, Financial performance in Wholesale nuclear and gas closes as a result of age Managing risks associated with energy During the year to 31 March 2014 operating and of regulatory and economic pressures: procurement across these three routes is a key profit in Wholesale was 634.6m.
This market change as the implementation of challenge for EPM, as it is heavily influenced to comprised comparisons with 2012 13 : the new operating frameworks delivered varying degrees by a multitude of national and by Electricity Market Reform EMR gathers international factors.
By optimising energy EPM and Electricity Generation 496.1m pace in Great Britain: procurement through a diverse portfolio, compared with 450.6m.
This reflects greater the changing policy on the UK Carbon SSE ensures that its customers are protected output of renewable energy, including that Price Support Rate and the move to reform to an extent from the unavoidable volatility that from offshore wind farms, offset by the allocation of allowances under EU ETS: exists in global markets.
electricity generation costs associated with the requirement for the electricity system CO emissions.
to manage higher penetrations of variable Increasing wholesale 2 Gas Production 130.2m compared with energy sources: and market transparency 39.6m.
The increase in profits reflects SSEs opportunities for market harmonisation SSE has led the way in responding to recent acquisitions in this area, in particular between Great Britain and Ireland.
stakeholders desire for greater transparency and the purchase of a 50% interest in the Sean gas increased liquidity in the short-term wholesale production assets in April 2013.
SSEs share The UK government believes that the Energy market for electricity.
Since 30 September 2012 of gas production was 414.1 million therms Act 2013 and the associated EMR represents the it has consistently placed 100% of its electricity compared with 183.8 million therms: most significant market intervention since the generation and demand into Nasdaq OMX Gas Storage 8.3m compared with 18.4m.
It features: Group Inc. and Nord Pool Spot ASs N2EX daily Continued low gas price volatility has further auction.
SSE has also introduced a series of reduced the spread between summer and trading commitments to smaller suppliers.
33 Strategic Report Wholesale continued In taking this action SSE has helped to deliver a compliance: with all safety standards and With this portfolio SSE has the greatest fuel new level of market transparency, significantly environmental and regulatory requirements: diversity for producing electricity amongst UK improved liquidity, increased the depth and diversity: to avoid over-dependency on generators and retains the most flexible fleet.
credibility of the market and assisted in the particular fuels or technologies: It also makes SSE the largest generator of creation of a robust and tangible pricing index.
flexibility: to ensure that changes in demand electricity from renewable sources across the for electricity and the variability of generation UK and Ireland.
EPM priorities for 2014 15 and beyond from wind farms can be addressed: and EPM short term priorities include: sustainability: to support progressive Reducing the carbon intensity reduction in the CO intensity of electricity of electricity generated 2 securing a stable and predictable supply generated through the cost efficient A priority for SSE is a continuing cost-efficient of energy to meet SSEs customers needs: decarbonisation of its generation fleet.
reduction in the carbon intensity of the driving business change to respond electricity produced by its generation fleet effectively to new UK and EU regulations: SSEs generation assets are underpinned by and it remains committed to the progressive responding to market evolution and change: a strong engineering focus on asset life and reduction of its carbon intensity every decade identifying and agreeing new long term continuous equipment monitoring.
This goal will be achieved through energy supply contracts: and a diverse range of solutions including: continuing to support improved market Maintaining a diverse transparency and liquidity initiatives.
Generation portfolio the commissioning and development of SSE is maintaining and investing in a diverse and additional renewable energy capacity: sustainable portfolio of thermal and renewable lower emissions from more efficient and Generation Great Britain and generation plant.
In moving towards a lower flexible gas-fired generation and the potential Ireland Overview carbon generation mix SSE will, by the end of implementation of CCS technology: Managing Generation assets according the decade, transition its generation assets from delivering innovative solid fuel solutions at to long-standing principles a portfolio weighted towards gas and coal, coal-fired stations: and SSEs primary objective for its Generation towards a portfolio more weighted towards reduced output from coal-fired stations as division is to maintain a diverse generation gas and renewables.
they use up their allocated running hours portfolio, including the largest amount of under the EUs Industrial Emissions Directive.
renewable energy capacity in the UK and The practical application of this principle means Ireland, that helps keep the lights on by being that SSE owns or has an ownership interest in In 2013 14, SSE achieved a 15% reduction in its available, reliable and flexible.
11,665 MW of capacity, which comprised at overall Scope 1 gross carbon emissions from its 31March 2014: operations, largely as a result of reduced output This objective is underpinned by six principles from coal-fired power stations.
The carbon that direct the operation of, and investment in, 4,262 MW of gas-and oil-fired capacity GB : intensity of SSEs generation portfolio has also its Generation portfolio: 1,068 MW of gasand oil-fired capacity Ire : reduced in 2013 14 partly due to the reduction 3,009 MW of coal-fired capacity with in coal output, but also due to the increase in availability: to respond to customer demand biomass co-firing capability : and renewable and gas-fired generation compared and market conditions: 3,326MW of renewable capacity including to last year.
capacity: to meet the electricity needs of hydro, pumped storage, onshore wind and domestic and small business customers: offshore wind.
Very low spark spreads the difference between the cost of gas and emissions allowances used by a CCGT and the value of the power produced for gas-fired generation continue to be a feature of the electricity market and so coal-fired Powering plants have, temporarily, played a larger part in generating electricity for customers.
This has resulted in higher than forecast levels of carbon Ireland emissions in recent years, but, as evidenced by the reductions seen in 2013 14, SSEs longer term strategy of moving to a lower carbon generation fleet weighted towards gas and renewables means it remains on track to meet its objective of halving the carbon intensity of the electricity it generates compared to 2006 by 2020.
Generation Great Britain Focusing on operations in Generation During 2013 14, SSEs generation plant in GB SSEs new 460MW Combined Cycle Gas Turbine CCGT power plant generated previous years numbers in brackets : at Great Island, County Wexford is nearing completion.
850 workers are on site at SSEs largest capital power generation project in either 26.7TWh, based on contracted output of Ireland or the UK.
electricity from all thermal power stations in which it has an ownership interest 29.3TWh : and 34 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 1.
8.1TWh, based on contracted output from On 1 April 2013 the UK government introduced already has the ability to manage moments renewable sources of energy in which it has a new Climate Change Levy tax in the form of when demand outstrips supply through a range an ownership interest, including pumped the Carbon Price Support Rate.
This added a of different balancing and optimisation tools.
cost of around 5 tonne of CO emissions in 2 2013 for fossil-fuelled generation in Great SSE has consistently argued that an effective and Thermal Generation Britain, on top of the cost of complying with timely Capacity Market will be an important At 31 March 2014, SSE owned or had an ownership the EU ETS.
The additional cost is set to rise to additional tool in assisting DECC and National interest in 7,271MW of thermal generation plant c. 18 tonne in 2015 16.
The 2014 Budget Grid discharge their responsibility for ensuring in Great Britain, comprising net : announced that this additional cost would then security of supply: and that SBR could be an be frozen until 2018 19, instead of increasing effective short term solution if it incentivises 4,262MW of gasand oil-fired generation, as previously proposed.
mothballed plant to come back on the system including 750MW of mothballed plant at and does not inadvertently affect business-asKeadby and 1,180MW at Peterhead which In July 2013, Ofgem proposed new interim usual market operations.
from April 2014 has only 400MW of mechanisms the Supplemental Balancing Transmission Entry Capacity TEC : and Reserve SBR and Demand-Side Balancing The design, implementation and operation of 3,009MW of coal-fired generation.
The Reserve to deal with any shortfalls in these mechanisms is ultimately determined by c. 1,360MW reduction in coal capacity is due generation capacity in advance of the planned DECC and National Grid.
They will determine to closure of Uskmouth and Ferrybridge Units introduction of the Capacity Market in 2018. how much capacity is required to ensure 1 and 2 in March 2014.
The tender process for these mechanisms was security of supply under each of these due to be held in March 2014 but has been mechanisms.
Once this volume has been The amount of electricity generated by gas-fired delayed, with the first tenders now expected determined it will signal this to the market, power stations in which SSE has an ownership or in June 2014. and then procure the necessary capacity contractual interest, including CHP, increased to through a competitive auction tender process.
10.1TWh during 2013 14, including 4.7TWh Without certainty around SBR and the outcome from wholly-owned stations compared with of the Capacity Market auction process Responsibility for determining the volume of 8.7TWh in the previous year including 3.7TWh investment decisions in new and existing capacity required to ensure a secure electricity from wholly-owned stations.
thermal generation plant will continue to be supply, and for the timely signalling of this to difficult.
Clarity and stability are, therefore, the market, therefore lies with National Grid and During 2013 14 SSEs coal-fired power stations, much-needed features of the energy policy DECC.
Both organisations are confident they will located at Fiddlers Ferry, Ferrybridge and landscape in Great Britain and their continued fulfil this responsibility with the Secretary of State Uskmouth, generated 16.6TWh of electricity absence could eventually jeopardise the security for Energy and Climate Change stating in March compared with 20.6TWh in the previous year.
2014 that the combination of the Capacity Market and SBR would keep the lights on.
Managing the impact of market A combination of all these factors has conditions and the public policy influenced the decisions see Changing SSEs SSE will play its part by working with DECC and framework thermal operations for the future below made National Grid and by focusing on ensuring that The market conditions for electricity with regards to SSEs existing thermal fleet: its plant, where practicable, is available to generation in Great Britain have continued to and its ongoing view on investment in new generate at times when demand is highest.
The extent of this can be seen thermal assets.
It will also continue to assist the UK government by the very different issues impacting on SSEs and National Grid with their policy development thermal and renewable generation assets and SSE will continue to manage its portfolio of and will engage constructively with all parties the fact that public policy decisions can have electricity generation assets in accordance with on this issue.
quite different impacts on each element of the the principles set out above see Managing generation portfolio.
Generation assets according to long-standing Complying with the Industrial principles and in accordance with disciplined Emission Directive IED 2013 14 saw the lowest spark spreads in the financial management.
All of the capacity at Fiddlers Ferry and Units 3 history of the GB energy market.
Average spark and 4 at Ferrybridge, just over 3,000MW in total spreads were around 1.5 MWh lower than the Contributing to security is compliant with the Large Combustion Plant previous year.
Despite worsening spark spreads, of electricity supply Directive LCPD and able to run beyond 2015.
SSEs electricity output from gas generation Ofgem has consistently maintained that over Fiddlers Ferry and all of SSEs gas-fired plant has increased due to Medways return to service as the coming years electricity generation capacity been opted-in to the Transitional National Plan well as National Grid calling on gas plant to margins will be lower than they were in recent TNP, and Units 3 and 4 at Ferrybridge have generate more frequently to meet system years due to weak market economics and EU been opted in to the Limited Life Derogation requirements following the closure of old oil regulations closing down older plant.
LLD option under the Industrial Emissions and coal capacity throughout GB.
The UK Government, together with National While low coal prices have resulted in favourable Grid as the System Operator and Ofgem, has Selecting some plant for the LLD, while operating conditions for coal-fired plant in decided to address this issue in two ways maintaining other plant within the TNP, provides recent years, emissions regulations including a number of alternative options for how these the constraints imposed by the Industrial in the longer term through the introduction plants will operate in the future.
SSE will monitor Emissions Directive, the introduction of the of a Capacity Market, which will begin in the development of the TNP over the next two Carbon Price Support Rate, and the introduction 2018 19: and years and, as key elements are finalised, will of full auctioning of EU carbon allowances in the intervening period, through the SBR review whether it is appropriate to also move the have begun to weigh heavily on the longer term which is due to begin this winter 2014 15. plant at Ferrybridge into the TNP.
Any decisions viability of thermal generation plant.
will also be informed by market conditions and In addition to these mechanisms National Grid the effects of a future capacity mechanism.
35 Strategic Report Wholesale continued Changing SSEs thermal 2016.
This will effectively mean no new capacity proposed gas CCS project at SSEs gas-fired operations for the future will come into operation until 2017 18 at the power station in Peterhead.
The project aims SSE has three wholly-owned gas-fired power earliest, given the lead times for constructing to create the first industrial-scale application stations: Keadby Lincolnshire: 735MW : Medway new CCGT plant.
of CCS technology at a gas-fired power station Kent: 700MW and Peterhead Aberdeenshire: anywhere in the world and capture up to 10 1,180MW.
Each has been affected by the market Looking to the future million tonnes of CO over a 10-year period.
2 conditions for such power stations: of solid fuel generation Shell is leading the development of the project, SSEs generation strategy is built upon managing and will take responsibility for the construction Keadby is mothballed, meaning it will take risk through owning a diverse range of assets of the CO capture plant and thereafter the 2 up to one year to restore to full operating and fuels from which to meet its customers operation, transport and storage elements of condition.
As a result, the decision to defer needs.
Solid fuel remains an important part of the project.
the tender process means Keadby will not be that strategy.
able to participate in the SBR for the winter In February 2014, the UK Government of 2014 15.
It does not have TEC from SSE has completed a trial investment on one announced that it would fund the next stage in 1April2014.
Nevertheless, investment in the 485MW unit at its Fiddlers Ferry site, which has the development of the project, the Front End station in 2012 13 means that if and when it is reduced the emissions of NOx to a level that Engineering Design FEED study, as part of its required to generate electricity in the future, would enable increased generation under the CCS commercialisation competition.
it will be able to operate in a more flexible IED Transitional National Plan.
The viability of and efficient way: extending this solution to the other three units Renewable Generation Medway is operational, having also benefited at the plant is still being assessed.
Operating a diverse range from investment in 2012 13 to achieve greater of renewable generation efficiency and flexibility in operations: and Multi-fuel plants use waste-derived fuels to SSE continues to be the UKs leading generator Peterhead has TEC of 400MW only.
SSE generate electricity and therefore benefit from of electricity from renewable sources and the recently signed a contract with National an additional revenue opportunity in the form largest generator of electricity from wind across Grid company to provide ancillary support of a gate fee for taking the waste, which is the UK and Ireland.
At 31 March 2014, it had services to the electricity system in the earned on top of revenue received from any 2,783MW of renewable energy capacity in north of Scotland for one year.
The contract electricity generated by the plant.
They offer operation in GB as well as 543MW in Ireland, allows National Grid to call up to 780MW a sustainable energy solution that has lower including its share of joint ventures.
The GB of Peterheads 1,180MW of capacity to carbon intensity than other solid fuels and which portfolio comprised net : provide these support services.
This means further diversifies the range of fuels that SSE can its capacity will be unavailable to the market deploy in its generation fleet.
1,150MW conventional hydro: unless called by National Grid.
Meanwhile the 940MW onshore wind: station will benefit from investment of 15m The SSE and Wheelabrator Technologies Inc. 355MW offshore wind: to enhance its efficiency and flexibility.
50:50 joint venture Multifuel Energy Ltd MEL 300MW pumped storage: and is currently constructing a 300m multi-fuel 38MW dedicated biomass.
Making the right investment decisions generation facility adjacent to SSEs existing in gas-fired power stations Ferrybridge power station.
Construction of the Output from around 1,900MW of SSEs capacity Despite currently experiencing short term facility is progressing well and it is scheduled to for renewable energy in GB qualifies for market challenges, gas-fired plant will play an be operational in 2015.
All of the electricity Renewable Obligation Certificates ROCs, the increasingly important role in electricity generated by the plant will be sold to SSE.
In May main financial support scheme for renewable generation driven by its: 2013, MEL confirmed that it is seeking planning energy in the UK.
consent for a second multi-fuel facility at the relatively low capital costs: Ferrybridge site, prompted by a clear indication During 2013 14, total electricity output from flexibility to support increasing amounts of from potential fuel suppliers that there is SSEs renewable resources in GB was 8,089GWh generation from onand offshore wind farms: demand in the market for further waste derived net including pumped storage.
This is broken short construction time: generation facilities.
Early consultation work down as follows: high thermal efficiency: and on this project is under way.
its status as the cleanest of the fossil fuel conventional hydro electric schemes technologies.
In addition to the MEL joint venture, SSE is also 3,753GWh: pursuing the development of a new multi-fuel pumped storage schemes 252GWh: As a result, SSE will continue to pursue options facility of up to 50MW at its Slough site.
onshore wind farms 2,679GWh: for CCGT in Great Britain, including sites under offshore wind farms SSE share 1,338GWh: development at Abernedd South Wales, Keadby Making the right contribution to Carbon and Lincolnshire, and Seabank Bristol.
These Capture and Storage CCS developments biomass 67GWh locations offer many attractive characteristics, Achieving the EUs decarbonisation policy will including established grid and gas connections, broadly require a halving of CO emissions in the Managing the impact of 2 availability of cooling water and land area.
electricity sector every decade between now market conditions and the and 2050.
On this basis, the use of fossil fuels to public policy framework Although projects such as Abernedd are close to generate electricity will eventually depend on SSE continues to respond to policy support for being shovel ready and others such as Keadby 2 the extent to which CCS technology can be increased renewable generation capacity in the are at an advanced stage of development, applied to abate CO emissions.
Consequently, portfolio mix in GB, currently delivered through 2 continuing uncertainty surrounding the the development of viable carbon capture the financial support of the Renewables operation of a future Capacity Market and clear technology is essential to the UKs long term Obligation the RO applies also in Northern market signals suggesting the need for increased climate change and energy security objectives.
The new Contracts for Difference CfD gas-fired generation capacity, means that SSE support mechanism, due to be accessible from does not expect to take any final investment Against this background, SSE is continuing to October 2014, is still being finalised.
Absolute decisions to construct new plant until at least work with Shell UK as a strategic partner in the support will be limited by the Levy Control 36 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 1.
In addition to these projects under construction, SSE has: Producing over 500MW of development projects currently in planning in GB.
Two key projects Stronelairg 198MW and Glencassley 53MW green energy received no objection from Highland Council during the planning process and are now with Scottish Ministers awaiting a consent determination: and around 300MW of new onshore wind farm projects are currently in pre-planning.
SSEs proposed Coire Glas Loch Lochy 600MW pumped storage scheme received planning consent from the Scottish Ministers in December 2013.
Making a final investment decision to progress the Coire Glas scheme will require overcoming a number of commercial and We now have 3,326MW of renewable energy capacity regulatory challenges and therefore any final onshore wind, offshore wind, hydro and dedicated biomass investment decision is unlikely to be taken in in operation, in the UK and Ireland.
Developing renewable energy schemes offshore In line with its wider focus on streamlining and simplifying its business, and following the Framework budget which has the reasonable Developing renewable conclusion of a strategic review of its offshore objective of controlling costs to customers from energy schemes onshore wind development portfolio, SSE decided in government energy policies.
However it also At 31 March 2014, SSEs onshore wind farm March 2014 to narrow significantly the focus of means that less support will be available for new portfolio in Great Britain comprised around net : its near term development plans for its offshore renewable generation in the future.
940MW in operation: Moreover, the GB electricity market itself could 246MW in construction or pre-construction: In particular, it decided to focus its efforts and change if the majority of people in Scotland and resources on progressing the Beatrice project vote Yes in the forthcoming referendum on 358MW with consent for development.
up to 664MW, currently a 75:25 partnership independence.
SSE has long recognised that the between SSE and Repsol Nuevas Energias UK processes of negotiation following a Yes vote The following projects were in construction planned for the outer Moray Firth.
In April 2014, would be likely to take time, be complex and at 31 March 2014 and are key components the UK government announced that Beatrice result in changes to the existing energy market.
of SSEs portfolio of strategic onshore wind had been successful in securing an Investment In particular, the future remuneration of projects in GB: Contract or early Contract for Difference.
renewable energy, which is currently supported by electricity customers throughout Great Britain, Keadby 68MW Adjacent to SSEs gas-fired The UK governments announcement provides would have to be agreed.
In this circumstance, power station in North Lincolnshire, Keadby the security needed to allow SSE and its partners SSE would aim to work constructively with the wind farm is Englands largest onshore wind to continue to invest in the engineering and Scottish and UK governments, with the objectives farm with 34 turbines.
Construction is largely procurement work required to maintain progress of ensuring the best interests of its customers in complete, with all turbines erected and towards a final investment decision in early 2016.
Scotland, England and Wales are met and helping generating electricity.
A final decision to invest in the project will only to meet the renewable energy targets of these Strathy North 67MW Located in be made if SSE has been able to reduce its stake countries, while safeguarding the interests of Sutherland, this project is a significant in the project from 75% at present to no more investors.
Pre-construction work than 50% and the project provides the return has been completed and full construction is on capital investment required to be compatible Optimising the renewable now under way, which is due for completion with the risks involved.
As SSE moves forward the next phase of its Dunmaglass 94MW Construction at this In addition to Beatrice, SSE has had an interest in renewable energy development pipeline, it is site south east of Inverness is well under way, four further offshore wind farm developments: focusing on projects that best allow the efficient enabling works are due to be completed allocation of resources and economies of scale.
shortly and the main construction work will Galloper: SSE has decided not to take beyond While the scale of overall development is likely follow thereafter.
The site is scheduled for the current phase of development its interest to be lower than in recent years, the focus is on completion in 2016. in the Galloper project 340MW, a 50:50 a consistent pipeline of new developments.
Langhope Rig 16MW Construction at partnership between SSE and RWE Innogy.
In To support future investment in onshore wind this 10-turbine site in the Scottish Borders is the context of its wider capital and investment assets, both in operation and development, progressing well.
Turbine erection will begin programme, SSE does not currently believe and as outlined in March 2014, SSE will recycle this summer and the site will be completed that the costs of constructing and operating capital by adding to its established programme later in 2014.
Galloper, and the revenue likely to be earned of selective disposals.
from it once built will provide a return on SSEs capital investment that will enable the 37 Strategic Report Wholesale continued project to compete successfully against other SSE is keen to maintain an effective balance Developing new capacity for renewable projects in SSEs wider investment portfolio between the electricity required to meet the energy in the all Island market over Gallopers planned construction demands of its growing customer base in Ireland In the period to March 2014, both Athea 34MW timeline.
As a result, SSE is working with its and the electricity it produces from its own in Co.
Limerick, and Glenconway 46MW, part partner and other stakeholders to secure the generation assets on the island.
It is now the of SSEs Slieve Kirk strategic area located in Co. maximum possible value for its interest in third largest electricity generation capacity Derry, came into operation.
Output from Athea the project.
owner in Ireland with around 13% of installed qualifies for the ReFiT support mechanism in Round 3 SSE currently participates in the capacity.
RoI while output from Glenconway will receive development of two of the projects allocated ROCs.
under The Crown Estates Round 3 site Maintaining effective allocation process: SeaGreen 3,500MW, operational performance SSE is continuing to add to its onshore wind farm a 50:50 partnership between SSE Renewables At 31 March 2014, SSE owned 544MW of development portfolio in Ireland and at and Fluor Limited, which has submitted onshore wind farm capacity in Ireland including 31March2014 it comprised around: consent applications to Marine Scotland for 88MW in Northern Ireland and 1,068MW of two wind farm areas in the Firth of Forth with thermal generation capacity.
The thermal assets 116MW in construction or pre-construction: a capacity of 525MW each in the 3.5GW Firth are at four sites and their principal function is to and of Forth zone: and Forewind 7,200MW, help maintain security of electricity supply by 56MW with consent for development.
a four-way partnership with RWE Innogy, being available to respond to peaks in demand.
Statoil and Statkraft, which has submitted a Output during 2013 14 was: The largest pre-construction project is the consent application to the Planning consented 170MW SSE share 112MW Galway Inspectorate for four wind farm projects of up 25GWh from thermal capacity: and Wind Park development, where preto 1,200MW each on Dogger Bank.
SSE has 1,350GWh from renewable capacity.
construction ground works are currently taking decided that it will continue to support the place.
Subject to a final investment decision, it is progress of development work on SeaGreen Investing in new capacity for expected to enter construction towards the later and Forewind with the objective of securing generating electricity at Great Island part of 2014.
SSE also has around 100MW of the necessary consents for construction, but Construction at the 460MW CCGT site at Great other development projects currently in that it will not extend beyond that the scope Island, Co. Wexford is well advanced and the planning across Ireland.
of its commitments to the projects in the plant is expected to generate its first energy in near term.
the next few weeks and be commissioned in Meeting customers future requirements Islay: SSE had proposed to develop an the second half of 2014, at which time the for electricity in Ireland offshore wind farm off the coast of Islay with existing 240MW fuel oil unit at the site will be Over the medium and long term, the completion capacity of up to 690MW and while it will decommissioned.
Two major milestones of the 460MW CCGT at Great Island and the continue to work with other stakeholders reached by 31 March included the completion continuing development of its wind farm in relation to the development, it will not of the gas transmission connection and the projects will give SSE a more balanced be investing further in the project in the 220kV electricity connection to the site.
The generation portfolio in Ireland and significantly foreseeable future.
Great Island gas connection has also provided increased output of electricity with a lower CO 2 a very positive local economic story, since intensity than the SEM average.
In a typical year, Construction continues at the Hunterston the South-East of Ireland was previously the Great Island CCGT and SSEs wind farms are offshore wind energy test facility in North unconnected to the gas network.
expected to generate the equivalent of around Ayrshire, in which SSE is a partner.
The Siemens two thirds of the electricity needed to supply 6MW turbine is completed and is now fully The Single Electricity Market SEM in Ireland has SSEs current customers in Ireland.
The Mitsubishi 7MW turbine will an effective capacity mechanism in place.
This its power purchase agreements, this means follow later this year.
SSE is working with Scottish mechanism was an important factor in SSEs SSE can securely and cost-effectively meet the Enterprise to find a manufacturer for the third decision to progress with the Great Island demand of its Irish supply business, SSE Airtricity, and final berth at the site.
development and means it has been able to in a way that is sustainable.
proceed with investment in new thermal electricity generation plant in the Irish market, Generation priorities in Generation Ireland which is in contrast to the position in respect 2014 15 and beyond The Single Electricity Market SEM in Ireland of the Great Britain market.
In Generation, SSEs 2014 15 priorities remain faces similar market drivers to Great Britain but consistent with its established principles to: has a very different regulatory regime, including: The SEM itself is expected to be subject to important changes designed to implement the comply fully with all safety standards and centrally dispatched generation: EU target model in electricity, about which environmental requirements: a capacity mechanism that remunerates consultations have begun.
These consultations ensure power stations are available to generators for a proportion of their fixed have looked at a wide range of issues and are respond to customer demand and market costs when plant is made available: and expected to lead to wide-ranging SEM redesign, conditions: no support for offshore wind electricity although the principles and objectives of such operate power stations efficiently to achieve generation.
redesign, beyond compliance with the EU target the optimum conversion of primary fuel into model have yet to be confirmed.
This is likely to electricity: and In the Republic of Ireland renewable generation result in the biggest change to the SEM since it continue to show discipline in the receives policy support through the Renewable was created in 2007 and SSE is working to development of and investment in new Energy Feed in Tariff.
Policy support for ensure that changes safeguard supplies of generation projects.
renewable generation in Northern Ireland is electricity at a price that is affordable to delivered through the Renewables Obligation, customers, while supporting continuing the same as in Great Britain.
investment in electricity in Ireland.
Gas Production Gas Production priorities Looking to the future for gas storage for 2014 15 and beyond Current gas storage capacity, both at SSE and Producing gas to meet Gas Production priorities for the 2014 15 within the UK as a whole, plays an important role the needs of customers financial year include: in the UKs energy infrastructure.
The UK already SSEs upstream portfolio is 100% gas weighted, meets the EU Regulation for Security of Supply with the primary reason for owning gas assets ensuring the safe operation of all the assets of Gas and will do so for the foreseeable future.
being to secure long term supply of physical in which it has an ownership interest: It is also clear that the market returns for gas gas at a fixed cost, to enable it to effectively stringent cost control on operator budgets storage are challenging and currently too low meet the energy needs of its customers and and enhanced monitoring and reporting to encourage additional capacity to be generation portfolio.
As at 31 March 2014, SSEs of operator work programmes: and deployed.
SSE believes this situation is unlikely upstream portfolio is estimated to hold in excess continuing the robust investment appraisal to change in the short-to medium-term.
of 2.6 billion therms of reserves.
The volume and process to identify potentially suitable SSE and Statoil, despite having full planning production profile of the assets represents a acquisition targets.
permission for the development of a second secure and fixed-price supply of gas that can phase of the gas storage facility at the Aldbrough meet around 25% of the forecast demand from site, maintain their decision not to proceed with Gas Storage SSEs domestic gas customers over the next this project until market conditions improve.
Providing capacity to store gas Gas storage provides physical flexibility that Gas Storage priorities Securing output from gas enables customers who purchase the capacity in 2014 15 and beyond production assets to manage their market risks and respond Gas storage priorities for the financial year and The Gas Production business continued to to trading opportunities.
It also provides an beyond include: perform well and benefitted strongly from the important security of supply function for the UK.
contribution of the new Sean gas field assets SSE has an ownership interest in two major gas ensuring on-going high safety standards acquired in April 2013.
The increased output storage facilities in East Yorkshire, the primary for operation of the facilities at Hornsea from the expanded asset base was partially objective of which is to maximise the availability and Aldbrough and the compliant operation offset by forecast and normal production of the plant to safely import and export gas: of the Gas Storage business: decline rates from existing wells.
Total output continuing to listen to existing and potential to in the year to 31 March 2014 was 414.1 million Hornsea Atwick, which provided 267 million customers, working with them to shape therms, compared with 183.8 million therms cubic metres mcm of gas storage capacity flexible products which add value to their in the same period last year.
This accounts for portfolios: around 5% of the total gas storage capacity continuing to ensure maximum utilisation Continuing to expand the in the UK and 12% of deliverability: and of both facilities to the benefit of the UK Gas Production business Aldbrough, which is one of the UKs newest gas market and the Gas Storage business: The addition of the Sean assets scaled-up and largest onshore gas storage facilities, ensuring high availability and strong SSEs Gas Production business considerably.
is owned by SSE 66.7% and Statoil UK Ltd operational performance at Hornsea and SSE continues to seek new opportunities to 33.3% and operated by SSE.
All nine caverns Aldbrough: and increase its reserve base to meet portfolio were in operation during 2013 14, providing continuing targeted investment as required demand requirements.
The UK and north west a total capacity of up to 270mcm, although and justified to prolong operational life of the Europe remains the focus for this activity, as it available capacity currently remains lower existing facilities.
provides a relatively stable tax and fiscal regime due to unplanned outages on two of the nine and is near to SSEs domestic energy supply caverns.
It is anticipated that the Aldbrough Wholesale conclusion markets.
SSE has not set a target scale for its facility will ultimately provide the ability to Gas Production business and will continue to store up to a maximum of around 320mcm, Producing and securing energy in a sustainable evaluate gas weighted opportunities in line with and account for around 20% of the UKs way to meet the needs of SSEs customers is at its investment criteria, financial discipline and the storage deliverability.
the heart of SSEs Wholesale businesses.
Key primary reason for it owning gas assets being parts of this segment continue to face public one of the ways it can secure a long term supply Managing operations at policy uncertainty and challenging market of physical gas that enables it to meet effectively Hornsea and Aldbrough conditions.
Nevertheless, continued excellence the energy needs of its customers and The continuing decline in the profitability of in operating its portfolio of assets, ongoing generation portfolio.
the Gas Storage business reflects the reduction progress in the development and delivery of in the spread between summer and winter new assets and strategic investments across its Examining the opportunities in shale gas wholesale gas prices and the prevailing lower portfolio, has meant that SSEs activities in Shale gas has the potential to become a new volatility in shorter-term gas prices.
Energy Portfolio Management, Electricity source of indigenous gas supply for the UK, Nevertheless, both sites continued to operate Generation, Gas Production and Gas Storage although SSE does not expect UK output to with good availability to meet commercial continued to support SSEs core purpose.
reach meaningful volumes until the next decade.
requirements, despite significant ongoing SSE currently has no involvement in any shale maintenance and upgrade activities, especially It also supports the achievement of SSEs first gas operations.
It is, however, monitoring the at the Hornsea site.
During 2013 14: financial goal of annual growth in the dividend development of shale gas in the UK and the payable to shareholders, and the fulfilment of proposed fiscal and tax regimes surrounding Hornsea again met 100% of customer SSEs core purpose of providing the energy its potential exploitation.
nominations with the site 96% available people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
during the winter period except in instances of planned maintenance: Aldbrough met 100% of customer nominations and was 86% available overall except in instances of planned maintenance.
