Strategic Report Our value chain explained How we work for customers, communities and investors Earning a profit and putting profit to good use SSE has three business segments which have one core purpose: to provide the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
In return for doing this, SSE is able to earn a profit a profit that SSE puts to good use for the customers and communities it serves and the countries in which it operates.
An independent study published in 2014 found that SSEs annual contribution to UK Gross Domestic Product is over 9bn and that SSE supports over 110,000 jobs.
Wholesale Networks Retail Producing energy Delivering energy Supplying energy In 2013 14 SSE generated over SSE delivers electricity to SSE supplies electricity and gas 36,000GWh of electricity 3.7 million homes, offices to 9.1 million customers and businesses 617m 658m 2016 invested in invested in price freeze for generating capacity.
t Providing the energy t Upgrading energy people need infrastructure 06 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 TAX PAYMENTS DIVIDENDS INVESTMENT 1.
The profit SSE earns in producing, delivering Earning a profit enables SSE to do six things: and supplying energy enables it to do six things: produce the energy that people need: deliver 1.
Produce the energy people need: 4.
Protect jobs: better services: upgrade the countrys energy In 2013 14 SSE generated over 36,000GWh SSE employs almost 20,000 people across system: protect jobs: pay tax: and pay and of electricity enough to meet the needs of the UK and Ireland, and has created around attract investors.
around 10 million homes for a whole year.
2,000 new jobs over the last five years.
Providing energy in a reliable and sustainable 2.
Upgrade the countrys energy system: 5.
Pay tax: way requires investment.
SSE is a company that SSE plans to invest around 1.6bn across all three SSE is a major contributor to UK tax revenues.
is powering investment across the UK and of its businesses in 2014 15 to help modernise and In 2013 14 it paid over 431m in tax to the Ireland.
In 2013 14 SSE earned adjusted profit maintain the UKs and Irelands energy systems.
In that same period it invested 1.58bn in building, upgrading and 3.
Pay and attract investors: maintaining the energy infrastructure that SSE has been voted number one for customer SSE aims to deliver to shareholders annual customers in the UK and Ireland depend on.
service by uSwitch for the eighth year in a row.
dividend increases that at least keep pace It is investing in smart meters and new digital with inflation to give them a return on the In fact, in the last five years alone SSE has technology to ensure it maintains this position.
invested around 7.5bn in the UK and Ireland significantly more than the profits it earned during that time.
Pay tax Protect jobs Energy PROFIT INVESTMENT Profits Produce the Upgrade the energy countrys What we do with X people energy need system our profits?
Deliver better services Pay and attract investors t Reinvesting in the energy system 07 INVESTMENT
