S St tr ra at teg egi ic c R Re epo por rt t Our business explained Three energy businesses Providing energy SSEs strategy is to deliver annual growth in the dividend payable to shareholders through the efficient operation of, and investment in, a balanced range of  and market-based energy-related businesses.
This balance means SSE has a strong and diverse group of energy assets and businesses from which to secure the revenue to support future dividend growth.
Gas Energy portfolio Gas Electricity production management and storage transmission electricity generation Using platforms to extract Using caverns to store Using higher voltage lines and natural gas, from fields large volumes of natural cables to transmit electricity Using turbines to convert in the North Sea, for gas under ground for use from generating plant to the energy from gas, oil, coal, use onshore.
water and wind to generate electricity.
Market-based 04 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 1.
Energy production, generation and storage Transmission and distribution of energy Energy supply to consumers Wholesale Networks Retail Steps 1-3 Steps 4-7 Steps 8-9 To secure energy for its customers, SSE is SSE has an ownership interest in economicallyThrough its brands such as SSE, SWALEC, involved in energy portfolio management, gas regulated network businesses in electricity Scottish Hydro and Airtricity, SSE supplies production and electricity generation.
Amongst transmission and electricity and gas distribution electricity and gas in markets in Great Britain and other things, it is the leading generator of and has other networks businesses in marketIreland and also provides other energy-related electricity from renewable sources across based areas such as lighting services, utility services such as mechanical and electrical the UK and Ireland.
Its Wholesale businesses solutions and telecoms.
Its Retail priorities are digital priorities are competitiveness, sustainability and investing in these businesses, SSEs Networks excellence and a brand people trust taking flexibility.
SSE is also a large gas storage provider.
priorities are efficiency and innovation.
actions that make a difference for customers.
For more information see page 32.
For more information see page 40.
For more information see page 46.
XX XX XX 8 8 7 9 Utility solutions and telecoms 5 4 6 Networks Retail 6.
Gas Other Energy Energy-related Electricity distribution networks supply services distribution Using pipes to distribute gas Maintaining street and highway Retailing gas and electricity Providing energy-related Using lower voltage lines and from the transmission network lighting.
Designing, building, to household, small business products and services to cables to distribute electricity to homes, work places and owning and operating networks and industrial and commercial household, small business to homes, work places and other premises.
for electricity, gas, water customers.
and industrial and commercial other premises.
