Deputy First Minister that it wanted to Rewarding customers The number of SSE electricity and gas supply see greater stability in Northern Ireland through sponsorship customers who receive bills based on actual electricity pricing.
In October 2013 The SSE Hydro, a new meter readings now stands at 96.7%, in line with Republic of Ireland: SSE Airtricity increased 13,000-seater live entertainment venue in last year.
SSE Metering has also installed just over its gas prices by 2% from 1 October 2013 Glasgow, opened to the public.
Sponsorship 22,500 AMR automatic meter reading meters following an increase in regulated gas prices of the SSE Hydro gives SSE a customer offering which are read remotely.
During 2013 14, SSE approved by the Republics Commission that is unique in the energy supply market, with collected 8.43 million electricity readings and for Energy Regulation.
In the deregulated access to tickets for all events 48 hours in 5.63 million gas readings.
electricity market the company announced advance of public sale as well as the opportunity a 3.5% increase in its domestic prices from to win tickets or ticket upgrades through the SSE Contracting is involved in industrial, 1 November 2013 as a result of sustained rises SSE Rewards programme.
The SSE Rewards commercial and domestic mechanical and in networks costs and wholesale prices.
programme is designed to help with customer electrical contracting and in electrical and retention as well as acquisition.
It is one of the SSE Airtricity is committed to making energy largest mechanical and electrical contracting more affordable for vulnerable electricity and Following the success of The SSE Hydro a businesses in the UK and is involved in the gas customers.
In the Republic, where Pay-Assponsorship agreement has been concluded industrial, commercial, retail, housing, health, You-Go PAYG meters are an emerging solution between SSE and entertainment promoter AEG defence, transport and local authority sectors.
to customer debt, the company has installed for the naming rights of the venue formerly 20,000 PAYG meters.
It also offers its most-inknown as the Wembley Arena, now The SSE It continued to make solid progress in 2013 14. need customers the cheapest available PAYG Arena.
This sponsorship will allow SSE to build Its order book ended the year at 85m, just 3m tariff in the market.
on the sponsorship of The SSE Hydro with lower than the year before.
In addition, SSE similar ticket pre-sales, upgrades and other Contracting was ranked second in the Electrical SSE Airtricity also leads the market in providing benefits for customer in the southern half of Times Top 50 Electrical Contractor Report support to indebted customers and was an early the UK.
2013 a comprehensive annual industry adopter of a range of budgeting and technology measure of the best performing electrical solutions.
As the industry leader, SSE Airtricity As part of this approach, and to reflect its contractors in Great Britain.
recently prepared a supplier code of practice in strong commitment to Great Britain and Ireland, partnership with the Irish Government, SSE has also sponsored the Glasgow 2014 Retail conclusion Regulator and other suppliers.
This code sets Commonwealth Games, including sponsorship the standard for all market participants in of each of the four home nation teams.
Through its price freeze, SSE has sought to assisting customers experiencing difficulty in Again the value of this sponsorship is in the demonstrate its ability to make a difference for paying their energy bills.
opportunity to promote the SSE brand and to customers, in this case household energy bill offer customer tickets and experiences during payers in the Great Britain market.
More broadly, Achieving digital excellence and building the Games.
SSE is committed to delivering sustained value a brand people trust in GB and Ireland and high standards of service for all of its Retail SSEs long-term priority in Retail is to achieve customers.
Energy-related services digital excellence and be a brand people trust so that operating costs are kept to a minimum, In addition to electricity and gas SSE offers opportunities to increase the efficiency with energy-related products and services including which energy is used are maximised and boiler, central heating and wiring maintenance customers trust SSE to do the right things for and installation as well as supplying and them.
This, in turn, should enable SSE to be a maintaining meters for household and market-leading retailer of energy and essential commercial customers.
The objective is to attract and retain a natural fit with the companys existing customers by delivering a valuable service, strengths and propositions.
increasingly using digital channels, and creating opportunities to cross-sell relevant products.
SSE provides heating, hot water and electrical maintenance through SSEs Home Services.
The digital transformation of the industry means It currently has over 190,000 gas electricity homes will become increasingly smart as they maintenance contracts, compared with around use smart meters to monitor energy use.
This 216,000 in the previous year.
It also completed increase in energy data will allow SSE to develop around 6,000 gas central heating installations corresponding services and help its customers and electrical heating wiring installations in understand and reduce their consumption.
The 2013 14, compared with over 8,500 in the digital transformation should also reinforce the previous year.
benefits of building and maintaining a trusted brand.
In line with this, SSEs Retail business has SSEs metering business undertakes meter developed new branding which, while reading operations and meter operator work in maintaining the regional brands such as all parts of the UK.
It also provides services to Scottish Hydro and SWALEC, creates a more most electricity suppliers with customers in unified SSE brand.
central southern England and the north of Scotland.
It supplies and maintains meters and undertakes metering work in the commercial, industrial and generation sectors.
