S St tr ra at teg egi ic c R Re epo por rt t Questions and answers with the SSE Executive Team The 2013 14 financial year ended with Ofgem announcing that the energy Answering key market in Great Britain should be investigated by the CMA.
Why have things got to this stage?
Alistair: We think the energy market is questions competitive and has brought significant benefits for customers.
We also think weve done a lot in recent years to make it more transparent and SSE has two Executive Directors: Alistair Phillips-Davies, easier to understand.
That said, standards have fallen short in some areas and key features of who became Chief Executive in July 2013: and Gregor the market have become politically contentious Alexander, Finance Director.
Alistair and Gregor both and subject to significant change designed to achieve a mixture of objectives.
With all of that joined the Board of SSE in 2002.
Here they answer some going on, we think the CMA now looks like the of the key questions facing both SSE and the energy best way of achieving a new, lasting settlement on the energy market that commands broad industry now and in the future.
regulatory, political and public support.
Energy has barely been out of the headlines over the past year and some of that is down to the profits being made by companies like SSE.
How do you persuade people that SSEs 1.55bn adjusted profit before tax is fair?
Alistair: Profit is contentious and has become more so as the aftermath of the 2008 recession has put a squeeze on peoples living standards.
At the same time, Great Britain and Ireland need successful energy companies to secure the energy and provide the services that people need.
Profit enables us to do that but we recognise that profit needs to be earned, not made, and needs to be earned in the right way.
Thats why were committed to achieving high standards in everything we do, especially in what we do directly for customers.
In that way, we believe that people will recognise the profit we earn across all of our businesses as fair and reasonable.
Profit is one measure of financial performance, but which one really matters to SSE?
Gregor: Earnings per share, on the adjusted basis we use.
Weve always said we look at EPS to monitor financial performance over the medium term and its the fairest measure because it defines the amount of profit after tax that has been earned for each ordinary share in the company.
The 4.1% increase in EPS in 2013 14 was a solid result in a challenging year.
You said in March 2013 that increases in earnings per share are subject to greater risk in 2015 16 and 2016 17.
Gregor: Difficult market conditions in thermal generation, possible legislation on freezing retail energy prices, the electricity distribution price control process and other regulatory, political and constitutional developments could all have an impact.
On a more positive note, our balanced range of businesses means Watch the video were not over-exposed to any single risk Alistair and Gregor talk about SSEs full-year results.
and the action were taking through our value www.
com sseplc programme to simplify the business through disposals and secure operational efficiencies means were in good shape to withstand 10 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 some of the difficult challenges we could face.
With all of those challenges, why is SSE we launched our own consultation in January, market in GB.
Weve put in place arrangements so strongly committed to the dividend?
looking for views on what else we can do to to make sure we take account of this uncertainty Gregor: Its a matter of fairness.
Shareholders meet and exceed customers expectations when in our decision-making and have a clear view have either invested directly in SSE or, as owners power supplies are lost.
Until recently, networks of the issues that would arise should there of the company, enabled it to borrow money have had a relatively low profile, and despite the be a Yes vote.
Whatever the outcome of the from debt investors.
Thats allowed investment difficulties of last winter, power cuts have fallen referendum, well continue to work constructively in things like power stations and electricity by 30% and network costs have fallen by 60% with the Scottish and UK governments, with the networks that help provide the energy people since electricity privatisation.
Thats a good aim of making sure that we continue to meet need.
In return for this, we pay shareholders record, but the experience of last winter shows the needs of customers and of investors in the dividends and although dividend growth will why we need to build on it.
be slower in the future than it has been in the past, were still strongly focused on delivering SSE also came under heavy criticism at In addition to managing political and annual increases that at least match RPI inflation the start of the 2013 14 year after being regulatory uncertainties, what are SSEs in the next few years.
fined by Ofgem for the way it had gone key priorities for 2014 15?
about selling electricity and gas.
Do you Alistair: The safety of everyone who works for SSE has announced its own energy price think that damage has been put right?
or with SSE, and of the people who come into freeze in Great Britain through to 2016, Alistair: As we said a year ago, the test of contact with SSE, has to be our top priority.
saying it was worried about the impact whether an organisation can live up to the We made good progress last year, with a lower of bills on households under financial standards expected of it is in making sure that Total Recordable Injury Rate.
Has affordability now trumped mistakes are put right and not repeated.
In terms that, however, is a list of people who got hurt in climate change in the energy trilemma?
of putting the mistakes in sales right, we applied the course of their working day and until that Alistair: As the term implies, the trilemma our sales guarantee all the way back to 2008, stops happening I wont be satisfied.
Injury-free is about three issues security of supply, making payments totalling around 3m to working has to be our goal.
Beyond that, we decarbonisation and affordability.
Our decisioncustomers who may have lost out through need to make sure that the quality of service we making, in both operations and investment, switching their electricity and gas supply to us.
deliver to our retail and networks customers is of aims to reflect all three of these issues.
That In terms of not repeating the mistakes, weve the highest possible standard at a time when means, for example, that while we strongly totally changed our approach to sales and the their expectations of companies like SSE are, support action to address climate change, we processes underpinning it.
We also have a new quite rightly, increasing significantly.
also think such action should not make energy management team in this area, and I am unaffordable for the most vulnerable electricity confident we have done, and are doing, You said in March 2014 that you expect and gas customers.
Thats why we believe social the right things with regard to sales.
adjusted earnings per share in 2014 15 to and environmental policies should be funded be around or slightly greater than that in by the tax-payer, not the bill-payer.
As far as To what extent should investors be 2013 14.
Are you confident that you can climate change is concerned, SSE has put its worried by political and regulatory deliver this?
money where its mouth is, spending around interventions and uncertainties in the Gregor: Confident, yes: but certain, no.
As 3bn on hydro electric schemes and wind GB and Ireland markets?
always, there are many things that could affect farms in the last five years alone.
Gregor: Electricity and gas are privatised EPS during the course of a year, from general industries and so political and regulatory market conditions and how much electricity we The third part of the trilemma is security interventions have always been, and will always generate from renewable sources to how much of supply.
Should people be worried that be, a fact of life.
Part of the way we manage that energy customers need to use.
At the same time, the lights might go out?
risk is by having a clearly-defined market focus, we have a good, balanced range of businesses Alistair: Security of supply should never be taken concentrating on the UK and Ireland.
We also and assets and our renewed focus on simplifying for granted and Ofgem has said for some time try to be constructive in all of our dealings with and streamlining the business should help us that electricity generation capacity margins will governments, politicians and regulators just deliver solid results in the 2014 15 financial year.
be lower than they were in recent years due to as we have a job to do, so do they.
On the whole, difficult market conditions and EU regulations I think political and regulatory decision-making After almost a year in the job of Chief closing down older plant.
The Energy Act 2013, in the UK and Ireland has been better than Executive, how do you see the next few which enjoyed broad support across the political elsewhere in Europe but the extent of the years shaping up for SSE?
spectrum, effectively gives the UK Department intervention has been increasing and, as Alistair Alistair: I took on this job knowing there would of Energy and Climate Change clear said, the CMA study should provide a good be big operational, investment, political and responsibilities and tools for security of supply, opportunity to achieve a new, lasting settlement regulatory issues to deal with but knowing also including the creation of a mechanism to on the energy market in GB.
that the company has strong values, a wellsupport generating capacity.
Well play our part defined strategy, a straightforward financial by working with DECC and National Grid and The energy market in GB may change objective and an excellent team of employees.
by making sure our generation plant, where if there is a Yes vote in the Scottish Weve been building on that, with initiatives for practicable, is available to produce electricity referendum.
How does SSE feel customers, like our price freeze in GB, re-defined when demand is highest.
investment plans and a focus on what is really Gregor: Our position on this has been clear central to our purpose of providing energy to The lights did go out for many of SSEs since shortly after the last Scottish Parliamentary customers.
I think this puts us in the best electricity network customers following elections.
We strongly believe that constitutional possible position to deliver for customers the spells of bad weather in the autumn arrangements are matters for voters, and so and for investors in the years ahead.
How do you feel about some remain neutral on the question.
A Yes vote of the criticisms that network companies would clearly lead to the governments for an have come under?
independent Scottish state and a remaining Alistair: I think constructive criticism is helpful, UK undertaking extensive negotiations on because we want to make sure that our ability arrangements for the energy sector and to handle the consequences of bad weather everything else.
Weve said before that this gets better and better each year.
Thats why could result in changes to the single electricity 11
