S St tr ra at teg egi ic c R Re epo por rt t Networks  businesses Keeping the lights on and supporting growth Key Metrics Networks operating profit m Networks Regulated Asset Value RAV Electricity networks capital expenditure net bn m 955.4 6.82 657.5 9.3% 7.3% 5.5% SSE is involved in: electricity transmission: The RAV is the price paid for economicallySSE owns and invests in three electricity electricity distribution: gas distribution through regulated energy networks when they were networks companies: Scottish Hydro Electric Scotia Gas Networks : and other networksprivatised plus allowed capital expenditure Transmission: Scottish Hydro Electric Power related businesses in lighting services, utility less depreciation.
It is indexed to the Retail Distribution: and Southern Electric Power solutions and telecoms.
Customer minutes lost north Customer minutes lost south Number of Utility Solutions electricity networks in operation 77 67 168 5.5% 3.1% 22.6% Excluding exceptional events, customer Excluding exceptional events, customer SSEs Utility Solutions business designs, builds, minutes lost is the average number minutes lost is the average number owns and operates networks for electricity, of minutes that customers are without of minutes that customers are without gas, water and heat.
The electricity networks electricity supply in a year.
SSEs north of electricity supply in a year.
SSEs network in are outside SSEs two distribution areas.
Scotland network distributes electricity to central southern England distributes electricity around 800,000 properties.
Electricity Transmission Owning, operating and with the other network upgrades that it is investing in Networks progressing as part of a multi-billion pound The performance of SSEs  operating profit for investment programme which will help increase regulated electricity networks businesses is Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission security of supply, decarbonise electricity reported within Networks, as is the performance In SHE Transmission, operating profit increased supplies and promote sustainable economic of Scotia Gas Networks SGN, in which SSE by 47.6% to 136.7m.
In addition, the market-based continuing growth in its investment in its asset activities of Lighting Services, Utility Solutions base and resultant increase in allowed revenue.
Upgrading Scotlands electricity and Telecoms are also network-based and are A total of 349.2m was invested by SHE transmission network therefore included within SSEs Networks Transmission in its network in the year to SHE Transmissions work to upgrade its network segment as Other Networks.
31March 2014, compared with 334.2m in the includes four major projects currently under previous year.
This took the total to over 1bn construction with expenditure for 2013 14  network in the last four years.
Its share of a typical GB totalling over 220m: companies with a growing Regulated electricity bill during the financial year 2014 15 Asset Value is forecast to be equivalent to 2.26, or less than Beauly-Denny: Excellent progress is being SSE has an ownership interest in five 0.5%, of the total bill.
made on the construction of SHE  energy network Transmissions part of the replacement line companies: Managing SHE Transmission through from Beauly to Wharry Burn, with the route a period of rapid growth running through some of the highest and Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission 100% : SHE Transmission is responsible for maintaining most challenging terrain in Great Britain.
Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution and investing in the transmission network in Almost all of the foundations are complete, 100% : around 70% of the land mass of Scotland, with anticipated full completion in the next Southern Electric Power Distribution 100% : serving remote and island communities.
As the few weeks: three quarters of the 539 towers Scotland Gas Networks 50% : and licensed transmission company for an area with have been erected: and over half of the route Southern Gas Networks 50%.
a significant amount of generation from wired.
Total regulated spend of 508.3m has renewable sources seeking to connect to the been invested so far.
In line with the SSE estimates that the total Regulated Asset electricity network, SHE Transmission is required conditions associated with the planning Value RAV of its  to ensure that there is sufficient capacity for consent, good progress is being made with natural monopoly businesses is 6.82bn, projects committed to generating electricity.
the work to remove over 100km of overhead up 460m from 6.36bn, at 31 March 2014, lines in Highland Scotland.
Based on comprising around: A major programme of investment is under way expenditure to date and known issues in electricity transmission infrastructure in Great including the interface with SP Transmissions 1.33bn for electricity transmission: Britain to support the transition to lower carbon section of the line, it is still expected the final 3.05bn for electricity distribution: and electricity generation, increase security of cost will be over 675m.
Further discussions 2.44bn for gas distribution being 50% supply and promote economic growth.
The continue to take place with SP Transmission of SGNs total RAV.
requirement to connect large volumes of and Ofgem on the coordination with the dispersed renewable generation, supported network in the south of Scotland and the SSE is the only energy company in the UK to be and incentivised by policy-makers at Scottish, timescales and full cost of completion.
involved in electricity transmission, electricity UK and EU levels, represents a fundamental Beauly to Blackhillock to Kintore: The distribution and gas distribution.
Through Price change from the historic role of SHE replacement of the 275kV conductors to Controls, Ofgem sets the index-linked revenue Transmissions network.
allow an increase in the capacity of the the network companies can earn through network to transmit electricity is also well charges levied on users to cover costs and earn Over 300MW of new renewable generation has under way with over 50% of the project a return on regulated assets.
Although the been connected in the past year in the north of already complete and anticipated process for setting Price Controls is exhaustive Scotland: and over 1,530MW in the preceding energisation in 2015.
Ofgem has given capital and onerous, these lower-risk, economicallydecade.
A robust and challenging regulatory funding approval of 94m 2013 14 prices regulated, natural monopoly businesses provide system, put in place by Ofgem, scrutinises major for this development.
a financial backbone and operational focus for transmission reinforcements on a case-by-case Beauly to Mossford: Good progress is being SSE and balance its activities in the competitive basis seeking to deliver the right projects at the made on the upgrade with phase one Wholesale and Retail markets.
They are core to right time to minimise constraint on the system complete, including the commissioning of SSE, to its strategy in the short-, mediumand without risking excessive costs for electricity Corriemoillie substation within the Ofgem long-term and contribute to its ability to deliver consumers across Great Britain.
The RIIO Price funding allowance.
Phase two, including the annual dividend increases.
Control process gives transmission owners clear rebuilding of the overhead line, is on incentives to deliver savings for customers using programme for completion in 2015 and Financial performance in Networks innovation and efficiency, while providing a Ofgem has given capital funding approval Operating profit in Networks increased by 9.3%, highly reliable network: penalties also apply for of 53m 2013 14 prices for this phase.
from 874.2m to 955.4m, contributing 50.8% of poor performance.
Kintyre-Hunterston: This network SSEs total operating profit.
This comprised: reinforcement, including the subsea cable The investment undertaken by SHE Transmission from Crossaig on the Kintyre peninsula 136.7m in electricity transmission, compared is a significant contributor to economic growth around the north coast of Arran to with 92.6m: in the local, regional and national economy.
Hunterston, is well under way with 507.0m in electricity distribution, compared Over the past two years, a study conducted in completion of the platform for the substation with 511.6m: conjunction with PwC, has found that SHE and landing point for the subsea cable in 276.6m representing SSEs share of the Transmissions Beauly Denny project has Kintyre.
The current programme anticipates operating profit for SGN, compared with generated around 85m in Gross Value Added that the reinforcement will be operational 234.1m: and GVA to the Scottish economy and supported by 2016.
Ofgem has given capital funding 35.1m in other network businesses, around 1,500 jobs.
SHE Transmission plans to approval of 205.6m 2013 14 prices.
replicate the positive benefits from this project 41 Strategic Report Networks continued In 2014 15 SHE Transmission expects to incur Transmission to make a robust business case continuing policy and regulatory hurdles, with capital expenditure of around 400m, taking its for reinforcement where a case can be the objective of developing a robust case that RAV to over 1.6bn.
demonstrated to be economic and efficient.
demonstrates the affordability of the links.
While the volume and diversity of generation on Taking forward transmission upgrades the mainland enables a clear case to be made, Electricity Transmission priorities to meet the needs of generators making the business case for a subsea link to a for 2014 15 and beyond and customers number of potential generation developments For the SHE Transmission business, the core As stated above, Ofgem scrutinises major on the Scottish islands remains challenging.
activity for much of the next decade will be transmission reinforcements on a case-by-case construction.
Against this background, its basis seeking to deliver the right projects at the In recognition of this challenge, the UK priorities for 2014 15 and beyond are to: right time to minimise constraint on the government has confirmed additional support electricity system without risking excessive costs through an enhanced Islands Strike Price for meet key milestones in projects under for electricity consumers across Great Britain.
onshore wind and has issued a consultation construction, in a way that is consistent with This means that, to proceed to construction, indicating its position that the islands should all safety and environmental requirements: projects require not be subject to the competitive allocation, continue to implement the new operational competing with onshore wind on the mainland.
regimes for the 2013-21 Price Control and a demonstrable commitment from This, aligned with the strong wind resource in maintain high levels of system availability: developers: the north of Scotland, has led SHE Transmission work within the changing policy framework any necessary consents for development: and to continue to work with the UK government and, where appropriate, achieve regulatory authorisation from Ofgem that SHE and Scottish government to help find a solution approval for new links in an efficient and Transmission can recover the efficient cost to the policy and regulatory hurdles being faced timely manner: of its investment.
by developers on the Scottish islands.
make progress with projects in development, including implementing the programme of SHE Transmission has in place advanced plans Along with developers, SHE Transmission consulting with, and updating, interested parties: and associated planning consents for a new anticipates that the current uncertainty around maintain and develop effective stakeholder transmission link between Caithness and Moray, the transmission charging regime, which is being relationships: and including a subsea electricity cable in the Moray considered by Ofgem through Project TransmiT, ensure it has the people, skills, resources Firth.
The assessment from SHE Transmission should be resolved in the summer of 2014.
The and supply chain relationships that will be demonstrates that the customer benefit of the outcome will contribute to developers ability necessary to support growth.
new link, which is required to transmit a large to formalise their financial positions about their volume of electricity from renewable sources projects on the islands.
Electricity Distribution in the north of Scotland, is clear.
Ofgem is undertaking further detailed consultations on While these key issues continue towards a Performance in Scottish and Southern the project, to which a combination of onshore resolution, SHE Transmission is working closely Energy Power Distribution SSEPD reinforcements could be an alternative.
with government officials, developers and The performance of SSEs two electricity The subsea link has a forecast investment Ofgem in order to make further progress distribution companies during the year to requirement of around 1.3bn 2012 13 prices, through the regulatory approval process for 31March 2014 was as follows comparisons with which would take SHE Transmissions total the island connections, taking into account the the same period to 2013 : investment in the next four years to around 2bn.
If it is approved, revenue recovery is expected to begin in 2015 16.
SHE Transmission is planning to upgrade the Improving existing East Coast transmission line from an operating voltage of 275kV to 400kV, with associated substation developments.
The line resilience runs from Blackhillock in Moray to Kincardine in Fife.
Planning consent has now been received for the substations along the line and work continues to secure approval for the overhead line.
Plans for the upgrade are dependent on generators requirements and the timing of SHE Transmissions submission will be in line with meeting generators needs.
The project has a forecast investment requirement of around 0.5bn 2013 14 prices.
Working with stakeholders on the Scottish island groups One year on from devastating snow storms which affected 20,000 The new framework being implemented from homes on Arran and Kintyre SSEPD has undertaken on extensive 2017 under the UK governments Electricity works to bolster the resilience of the network.
This includes the Market Reform plans should bring some clarity 206m Kintyre-Hunterston subsea cable project.
to the volume of generation seeking connection to the network and will therefore allow SHE 42 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 1.
3. operating profit decreased by 0.9% to SSEPD has submitted all the evidence required This investment contributes to the key priority 507.0m: by Ofgem for its investigation into performance of providing an essential service to customers by electricity distributed fell by 1.2TWh to 40.4TWh: and processes over the Christmas period.
It delivering a reliable supply of electricity.
SSEPD excluding exceptional events, the average believes it has a strong case that its network area has a strong historic performance on network number of minutes of lost supply per was particularly affected by the weather.
Investing in the customer was 77 in the north 73 and 67 in the entire winter of 2013 14, it experienced three networks to maintain reliability is therefore the south 65 : and exceptional events storms in its north of critical to maintaining this record: and with new excluding exceptional events, the number of Scotland network and five in its central southern standards on restoring power within 12 hours, supply interruptions per 100 customers was England network, a total of eight major storms.
SSEPD continues to implement a programme to 75 in the north 69 and 68 in the south 62.
The cost of managing the impact of the winter keep assets in good condition and, under revised weather on the network has been around 25m, proposals for RIIO ED1, to further improve In addition to the exceptional weather events, including payment to customers who have reliability without increasing costs for customers.
the year was characterised by wet and windy experienced disruption due to adverse weather.
weather which had a negative impact on the Keeping costs down and improving average number of minutes of lost supply and The wind speeds and heavy rain led to flooding, customer service for RIIO ED1 average number of supply interruptions.
impassable roads, ground saturation, and fallen RIIO-ED1 will be the first electricity distribution trees.
Unusually, severe weather affected the Price Control review to reflect the new The small decrease in operating profit principally north of Scotland and central southern England regulatory framework first adopted in RIIO-T1 results from essentially flat revenue across the at similar times.
All of this made for some of the and RIIO-GD1 gas distribution.
It will run from two networks compared with 2012 13, together most challenging working conditions SSEPDs 2015 to 2023.
In line with wider trends in with higher storm related costs.
workforce has ever faced when trying to restore electricity networks, it puts an emphasis on power.
Power was restored to 99% of SSEPDs incentives to secure the innovation required for If, in any year, regulated network companies southern customers who lost power within two a cost effective transition to low carbon revenue is greater over recovery or lower days.
SSEPD remains very grateful for both the technology.
under recovery than is allowed under the dedication of engineers, tree-cutters and relevant Price Control, the difference is carried customer service employees and the patience SSEPD submitted a business plan in June 2013 forward and the subsequent prices the of customers.
and in November Ofgem announced that the companies may charge are varied.
Both plan had not been selected for fast-track.
networks are in an over-recovery position at Demonstrating that SSEPD is not complacent Nevertheless, SSEPD is encouraged that, as March 2014 as a result of the roll forward of prior about its performance, a consultation was with previous Price Controls, the business is year recovery positions and other regulatory launched on 3 January 2014 to gather feedback recognised as one of the leading companies on mechanisms being closed out at the year end.
from customers and interested parties on storm cost efficiency and that a number of proposals The over-recovery position for the two management in order to learn any lessons.
in key areas such as connections and customer distribution networks combined at the year The consultation closed on 28 March and, service have been accepted in full.
The outcome end is estimated at around 25m.
once fully analysed and considered, these of the decision has been used to review a views will feed into a range of improvements number of areas and a revised business plan was Volume of electricity distributed that will be set out in the summer of 2014.
In the submitted in March 2014.
Key proposals include: The total volume of electricity distributed by meantime, a number of improvements have the two companies in the year to 31 March 2014 been implemented including better information a reduction to the distribution element of the was 40.4TWh, compared with 41.6TWh in the from field employees on expected restoration electricity bill of around 15%: previous year.
Under the electricity distribution times, improvements to its award-winning a reduction in the frequency and duration of Price Control for 2010-15, the volume of Power Track App for smart phones and more power cuts: electricity distributed does not affect companies face-to-face customer liaison.
doubling the Guaranteed Standard payment overall allowed revenue although it does have to customers who are off supply for more an impact on the timing of revenue collection.
In addition, over the coming months, SSEPD will than 18 hours as a result of an unplanned be working collaboratively with DECC, other interruption: Managing the Networks during DNOs and the Electricity Networks Association more partnership working with relevant the wettest winter on record ENA to undertake the actions identified in the organisations to support vulnerable In March 2014, DECC published a report DECC review.
In particular, SSEPD strongly customers: and reviewing the winter weather that had been supports the recommendation that a single reducing by 10% the average time it takes experienced by electricity networks in 2013 14, three digit phone number for customers to use to receive a quote for connection and to including SSEPDs network in the north of during power cuts should be put in place and connect in to the network.
Scotland and, more severely, central southern will work with all relevant stakeholders to ensure England.
The report stated: Throughout this is delivered as quickly as practically possible.
While Ofgem has reduced its central reference December, January and February 2013 14, point of the appropriate allowed base return on the UK has been affected by an exceptional run Investing in network resilience equity from 6.3% to 6.0% post-tax real, SSEPD of severe winter storms.
The Met Office has Capital expenditure in electricity distribution will continue to make the case for a fair return confirmed that the two month period covering networks was 308.3m in the year to 31 March on equity: at the same time, this is just one part December and January for the South East and 2014, taking the total for the 2010-15 Price of a wider package of measures that will central Southern England has been the wettest Control so far to 1,069m.
The RAV of the comprise the final proposals for electricity since 1910.
Widespread high winds have also electricity distribution networks is estimated distribution between 2015 and 2023.
SSEPD been recorded across the country, and to total 3,050m at the end of March 2014 believes that its revised business plan should December 2013 has been confirmed as one and is expected to reach around 3.2bn by lead to a Price Control that is fair to customers of the windiest calendar months for the UK 31 March 2015. and investors alike.
43 Strategic Report Networks continued Innovating for the future comply fully with all safety standards and The change in SGNs operating profit reflects of electricity networks environmental requirements: a positive start to the new price control, SSEs electricity distribution businesses are place customers needs at the centre of plans continued good operational performance as leading the way in keeping costs down for for the networks: well as an adjustment for the under recovery customers and preparing for the future through achieve an acceptable and appropriate position in the year ended 31 March 2013. innovation.
It has opened the sector-leading settlement from Ofgem on RIIO-ED1: Active Network Management scheme on ensure that the networks are managed as Only 3.5% of SGNs transportation income is Orkney to the North East of Scotland and efficiently as possible, delivering required volume-related: the remaining 96.5% is related anticipates the roll out to other network areas outputs while maintaining tight controls over to the maximum capacity requirements of its of SSEPD in due course.
This system uses operational expenditure: customers.
A small part of SGNs operating advanced IT systems to balance energy flows, implement actions from the reviews of storm profit is derived from its non-regulated activities.
thereby allowing many small and medium sized performance by the autumn: generators to connect to the network in areas put responsiveness at the heart of day-to-day Implementing the new Gas where there is no permanent spare capacity.
operations, so that the number and duration Distribution Price Control of power cuts experienced by customers is SGN accepted the Final Proposals from Ofgem In addition, good progress is being made on kept to a minimum: for its Price Control for the period 1 April 2013 a series of major smart projects, with total ensure that there is adequate capacity to to 31 March 2021 and is now working under the approved funding under the Ofgem Low Carbon meet changing demands on the electricity new RIIO framework ensuring that outputs are Networks LCN Fund of 34.5m which are being system: and met, incentives are maximised and innovation is led by SSEs electricity distribution businesses: make progress on the deployment of delivered effectively while running an efficient, innovative investment in smart grids.
SGN has been allowed Thames Valley Vision TVV : based in and by Ofgem over 4.6bn at 2012 13 prices of cost around Bracknell, aims to demonstrate that allowances to deliver these outputs efficiently.
Gas Distribution by applying new technologies to the local network SSEPD can provide a lower cost Performance in SGN SGNs investment programme is key to this alternative to redeveloping the network SSE receives 50% of the distributable earnings delivery and within the overall cost allowances, in order to meet increasing electricity use: from Scotia Gas Networks SGN, in line with its Ofgem has allowed around 2.8bn over the these trials also have potential to significantly equity holding, and also provides some, but next eight years to cover new investment and reduce costs to customers.
reducing, levels of support through a managed to manage the risks relating to SGNs My Electric Avenue: SSEPD, as the host service agreement.
In the year to 31 March 2014: existing assets.
electricity distribution company, is working with EA Technology to undertake a series of SSEs share of SGNs operating profit was trials with electric vehicle drivers to assess 276.6m, compared with 234.1m in the their cars impact on the network.
previous year: Solent Achieving Value from Efficiency gas transported fell by 11.6% to 143.7TWh: and SAVE : is a new project to trial and establish 98.7% of uncontrolled gas escapes were the extent to which energy efficiency attended within one hour of notification, measures can be considered as a cost compared with 98.4%, and exceeding the effective, predictable and sustainable tool Ofgem standard of 97%.
for managing peak electricity demand as an alternative to network reinforcement.
The project will run until 2018.
Weathering In addition, the Northern Isles New Energy Solutions NINES project continues to use heat and electricity storage to manage intelligently the storms the impact of movements in demand on electricity generation and forms part of the Shetland Integrated Plan which was submitted to Ofgem in July 2013.
Ofgem has now responded, requiring SHEPD to begin a competitive market process, preceded by an open consultation, to determine the lowest cost and most efficient solution for meeting Shetlands future energy needs.
It anticipates this taking around an additional 12 months, after which it will consider the successful option.
SHEPD is committed to working with Ofgem, communities and interested parties to Over Christmas 2013 SSEPDs network in southern England bore commence the competitive process as quickly the brunt of severe storms.
Power was restored to 97.4% of SSEPDs as possible.
customers within two days or 99%, if customers who lost power for three minutes or less are included in the figures.
Electricity Distribution priorities in 2014 15 and beyond During 2014 15 and beyond SSEs priorities in Electricity Distribution are to: 44 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 1.
This investment will allow SGN to: deliver a strong financial performance and an acceptable shareholder return: and deliver a safe and reliable network for its grow unregulated income to support the core customers: business and build a diversified portfolio of minimise the impact on the environment and assets in the UK.
reduce disruption for customers and communities: and Other Networks deliver new customer-driven initiatives to help reduce fuel poverty and increase awareness Focusing and developing Other Networks of the dangers of carbon monoxide.
SSEs Other Networks businesses Lighting Services, Utility Solutions and Telecoms are Investing in gas networks and market-based and relatively small when securing growth in its RAV compared with its  At the end of 2013 14, SGNs total RAV is energy networks.
Their contribution to SSEs estimated to be 4.88bn.
In the year to operating profit stayed almost flat at 35.1m 31March2014, SGN invested 321.7m in compared to 35.9m in the previous year.
capital expenditure and mains and services replacement projects, compared with 398.0m In recognition of the competitive markets in in the comparable period to 2013 due to the which they operate, these businesses have been introduction of new contracting arrangements brought under new leadership as part of an and timing issues driven primarily by the Enterprise division within the SSE group.
This planning phase of its eight-year investment division will bring enhanced and co-ordinated programme: focus to the business-to-business opportunities across SSE, including SSE Contracting.
Building, The majority of the mains replacement for example, on Utility Solutions success in expenditure was incurred under the Iron increasing its number of out-of-area electricity Mains Risk Reduction Programme IMRRP networks in operation to 168, further which was started in 2002.
This requires that consideration is being given to opportunities all iron gas mains within 30 metres of homes to maximise their growth potential over the and premises must be replaced over a coming years.
In the year to 31 March 2014, SGN replaced 1,088km of its metallic gas At the same time, it is important to ensure that mains with modern polyethylene plastic pipe.
the financial structure for these businesses is SGN is also committed to making new gas optimised, and for this reason SSE is seeking connections to existing homes which are to dispose of its portfolio of Private Finance not on mains gas as affordable as possible, Initiative PFI lighting services contracts, and and is running an Assisted Connections thereby secure a reduction in its net debt.
scheme, under which 6,144 properties were connected to its networks in the year to Other Networks including Enterprise 31March 2014. priorities in 2014 15 and beyond SSE Contracting, Lighting Services, Utility Investment will continue to be a top priority Solutions and Telecoms have specific priorities for SGN and, in line with that, it expects to invest for 2014 15, but across all of them there is a around 350m in capital expenditure and mains continuing need to: and service replacement projects during 2014 15. work together to realise growth potential: enhance business relationship management: Gas Distribution priorities increase efficiency and achieve excellent in 2014 15 and beyond customer service: During 2013 14, SGN refreshed its company undertake effective product development: goals.
Its key priorities are now to: and promote technological change and deliver excellent levels of safety and innovation.
operational performance: create an inclusive and engaged team, proud Networks conclusion to work: shape the future of a low-carbon The continuing success of SSEs  by leading the way in the regulated and market-based Networks will be development of green gas: founded on efficiency and innovation in minimise its effect on the environment and operations, such as restoring power supplies have a positive impact on local communities: following interruptions, and investments, such meet regulatory outputs and maximise as upgrading the transmission network in the incentives, while continuing to deliver value north of Scotland.
This, in turn, underpins SSEs for all stakeholders: ability to target annual dividend increases of at least RPI inflation.
