Strategic Report Strategy A strategy for creating long-term value Core purpose Core purpose SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
To provide the energy people need For more information see page 06.
XX in a reliable and sustainable way Financial objective SSEs success in fulfilling its core purpose enables it to achieve its first financial objective, which is to remunerate shareholders investment in the Financial objective company through the payment of dividends that increase each year by at least RPI inflation.
For more information see page 14.
XX Annual dividend growth Consistent strategy SSEs strategy for achieving its financial objective is to deliver the efficient operation of, and investment in, a balanced range of  strategy regulated and market-based businesses in energy production, storage, transmission, distribution, supply and related services in the UK and Ireland.
Operational Disciplined Balanced Geographic For more information see page 12.
XX excellence investment business focus Long-term values SSE believes that companies dont just have to execute their strategy, achieve their objectives and fulfil their purpose: they have to do so in a responsible way.
For this reason, SSE adopted Long-term values in 2006 the SSE SET of core values: Safety we believe all accidents are preventable, so we do everything safely and responsibly or not at all.
Service we give our customers service we are proud of and make commitments that we deliver.
Efficiency we keep things simple, do the Safety Service Efficiency work that adds value and avoid wasting money, materials, energy or time.
Sustainability our decisions and actions are ethical, responsible and balanced, helping to achieve environmental, social and economic well-being for current and future generations.
Excellence we strive to get better, smarter and more innovative and be the best in everything we do.
Sustainability Excellence Teamwork Teamwork we support and value our colleagues and enjoy working together as a team in an open and honest way.
