Directors' Report Remuneration Report The Chairmans statement Our Issues Transparent The Committee considered the following key issues in the course of last year: appropriate salaries on the appointment of disclosure Alistair Phillips-Davies as Chief Executive, and Gregor Alexander, in his expanded role as Finance Director: As Chairman of the Committee, I find the new performance assessment against both longer-term and shorter-term incentive plans: regulations this year reassuring.
They call for changes to the design of the incentive plans, transparency and context in reporting remuneration to align the plans more closely to future business priorities, and to ensure that the issues.
We have always tried to report in that way.
plans have a specific customer focus as a key element of them.
We welcome the chance to disclose the major issues we have discussed over the year, along An important factor for these key decisions with our key decisions.
Indeed, one of the is that SSE remains committed to maintaining advantages of being listed on the London Stock a fair and balanced pay policy.
Exchange, as SSE is, is that a company must be transparent in its disclosures and accountable SSE is also committed to embracing the to its shareholders.
letter and the spirit of the new regulations on remuneration reporting.
We would welcome any feedback on how they have been interpreted in this report and should be interpreted in future reports.
Our Decisions Salary Setting the remuneration for the new Chief Executive, Alistair Phillips-Davies and for Gregor Alexander, with his enhanced responsibilities, was a key focus for the Committee during the year.
We retained our core principle of offering total executive remuneration at below the market median for FTSE 20-50 companies excluding financial services.
Reflecting also guidance from our shareholders, we appointed our new CEO on a salary more than 15% below the outgoing incumbent, with the potential for further increases in the following couple of years as he settles into the role.
Incentive Plan Structure Another important consideration for the Committee was to ensure that incentive plans have the potential to reward Executives fairly for delivering business performance in a changing and challenging environment.
The Committee reviewed its approach to the incentive plans and concluded that they should be reshaped to align more explicitly with both shareholder and customer expectations.
The plans also have to be achievable but stretching with the aim of paying around half of maximum levels for good performance.
We have also introduced an additional 2 year post-vesting holding period for new awards made under the PSP scheme.
Importantly, while the measures in the plans have been reshaped, the quantum of each plan remains unchanged, reflecting our commitment to maintain a balanced and conservative pay policy.
Performance against Plans stakeholders struggling to see the wood the Companys exemplary record of annual The Committee also had to determine for the trees.
With just four elements to increases in the dividend paid to shareholders.
performance against the plans in the current remuneration, I do not believe that is the Other key financial indicators, such as adjusted year.
The annual incentive performance case at SSE.
earnings per share, and operational reflected a financial performance ahead performance indicators are summarised in of consensus estimates, strong individual Acceptability this Report.
Our philosophy is that the right performance against objectives and positive Acceptability means that Executive Directors strategic measures, such as teamwork and teamwork across the senior management team, should be paid fairly for their responsibilities customer focus, lead directly to financial producing an outturn of 60% of maximum.
at the head of a large and very complex performance.
Performance against the longer-term business.
Its also why we consult with leading performance share plan, where only one shareholders, most recently in the spring of Longevity, acceptability and simplicity remain of the performance elements were met, 2014, when they reminded us in particular that key features of remuneration in SSE and led to an outturn of 22.8% of maximum.
this is a challenging industry and remuneration underpin everything that is set out in this Report, should ensure the quality of our executives.
Its including the policy for which shareholders important to have alignment between how our approval is being sought at this years AGM.
Our Approach Executive Directors are rewarded and what our Transparency and accountability stakeholders expect of the business.
Our Challenge Transparency is particularly beneficial in a sector such as energy, where the provision of electricity This means that executives should not be With this policy, SSE should be able to retain and gas is central to society.
People must be overpaid when the core purpose of the business and attract Executive Directors over the next few able to see clearly the companys financial is a public good providing the energy people years, but that must never be taken for granted.
and operational performance and, beyond need.
Nor should they be underpaid if we are Those years will be challenging, with the energy that, the purpose, values, culture and strategy to retain the services of the best leaders.
Above industry being subject to an unprecedented which underpin it.
This Remuneration Report all, they should be measured on the things that period of scrutiny and change.
is intended to aid that view, looking back at matter most.
remuneration in 2013 14 and looking forward SSE believes that scrutiny is entirely legitimate to remuneration policy in the years ahead.
As a reflection of our core purpose, SSEs and that change should be embraced, but in success in meeting the needs of customers, such a period the companys shareholders, Accountability is also important.
Shareholders we have introduced a specific customer service employees and customers need it to be led have invested directly in SSE and, as owners of measure into both the annual incentive and by people with exceptional skills and tireless the company, enabled it to borrow money from performance share plan.
But, as we have done commitment.
Those skills and that commitment debt investors.
In this way, SSE helps maintain, in the last two years, we also reserve the right need to be fairly rewarded, and that is what SSEs upgrade or build the assets that will deliver safe to exercise discretion to override such an award, remuneration policy and the principles which and secure energy to customers in the years even if the measure has been met, if there has lie behind it are designed to achieve.
Shareholders are therefore entitled to been a failure in how a part of the business has their say, and I was pleased that 99.1% of the been delivered.
Our Future votes cast by SSEs shareholders at the AGM in 2013 were in favour of last years Consultation is essential to the work we do I shall step down after almost eight years as Remuneration Report.
to ensure Executive Directors remuneration Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, is appropriate, and we believe the principles and more than eleven as a non-Executive, Principles which lie behind it are consistent with at this years AGM.
I am pleased that Richard The principles of SSEs remuneration policy, shareholder expectations.
Gillingwater, already a Committee member, which are summarised in this Report, are will become Chairman.
I hope that shareholders Longevity remuneration has been a high profile issue and other stakeholders will see this years In a long-term business especially, such as and we expect that to continue.
We have Report as the latest evidence of SSEs continuing energy, remuneration for Executive Directors benefited greatly from open consultation commitment to these principles, in particular, and other senior managers should encourage with shareholders, informed advice from to simplicity, acceptability and longevity in sustained, long-term commitment to the remuneration specialists, feedback from other remuneration policy, practice and reporting.
business itself and to meeting the needs stakeholders and, above all, the commitment over time of the customers it serves.
to the company displayed by the Executive Simplicity Directors and other senior managers.
Simplicity means that what Executive Directors I believe SSE benefited from longevity in are paid is made up of just four elements: base 2013 14, when Alistair Phillips-Davies, after I fully expect that, at SSE, open consultation salary, plus benefits: pension rights: an annual 17years service with the company, succeeded will continue to take place, informed advice will incentive scheme, with cash and shares: and Ian Marchant as Chief Executive and then continue to be sought, stakeholder feedback will a long-term incentive scheme, with shares.
made such an impressive start to the job continue to be welcomed and commitment to As well as being straightforward, this represents managing decisively within the organisation the Company will continue to be strong.
I have a balance of fixed and performance-related and developing a leadership voice for the no doubt also that this will support greatly SSEs remuneration.
We believe that annual industry outside it.
In this, he has been and continuing commitment to transparency and performance at the standard we expect, continues to be ably supported by Gregor accountability in everything it does.
should result in a broadly equal split between Alexander in his expanded role, whose service fixed and performance-related remuneration.
Lady Rice CBE Simplicity is important in remuneration Identifying appropriate performance measures Remuneration Committee reporting.
It serves neither transparency for a long-term business, such as energy and Chairman nor accountability if complex remuneration the environment in which it operates, carries structures leave shareholders and other a number of benefits.
