Strategic Report Financial overview SSEs principal financial objective is to deliver annual aboveinflation increases in the dividend.
To do this, it operates and Strategic focus #1 invests in a balanced range of energy networks, retail and Fulfilling our core wholesale businesses.
purpose Strategy Retail the supply of electricity, gas and SSEs decision-making for both other services to household and business operations and investments aims to Fulfilling SSEs core purpose customers: and reflect all three parts of the energy SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy Wholesale the production and storage of trilemma security of supply, people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
energy and energy portfolio management.
Its strategy is to deliver the efficient operation of, and investment in, a balanced range of This means that SSE is well placed to recognise It has adopted three long-term priorities  and market-based and understand the breadth of issues that could across its balanced range of businesses businesses in energy production, storage, affect the people and organisations that which reflect, and respond to, the issues transmission, distribution, supply and related ultimately pay for the production, distribution arising from the energy trilemma: services in the energy markets in Great Britain and supply of energy customers.
This means: SSE is able to apply across all of its businesses Wholesale sustainability in energy best practice in critical areas such as safety, production through a diverse operating and investing efficiently is how customer service, stakeholder engagement generation portfolio, including the SSE serves its customers and makes and large capital project management.
largest amount of renewable energy investments to meet their long-term energy capacity in the UK and Ireland, that needs and also to earn the profit that allows SSEs balanced range of businesses means that helps keep the lights on by being it to give a return to investors: it earns revenue from nine different energyavailable to generate electricity when maintaining a balanced range of based activities, which gives it strong required and is flexible enough to  businesses means foundations from which to deliver the levels respond to changes in demand when SSE does not become over-exposed to any of profitability and long-term value required to they occur: one part of the energy sector but can pursue support annual dividend growth while reducing Networks efficiency and innovation opportunities in each of them where the risks to its achievement through the balance to help keep the lights on and provide appropriate: between, and within, SSEs businesses, assets the necessary connections to the production, storage, transmission, and investment options.
electricity system: and distribution, supply and related services Retail digital excellence and a brand means that there is diversity of business In addition, SSE believes that the vertical people trust so that operating costs activity in SSE but also depth through the integration of electricity generation and supply are kept to a minimum, opportunities focus on a single sector, energy: and brings significant benefits for customers, to increase the efficient use of energy Great Britain and Ireland give SSE a including protection from the price volatility are maximised and customers trust clear geographical focus, allowing it to that arises in wholesale markets.
The State of SSE to do the right things for them.
maintain and deploy strong experience and the Market Assessment published by Ofgem understanding of the markets in which it in March 2014 also noted the benefits that SSE believes these long-term priorities operates and to focus on the needs of the vertical integration of electricity generation reflect the energy trilemma, the shape of customers which it serves.
and supply should bring for customers while its business and the needs of customers.
also commenting that it had not been able to The financial objective of this strategy is to assess the net impact on customers of vertical increase annually the dividend payable to integration overall.
Priority for 2014 15 shareholders by at least RPI inflation.
This is Implement a disciplined 1.6bn capital because shareholders have either invested At the same time, SSE has listened to the views and investment programme.
directly in SSE or, as owners of the company, of its customers and other stakeholders and have enabled it to borrow money from debt acknowledged that more needs to be done investors to finance investment, mainly in to make the complexities of the energy sector Forecast capital and investment electricity generation and electricity networks, easier to understand and has no objection in expenditure composition 2014 15 % that will help to meet customers energy needs principle to greater separation of Retail and Networks 56 over the long term.
Subject to securing Retail 5 the necessary third party consents, SSE will Wholesale 30 Maintaining a balanced range reorganise its companies so that there are Other 9 of energy businesses separate legal entities for its energy supply SSE has three reportable segments covering its Retail and its electricity generation and energy Wholesale, Networks and Retail and businesses: portfolio management Wholesale activities.
This will enhance the transparency of the Networks the  measurement and reporting of the performance transmission and distribution of electricity of these businesses.
Longer term, SSE remains and gas to peoples homes, offices and open-minded about further reform that is in businesses, and other related networks: the clear interests of customers.
Strategic focus #2 Strategic focus #3 Strategic focus #4 Sticking to our Maintaining a Achieving our core values balanced business financial objective SSE maintains a strong emphasis on SSE has reportable segments SSE focuses on the dividend because its six core values, the SSE SET of Safety, covering Wholesale, Networks the ultimate objective of investing Service, Efficiency, Sustainability, and Retail businesses.
capital in companies is to secure Excellence and Teamwork.
for the full definitions of these values.
SSE is the only company listed on the London Stock Exchange which owns, Receiving and reinvesting dividends is They were adopted in 2006, almost eight operates and invests in a balanced the biggest source of a shareholders years after SSE was formed, to reflect the group of  return over the long-term.
SSEs target shared values of people across the energy businesses, such as electricity of annual increases in the dividend of at company.
SSE believes these values are networks, and market-based energy least RPI inflation means it has to look especially significant because energy is businesses, such as energy supply and beyond short-term value and maintain something which people need rather electricity generation.
The balance a disciplined, consistent and long-term than want and so the highest possible between these activities means that: approach to business activities.
standards in its operations and while energy is at their core, SSE has investments are essential.
a diverse range of businesses: Ultimately, however, dividends are paid within those businesses, SSE has out of earnings and, over the long-term, This means that safety comes first.
SSE a diverse range of assets: and earnings must increase to support believes that the effective management to add to these assets, SSE has a dividend growth.
For this reason, of safety issues is a barometer of effective diverse range of investment options.
SSE believes that the dividend per management of all operational and share should be covered by its adjusted investment-related activities.
Its ultimate This balance, diversity, asset base and earnings per share within a range of goal is injury-free working.
range of investment options means SSE around 1.5 times over the medium-term has a broad platform from which to although it can temporarily fall below In addition, SSE believes that service deliver the levels of profitability and that range.
of the highest possible standards for long-term value required to support customers, efficiency in operations and annual dividend growth.
In addition, the In addition, SSE believes that it should investments, sustainability at the heart risks to the achievement of that growth maintain a strong balance sheet, of decision-making, excellence in all are contained by that balance and by evidenced by its commitment to the aspects of business activity and teamwork the diversity of SSEs businesses, assets current criteria for a single A credit rating.
on the part of all employees should and investment options.
It believes that a strong balance sheet support the delivery of annual increases enables it to secure funding from debt in the dividend payable to shareholders Moreover, SSEs balanced business investors at competitive rates, pursue that at least match RPI inflation.
means it can apply across all of its investment or acquisition opportunities businesses best practice in critical areas if they enhance earnings per share and such as safety, customer service and take decisions for the long-term.
Priority for 2014 15 Priority for 2014 15 Priority for 2014 15 Deliver a reduction in the Total Maintain a diverse balance between Deliver an annual dividend increase Recordable Injury Rate.
Wholesale, Networks and Retail of at least RPI inflation.
Total Recordable Injury Rate Operating profit composition Dividend per share pence per 100,000 hours worked in 2013 14 % 0.20 Wholesale 34 100 Networks 51 80 0.15 Retail 15 60 0.10 40 0.05 20 13 Strategic Report Financial overview continued Focusing on strong decarbonisation, so that the UK and Ireland Sustainability core value: Our decisions and financial management can meet their legally-binding targets for actions are ethical, responsible and balanced, SSE focuses on the dividend because the greenhouse gas emissions reduction: and helping to achieve environmental, social and ultimate objective of investing capital in affordability, so that people, organisations economic well-being for current and future companies is to secure a return: and receiving and businesses can get the energy they need generations.
and reinvesting dividends is the biggest source at the lowest possible price.
of a shareholders return over the long term.
In practice, this means its decision making for SSEs target of annual increases in the dividend The security of supply issue was addressed both operations and investment aims to reflect of at least Retail Price Index RPI inflation means in the Statutory Security of Supply Report all three parts of the trilemma and in this way be it must, can and does look beyond short-term published by the UK Department of Energy and as consistent as possible with the priorities of its value and profit maximisation in any one year Climate Change and Ofgem in October 2013. customers Retail and Networks and with the and maintain a disciplined, consistent and It stated that GBs electricity system faces some direction of public policy in the UK and Ireland.
long-term approach to the management of, significant challenges over coming years as This means, for example, that while SSE supports and investment in, business activities.
older, more polluting generation capacity has action to address climate change, it also believes been closing under EU directives and other that steps should be taken to ensure such action Ultimately, however, dividends are paid out of capacity is naturally coming to the end of its does not make energy unaffordable for the most earnings and, over the long term, earnings must working life.
In response to tightening capacity vulnerable electricity and gas customers.
increase to support dividend growth.
For this margins and increasing risks to security of reason, SSE believes that the dividend per share supply, the UK government has legislated In participating in the continuing development should, over time, be covered by its adjusted to introduce a Capacity Market in 2018 and of, and debates on, energy markets and energy earnings per share within a range of around 1.5 National Grid Electricity Transmission plans policy at EU level and in the UK and Ireland, times.
The risks to which adjusted earnings per to introduce new balancing services from the SSEs approach will be founded on the definition share are subject, however, mean that dividend winter of 2014 15, including the Supplemental of its Sustainability core value, focused on the cover can fall temporarily below this target Balancing Reserve, designed to provide achievement of its long-term priorities and range and it could, in some circumstances, electricity customers with additional safeguards directed towards the achievement of the be closer to around 1.2 times in 2016 17. against an uncertain security of supply outlook maximum possible confidence in the energy See Addressing the energy trilemma below.
In addition, SSE believes that it should maintain The decarbonisation issue is illustrated by the SSE is therefore open-minded about further a strong balance sheet, illustrated by its requirement for the UK and Ireland to comply reform that is in the clear interests of customers commitment to the current criteria for a single with the EU Climate Change and Renewable and it will look for ways of responding A credit rating.
As a business focused on the Energy Package, enacted in 2009, including constructively to political and regulatory long term, it believes that a strong balance sheet a reduction of at least 20% in the levels of initiatives.
enables it to secure funding from debt investors greenhouse gas emissions across the EU, at competitive and efficient rates and take compared with 1990 levels, and an increase Managing issues which could decisions that are focused on the long term to at least 20% of all energy consumption being have an impact on SSE all of which support the delivery of annual generated from renewable sources.
The EU The impact of the trilemma is being seen in increases in the dividend of at least RPI inflation.
believes that these targets, plus that for a 20% a number of issues which could have an improvement in EU energy efficiency, represent operational and or financial impact on SSE in the Focusing on the SSE SET of core values an integrated approach to climate and energy coming years.
These include Companies dont just need to earn profits: they policy that aims to combat climate change, should earn profits in a responsible way.
It is for increase the EUs energy security and strengthen the continuing impact of difficult market this reason that SSE adopted in 2006 the SSE its competitiveness.
conditions in thermal generation, which have SET of core values: Safety: Service: Efficiency: already persisted for some years: Sustainability: Excellence: and Teamwork.
The affordability issue has become more the possibility of a freeze on retail energy prominent as a result of the cumulative impact prices being legislated upon in Great Britain The first value is Safety, which is defined as: on retail energy prices of the costs associated after the 2015 general election: We believe all accidents are preventable, so we with decarbonisation and governmentthe outcome of the RIIO Revenue Incentives do everything safely and responsibly, or not at sponsored social schemes, the need to upgrade Innovation Outputs ED1 process for all.
In 2013 14, SSEs Total Recordable Injury Rate electricity and gas networks and the long-term determining electricity distribution TRIR per 100,000 hours worked by employees rise in wholesale costs for commodities such as companies Price Controls for 2015-23, where was 0.12, compared with 0.14 in the previous gas.
The impact of higher prices has been Ofgem has already reduced its central year.
Despite this improved performance, 40 heightened by the continuing effects of the reference point for assessing cost of equity employees were injured in the course of their economic recession that occurred from 2008. from 6.3% to 6.0%: and work during the year and SSEs long-term goal It has, however, been mitigated to an extent by changes arising from any other political, remains, quite simply, to achieve injury-free the decline in energy consumption.
This is constitutional and regulatory developments, working.
illustrated by Ofgems decision, announced in such as the competition study process September 2013, to reduce its Typical Domestic instigated by the UK government in Addressing the energy trilemma Consumption Values for electricity and gas in October 2013, which has resulted in a Energy policy in both the United Kingdom and line with recent evidence of a sustained fall in recommendation by Ofgem that the Ireland has three broad objectives that have domestic energy consumption.
Competition and Markets Authority CMA commanded general support and which are should undertake an investigation in to the characterised as the energy trilemma.
They are: Balancing environmental, social energy market in Great Britain.
and economic well-being security of supply, so that the lights stay on: In response to the energy trilemma, SSE Constitutional developments could include the adopted in April 2013 a new definition of its Scottish referendum on 18 September, about 14 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 1.
3. which SSE remains strictly neutral, resulting in a confidence, allows regulators to regulate and In the year to 31 March 2014, SSEs adjusted decision that Scotland should leave the UK and encourages investors to invest in the earnings per share were 123.4p, based on become a separate country.
In April 2014, the UK GB energy market.
965.5million shares, compared with 118.5p, government published its Scotland analysis: based on 952.0 million shares, in the previous Energy paper which stated that: Scotland, Wales SSE believes that a CMA referral provides the year.
As stated in its Notification of Close Period and England currently enjoy a fully integrated opportunity to reach a new, lasting settlement in March 2014, SSE expects adjusted earnings Great Britain GB energy market...
If Scotland on the energy market in Great Britain that per share in 2014 15 to be around or slightly becomes an independent state, the current commands broad regulatory, political and public greater than in 2013 14. integrated GB energy system could not continue support and it will contribute positively to the as it is now.
In view of the wider energy sector conditions, including the issues set out under Focusing SSE has long recognised that the processes on the energy trilemma above, SSE recognises Dividend Per Share and Adjusted of negotiation following a Yes vote would be that its ability to deliver increases in adjusted Earnings Per Share likely to take time, be complex and result in earnings per share is subject to greater risk in changes to the existing single energy market.
As stated in March 2014, This would have implications for its operations SSEs first financial responsibility to its it recognises, therefore, that dividend cover and investments and so represents increased shareholders is to give them a return on their could, temporarily, fall below its target range legislative and regulatory risk.
In the event of a investment through the payment of dividends.
of around 1.5 times and be closer to around Yes vote, SSE would aim to work constructively The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.2 times in 2016 17. with the Scottish and UK governments, with the 60.7p per share, to which a Scrip alternative is objective of meeting the needs of Networks and offered, compared with 59.0p in the previous Adjusted Profit Before Tax Retail customers, while safeguarding the year, an increase of 2.9%.
This will make a interests of investors.
full-year dividend of 86.7p per share, which is: Increasing Adjusted Profit Before Tax These financial results for the year to 31 March In addition SSE, in common with other energy an increase of 3.0% compared with 2012 13, 2014 are reported under International Financial companies, is exposed to a range of geowhich is just above RPI inflation: and Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU.
In political, market and other risks which it will covered 1.42 times by SSEs adjusted earnings line with its policy since 2005 06, SSE focuses continue to manage through financial and per share.
on profit before tax before exceptional items, operational discipline.
In respect of the possible re-measurements arising from IAS 39, and after retail price freeze legislation, RIIO-ED1 and the Targeting dividend increases of at least the removal of taxation on profits from jointly expected CMA investigation, SSE will continue to RPI inflation in 2014 15 and beyond controlled entities and associates.
Following the argue strongly for policies and decisions that are The stated financial goal of SSEs strategy is to adoption of IAS 19R, which impacts the reported fair to energy bill payers and to investors and deliver annual increases in the dividend and, profit measures, adjusted profit before tax will support the delivery of secure, lower carbon and as set out in its Notification of Close Period in March also be stated excluding interest costs on net affordable supplies of energy over the long term.
2014, its target for 2014 15 onwards is to deliver pension scheme liabilities.
These costs are annual dividend increases of at least RPI inflation non-cash and SSE believes that in order to focus Working for a new, lasting settlement measured against the average annual rate of RPI on underlying performance it is appropriate to on the energy market in Great Britain inflation across each of the 12 months to March.
exclude them from all adjusted profit measures.
SSE has submitted and published see sse.
com A full explanation of the impact of the adoption its response to Ofgems consultation on the Increasing Adjusted Earnings Per Share of IAS 19R, including the restatement of the proposal to make a market investigation To monitor its financial performance over the previous years reported results, is included in reference to the CMA in respect of the supply medium-term, SSE focuses consistently on the Notes to the Financial Statements.
and acquisition of energy in Great Britain.
SSE adjusted earnings per share, which is calculated hopes that the CMA does not focus solely on by excluding the charge for deferred tax, As a result, adjusted profit before tax the household energy market, but that its work exceptional items and the impact of recovers small businesses and industrial and measurements arising from International reflects the underlying profits of SSEs commercial customers and that it looks at all Accounting Standard IAS 39 see also business: parts of the energy supply chain that are not Increasing Adjusted Profit Before Tax below.
reflects the basis on which the business is .
managed: and Adjusted earnings per share has the avoids the volatility that arises from IAS 39 fair In particular, SSE believes that the expected straightforward benefit of defining the amount value measurement.
CMA investigation should have the following of profit after tax that has been earned for each five simple objectives: Ordinary Share and so provides an important The tables on page 16 reconciles SSEs adjusted measure of underlying financial performance.
profit before tax to its reported profit before get the scope right, so it is broad enough to In addition to financial performance, however, tax and also sets out the position after tax and restore trust in the competitive markets: SSEs adjusted earnings per share are influenced in respect of adjusted earnings per share.
The focus on all energy customers, so what they by two specific factors: volatility that arises from IAS 39 and the impact pay for is defined and transparent: of the adjustment relating to IAS 19R can also create simple markets, which encourage new hybrid capital securities qualify for be observed.
entrants and enable different business recognition as equity and so charges for the models to thrive: coupon associated with them are presented Delivering Adjusted Profit before Tax establish clear measures of success in within dividends, with this cost reflected Adjusted profit before tax rose by 9.6%, from advance, so people can see objectively how within adjusted earnings per share : and 1,415.1m to 1,551.1m in 2013 14.
Excluding the market is performing: and the Scrip dividend scheme, approved by the gas production assets acquired in April 2013, achieve lasting results, so there is a clear and shareholders in 2010, results in the issue of the increase was 5.0%.
enduring framework that gives customers additional ordinary shares.
15 Strategic Report Financial overview continued While SSEs Networks, Retail and Wholesale This was, however, offset by the electricity not be determined until they unwind.
segments were all profitable, Retail recorded generation costs associated with CO emissions.
Exceptional items Impact of the movement The pre-tax exceptional charges totalling The 9.3% increase in operating profit in on derivatives IAS 39 747.2m have come as a result of two main Networks reflects in particular: The adverse movement on derivatives under IAS factors: 39 of 212.0m shown in the table below and on investment in the asset base of Electricity the face of the Income Statement has arisen the announcement, on 26 March 2014, of a Transmission resulting in higher income: and primarily from deterioration in the fair value value programme of disposals of a number increasing operating profit in Scotia Gas of forward commodity purchase contracts of non-core assets and businesses and the Networks SGN due to a good start to the accounted for under IAS 39.
The fair value of identification of further operational new Price Control that began on 1 April 2013. such contracts is derived by comparing the efficiencies: and contractual delivery price against the prevailing a further significant review of the operational The 28.6% decline in operating profit in Retail market forward price at the balance sheet date.
plant in SSEs Wholesale segment, with a reflects in particular: The position at 31 March 2014 for such specific focus on thermal power generation contracts, primarily electricity and gas, was a plant and gas storage facilities.
lower use of energy by customers: and liability of 265.4m compared to a liability on higher costs including the costs of gas.
similar contracts at 31 March 2013 of 114.5m The value programme is designed to ensure a movement of 150.9m.
The actual value of SSE is well-positioned for future challenges Within the Retail segment, the profit margin the contracts will be determined as the relevant arising from the energy trilemma.
As part of it, in Energy Supply, as measured by adjusted commodity is delivered to meets customers SSE announced its decision to scale back its operating profit as a percentage of revenue, energy needs, which will predominately be commitment in relation to offshore wind fell from 4.2% to 2.9% in 2013 14.
SSEs decision within the subsequent 12 months.
As a result, projects and has also conducted a review of to freeze household energy prices in Great SSE believes the movement in fair value of the its onshore wind development projects.
Britain means its Energy Supply profit margin contracts in the current year is not relevant to Non-core businesses identified for disposal is not expected to recover to the level achieved underlying performance.
include SSEs portfolio of PFI street lighting in 2012 13 before 2016 17 at the earliest.
contracts, a Telecoms data centre and the gas In addition to this, an adverse movement on connections activity within Other Networks.
The 24.8% increase in operating profit the fair valuation of interest and currency As a consequence, SSE has recognised in Wholesale reflects in particular: derivatives of 61.1m arising from the relative provisions for certain exceptional closure and strengthening of Sterling and the net position exit costs associated with the programme.
The greater output of renewable energy, including on interest rate swaps was recognised in the year announcement also referred to a programme from offshore wind farms: and to 31March2014.
of voluntary early release for which 600 an increased contribution from Gas employees have successfully applied and which Production, reflecting SSEs recent acquisition SSE sets out these movements in fair value will have the effect of reducing headcount of assets in this area, in particular the separately, as re-measurements, as the extent across all business areas.
In total, therefore, purchase of a 50% interest in the Sean gas of the actual profit or loss arising over the life SSE has recognised exceptional asset and production assets in April 2013. of the contracts giving rise to this liability will investment impairment costs and other charges associated with the announcement of 272.6m.
Reconciliation of Adjusted Profit Before Tax and Reported Profit Before Tax In addition to this, SSE has conducted a further Mar 13 Mar 12 significant review of its operational plant with Mar 14 m m m restated restated a specific focus on thermal power generation plant and gas storage facilities.
The value of Adjusted Profit before Tax 1,551.1 1,415.1 1,338.1 these plants, which include the coal-fired Movement on derivatives IAS 39 212.0 199.7 509.0 power generation plants at Fiddlers Ferry Exceptional items 747.2 584.7 551.6 and Ferrybridge, are considered to be at specific Interest on net pension liabilities IAS19R 28.2 34.9 43.6 risk due to low forecast operating margins, Share of JCEs and Associates tax 11.6 24.5 4.8 increasing uncertainty over coal-fired generation Reported Profit before Tax 575.3 571.3 229.1 viability, changes arising from market reform including the creation of a Capacity Market in Adjusted Profit before Tax 1,551.1 1,415.1 1,338.1 2018 and the Supplemental Balancing Reserve Adjusted Current Tax Charge 236.7 223.6 213.4 and the ongoing economic issues associated Adjusted Profit after Tax 1,314.4 1,191.5 1,124.7 with gas storage.
Total exceptional charges of 428.2m have been recognised in respect of Less: attributable to other equity holders 122.9 63.4 65.5 these asset and investment impairments, which Adjusted Profit After Tax attributable to also included 36.2m in respect of Retail-related ordinary shareholders 1,191.5 1,128.1 1,059.2 system and software development.
In addition, Reported Profit after Tax 323.1 402.7 167.3 a provision for the settlement of a contractual dispute, of 46.4m, was also recognised as an Number of shares for basic and adjusted EPS million 965.5 952.0 937.8 exceptional charge in the year.
Adjusted EPS pence 123.4 118.5 112.9 Basic EPS pence 33.5 42.3 17.8 Delivering Adjusted Profit Before Tax in 2014 15 After distributions to hybrid capital holders.
SSE believes profit is not an end in itself, but a 16 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 1.
In addition to enabling it to Investment and Capex Summary Mar 14 Mar 14 Mar 13 provide new services for customers and invest in Share m m maintaining, upgrading and building assets and Electricity Transmission 22.1% 349.2 334.2 pay tax, profit also supports the dividend, which Electricity Distribution 19.5% 308.3 288.8 is the key means through which SSE gives Other Networks 3.5% 54.6 52.8 shareholders a return on their investment.
Total Networks 45.0% 712.1 675.8 SSE has delivered 15 successive increases in Total Retail 6.3% 99.9 77.0 adjusted profit before tax since it was formed during the 1998 99 financial year and is seeking Thermal Generation 17.5% 276.6 228.1 to deliver another increase in 2014 15.
Because Renewable Generation 21.5% 339.9 382.6 well-managed  Gas Storage 0.7% 10.6 33.1 networks provide a relatively stable revenue Gas Production 2.6% 40.9 7.2 flow, and because SSE has frozen household energy prices in Great Britain until at least Total Wholesale 42.2% 668.0 651.0 January 2016, SSEs adjusted profit before tax Other 6.5% 102.5 81.7 for 2014 15 is likely to be determined mainly by the following issues in its market-based Retail Total investment and capital expenditure 100.0% 1,582.5 1,485.5 and Wholesale businesses: 50% of SGN capital replacement expenditure 160.9 199.0 electricity market conditions, the ability of its operating thermal power stations to generate the new Combined Cycle Gas Turbine at will play their part in providing the energy that electricity efficiently and the price achieved Great Island, County Wexford, and 77m in people will need in the 2020s, 2030s and for output: the construction of the multi-fuel generation beyond and that value from these investments the output of renewable energy from its facility adjacent to Ferrybridge: will be sustained for many years to come.
hydro electric stations and wind farms: 339.9m in renewable generation, a the output from its gas production assets: and significant part of which was invested in new Delivering investment efficiently the actual and underlying level of customers wind farms such as Calliachar in Scotland Central to SSEs strategy is efficient investment energy consumption.
and Glenconway in Northern Ireland: and in a balanced range of  10.6m in gas storage and 40.9m in and market-based energy businesses.
This In addition to managing these issues, SSE is gas production.
means that investment should be: undertaking a value programme to secure more operational efficiencies.
While independent This means that, for the second consecutive in line with SSEs commitment to strong evidence shows that SSE is an efficient company year, combined investment in  management, including securing with relatively low operating costs, it has still regulated electricity networks comprised the returns which are significantly greater than been able to identify annual savings in largest element of SSEs capital and investment the cost of capital, enhance earnings and overheads that will total in the first instance expenditure.
support the delivery to shareholders of around 100m by the end of 2015 16. a return on their investment: Delivering an expanded asset base complementary to SSEs existing portfolio to provide the energy people need of assets and consistent with the maintenance Investment and In the four years from 2010, SSEs investment of a balanced range of assets within SSEs Capital Expenditure and capital expenditure totalled 6.2bn.
This has businesses: Investing in energy assets resulted in a significantly expanded asset base consistent with developments in public policy that the UK and Ireland need for SSE, including: and regulation: and In 2010, SSE said that it expected its investment governed, developed, approved and and capital expenditure would be in the range an increase of 1.35bn in the RAV of its executed in an efficient and effective of 1.5bn to 1.7bn in each of the five years to electricity networks: manner, consistent with SSEs Major Projects March 2015.
In 2013 14, its investment and an increase of around 1,000MW in its capacity Governance Framework and with the skills capital expenditure totalled 1,582.5m, for generating electricity from wind farms and resources available within SSE.
compared with 1,485.5m in the previous year.
resulting in SSEs wind farms producing During the year there was investment of: 5.4TWh of electricity during 2013 14 : and Making capital and investment the Aldbrough gas storage facility, where the expenditure decisions in 2014 15 349.2m in electricity transmission, which initial capacity is 270 million cubic metres, and beyond includes 163.4m of regulated spend on of which SSE owns a two thirds share.
Looking across its Networks, Retail and replacing SSEs section of the Beauly-Denny Wholesale businesses, SSE currently expects that replacement line: In addition, SSE expects to complete the its capital and investment expenditure will total 308.3m in electricity distribution, the commissioning of the 460MW Combined Cycle around 1.6bn in 2014 15 and total around majority of which was spent on system Gas Turbine CCGT plant at Great Island, by the 3.9bn net of disposal proceeds received over upgrades such as the installation of high end of the year.
This total of 5.5bn voltage under ground cables between over the next four years includes: Bracknell and Camberley: SSE believes in the strength and diversity of its 99.9m in retail, the majority of which was growing asset base and the value it continues  expenditure on spent on work associated with preparations to create from its capital and investment electricity transmission networks: for the roll-out of smart meters: expenditure programme.
SSE also believes that  electricity 276.6m in thermal generation, including the long-term nature of the assets which it owns distribution expenditure plus essential investment of 104m in the construction of and operates and those it continues to develop, maintenance of other assets: and 17 Strategic Report Financial overview continued expenditure that is already committed to be adapted to reflect market or sector changes and flexible.
In line with that, its operations and development of new assets this currently arising from a Yes outcome in the referendum.
investments are generally financed by a includes the CCGT at Great Island in Ireland, combination of: SSEs share of the new multi-fuel plant at Simplifying SSE to focus Ferrybridge and onshore wind farm capacity.
on whats important retained profits: SSE has identified a range of assets and bank borrowings: The transmission upgrades include the planned businesses which are not core to its future plans bond issuance: and link between Caithness and Moray that is or which result in a disproportionate financial commercial paper.
required to transmit the large volume of burden to SSE.
It has started a programme of electricity from renewable sources in the north disposal of such assets that will be completed As a matter of policy, a minimum of 50% of SSEs of Scotland.
On 2 April 2014, Ofgem stated that over the next two years and which are taken into debt is subject to fixed rates of interest.
Within its initial view is that there is a need for a account in the total expected net capex referred this policy framework, SSE borrows as required reinforcement of the transmission system in to above of 5.5bn across the four years to on different interest bases, with derivatives being northern Scotland in future and sought views on March 2018.
Some disposal processes, such as used to achieve the desired out-turn interest rate the merits of the proposed subsea cable solution SSEs portfolio of PFI street lighting contracts, profile.
At 31 March 2014, after taking account of or an alternative option onshore.
It is seeking are already under way and some should be interest rate swaps, 79.4% of SSEs borrowings consultees views before the end of May 2014. completed in the course of this financial year.
The subsea project has a forecast investment Proceeds and debt reduction from all of these requirement of around 1.3bn 2012 13 prices.
disposals are estimated to total around 500m.
Borrowings are mainly made in Sterling and Euro to reflect the underlying currency denomination In addition, SSE is continuing to develop options In addition, there are other assets such as of assets and cashflows within SSE.
All other for new assets such as onshore wind farms.
Its onshore wind farms which present, through foreign currency borrowings are swapped back commitment to financial discipline means that disposal, opportunities to release capital to into either Sterling or Euros.
it will monetise value from existing investments support future investment.
SSE currently and assets in order to support future investment envisages securing proceeds of around 500m The United Kingdom remains SSEs main area in new assets to which it decides to commit over through disposals of such assets.
In total, of operation, although business activities in the next few years, where that will enhance therefore, the disposal programme is expected the Republic of Ireland are also substantial.
adjusted earnings per share over the long term to result in a financial benefit of around 1bn In February 2014 the UK government and see Simplifying SSE to focus on whats including proceeds received and balance sheet opposition parties stated that they could not important below.
The disposal programme is also recommend the remaining UK entering into a intended to enable SSE to ensure its resources currency union with an independent Scotland SSE believes that a capital and investment are fully focused on what is important and if Scotland decided to leave the UK.
This means programme on this scale, supported by relevant to its core purpose of providing the that if there is a Yes vote in Septembers recycling of capital through appropriate asset energy people need in a reliable and referendum, at least some of the future earnings disposals, and a flexible approach to valuesustainable way.
of SSEs Scottish businesses appear likely to be creation, should position it well for the future in a different currency.
This would require SSE and will deliver: Investing in gas distribution through to take steps to ensure that its financial and other Scotia Gas Networks SGN contracts continue to reflect the underlying additions to the asset base in key businesses, In addition to its own capital and investment currency denomination of its assets and including  electricity expenditure programme, SSE effectively has cashflows.
networks: a 50% interest in SGNs capital and replacement fuel for electricity in the form of renewable expenditure, through its 50% equity share in Transactional foreign exchange risk arises in sources of energy, supporting a reduction in that business which it acquired in 2005.
SGN respect of: the CO intensity of electricity generated: is self-financing and all debt relating to it is 2 a hedge against prices for fossil fuels: separate from SSEs balance sheet.
Nevertheless, procurement contracts: well maintained existing and new modern it is a very substantial business which gives SSE, fuel and carbon purchasing: capacity for generating electricity: and through its 50% stake, a major interest in commodity hedging and energy trading additional cashflows and profits to support  gas distribution.
Since operations: and continuing dividend growth.
2005, SSE has received from SGN dividends and long-term service agreements for plant.
shareholder loan interest totalling 529.8m, As SSE pointed out in its submission to the which compares with the 505m investment it SSEs policy is to hedge all material transactional Scottish and UK governments in February 2012, made to acquire its 50% equity share in that year.
foreign exchange exposures through the use the existing market arrangements mean that of forward currency purchases and or derivative investment in new long-term electricity and In 2013 14, a 50% share of SGNs capital and instruments.
Translational foreign exchange gas assets in Scotland, England and Wales is replacement expenditure was 160.9m, risk arises in respect of overseas investments, effectively remunerated through the bills paid compared with 199.0m in the previous year.
and hedging in respect of such exposures is by electricity and gas customers throughout During 2013 14, SGNs RAV increased to 4.88bn determined as appropriate to the circumstances Great Britain.
It also noted that new SSE share: 2.44bn, up from 2.8bn SSE share: on a case-by-case basis.
arrangements would have to be established in 1.4bn when it was acquired.
the event of voters in Scotland deciding it would Managing net debt and no longer be part of the United Kingdom and maintaining cash flow Financial management should become a separate country.
SSEs capital SSEs adjusted net debt and hybrid capital and balance sheet and investment programme always takes was 7.66bn at 31 March 2014, compared with account of legislative, regulatory and market Maintaining a prudent treasury policy 7.35bn at 31 March 2013.
Fundamentally, change and its capital expenditure plans would SSEs treasury policy is designed to be prudent this increase reflects the quantum and phasing 18 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 1.
Financial management and balance sheet in August 2015.
It is in addition to a bilateral Mar 13 facility of 200m which was increased to 300m Mar 14 restated Mar 12 in March 13 and matures in April 2018.
Adjusted net debt and hybrid capital bn 7.66 7.35 6.76 Average debt maturity years 10.7 10.6 10.5 In June 2013, SSE issued a 600m seven-year 1 Adjusted interest cover excluding SGN times 5.1 5.3 5.9 Eurobond with a coupon of 2% and in December Shares in issue at 31 March m 974.9 964.3 944.7 2013 it issued a further eight-year 500m Eurobond with a coupon of 2.375% which was Shares in issue weighted average m 965.5 952.0 937.8 swapped into Sterling at an all-in-cost of 3.51%.
1 including hybrid coupon These bond issues replaced maturing debt which had a coupon of around 6% which, in of capital and investment projects to maintain, Keeping SSE well-financed turn, has helped reduce the average cost of debt upgrade and build new assets that energy SSE believes that maintaining a strong balance down to around 4.50%.
customers depend on and which support sheet, illustrated by a commitment to the current annual increases in the dividend payable to criteria for a single A credit rating, such as a In addition, the Scrip Dividend Scheme approved shareholders.
It was less than it otherwise could funds from operations debt ratio of 20% by SSEs shareholders in 2010 gives them the have been as a result of the uptake of the interim Standard & Poors and a retained cash flow option to receive new fully paid ordinary shares dividend Scrip see Keeping SSE well-financed debt ratio of 13% Moodys, is a key financial in the company in place of their cash dividend below, higher-than-forecast dividends received principle.
It therefore reduces cash outflow and from joint ventures and associates and efficient so supports the balance sheet, although the working capital management.
In April 2014, Moodys announced its decision to extent to which it will do so is inevitably difficult put SSEs A3 corporate credit rating on negative to predict.
Scrip dividend take-up in 2013 14 was As the table below sets out, adjusted net outlook, reflecting the well-known political and as follows: debt excludes finance leases and includes regulatory issues in the Great Britain market.
SSE outstanding liquid funds that relate to wholesale remains confident that its plans are consistent September 2013 final dividend for the year energy transactions.
Hybrid capital is accounted with continuing to meet the current criteria for to 31 March 2013 : Scrip take-up resulted in a for as equity within the Financial Statements but the single A rating.
In May 2014, Standard & reduction in cash dividend funding of 17.8m, has been included within SSEs Adjusted net Poors Ratings Services confirmed SSEs with 1,128,181 new ordinary shares, fully paid, debt and hybrid capital to aid comparability.
Corporate Credit Rating as Awith a negative being issued: and outlook under their new rating methodology.
March 2014 interim dividend for the year Ensuring a strong debt structure through to 31 March 2014 : Scrip take-up resulted mediumand long-term borrowings SSEs principal sources of debt funding as at in a reduction in cash dividend funding of SSEs objective is to maintain a balance between 31March 2014 were: 112.4m with 8,551,629 new ordinary shares, continuity of funding and flexibility, with debt fully paid, being issued.
maturities set across a broad range of dates.
bonds 43%: Its average debt maturity, excluding hybrid hybrid capital securities 27%: This means that the cumulative cash dividend securities, as at 31 March 2014 was 10.7 years, European Investment Bank loans 7%: and saving or additional equity capital resulting from compared with 10.6 years at 31 March 2013.
the introduction of SSEs Scrip Dividend Scheme now stands at 619.7m and has resulted in the SSEs debt structure remains strong, with around The remaining 18% included index-linked debt, issue of 48.8m Ordinary shares.
It is expected 5.1bn of medium long term borrowings in the long term project finance and other loans.
that SSEs current Scrip Dividend Scheme, which form of issued bonds, European Investment expires in 2015, will be extended, subject to Bank debt and long-term project finance and SSE is committed to maintaining financial shareholder approval.
discipline and diversity of funding sources and will move quickly to select financing options that Net Finance Costs In March 2013, SSE secured 650m of additional are consistent with this, including issuing new The table on page 20 reconciles reported net bank facilities which were drawn down during bonds and loans.
In line with that, in July 2013, finance costs to adjusted net finance costs, 2013 14, and are now classed as term loans.
The it entered into a new Revolving Credit Facility which SSE believes is a more meaningful table above also includes the issue by SSE of: provided by a group of 10 banks.
In line with this, SSEs adjusted net facility was a self-arranged deal which matures finance costs during 2013 14 were 329.0m, hybrid capital of 1.162bn in September in July 2018 and replaced an existing 900m compared with 363.9m in 2012 13.
2010: and committed facility that had been due to mature hybrid capital of 1.025bn in September 2012.
Adjusted net debt and hybrid capital Mar 14 Mar 13 Mar 12 The balance of SSEs adjusted net debt is m m m financed with short-term commercial paper and Adjusted Net Debt and hybrid capital 7,659.2 7,347.7 6,755.8 bank debt.
SSEs adjusted net debt includes cash Less: hybrid capital 2,186.8 2,186.8 1,161.4 and cash equivalents totalling 442.5m.
Around 90m of medium-to-long term borrowings will Adjusted Net Debt 5,472.4 5,160.9 5,594.4 mature in 2014 15.
In addition, an option to Less: Outstanding Liquid Funds 51.2 55.0 119.9 extend a 500m term loan will be invoked, Add: Finance Leases 328.9 330.4 342.1 pushing the maturity out by one year, from September 2014 to September 2015.
Unadjusted Net Debt 5,852.5 5,546.3 6,056.4 19 Strategic Report Financial overview continued Mar 13 Price Support rates of Climate Change Levy Mar 14 m introduced from April 2013, which are payable m restated by electricity generators.
Adjusted net finance costs 329.0 363.9 Add less : SSE pays taxes in the Republic of Ireland, in Movement on derivatives 64.2 20.3 relation to its operations there, having paid 1 20.6m during the year to 31 March 2014, Share of JCE Associate interest 147.9 156.1 and 11.3 million in the previous year.
Interest on net pension liabilities IAS 19R 28.2 34.9 Reported net finance costs 273.5 222.4 SSE also indirectly contributed 59.6m to UK government tax revenues through its significant investment in joint ventures and associates.
Adjusted net finance costs 329.0 363.9 This compares with 57.3m in the previous year.
Add less : SSE also collected a further 279.7m of Finance lease interest 35.7 37.1 employment, environment and other taxes Notional interest arising on discounted provisions 9.5 7.7 to add to its total tax contribution.
Hybrid coupon payment 122.9 63.4 In January 2014,  Adjusted finance costs for interest cover calculation 406.7 382.5 announced the result of its UK 2013 Total Tax Contribution Survey for The Hundred Group, 1 Jointly Controlled Entities in which SSE ranked 22nd for the level of total taxes borne the amount a company pays that The first coupon payment relating to the US 50.4m for the Scottish Hydro Electric are its own tax costs.
Dollar hybrid capital issued in September 2012 scheme, including deficit repair contributions was made on 1 April 2013.
A further payment of 29.5m: and Setting out SSEs tax position in respect of that, and of the remaining hybrid 82.3m for the Southern Electric scheme, To assist the understanding of SSEs tax position, capital securities that were issued in September including deficit repair contributions of 56.7m.
the adjusted current tax charge is presented 2010 and September 2012, was made on as follows: 1October 2013.
Charges are presented as As part of the electricity Distribution Price distributions to other equity holders and are Control for 2010-15, it was agreed that For reasons already stated above, SSEs focus reflected within adjusted earnings per share allowances equivalent to economicallyis on adjusted profit before tax and in line with when paid.
regulated businesses share of deficit repair that the adjusted current tax charge is the tax contributions in respect of the Southern Electric measure that best reflects underlying The average interest rate for SSE, excluding JCE and Scottish Hydro Electric schemes would be performance.
The effective adjusted current Associate interest, during 2013 14 was 4.71%, included in price controlled revenue, with an tax rate, based on adjusted profit before tax, compared with 5.26% for the previous year.
incentive around ongoing pension costs.
was 15.3%, compared with 15.8% in 2012 13 Based on adjusted interest costs, SSEs adjusted on the same basis.
The full benefit of the 1% interest cover was previous years comparison Corporation Tax rate reduction announced in Tax in brackets : the 2012 Budget and the tax relief due on the Being a responsible tax payer increased hybrid debt coupons payable by 5.1 times, excluding interest related to SGN SSE pays taxes in the United Kingdom and the SSE has been partly offset by the increased tax 5.3 times : and Republic of Ireland, the only states in which it charge arising as a result of the acquisition of the 4.6 times, including interest related to SGN has trading operations.
Central to SSEs Sean Field North Sea assets.
approach to tax is that it should be regarded as a responsible tax payer.
As a consequence, SSE The deferred tax balance has been re-measured Excluding shareholder loans, SGNs net debt maintains a good relationship with HM Revenue to reflect the further reductions in the UK at 31 March 2014 was 3.52bn, and within the & Customs, based on trust and cooperation.
Corporation Tax rate that were announced in the adjusted net finance costs of 329.0m, the 2013 Budget.
This 3% total reduction in rate has element relating to SGNs net finance costs was SSE strives to manage efficiently its total tax a significant positive impact on the total tax 94.4m compared with 90.6m in the previous liability, and this is achieved through operating charge for the year.
year, after netting loan stock interest payable to within the framework of legislative reliefs.
Its contribution to SSEs adjusted profit SSE does not take an aggressive stance in its before tax was 182.2m, compared with interpretation of tax legislation, or use so-called 143.5m in 2012 13. tax havens as a means of reducing its tax liability.
SSEs tax policy is to operate within Contributing to employees pension both the letter and spirit of the law at all times.
schemes In line with the IAS 19R treatment of pension SSEs tax paid to the government in the UK, scheme assets, liabilities and costs, pension including Corporation Tax, Employers National scheme liabilities of 637.7m are recognised Insurance Contributions, Business Rates, and in the balance sheet at 31 March 2014, before Environmental Taxes totalled 431.6m during deferred tax.
This compares to a liability of the year to 31 March 2014, compared with 705.8m at 31 March 2013.
In the last three financial years, SSE has paid 1.1bn in tax on During 2013 14, employer cash contributions that basis.
The increase in tax paid in 2013 14 amounted to: primarily relates to the impact of the Carbon 20 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 1.
Reconciliation of adjusted current and reported tax charges Mar 13 Mar 14 m m restated Adjusted current tax charge 236.7 223.6 Add less Share of JCE Associate tax 11.6 24.5 Deferred tax including share of JCEs and Associates 134.6 107.8 Tax on exceptional items certain re-measurements 253.6 201.8 Reported tax charge 129.3 105.1 Priorities and Outlook for 2014 15 Setting the right long-term priorities to provide the energy people need In support of its strategy, SSE has identified three long-term priorities across its balanced range of businesses which reflect, and are consistent with, the key issues and trends in its Networks, Retail and Wholesale segments.
The long-term priorities are: efficiency and innovation in Networks: excellence and trust in Retail: and sustainability in Wholesale.
In addition to the safe and efficient management of assets in operation or under maintenance or construction and the safe and efficient delivery of services to Retail and Networks customers, SSEs priorities for 2014 15 are to: make a positive contribution to the CMA investigation of the energy market in Great Britain, with the objective of achieving greater political and regulatory stability for the benefit of customers and investors alike: secure an outcome from the ED1 electricity distribution Price Control review that is fair to customers and fair to investors: deliver in a timely manner the required investment in the transmission system in the north of Scotland: ensure that the transformation of systems required by the planned roll-out of smart meters in Great Britain is successfully delivered: adapt successfully to the progressive implementation of the UK governments Electricity Market Reform and any other political change: and ensure planned steps to simplify and streamline its business are successfully delivered.
Focusing on the right financial priority for 2014 15 By taking into account all of SSEs stakeholders and focusing on whats important to them, SSE has the best possible means to give shareholders a return on their investment through increasing dividends for years to come.
