Strategic Report Sector overview Ireland SSEs strategy is to operate and invest in a balanced range of energy-related businesses in the UK and Ireland.
Across The energy market in Ireland is split over two these countries there are two principal energy sectors: political and regulatory jurisdictions the Republic of Ireland RoI and Northern Ireland NI.
Their main features are described At the same time it has a common electricity below.
The production, distribution and supply of energy wholesale market.
As in Great Britain, Ireland has limited interconnection though this has improved are all affected by the weather, and its impact on SSE in since December 2012 with the commissioning of 2013 14 is set out opposite.
the East-West interconnector connecting Dublin to Wales.
Total interconnection now consists of: Great Britain maintaining and upgrading the networks.
450MW Moyle electricity interconnector: Each network has a RAV indexed to the Retail 500MW East-West electricity interconnector: The energy sector in Great Britain is split Price Index RPI, which represents: Scotland-Northern Ireland gas pipeline: and between activities which are  of Ireland gas pipeline.
regulated energy transmission and distribution the price paid for them when they were networks and activities which are market-based privatised: plus Economic regulation of networks energy production and retailing.
Companies allowed capital expenditure: less The Commission for Energy Regulation CER that operate in both parts of the sector must annual depreciation.
and the Northern Ireland Utility Regulator maintain clear legal separation and NIAUR regulate the electricity and natural gas confidentiality under the Utilities Act 2000.
Overall, Ofgem seeks to strike the right balance markets and networks in the Republic of Ireland between attracting investment in electricity and Northern Ireland respectively.
Energy networks and gas networks, encouraging companies Electricity and gas networks have operated to operate them as efficiently as possible Electricity and gas markets under a relatively stable regulatory regime since and ensuring that prices ultimately borne by Across the Republic of Ireland and privatisation.
Regulation is based on allowing a customers are no higher than they need to be.
NorthernIreland there is a common wholesale return on a Regulated Asset Value RAV model.
electricity market: the Single Electricity Market.
By virtue of their regional monopoly status Wholesale electricity andgas This market operates with two currencies Euro competition in this sector is defined by the The production of electricity and gas for and Sterling and there are separate dual support criteria set by the regulator, Ofgem.
Network customers in Great Britain is a market-based mechanisms for renewable energy.
operators compete to prove themselves the activity with wholesale markets in which: most efficient and effective operator of energy Electricity and gas retailing networks and by doing so they can secure producers generators, retailers suppliers, Despite competitive business markets existing additional revenue compared with the inefficient large users and energy traders buy and sell for a number of years, domestic switching in operators.
electricity like any other commodity.
It can be electricity and gas has only taken hold since 2009. purchased through bilateral contracts of The retail brand in Ireland, SSE Airtricity, has been There are four types of energy network: various lengths and through trading in the a significant contributor to the development market: and of domestic competition across the island with electricity transmission three networks in GB producers, shippers, retailers, electricity almost 800,000 energy customers joining in the high voltage electricity wires and cables: generators, large gas users and energy traders last four years.
This has followed full deregulation electricity distribution 14 networks in GB buy and sell gas like any other commodity.
of the RoI electricity retail market, since April 2011. lower voltage wires and cables delivering As with electricity, gas natural or liquefied While deregulation in RoI gas and NI electricity electricity to customers premises: natural can be purchased through bilateral and gas will follow, significantly lower switching gas transmission one network in GB high contracts of various lengths and through rates are slowing its delivery.
pressure gas pipelines: and trading in the market.
gas distribution eight networks in GB Market structure lower pressure pipes delivering gas Unlike electricity, gas can be stored in largeThe RoI government in early 2012 announced to customers premises.
scale facilities such as under ground caverns.
a programme for the disposal of state assets Customers of these facilities can have gas through the National Treasury Management Distribution networks are each owned and injected or withdrawn, according to their needs, Agency NTMA.
While, gas and electricity operated by the same company.
Electricity which means they can manage their gas transmission and distribution systems will transmission networks have a single, GB-wide portfolio more effectively and the country remain in state control, all other state assets system operator National Grid with network benefits from greater gas security.
In March 2014, the sale ownership spread amongst three different of Bord Gais wholesale and retail businesses private owners.
Electricity and gas retailing was announced.
Great Britain has one of the most competitive The companies operating these networks are energy retail markets in the world.
There are six the subject of economic regulation through a electricity and gas suppliers in Great Britain with Price Control determined by Ofgem which sets a market share each of more than 5%.
Across the index-linked revenue they can earn, through Europe, there is only one other country that has charges levied on network users.
Ofgem also a larger number of suppliers with a market share places incentives on companies.
Ofgem also sets the framework for the capital investment companies are able to make in 08 SSE plc Annual Report 2014
