Directors' Report Chairmans introduction to SSE corporate governance Lord Smith of Kelvin As Chairman of the Board, I can assure you that I remain committed to ensuring SSE Committed to the continues to operate within established best practice.
Our Report for 2013 14 explains SSEs approach to corporate governance, and there are also separate reports from each of the highest standards Board Committees.
UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code was of corporate revised in September 2012 and made changes on matters such as audit tendering, reporting of significant financial judgements and diversity.
Although we were able to report last year that governance we had adopted early the 2012 Code provisions on diversity, this is the first year we are formally required to report on how we have complied Good corporate governance is key with this version of the Code.
I can confirm that with the exception of the provision relating to to the running of SSE as a successful, audit tendering, SSE has complied with all other responsible, transparent and provisions of the Code.
The detailed explanation of non-compliance with the audit tendering sustainable company.
provision is given in the Audit Committee Report.
Board Changes and Succession Planning The Nomination Committee continued to keep under review the succession planning needs of the Board and senior management team.
There have been a number of changes to the Board during 2013 14.
Ian Marchant stood down as Chief Executive on 30 June 2013 and Alistair Phillips-Davies succeeded him on 1 July 2013.
Sue Bruce joined the Board as a nonExecutive Director in September 2013 and we recently announced the appointment of Peter Lynas as non-Executive Director from 1 July 2014.
Lady Rice and Thomas Andersen are both stepping down from the Board at the AGM on 17 July 2014.
I would like to thank Susan and Thomas for their commitment over the years.
In particular, Susan has brought to the role of Remuneration Committee Chairman diligence and judgement that has been vital at a time when publicly-listed companies are under such scrutiny.
Thomas contribution, including his Chairmanship of the Safety Health and Environment Advisory Committee, has also been invaluable.
Diversity We value and support all forms of diversity throughout the organisation.
This report sets out our policy on Boardroom diversity.
I would like to highlight that SSE was recently reported in the Women on Boards Davies Review Annual Report 2014 as being in the top seven of the FTSE100 for its level of female Board representation, which is currently 33%.
I have also explained to the Secretary of State for Business Innovation and Skills our approach to succession planning both at Board and senior management level, including our very successful experience of considering the talent and skills available in the public sector when appointing Sue Bruce to the Board.
