4 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Our business model Our business model is focused on meeting the food and beverage needs of our clients and customers in the complex and challenging travel environment.
We are able to achieve this through a combination of international scale and local expertise.
Our proposition to clients is TheFood Travel Experts, and is founded on a deep understanding of our diverse customer base and insight into food and beverage trends: an extensive rangeof brands and concepts: and expertise in successfully operating food and beverage outlets in operationally demanding, high-volume travel locations.
This proposition hashelped us to achieve our leading market position and to retain our clients over the long term, and will provide a strong platform for profitable growth in the future.
Our businessmodel is founded on five key elements: 1 Leading market positions We occupy leading positions in some of the most attractive sectors and regions of the travel food and beverage market.
Those sectorsand regions have a number of long-term structural growth drivers, such as increasing passenger volumes and rising spend per passenger, which are supported by airport and railway station operators increasingly seeking to commercialise their sites.
2 Local insight and international scale We combine local insight of markets and customers with international scale and expertise.
A strong local presence enables us to understandlocal customers tastes and needs, as well as allowing us to maintain close relationships with clients and brand partners.
Ourinternational reach enables us to benefit from economies of scale, such as in procurement and corporate functions and systems, aswellas being able toshare best practice across regions, countries and sites.
3 Food travel expertise We provide a compelling proposition for both clients and customers based on our food travel expertise, which includes a deep understanding of customers food and beverage needs, an extensive range of brands and concepts with a track record of innovation, and operational expertise in logistically demanding travel environments.
Long-term client relationships 4 We can demonstrate an ability to win, build and maintain strong, profitable long-term client relationships.
We have  with a number of our clients, and have maintained high success rates in retaining our contracts.
Experienced management team 5 Our senior management team is very experienced, and is supported by high quality local management.
They have substantial expertise within the travel food and beverage market and broader retail industry.
