6 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Our strategy Our strategy is focused on creating long-term sustainable value for our shareholders, delivered through five key levers.
We have made progress on each of these levers in the year: Driving our like-for-like salesgrowth 1 We operate in the travel food and beverage market, which has a number of long-term structural growth drivers, such as increasing passenger numbers, and we aim to capitalise on this underlying momentum by using our retail skills to drive profitable like-for-like sales growth.
We saw solid sales growth in all of our major regions during the year, including strong growth in North America and Asia Pacific.
Our increased focus on retail basics, including enhancing the customer offer through range management, merchandising, menu composition, pricing and promotions, is showing encouraging early progress.
Growing profitable new space 2 Net contract gains contributed 0.7% to sales growth during the year.
We opened 48 net new units during the year, which included a substantial opening programme in North America, notably at Phoenix and JFK airports.
The Group maintained its good track record of contract retention, securing the renewals of a number of important contracts, including those at Newcastle, Athens and Lyon airports.
We also made progress in terms of business development, winning new contracts at Beijing, Dubai, Sacramento and Stansted airports.
Our contract wins and renewals were supported by the further enhancements we made to our brand and concept portfolio in the year.
New partnerships have been secured, for example, with the global media brand CNN, and new concepts have been developed with a number of partners, for example James Martin, the popular British chef.
We also strengthened our existing partnerships with a number of major brands, including introducing new and innovative versions of tried and tested brands such as YO!
To Go and M&S Food to Go, and extending our international agreement with Starbucks for a further five years.
Optimising gross margins 3 Gross margin improved by 10 basis points, as we seek to maximise the opportunities that being a large international organisation presents.
These opportunities relate not only to procurement, where we will continue to focus on simplification and rationalisation of recipes and ranges as we move increasingly from local to global purchasing deals, but also to the sharing of best practice across geographies, with a focus on investing in new point of sale and stock management systems to reduce waste and losses.
Running an efficient and effective organisation 4 We aim to manage the business efficiently and effectively, maintaining the highest standards of operational execution.
During the last 12 months we delivered material improvements in our efficiency, with a broad range of initiatives contributing to a 50 basis point operating margin improvement.
As well as initiating projects in several countries aimed at improving our labour scheduling, we have continued to review overheads, including through the relocation of our Group head office and the increasing use of shared services across the business.
During the year, we incurred exceptional redundancy and other restructuring costs of 9.5m in connection with this.
We are increasingly using technology to reduce other local overheads, including through employing digital technology to capture customer feedback and the use of smartsafes to more efficiently count cash at our larger locations.
Optimising investment 5 The final lever of our strategy is to put in place processes and resources to ensure that we optimise our returns on investments, utilising our global experience and adhering to best practice so that we procure more effectively and make better decisions.
With this objective in mind, we have reinforced our central team during the year to provide stronger commercial support to the business, with the appointment of new senior managers with responsibility for Group-wide Marketing, Brands and Concepts, and Capital Projects.
We have also invested in our systems to enable more effective benchmarking and sharing of information to facilitate more effective decision-making.
