45 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Directors report This section of the annual report includes additional information required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the DTRs and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Certain information required to be included in the Directors report is included in other sections of this annual report, including: The strategic report on pages 1 to 19: The corporate governance report on pages 20 to 25: The Audit Committee report on pages 26 to 30: and The Directors remuneration report on pages 31 to 44.
The sections referred to above provide an overview of the strategy, development and performance of the Companys business in the year ended and as at 30 September 2014 together with information on the approach of the Company to Corporate Governance and the constitution, work and effectiveness of the Board and its principal committees.
These sections are incorporated by reference into the Directors report.
Corporate information and Listing on the London Stock Exchange The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 9 March 2006 as a private company limited by shares under the Companies Act 1985 with the registered number 5735966.
On 4 July 2014, the Company was re-registered as a public limited company.
The Companys registered office and principal place of business is at 169 Euston Road, London NW1 2AE.
On 15 July 2014, the entire issued ordinary share capital of the Company was admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the Financial Conduct Authority and to unconditional trading on the London Stock Exchange plcs main market for listed securities under the ticker SSPG Admission.
Dividends The Directors are not proposing to recommend any dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2014.
Share capital At the date of this report, there were 474,999,954 ordinary shares of 1 pence in issue, which are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Further information regarding the Companys issued share capital and movements in the financial year can be found in note 20 to the financial statements on pages 81 and 82.
Pre-emption rights and authority to allot The Act requires that any shares issued wholly for cash must be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings unless the Company is authorised to the contrary by a resolution of the shareholders.
Resolutions giving such authority were passed pre-Admission on 3 July 2014.
At the AGM, the Directors will ask Shareholders to give the Directors authority to allot equity shares representing approximately one-third of the issued ordinary shares calculated at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM the initial section 551 authority.
In accordance with The Investment Associations Share Capital Management Guidelines, the Directors will also ask shareholders to give the Directors authority to allot ordinary shares representing approximately two-thirds of the issued ordinary shares calculated at the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of AGM as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued under the initial section 551 authority.
If approved, these authorities will expire no later than the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2016 or at the close of business on 31 March 2016, whichever is sooner.
The Directors also recommend that the Directors be granted a limited authority to allot equity shares for cash other than pro rata to existing Shareholders.
If granted, this authority will give the Directors the ability until the AGM to be held in 2016 to issue ordinary shares for cash, other than pro rata to existing Shareholders, in connection with a rights issue or up to a limit of 5% of the issued ordinary share capital calculated at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
The Directors have no present intention to issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant to the Companys employee share schemes, and this authority will maintain the Companys flexibility in relation to future share issues, including any issues to finance business opportunities, should appropriate circumstances arise.
Repurchase of shares On 3 July 2014, the shareholders approved the authorisation of market purchases of ordinary shares up to a maximum of 590,686 ordinary shares, representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital at the time of Admission.
The authority will lapse at the end of the AGM on 3 March 2015.
The Company has not made, and does not currently intend to make, any market purchases of ordinary shares pursuant to this authority.
Rights and restrictions on shares and transfers of shares Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company, apply to the rights and transfers of ordinary shares in the Company.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
The key points are summarised on the next page: 46 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance Directors report continued Ordinary shares Notice of meetings must be given to every shareholder and to any person entitled to a share unless the Articles of Association or the rights of the shares say they are not entitled to receive them from the Company.
The Board can decide that only people who are entered on the register of members at the close of business on a particular day are entitled to receive the notice.
On a show of hands at a general meeting every member present in person shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
No shareholder holds ordinary shares which carry special rights relating to the control of the Company.
Dividends and distributions on winding up to shareholders Holders of ordinary shares may receive interim dividends approved by Directors and dividends declared in general meetings.
On a liquidation and subject to a special resolution of the Company the liquidator may divide among members in specie the whole or any part of the assets of the Company and may, for such purpose, value any assets and may determine how such division shall be carried out.
Transfers of ordinary shares The Articles of Association place no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them except: i in very limited circumstances such as a transfer to more than four persons and ii where the Company has exercised its rights to suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission by their holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Act.
Restrictions on transfers may apply where the holder is precluded from exercising rights by the Listing Rules, the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers or any other regulations.
Dealings subject to the Model Code of the Listing Rules Pursuant to the Listing Rules, Directors and other persons discharging managerial responsibilities and certain employees require the approval of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares of the Company.
Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes Awards held by relevant participants under the Companys various share plans carry no rights until the shares are issued.
The Trustee of the Performance Share Plan does not seek to exercise voting rights on existing shares held in the employee trust.
Substantial shareholdings The Company has been notified of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary shares as at 30 September 2014 and as at the date of this report: % of voting rights % of voting rights Name as at 30 September 2014 as at the date of this report EQT IV Limited 37.5% 37.5% Old Mutual plc 9.1% 11.3% Schroders plc 6.9% 5.0% Artemis Investment Management LLP 3.8% 3.8% JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited and JPMorgan Investment 3.6% 3.6% Management Inc GIC Private Limited 3.2% 3.2% Directors Particulars of the Directors in office at the date of this report are listed on pages 20 and 21.
Each of the Directors held office throughout the year, with the following exceptions: on 4 April 2014, John Barton and Ian Dyson were appointed as Non-Executive Directors of the Company: on 14 February 2014, Denis Hennequin was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Company: on 16 June 2014, Kate Swann and Jonathan Davies were appointed as Executive Directors of the Company: and on 16 June 2014, John Barry Gibson and Simon Marinker stepped down as Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
Appointment and removal of Directors The Company may, by ordinary resolution of the shareholders of the Company at a general meeting, remove any Director from office and elect another person in place of a Director so removed from office following recommendation by the Nomination Committee in accordance with its terms of reference for approval by the Board.
Pursuant to the relationship agreement the Relationship Agreement entered into between the Company and EQT IV Limited EQT, EQT may propose the appointment of two Non-Executive Directors to the Board for so long as they and their associates are entitled to exercise or to control the exercise of 25% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company.
EQT is able to propose the appointment of one Non-Executive Director to the Board for so long as they and their associates are entitled to exercise or to control the exercise of 10% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company.
Per Franzn is an appointee of EQT.
47 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements The processes for the appointment and replacement of Directors are governed by the Companys Articles of Association, the Code, the Act, the Listing Rules and related legislation.
In accordance with the Code, at the first AGM of the Company to be held on 3 March 2015, each Director will submit himself or herself for election.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Articles of Association, the Act and related legislation, any directions given by special resolution and any relevant statutes andregulations, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Directors interests The Directors interests in shares and options over ordinary shares in the Company are shown in the Directors remuneration report on page41.
In line with the requirements of the Act, each Director has notified the Company of any situation in which he or she has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company a situational conflict.
These were considered and approved by the Board in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association on 23 September 2014 and each Director was informed of the authorisation and any terms on which it was given.
The Board has formal procedures to deal with Directors conflicts ofinterest.
The Board reviews and, where appropriate, approves certain situational conflicts of interest that are reported to it by Directors, and a register of those situational conflicts is maintained and will be reviewed by the Board going forward.
Other than the Relationship Agreement, at no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Directors indemnities The Company has made qualifying indemnity provisions, as defined by section 236 of the Act, for the benefit of its Directors during the financial year ended 30 September 2014 and which remain in force at the date of this report.
In addition, Directors and Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered by Directors and Officers liability insurance as well as Prospectus liability insurance which provides cover for liabilities incurred by Directors in the performance of their duties or powers in connection with the issue of the Prospectus in relation to the Listing.
Defence fees were paid under the Group Directors and Officers liability insurance during the financial year ended 30 September 2014 in respect of a case brought by the Greek civil aviation authority in 2013 against, and successfully defended by, four former managers employed by the Companys Greek subsidiary.
Awards under employee share schemes Details of employee share schemes and awards made during the year and held by Executive Directors as at 30 September 2014 are set out inthe Directors remuneration report on pages 31 to 44.
Details of awards made during the year and held by employees as at 30 September 2014 under the Performance Share Plan are disclosed innote 21 to the consolidated financial statements on page 83.
Controlling shareholders On 10 July 2014, the Company and EQT entered into the Relationship Agreement in which the parties agreed to comply with the independence provisions as set out in paragraph 6.1.
4DR of the Listing Rules the independence provisions.
Furthermore, EQT agreed to procure that the EQT funds who hold beneficial interests in the Companys shares the EQT Funds and their associates also comply with such provisions.
As at 30 September 2014 and as at the date of this report, EQT and the EQT Funds together exercise or control 37.5% of the votes to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company.
The Company confirms that, since 10 July 2014, it has complied with the independence provisions and, so far as it is aware, EQT and its associates have complied with, and EQT has procured that the EQT Funds and their respective associates have complied with, the independence provisions.
Annual General Meeting All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend the AGM and all holders of ordinary shares on the register at the relevant record date are entitled to receive the Notice of AGM which is posted at least 20 working days before the AGM.
They are also entitled to speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies or, if they are corporations, corporate representatives, and to exercise voting rights.
Shareholders may vote and appoint proxies electronically.
The notice of meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be put to the AGM.
The AGM will be held on 3 March 2015.
The results of the voting on resolutions will be made available to shareholders on the Groups website after the meeting.
At the meeting, the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Chairmen of the Board Committees will also be present to answer questions on any matters relating to the Groups business.
Shareholders will also have anopportunity to meet Directors informally after the meeting.
48 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance Directors report continued Change of control Contracts There are a number of contracts which allow the counterparties to alter or terminate those arrangements in the event of a change of control of the Company.
These arrangements are commercially sensitive and confidential and their disclosure could be seriously prejudicial tothe Group.
Other agreements The Company does not have agreements with any Director or Officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans tovest on a takeover.
The Companys main credit facilities, being the committed bank facilities dated 16 June 2014 as amended from time to time, contain a provision such that in the event of a change of control, if a lender so requires, and has notified the agent within 10 business days of the agent notifying the lenders of the event, the commitment of that lender will be cancelled and all outstanding amounts, together with accrued interest under that commitment, will become repayable, on the date notified in writing by the agent that the relevant commitment has been cancelled where such date must be not less than 10 business days after the date of the notice.
Articles of Association The Articles of Association of the Company may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Political donations The Companys policy is not to make political donations.
Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries, during the financial year ended 30 September 2014, made any political donation to a political party, other political organisation or independent election candidate, or incurred any political expenditure or made any contribution to a non-EU political party.
The Company will propose to shareholders at this years AGM that a precautionary authority be granted up to 25,000 in aggregate.
Details are included in the Notice of AGM.
Greenhouse gas emissions The Board has identified and assessed the significant environmental, social and governance risks to the Companys shortand long-term value, as well as the opportunities to enhance value that may arise from improving its environmental performance.
The sustainability report on pages 17 to 19 reports on environmental matters, including the impact of the Groups businesses on the environment, the Groups annual quantity of greenhouse emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide, the Groups employees, and on social and community issues.
Treasury and risk management The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, including its hedging policy, and the main risks arising from the Groups financial assets and liabilities are summarised on page 12 and in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements on page 84 to 88.
Going concern The financial information has been prepared on a going concern basis, in support of which the Board has reviewed the Groups trading forecasts for the next 12 months.
These forecasts, which include detailed cash flow projections, comprise assumptions as to sales and profit performance by segment and by month and take account of the normal seasonality profile of the business.
As a result, the Directors are confident that the assumptions underlying their forecasts are reasonable and that the Group will be able to operate within its banking covenants and available liquidity headroom.
Notwithstanding the above however, there remains a risk that a downturn in the global economy could result in passenger numbers and consumer spending in the travel market which are worse than the Board is currently envisaging.
As a result, the Directors have also reviewed forecasts which include sensitivities that make allowance for this risk.
Should such a scenario arise the Directors are confident they have adequate liquidity and covenant headroom to ensure that the Group can meet its liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to prepare this financial information on a going concern basis.
49 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Auditors The auditors, KPMG LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they will be re-appointed will be proposed at the AGM.
Statement of disclosure of information to auditors So far as each Director in office on the date of this Report is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps which they ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Act.
Forward looking statements These reports and financial statements contains certain forward looking statements which are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties: actual future results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied in such statements.
Many of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond the Companys ability to control or estimate precisely.
The forward looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this annual report, and will not be updated during the year.
These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout these Reports and Financial Statements and include statements regarding the current intentions, beliefs or expectations of the Directors or the Company concerning, among other things, the results of operations, financial condition, prospects, growth, strategies, and dividend policy of the Company and the industry in which it operates.
In particular, the statements regarding the Companys strategy and other future events or prospects are forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this annual report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Helen Byrne General Counsel and Company Secretary 26 November 2014
