20 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance Board of Directors Vagn Srensen Kate Swann Jonathan Davies Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Kate joined SSP as Chief Jonathan has been the Chief Vagn is a Senior Industrial Executive Officer in Financial Officer of SSP since Advisor with EQT Partners September 2013. its formation within Compass and joined the SSP Board as Group in 2004.
He is Kate began her retail career currently Chairman of Scandic with Tesco plc before working Jonathan began his career in Hotels AB and a Non-Executive with some of the UKs bestthe food industry on Unilever Director of Air Canada, Royal known companies, including plcs management development Caribbean Cruises Limited Homepride Foods, Coca-Cola programme.
In 1987 Jonathan and Lufthansa Cargo AG.
Schweppes and Dixons Retail joined OC&C, the strategic In addition, Vagn is a consultant plc.
She then joined Homebase management consultancy, Senior Advisor to Morgan part of the Home Retail which was then a start-up.
Stanley in the Nordic region.
Group, ultimately in the role of Over the following eight years He was previously the President Managing Director, and in 2000 he was part of its rapid growth and Chief Executive Officer was made Managing Director and development to become a of Austrian Airlines Group of Argos.
Kate joined WH Smith leading international consulting from 2001 to 2006 and held PLC as Chief Executive Officer firm.
From 1995 to 2004 various senior commercial in 2003.
In 2012 she received Jonathan worked for Safeway positions and served as Deputy both the Daily Telegraph award PLC, where he was Finance Chief Executive Officer with for Business Leader of the Director on the Executive Board SAS Scandinavian Airlines Decade at the National Business from 1999 to 2004.
Vagn has served as the Awards and the Institute for He has a degree in Chemistry Chairman of the Association Turnaround Chairmans Special from Oxford University and an of European Airlines and as Award for exceptional and MBA from INSEAD, France.
a member of the Board of extraordinary performance Governors of the International in the transformation of Air Transport Association.
Kate has also been a Non-Executive Director at He has a M. Sc.
in Economics Babcock International Group and Business Administration PLC since 2011. from Aarhus Business School inDenmark.
Kate graduated from the University of Bradford in 1986 with a BSc in Business Management and received anhonorary doctorate from theuniversity in 2007.
21 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements John Barton Ian Dyson Per Franzn Denis Hennequin Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Director Per joined EQT Partners in Denis joined the SSP Board Stockholm in May 2007 and as a Non-Executive Director John joined SSP as an Ian joined SSP as an was appointed as a Director inFebruary 2014. independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive ofSSP in June 2012.
Denis began his career at John was appointed to the Ian is currently also Senior In January 2014, Per was The McDonalds Corporation, Board of easyJet as Chairman in Independent Director of Betfair appointed Head of Equity for becoming President of May 2013.
He is also Chairman Group plc and ASOS plc and EQT in Stockholm.
Per is also McDonalds Europe in 2005 of Next PLC and Catlin Group Non-Executive Director of a member of the Portfolio where he was responsible Limited the international Intercontinental Hotels Group Review Committee and Head for 6,600 restaurants in 40 insurance underwriters.
plc and Punch Taverns plc.
of the EQT Services Sector countries.
He was Chairman and John has served as Chairman of He was formerly Chief Executive Team.
Per is currently a member Chief Executive Officer of Accor Cable and Wireless Worldwide Officer of Punch Taverns plc, of the Board of Directors of S. A. the worldwide hotel group, PLC, Brit Insurance Holdings plc Group Finance & Operations Anticimex International AB, until 2013. and Wellington Underwriting Director at Marks & Spencer plc Automic Software GmbH and Denis is currently also a PLC.
He was previously Senior and Finance Director of Evidensia Djursjukvrd AB.
Non-Executive Director of Independent Director of WH The Rank Group plc.
Prior to Previously, Per spent six years at Eurostar International Limited Smith PLC and Hammerson this he was Group Financial Morgan Stanleys London and and the John Lewis Partnership.
He was also the Chief Controller of Hilton Group Stockholm offices working in Executive of insurance broker JIB plc.
He joined Hilton from Le M&A, Leveraged Finance and Group PLC from 1984 to 1997.
Meridien, a division of Forte Nordic Banking.
After JIBs merger with Lloyd Group plc, where he had been Per has a M. Sc.
in Economics Thomson in 1997, he became Finance Director.
Ian was a and Business Administration Chairman of the combined Non-Executive Director of Misys from the Stockholm School group, Jardine Lloyd Thompson plc until September 2005. of Economics withGallen Group PLC, until 2001.
His early career was spent inSwitzerland.
John is a qualified Chartered with Arthur Andersen, where Accountant and received an he qualified as a Chartered MBA from Strathclyde University.
Accountant in 1986 and was promoted to a Partner of the firm in 1994.
