5 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our marketplace This growth is underpinned by a number of factors, including: rising Our business operations are almost disposable incomes particularly in the developing markets, driven exclusively in the travel food and by the emergence of a more affluent middle class : the increasing globalisation of business: investment in airline capacity, in particular beverage market.
These operations are by low-cost carriers which have driven prices down and stimulated managed on a regional basis, and are demand: and investment in airport infrastructure, most notably indeveloping markets.
primarily focused on the airport and As a consequence, growth in passenger numbers is forecast over the railway station markets.
During 2014, medium term in all our geographic markets, with annual increases 52% of our revenues were generated in expected to be strongest in the Asia Pacific region 6.7% and the air sector and 41% in the rail sector.
However, passenger growth is also anticipated in our major geographies of Europe 3.4% and North We estimate that our core market comprising food and beverage America 2.3%.
sales in airports and railway stations was valued at approximately Furthermore, spend per passenger has been boosted by a number 13.8bn in 2013.
The travel food and beverage market is highly of specific factors, including the rapid development of the lowfragmented with the top three players of which we are one cost airlines, which have limited provision of food and beverage accounting for approximately 29% of the global market on thebasis for passengers, and the scaling back of on-board catering services of this valuation.
The air and rail food and beverage markets benefit from a number of long-term structural growth drivers: Rail Rail passenger numbers in the European market were estimated The increasing propensity to travel, driven by increasing GDP to be approximately 10.7bn in 2013 and have increased at an anddisposable incomes: average annual rate ranging from 1.7% to 3.6% in the decade to On-going trends towards eating out of home and eating on 2013 in our key European rail markets i. e. UK, France, Germany and themove: and Sweden.
Growth in passenger numbers is forecast to continue in the Investment in travel infrastructure, with increasing focus on the medium term, rising at between 1.6% and 1.8% in these markets.
provision of food and beverage offerings in travel hubs todrive The key driver of this growth is expected to be further investment additional commercial revenue streams.
in rail infrastructure by European governments, alongside various policies to encourage passengers to switch from road transport to rail in order to reduce road congestion and to address environmental Market valued concerns.
As a consequence, significant expansion of rail track isplanned across Europe, including the completion of major at13.8bn in2013 highspeed rail lines which are expected to increase capacity to 16,000 km by 2020 an additional 5,000 km compared with 2011.
In addition, investment in new train capacity and the replacement of Air existing train fleets is planned, which is expected to drive an increase Global air passenger numbers have more than doubled over in passenger numbers.
a20-year period, reaching 5.5bn by 2012, with an average annual growth rate of 4.7%.
Historically, this long-run growth Outlook inpassengernumbers has been resilient, even in the face of major Whilst a degree of uncertainty always exists around the shortevents that have impacted air travel, such as 9 11or the SARS virus.
termoutlook, in the longer term we remain confident that we will Airport Council International ACI expects air passenger volumes continue to see growth in passenger numbers in both the air and to double again in the next two decades, withan average annual rail markets.
This trend should be fuelled by continued increases growth rate of 4.1% expected for the period 2012 to 2031. in disposable income in developing markets, together with further investment in travel infrastructure and capacity.
Company estimate based on third-party market research commissioned for the SSP IPO March 2014.
1Global data from WDI for 1992-2011 indexed with respect to 2012 ACI data.
Projected growth rates based on ACI forecasts.
Source rail: Euromonitor: 2010-2020 CAGR based on EU Energy Trends Report.
