Strategic report 2.1 Introduction The Directors are pleased to present their report on the Group for the year ended 30 April 2014.
This section contains the Strategic report, which includes the information that the Group is required to produce to meet the need for a strategic report in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Strategic report also provides significant information over and above the statutory minimum.
Biographies of each director are contained in section 3 of this Annual Report and the Directors report is set out in section 4.
2.2 Cautionary statement The Strategic report has been prepared for the shareholders of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
Its purpose is to inform shareholders of the Company and help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company.
This Strategic report and the Chairmans statement contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries, sectors and markets in which the Group operates.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements in this Strategic report will be realised.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation.
1 Overview of the Stagecoach Group Stagecoach Group is a leading international public transportation group, with extensive operations in the UK, continental Europe, United States and Canada.
The Group employs around 35,000 people, and operates bus, coach, train and tram services.
The Group has four main divisions UK Bus regional operations, UK Bus London, North America and UK Rail.
We are committed to conducting business in a socially responsible way and we believe this to be consistent with our business objectives and strategy.
Indeed, by taking a responsible approach towards the environment and the wider community, we believe we will enhance our objective to deliver organic growth.
Stagecoach Group plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in Scotland.
Its ordinary shares are publicly traded and it is not under the control of any single shareholder.
Throughout this Annual Report, Stagecoach Group plc is referred to as the Company and the group headed by it is referred to as Stagecoach and or the Group.
In the remaining parts of this section 2.3, we: Section Summarise the Groups business objectives and long-term strategy 2.3.
2 Describe each of the Groups business segments, their regulatory environments, their strategy, the market opportunities, the competitive position and likely future market developments 2.3.
3 Summarise how we aim to create value, by providing an overview of the Groups business model 2.3.
4 Discuss the key resources and relationships, including contractual relationships, that underpin the Groups business and strategy 2.3.
5 Set out the principal risks to the achievement of the Groups objectives and strategy 2.3.
6 Describe how we measure and monitor progress against our objectives and strategy, and how we are performing 2.3.
2 What we look to achieve business objectives and long-term strategy Group strategy The key elements of Stagecoach Groups business strategy to deliver long-term shareholder value are: To deliver organic growth across all of the Groups operations: To acquire businesses that are complementary to the Groups existing operations, in areas where the Groups management has proven expertise and which offer prospective returns on capital in excess of the Groups weighted average cost of capital: In addition to organic and acquisition growth, to maintain and grow the Groups Rail business by bidding for selected rail franchises and to seek to secure new franchises where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment UK Bus regional operations Description The UK Bus regional operations Division connects communities in more than 100 towns and cities across the UK on bus networks stretching from the Highlands of Scotland to south west England.
These include major city bus operations in Liverpool, Newcastle, Hull, Manchester, Oxford, Sheffield, Cambridge and Exeter.
The UK Bus regional operations Division operates a fleet of around 7,100 buses and coaches across a number of regional operating units.
Each regional operating unit is managed independently and is led by a managing director.
In addition to local bus services in towns and cities, Stagecoach operates interurban services linking major towns within its regional operating company areas.
The Group also runs the budget inter-city coach service, megabus.
com, and a small proportion of the Divisons services are megabus.
com links to and within continental Europe.
In Scotland, Stagecoach has a joint venture Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited with international transport group, ComfortDelGro, to operate the Scottish Citylink express network and megabus.
com branded services to, from and within Scotland.
Stagecoach owns 35% of the share capital of Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited and ComfortDelGro owns the remaining 65%.
The joint venture is the leading provider of express coach services in Scotland.
Stagecoach is responsible for the day-to-day operational management of the business, which is overseen by a joint board.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment continued UK Bus regional operations continued Regulatory environment The current structure of the bus market in Great Britain outside London was established by the Transport Act 1985.
This is essentially a deregulated structure: any holder of a Public Service Vehicle operators licence may operate bus services, having first registered various details with the relevant traffic commissioner.
The traffic commissioners are responsible for enforcing compliance with these registered details, including standards of maintenance, reliability and punctuality.
The UK Bus regional operations bus and coach services are operated on a commercial basis in a largely deregulated market.
The Division also operates tendered services, including schools contracts, on behalf of local authorities.
Around 11% of the UK Bus regional operations revenue is receivable from local authorities in respect of such tendered and school services.
Around 24% of the UK Bus regional operations revenue is earned from statutory concessionary fare schemes, whereby the Group is reimbursed by public authorities for carrying the elderly and disabled free of charge.
Strategy The strategy of the UK Bus regional operations is to deliver value over time driven by organic growth in revenue and passenger volumes.
This may be supplemented by acquiring businesses where appropriate opportunities arise.
Market opportunity The Group has around 20% of the UK Bus market excluding London.
The UK Department for Transports National Travel Survey NTS is a household survey of personal travel in Great Britain.
The NTS found that in 2012, there was an average of 954 trips per person per year.
Trips by car or van accounted for 78% of distance travelled, bus trips accounted for 5%, rail trips accounted for 9% and walking, cycling and other modes accounted for 8%.
There therefore remains significant market opportunity to stimulate modal shift from car to bus.
Macroeconomic factors The UK Bus regional operations have performed well during more challenging macroeconomic conditions.
Although revenue is not immune to macroeconomic changes, it is less exposed than in many other types of business.
In addition, the Group can adjust the pricing and frequency of the majority of its services and is therefore well placed to respond to any changes in demand for particular services.
We estimate that around 70% of the costs vary with operating miles.
Competition The UK Bus regional operations face competition for customers not only from other operators of coaches and buses but also from other modes of transport.
The Group regards its primary competitor as the private car and aims to encourage modal shift from car to public transport.
The other major groups that operate buses in the UK outside of London are three other groups publically quoted on the London Stock Exchange FirstGroup, National Express Group, and Go-Ahead Group and Arriva, which is owned by Deutsche Bahn.
Future market The level of Government support in the UK Bus Industry has come under pressure in recent years with reductions in Bus developments Services Operators Grant a rebate of fuel tax and constraints on the payments made by Government to bus operators for carrying the elderly and disabled free of charge to the passenger.
Funding of tendered services by local government has also reduced.
The Group is therefore gradually becoming less reliant on Government and a greater proportion of its revenue is coming directly from passengers.
The Division does continue to face risks related to regulatory changes and availability of public funding as noted in section 2.3.
There are positive long-term conditions for further growth in demand for UK Bus services created by rising road congestion, rising car operating costs, supportive government policy and public concerns for the environment, which augur well for the future of the Division.
UK Bus London Description In October 2010, the Group re-entered the London bus market through the acquisition of the bus business formerly owned by East London Bus Group Limited in administration, acquiring four companies that together operate the business.
We operated a successful and profitable bus business in London for several years and were pleased to re-enter the London bus market at an attractive price.
The Group is the third largest operator in the London bus market, with an estimated 14% share of that market.
The business operates from 9 depots and has a fleet of around 1,200 buses serving routes in and around east and south-east London.
Regulatory environment The UK Bus London business operates bus services under contract to Transport for London, receiving a fixed fee subject to adjustment for certain inflation indices and taking the cost and capital risk.
Bus operators tender to win contracts and each contract is typically for a five-year period with the potential for it to be extended by two years.
Strategy We undertook a full review of the business prior to and following its acquisition in 2010 and identified a significant opportunity to add value through a turnaround of the under-performing business and through synergies with the rest of Stagecoach.
The UK Bus London strategy was initially focused on addressing the structurally high cost base at the acquired business and on bidding for contracts that will earn a realistic return.
We have now achieved our aspirations for mid to upper single-digit operating margins and our focus is now on maintaining tight control of costs while seeking to bid competitively for new contracts.
Market opportunity The Group operates approximately 14% of the bus operating mileage contracted by Transport for London to bus operators.
The Group does not seek to gain market share for its own sake and remains disciplined in ensuring that its bids for new contracts offer an acceptable trade-off of risk and reward.
Macroeconomic factors The UK Bus London operations are not especially exposed to short-term changes in macroeconomic conditions because the business receives a fee from Transport for London for operating services irrespective of the passenger volumes on those services.
Its costs and in particular, labour costs, can vary due to macroeconomic changes and also, in the longer term, the level of services that Transport for London offers for tender might be affected by the macroeconomy.
Competition UK Bus London faces competition to win contracts from Transport for London from other bus operators, the largest of which are Go-Ahead Group, Arriva, Metroline, RATP, Transit Systems and Abellio.
Future market In light of the pressures on Government finances, we do not expect to see Transport for London significantly increase the level of developments bus operating mileage in the next few years and so any revenue growth will come from inflationary price increases, retaining work on tender but at higher rates and or winning contracts from other operators.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 5 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:36 Page 6 Strategic report 2.3.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment continued North America Description The North America Division provides transport services in the United States and Canada.
Our businesses include commuter transit services, inter-city services, tour, charter and sightseeing operations.
com, a low cost inter-city coach operator that sells its services principally via the Internet, is the fastest growing part of the North American business.
The North America business is headed by a chief operating officer.
Stagecoach excluding its joint ventures currently operates approximately 2,400 vehicles in the United States and Canada.
In addition to its wholly-owned operations in North America, Stagecoach has a joint venture, Twin America LLC, with CitySights NY.
The joint venture principally operates sightseeing services in New York under both the Gray Line and CitySights brands.
The Group holds 60% of the economic rights and 50% of the voting rights in the joint venture.
Twin America LLC is headed by a chief executive and is overseen by a joint board.
Regulatory environment The North America business operates on a commercial basis in a largely deregulated market.
It also operates some tendered services for local authorities and services contracted by corporations.
Strategy The strategy of the North America Division is to deliver organic growth in revenue and passenger volumes.
A core short to medium-term objective in delivering this strategy is the expansion of the fast growing megabus.
Market opportunity The Group estimates it has less than 4% of the bus and coach market in North America and is growing this through innovative new services such as megabus.
The US Department of Transportations Bureau of Transportation Statistics show that in 2012 some 86% of transportation to work was by car, compared with only 5% by public transport.
The opportunity to stimulate modal shift from car to bus and coach is substantial and megabus.
com has been successful in doing this.
Macroeconomic factors The North American operations are more exposed to macroeconomic factors than the UK Bus operations as a greater proportion of their revenue is derived from customers using its services for leisure purposes, including its charter, tour and sightseeing services.
It nevertheless has similar flexibility to UK Bus over pricing and supply, enabling it to effectively respond to changes in macroeconomic conditions.
Competition The business faces competition for customers not only from other operators of coaches and buses but also from other modes of transport.
com faces competition from the car but also from other coach operators, airlines and train operators.
FirstGroup and National Express Group are also major operators of coach and bus services in North America.
Future market The Group has taken a leading role in the development of bus and coach travel in North America through its megabus.
The market for inter-city coach travel, such as that provided by megabus.
com, is growing rapidly and we expect that to continue and present significant opportunities to the Group.
UK Rail Description Stagecoach Group has major rail operations in the UK.
Our principal wholly-owned rail businesses are South West Trains and East Midlands Trains.
South West Trains runs around 1,700 train services a day in south west England out of London Waterloo railway station, and operates Island Line services on the Isle of Wight.
The South West franchise is contracted to run until February 2017 and the UK Government plans to extend our tenure to April 2019.
From 11 November 2007, we have operated the East Midlands Trains franchise.
The franchise comprises main line train services running to London St Pancras, regional rail services in the East Midlands area and inter-regional services between Norwich and Liverpool.
The East Midlands Trains franchise is contracted to run until October 2015 and the UK Government plans to extend our tenure to October 2017.
We also operate Supertram, a 28km light rail network incorporating three routes in the city of Sheffield, on a concession running until 2024.
Stagecoach Group has a 49% shareholding in a joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, which operates the West Coast Trains rail franchise.
The current West Coast Trains rail franchise runs until March 2017 and the Government has an option to extend it by a further year.
The other shareholder in Virgin Rail Group is the Virgin Group of Companies.
South West Trains, East Midlands Trains and the tram operations each have a managing director, who report to the Chief Executive.
Stagecoachs Chief Executive is Joint Chairman of Virgin Rail Group.
Virgin Rail Group has a lead Executive, who reports to the Virgin Rail Group board, which includes Stagecoach Group and Virgin Group representatives.
Regulatory environment The UK rail operating market is split into a number of separate franchises, which are awarded by the Government for set time periods to a specification set by the Department for Transport DfT on the basis of competitive bids.
Train operating companies operate passenger trains on the UK rail network.
The UK railway infrastructure is owned and operated by Network Rail, a not for dividend company that invests any profits into improving the railway.
Network Rail runs, maintains and develops tracks, signalling systems, bridges, tunnels, level crossings and key stations.
Strategy In rail, we seek to deliver organic growth across all of our existing operations and to maintain and grow the business by bidding for selected new franchises where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
Market opportunity The market opportunity in rail arises from the potential to retain existing and or win new franchises, and also, from the potential to attract increased use of the Groups rail services.
With a number of franchises expected to be tendered within the next few years, there is scope to grow the Groups share of the rail market.
Macroeconomic factors The Rail operations are exposed to macroeconomic factors with passenger revenue correlated to Gross Domestic Product and employment levels.
The exposure is further increased by the relatively fixed cost base of the business which restricts the scope to reduce costs in response to reduced demand.
The Groups existing South West Trains and East Midlands Trains franchises have significant protection against macroeconomic risks due to the receipt of revenue support from Government whereby Government pays the Group a proportion of the shortfall of actual revenue to the revenue expected when the Group bid for the franchise.
From June 2014, the West Coast Trains franchise operated by the Groups Virgin Rail Group joint venture, is not entitled to revenue support in the form received by South West Trains and East Midlands Trains.
It does, however, have a GDP sharing agreement that is intended to ensure that the DfT bears most of the risk of variances in West Coast Trains revenue resulting from UK GDP differing from that expected at the time of the June 2014 franchise agreement.
On bids for new franchises, the Groups evaluation of macroeconomic risks is a key component of the bid process.
Competition The business faces competition for customers not only from other train operators but also from other modes of transport.
The main competitors that bid against the Group for UK rail franchises are FirstGroup, National Express Group, Go Ahead Group, Arriva, MTR, Keolis, SNCF, Eurostar, Serco and Abellio.
Future market The UK Government has reviewed the basis for rail franchising in the UK and changes to the franchising model are being developments implemented.
The Group is at the forefront of changes to the UK rail market in its ground breaking Alliance at South West Trains with Network Rail.
4 How we create value the business model The Groups overall business model is illustrated below.
Stagecoach factors driving demand for public transport Other drivers of Safe and Advertising Value for Cost factors Investment Design of reliable and money growth in services services transport marketing pricing Flexible cost Contract base franchise in bus bids Economic returns Strong Acquisitions Group-wide cost control External factors driving demand for public transport Increasing Rising Supportive Long-term Rising car Lower cost Contract road environmental government economic running rail business management congestion awareness policy growth costs model The right environment Decentralised Emphasis on Sustainable, efficient Short chains of Environment to to underpin the management operational long-term capital command support innovation business model structure performance structure The business model varies to some extent by division.
The business model is intended to deliver the business objectives and long-term strategy explained above in that it is designed to preserve and add value through organic growth, targeted acquisitions and rail franchise wins.
The overall model of the Group is based on a relatively decentralised management structure with short chains of command and close monitoring and direction from the centre.
Across the Group, there is an emphasis on achieving strong operational performance as an underpin of strong financial performance.
The business model for the Groups UK Bus regional operations and North America Divisions is designed to be sufficiently flexible to respond to developments in the markets in which they operate and to changes in demand.
The key features of this business model are: A decentralised management structure enabling local management to quickly identify and respond to developments in each local market: An emphasis on lightly regulated bus operations enabling management to vary prices, operating schedules and timetables in response to developments in each local market without significant hindrance from regulation: A flexible cost base whereby operating mileage and operating costs can be flexed in response to changes in demand.
The business model of the UK Bus London and UK Rail Divisions is different.
The businesses are more highly regulated and their cost base is less flexible so there is greater management focus on agreeing the right contractual arrangements, including appropriate risk-sharing arrangements, and ensuring these are appropriately managed for the duration of each contract.
5 What we need, to do what we do resources and relationships Stagecoach Group has a range of resources and relationships, including contractual relationships, that underpin its business and support its strategy.
These assist in giving the Group a competitive advantage in the markets in which it operates.
Customers Millions of people use our services and our relationship with our customers is important to us.
To deliver organic growth in revenue, a key element of our strategy, we need to provide services that people want to use.
We conduct customer research to monitor our performance and to determine how we can improve the delivery and accessibility of our services.
We are passionate about providing good customer service and our businesses have regular and ongoing discussions with bus and rail user groups.
This includes presentations from managers on detailed aspects of our service as well as consultation and information sharing on particular issues.
An important element of the Groups success in growing its customer base lies in its record of product innovation and new ideas on developing effective public transport systems.
The Group has an ongoing programme of market research.
We have a dedicated telemarketing unit in the UK that communicates with current customers and non-users to build a detailed profile of what attracts people to use our services.
Employees Human resources are key to the Groups business and the Groups relationship with its employees is therefore fundamental to achieving its objectives.
We aim to recruit and retain the best employees in our sector, offering an excellent package of benefits, which allows us to deliver good customer service to our passengers.
The Groups individual divisions invest significantly in the training and development of our people and we operate a successful graduate training scheme which provides one source of training for the managers of the future.
We have established strong working relationships with trade unions and work in partnership with them on a range of issues, including training and development, occupational health matters, pensions and other employee benefits.
We also communicate with our people face to face and through a number of internal publications.
The financial community Our shareholders and lenders are critical to our business success.
We have a regular programme of meetings with investors and provide frequent updates to the markets and financial community on our performance.
We have contractual arrangements with banks and other finance providers for the provision of funds and financial products to the Group.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 7 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:36 Page 8 Strategic report 2.3.
5 What we need, to do what we do resources and relationships continued Government and regulatory bodies Our managers have ongoing relationships with national and local government in our main countries of operation to ensure the effective delivery of government transport policy and to assist in meeting wider objectives.
We work with local authorities, including passenger transport executives, regional transport committees and transit authorities, in the delivery and planning of bus and rail services.
Many of our businesses have partnership agreements in place to improve the delivery of public transport in their areas.
In the UK, we work closely with the DfT, the Scottish Government, Transport Scotland, the Welsh Government, and Transport for London.
We contract with local authorities, government bodies and other parties for the supply of bus services on a contracted or tendered basis.
We have franchise agreements with the DfT governing the supply of franchised rail services in the UK.
We have constructive dialogue with organisations such as the Commission for Integrated Transport, which provides advice to the UK Government, and lobbying groups such as the Campaign for Better Transport.
Suppliers We rely on a range of suppliers to provide goods and services linked to our bus and rail operations.
All of our businesses have various contractual relationships with suppliers, including purchase contracts with fuel suppliers, vehicle suppliers, IT companies and spare part suppliers.
The operation of our rail franchises depends upon a number of contractual relationships with suppliers, including contracts with Network Rail governing station and track access arrangements, leases with rolling stock companies for the lease of trains and maintenance contracts for the maintenance of trains.
Information technology is increasingly important to effectively operate our services and to meet our customer expectations.
Significant investment, internal management resource and external supplier input is made in developing and operating IT systems.
Corporate reputation, brand strength, and market position Stagecoach is one of the best-known public transport operators in the UK and is consistently rated highly for the quality of its services in research by independent organisations.
We value our reputation, both as a public transport provider and as a key part of the communities in which we operate.
Stagecoach has a strong set of brands that support our strategy of organic growth in our business and that help maintain our leading market position.
Natural resources and manufacturing technology Operating our bus and rail services requires considerable use of natural resources, including diesel and electricity.
We have arrangements in place to ensure that these resources are sourced as efficiently as possible and that our supplies are maintained to ensure the smooth functioning of our business.
A number of experienced manufacturers supply our buses, coaches, trains and trams, which are produced to detailed specifications relevant to the individual markets in which they are required.
Licences Various licences are held by Stagecoach giving authority to operate our public transport services and these are maintained up to date as required.
Transport and Industry Representation Groups We are active members of industry groups, such as the Confederation of Passenger Transport UK which covers buses and light rail, the Rail Delivery Group and the American Bus Association.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties Like most businesses, there are a range of risks and uncertainties facing the Group and the matters described below are not intended to be an exhaustive list of all possible risks and uncertainties.
Generally, the Group is subject to risk factors both internal and external to its businesses.
External risks include global political and economic conditions, competitive developments, supply interruption, regulatory changes, foreign exchange, materials and consumables including fuel prices, pensions funding, environmental risks, industrial action, litigation and the risk of terrorism.
Internal risks include risks related to capital expenditure, acquisitions, regulatory compliance and failure of internal controls.
The focus below is on those specific risks and uncertainties that the Directors believe are the most significant to the Group, taking account of the likelihood of occurrence of each risk and the potential effect on the Group.
Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2014 Annual Report Catastrophic events There is a risk that the Group is The Group has a proactive culture that No significant matters to report.
involved directly or indirectly in a puts health and safety at the top of its major operational incident resulting in agenda in order to mitigate the significant human injuries or damage potential for major incidents.
This could have a unlikely event that a major incident significant impact on claims against did occur, the Group has procedures in the Group, the reputation of the Group place to respond.
The Group and its chances of winning and periodically rehearses its response to a retaining contracts or franchises.
Terrorism There have been multiple acts of The Group has plans in place designed No significant matters to report.
terrorism on public transport systems to reduce the financial impact of a and other terrorist attacks that whilst terrorist incident and these plans take not directly targeting public transport account of the Groups experience of have discouraged travel.
There is a risk managing the North American that the demand for the Groups business during the period of services could be adversely affected by depressed demand following the a significant terrorist incident.
Such a major terrorist attack on 11 September fall in demand would have a negative 2001. effect on the Groups revenue and financial performance.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2014 Annual Report Economy The economic environment in the Management monitors actual and During the year ended 30 April 2014, 2.5.
4 and geographic areas in which the Group projected economic trends in order to the rail franchises in which the Group 2.5.
5.1 operates affects the demand for the match capacity to demand and where has an interest had significant Groups bus and rail services.
In possible, minimise the impact of protection from macroeconomic particular, the revenue of the Groups adverse economic trends on the changes.
The West Coast Trains UK rail operations is historically Group.
External forecasts of economic franchise, operated by the Groups correlated with factors such as UK trends form part of the Groups Virgin Rail Group joint venture, Gross Domestic Product and Central assessment and management of operated under a management London Employment.
contract meaning that the DfT bore America, a greater proportion of the virtually all of the risk of revenue and In bidding for new rail franchises, the revenue from bus operations is derived costs being significantly different evaluation of macroeconomic risks is a from tour, charter and sightseeing from those expected.
The Groups key element of the bid process.
services than in the UK and these two wholly owned franchises received Further information on the relevance services tend to be more susceptible to revenue support from the DfT such of macroeconomic factors to each economic changes.
The revenue and that the DfT was and is at risk for the business segment is provided in profit of the Group could therefore be majority of any difference between section 2.3.
3. positively or negatively affected by actual and expected revenue.
5.1 From June 2014, the West Coast Trains franchise has a GDP sharing agreement that is intended to ensure that the DfT bears most of the risk of variances in West Coast Trains revenue resulting from UK GDP differing from that expected at the time of the June 2014 franchise agreement.
Rail cost base A substantial element of the cost base The Group looks to achieve sensible As described above, revenue in the Groups UK Rail Division is risk sharing arrangements in its rail support and GDP sharing 2.5.
4 essentially fixed because under its UK franchise agreements and franchise mechanisms reduce the Groups rail franchise agreements, the Group is bids are designed to deliver an exposure to macroeconomic risks.
obliged to provide a minimum level of acceptable risk-reward trade-off.
As train services and is therefore unable described above, economic and to flex supply in response to shortterrorism risks are closely managed.
In term changes in demand.
In addition, addition, the Group remains focussed a significant part of the cost base is on controlling costs in the UK Rail 2.5.
4 comprised of payments to the Division.
infrastructure provider, Network Rail, and payments under train operating 2.5.
4 leases which are committed and do not vary with revenue.
Accordingly, a significant proportion of any change in revenue for example, arising as a result of the risks described above in respect of terrorism and the economy will impact profit from the UK Rail Division.
Sustainability of rail profit A significant element of the Groups In order to manage the risks, the The DfT exercised its option to extend 2.5.
4 revenue and profit is generated by UK Group has devoted significant the Groups East Midlands Trains rail franchises.
There is a risk that the management resource and financial franchise from March 2015 to October Groups revenue and profit could be investment to bidding for new rail 2015.
The Group is discussing with significantly affected either positively franchises.
the DfT, the planned direct award to or negatively as a result of the Group the Group of a new East Midlands Appropriately experienced personnel winning new franchises or failing to Train franchise and also, a new South are retained to work on rail bids and retain its existing franchises.
third party consultants are engaged to provide additional expertise.
The New commercial terms have been 2.5.
5.1 Board approves the overall rail bidding agreed and apply from June 2014 to strategy and the key parameters for Virgin Rail Groups West Coast Trains each bid.
franchise, which is now expected to run until at least March 2017.
The Group is shortlisted with Virgin as 2.5.
4 one of three bidders for a new East Coast franchise.
The Group is also shortlisted as one of 2.5.
4 three bidders for a new Docklands Light Railway contract.
Further rail franchises are expected to be tendered over the next few years.
The Groups bid for the Thameslink, 2.5.
4 Southern and Great Northern franchise was confirmed in May 2014 as being unsuccessful.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 9 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:36 Page 10 Strategic report 2.3.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2014 Annual Report Breach of franchise The Group is required to comply with Our UK Rail businesses are subject to No significant matters to report.
certain conditions as part of its rail complex contractual arrangements.
If it fails to Contract management is an important comply with these conditions, it may part of our rail activities because the be liable to penalties including the way in which contracts are managed potential termination of one or more can be a significant determinant of of the rail franchise agreements.
would result in the Group losing the Compliance with franchise conditions right to continue operating the is closely managed and monitored and affected operations and consequently, procedures are in place to minimise the related revenues and cash flows.
The Group may also be required to The Group maintains an overview of make payments in respect of the Virgin Rail Groups business risk related shareholder loan facilities, the management process through performance bonds and the season representation on its board and audit ticket bonds.
The Group can do more to prevent breaches of franchise where it has sole control than where it has joint control.
As the holder of a 49% joint venture interest in Virgin Rail Group, the Group has less control over the joint ventures operations and that means the Groups management may be less able to prevent a breach of the Virgin Rail Group franchise agreement.
Pension scheme funding The Group participates in a number of Decisions on pension scheme funding, Pension scheme liabilities have 2.6.
asset allocation and benefit promises moved during the year as There is a risk that the cash are taken by management and or explained in section 2.6.
11. contributions required to these pension scheme trustees in The Pensions Regulator has schemes increases or decreases due to consultation with trade unions and initiated reviews of the valuation changes in factors such as investment suitably qualified advisors.
A Pensions basis applied by two of the performance, the rates used to Oversight Committee has been pension schemes to which the discount liabilities and life established comprising the Finance Group contributes, the expectancies.
Any increase in Director, a Non-Executive Director and Stagecoach Group Pension contributions will reduce the Groups other senior executives, to oversee the Scheme and the East London Bus cash flows.
This is Board participates in major decisions consistent with reviews the on the funding and design of pension Regulator has undertaken of other schemes.
pension schemes as part of its remit.
Insurance and claims environment The Group receives claims in respect of The Group has a proactive culture that Insurance and claims costs in our 2.5.
1 traffic incidents and employee claims.
puts health and safety at the top of its UK Bus regional operations 2.5.
2 The Group protects itself against the agenda and this helps mitigate the division decreased in the year as a 2.5.
3 cost of such claims through third party potential for claims arising.
Where proportion of revenue, but insurance policies.
An element of the claims do arise, they are managed by increased in our UK Bus London and claims is not insured as a result of the dedicated insurance and claims and North America divisions.
specialists in order to minimise the cost to the Group.
Where appropriate, There is a risk that the number or legal advice is obtained from magnitude of claims are not as appropriately qualified advisors.
The expected and that the cost to the balance between insured and retained Group of settling these claims is risks is re-evaluated at least once a significantly higher or lower than year and insurance and claims activity expected.
In the US, in particular, there is monitored closely.
is a risk that given the size of the excess, that a small number of largevalue claims could have a material impact on the Groups financial performance and or financial position.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2014 Annual Report Regulatory changes and availability of public funding Public transport is subject to varying Management closely monitors The Group confirmed plans to 2.5.
1 degrees of regulation across different relevant proposals for changes in the reduce bus services and geographies.
There is a risk that regulatory environment and headcount in Wales to partially changes to the regulatory communicates the Groups views to mitigate the Welsh Governments environment in any locations in which key decision makers and bodies.
The decision to cut the rate of the Group operates could impact its Group actively participates in various concessionary fare payments to prospects.. industry bodies.
The Group seeks to bus operators in Wales.
maintain good, co-operative Similarly, many of the Groups Growth in concessionary revenue 2.5.
1 relationships with all levels of businesses benefit from some form of in the UK Bus regional government, by developing and financial support from government operations is expected to be low promoting ideas that offer cost including direct financial support, the in the short term.
effective ways of improving public provision of equipment, government Progress has been made in 2.5.
contracts and concessionary fare resolving litigation in respect of schemes.
There is a risk that the Where changes are known or the Twin America joint venture.
availability of sufficient government reasonably likely, the Group develops financial support changes due to plans to seek to mitigate any adverse regulatory or other reasons.
The UK General Election planned for May 2015 and the referendum on Scottish Independence planned for September 2014 could result in regulatory change and or changes on taxation regimes, pension regimes, currency and the like.
Management and Board succession The Group values the continued Succession planning for the Directors Changes were made to the Board 5.1 services of its senior employees, and senior management is an on 1 May 2013. including its directors and important issue and as such is management who have operational, considered by the Nomination marketing, engineering, technical, Committee as described in section project management, financial and 7.5 and the Board.
The appropriate administrative skills that are important level of management deals with to the operation of the Groups recruitment and retention of other business.
Disease There have been concerns in recent The Group has plans in place to No significant matters to report.
years about the risk of a swine flu respond to any significant outbreak of pandemic, which follows previous disease.
5.1 concerns over bird flu and SARS.
There is a risk that demand for the Groups services could be adversely affected by a significant outbreak of disease.
Such a fall in demand would have a negative impact on the Groups revenue and financial performance.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 11 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:36 Page 12 Strategic report 2.3.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2014 Annual Report Information technology The Group is reliant on information The Group is continually investing in The Board has increased its technology for sales, operations and its information technology systems, scrutiny of cyber risks given the back office functions.
Information people and suppliers to ensure the increasing risks faced by most technology failures or interruptions robustness of its information large businesses in this regard.
could adversely affect the Group.
It is developing new Cyber risk was specifically Internet sales platforms and continues considered by the Board at its An increasing proportion of the to look to ensure that it secures meeting in February 2014.
Group's sales are made via the Internet.
There is a risk that the Group's capability to make Internet sales either An Information Security Board fails or cannot meet levels of demand oversees the management of cyber and the time taken to implement risks, and takes appropriate advice restorative actions is unacceptably long from suitably experienced third party due to insufficient resource being consultants.
available and or over reliance on a small number of service providers.
This risk could result in significant levels of lost revenue at a time when the Group is investing in megabus.
com coach operations in North America, of which Internet sales is a fundamental part.
com website failure could severely affect the megabus.
com brand and also give a competitor an advantage during the time of the failure.
There are cyber risks relating to unauthorised access to or disclosure of data, disruption to IT systems and disruption to business operations as a result of a malicious attack.
Treasury risks Details of the Groups treasury risks are discussed in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements, and include the risks arising from movements in fuel prices.
7 How we measure our performance key performance indicators The Group uses a wide range of key performance indicators KPIs across its various businesses and at a Group level to measure the Groups progress in achieving its objectives.
The most important of these KPIs at a Group level focus on four key areas: Profitability Organic growth Safety Service delivery KPI 1 profitability The overall strategy of the Group is intended to promote the success of the Group and create long-term value to shareholders.
In the shorter term, we measure progress towards this overall aspiration by monitoring growth in adjusted earnings per share.
KPI 2 organic growth To create long-term value, we aim to deliver organic growth in revenue.
We measure progress on this by division, looking at like-for-like growth in passenger volumes and or revenue as we consider most appropriate for the particular division.
KPIs 3 and 4 safety and service delivery To deliver organic growth in revenue, we aim to provide safe and reliable transport services that people want to use.
We measure safety and service delivery by division using a range of measures appropriate for each business.
Further details on how we calculate these key performance indicators, our targets and our recent performance is summarised below.
7 How we measure our performance key performance indicators continued Profitability Adjusted earnings per share is earnings per share before exceptional items and intangible asset expenses Adjusted EPS.
Adjusted EPS is calculated based on the profit attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude exceptional items and intangible asset expenses divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the relevant period.
Adjusted EPS was as follows: Year ended 30 April 2014 2013 restated 2012 restated pence pence pence Target Adjusted EPS To increase in excess of inflation 26.0p 24.6p 21.8 Organic growth The following measures of organic growth are monitored: UK Bus regional operations growth in passenger journeys measured as the percentage increase in the number of passenger journeys relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
Rail growth in passenger miles measured as the percentage increase in the number of miles travelled by passengers relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
UK Bus London and North America growth in constant currency revenue from continuing operations measured as the percentage increase in revenue relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
The measures vary by division reflecting differences in the underlying businesses for example, a significant proportion of the revenue in North America and all of the revenue in UK Bus London is not determined on a per passenger basis.
Throughout this Annual Report, references to passenger volume growth for UK Bus or Rail businesses mean growth determined on the basis set out here.
Certain of these growth KPIs involve a degree of estimation in respect of passenger volumes.
All of the organic growth KPIs are normalised to exclude businesses that have not been held by the Group for the whole of the relevant year and the preceding year.
Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 April 2014 30 April 2013 30 April 2012 Target Growth % Growth % Growth % UK Bus regional operations passenger journeys 1.3% 0.4 % 1.9% UK Bus London revenue 5.2% 1.0% n a UK Rail passenger miles Positive growth South West Trains ultimate target is zero 3.4% 1.8% 4.1% each year East Midlands Trains 0.8 % 2.7% 3.6% Virgin Rail Group West Coast Trains 4.5% 0.9% 4.6% North America revenue 3.9% 8.9% 14.0% The increase in passenger journeys at UK Bus regional operations in the year ended 30 April 2014 partly is due to more journeys by concessionary passengers that we believe is largely attributable to better weather in contrast to the more severe winter weather affecting South West Trains and North America, reversing the weather-related decline in passenger journeys reported for the year ended 30 April 2013.
Journeys by fare-paying passengers increased during both years.
The increase in passenger miles at South West Trains during the year ended 30 April 2014 is artificially inflated by changes in travelcard factors used to determine cross-industry passenger volumes in the London area.
The decline in passenger miles at East Midlands Trains during the year ended 30 April 2014 includes the disruptive effect of planned engineering works on the rail network.
Safety Safety is monitored in various ways, including through a range of KPIs.
Businesses acquired or disposed of in the year are excluded from the safety KPIs.
Six of the more important safety KPIs are reported below: Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 April 2014 30 April 2013 30 April 2012 Target UK Bus regional operations number of blameworthy 19.1 19.3 20.6 accidents per 1 million miles travelled UK Bus London number of blameworthy 26.2 27.9 25.0 accidents per 1 million miles travelled ultimate target is zero US number of blameworthy accidents per To decrease each year To decrease each year 4.9 4.8 5.2 1 million miles travelled ultimate target is zero ultimate target is zero South West Trains workforce lost time injuries 1.4 1.5 1.8 per 1,000 staff East Midlands Trains workforce lost time injuries 1.3 1.4 1.6 per 1,000 staff Virgin Rail Group West Coast workforce lost time 1.3 1.4 1.5 injuries per 1,000 staff Stagecoach Group plc | page 13 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:36 Page 14 Strategic report 2.3.
7 How we measure our performance key performance indicators continued Service delivery Our measures of service delivery include: UK Bus regional operations and UK Bus London reliability measured as the percentage of planned miles to be operated that were operated.
Rail punctuality measured on the basis of the DfTs Public Performance Measure moving annual average being the percentage of trains that arrive at their final destination within 5 minutes or 10 minutes for inter-city services of their scheduled arrival time having called at all scheduled stations.
References to rail punctuality throughout this Annual Report refer to punctuality calculated on this basis.
Due to the nature of the North American business, there is no single measure of service delivery for the North American division as a whole.
Service delivery KPIs are not reported for businesses acquired or disposed of in the year.
The service delivery KPIs were as follows: Year ended 30 April 2014 2013 2012 % % % Target UK Bus regional operations reliability 99.0% 99.5% 99.3% 99.5% UK Bus London reliability 99.0% 98.0% 97.8% 97.9% UK Rail punctuality South West Trains 90.0% 89.5% 91.5% 92.2% East Midlands Trains 85.0% 91.2% 92.3% 93.7% Virgin Rail Group West Coast Trains 85.0% 86.1% 83.5% 86.0% 2.4 Overview of financial results Stagecoach Group has achieved continued good financial and operational performance in the year ended 30 April 2014.
Revenue by division is summarised below: REVENUE YEAR TO 30 APRIL 2014 2013 2014 2013 Functional Functional currency Growth m currency m % Continuing Group operations UK Bus regional operations 1,012.8 966.7 1,012.8 966.7 4.8% UK Bus London 244.9 232.7 244.9 232.7 5.2% North America 428.2 407.2 US$ 685.7 641.2 6.9% UK Rail 1,252.0 1,201.3 1,252.0 1,201.3 4.2%% Intra-Group revenue 7.9 3.1 7.9 3.1 154.8% Group revenue 2,930.0 2,804.8 Operating profit by division is summarised below: OPERATING PROFIT YEAR TO 30 APRIL 2014 2013 restated 2014 2013 restated % % Functional Functional currency m margin m margin currency m Continuing Group operations UK Bus regional operations 147.4 14.6% 143.2 14.8% 147.4 143.2 UK Bus London 23.9 9.8% 19.0 8.2% 23.9 19.0 North America 23.7 5.5% 13.4 3.3% US$ 38.0 21.1 UK Rail 34.3 2.7% 41.2 3.4% 34.3 41.2 Group overheads 13.9 15.7 Restructuring costs 0.9 1.7 214.5 199.4 Joint ventures share of profit after tax Virgin Rail Group 2.0 8.3 Citylink 1.3 1.3 Twin America 5.5 11.7 Total operating profit before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items 223.3 220.7 Intangible asset expenses 14.0 16.1 Exceptional items 8.4 4.8 Total operating profit: Group operating profit and share of joint ventures profit after taxation 200.9 199.8 page 14 | Stagecoach Group plc 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:36 Page 15 depot and a number of service reductions, following a succession of Welsh 2.5 Divisional Performance Government bus investment cuts.
1 UK Bus regional operations Stagecoach has been appointed as the official provider of buses to the 2014 Financial performance Ryder Cup, being held at Gleneagles in Scotland.
We will provide a fleet of 150 The financial performance of the UK Bus regional operations division for the double decker buses to and from several park and ride sites during the week of year ended 30 April 2014 is summarised below: the event.
It builds further on our expertise in managing major transport operations at the 2012 London Olympics, the 2010 Ryder Cup in Wales, the Year to 30 April 2013 British Grand Prix at Silverstone and other events.
2014 restated m m Change Profitability Revenue 1,012.8 966.7 4.8% The decrease in operating margin was built up as follows: Like-for-like revenue 982.7 939.8 4.6% Operating margin 2012 13 restated 14.8% Operating profit 147.4 143.2 2.9% Effect of Olympics contracts 0.1 % Operating margin 14.6% 14.8% 20 bp Change in: Insurance and claims costs 0.3% Our bus businesses are built on a successful commercial formula of low fares, Operating lease costs 0.4% investment and high customer service which has delivered continued Bus Service Operators Grant 0.6 % passenger volume growth nearly every year for more than ten years.
The Other 0.2 % Divisions results reflect a continuation of our successful strategy to grow revenue and passenger volumes organically, as well as pursuing targeted small Operating margin 2013 14 14.6% bolt-on acquisitions.
The main changes in the operating margin shown above are: The previous years financial results to 30 April 2013 included revenue of The Olympics contracts in the prior year earned an operating margin in 18.8m and operating profit of around 4m arising from the successful excess of the average operating margin for the division.
The non recurrence delivery of contracts to provide transport for the media and athletes at the of those contracts this year results in a slight decrease in margin.
London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
Excluding that 4m operating profit, the division has increased operating profit by 8.2m or 5.9% in the year Continuing the trend seen in the first half of the year just ended, insurance ended 30 April 2014. and claims costs have reduced as we remain focussed on minimising claims.
Operating lease costs fell due to a combination of additional lease costs in Passenger volume and revenue growth the prior year to cover for vehicles redeployed on Olympics work, vehicles Like-for-like revenue was built up as follows: reaching the end of their lease terms and lower charges on vacant Year to 30 April 2014 2013 properties.
m m Change In April 2012, the proportion of fuel duty that is rebated to bus operators in Commercial on and off bus revenue 591.4 570.4 3.7% the form of Bus Service Operators Grant BSOG was cut.
Since April Concessionary revenue 236.8 229.4 3.2% 2012, the rate of BSOG has remained stable meaning that the total BSOG Tendered and school revenue 105.8 98.9 7.0% received by the division has fallen as a percentage of revenue.
Contract revenue 45.2 37.7 19.9% Acquisition Hires and excursions 3.5 3.4 2.9% In December 2013, we acquired Norfolk Green, an award-winning independent Like-for-like revenue 982.7 939.8 4.6% bus operator in the east of England.
It will allow us to expand our operations in the east of England, where we have achieved good passenger volume growth The like-for-like revenue growth of 4.6% shown above for the year ended by focusing on good value fares, investing in our networks and delivering 30 April 2014 is in line with our expectations.
We had previously reported likepunctual and reliable services.
for-like revenue growth of 4.8% for the forty eight weeks ended 30 March Investment 2014.
The lower growth for April 2014 reflects the timing of Easter.
Bus We have now placed orders worth more than 90m for 534 new greener revenue is generally lower than normal around Easter and in 2014, Easter vehicles for the UK Bus regional operations benefitting communities in regions weekend fell in the second half of April whereas in 2013, it fell around the end across England, Scotland and Wales.
Most of the buses and coaches will be of March.
produced in the UK, supporting British manufacturing jobs and smaller Overall like-for-like passenger volume growth for the year was 1.3%.
businesses in the supply chain.
It takes the Group's total orders of new buses and coaches for its regional bus operations in the UK to over 550m in the last An increase in our commercial revenue has contributed most to the overall seven years.
revenue growth, with concessionary, contract, tendered and school revenue also continuing to grow.
The growth in concessionary revenue is principally a Customer service and smart ticketing result of an increase in the volume of concessionary journeys during the year, Customer service is central to our growth plans.
The latest independent which we believe reflects more benign weather conditions.
Although severe research by Passenger Focus shows that our customers are more satisfied with weather adversely affected our North America and South West Trains their service than those using other national UK bus operators for the second operations in the year, the weather across the UK was generally better than in year in a row.
Some 90% of Stagecoach bus passengers were either very or the previous year.
In addition to underlying growth, we benefitted from the fairly satisfied with their overall service, which is higher than the national division providing additional bus services to replace train services that were average of 88%.
We are working hard to further improve the passenger affected by planned railway resignalling work in the Nottingham area, and this experience, by for example, expanding our use of social media site, Twitter.
We is reflected in the increased contract revenue.
are also making a multi-million-pound investment in a nationwide automatic Continuing pressure on public sector budgets has, however, resulted in further vehicle location system for our regional bus fleet in the UK.
It will allow real reductions in central and local government investment in bus services.
This time service information to be provided to customers via smartphone apps has been particularly acute in Wales where we were recently forced to and the Internet, and help local authorities deliver real time passenger announce a 10% reduction in our fleet, the planned closure of our Brynmawr information.
See definitions in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements Stagecoach Group plc | page 15 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:36 Page 16 Strategic report We are continuing to invest and roll-out smarter ticketing across the UK to 2.5.
2 UK Bus London make travel easier for our customers.
Nearly all of our bus companies in Financial performance England offer customers our StagecoachSmart travel cards and we have now The financial performance of the UK Bus London division for the year ended extended this benefit to passengers in Scotland and Wales.
We were the first 30 April 2014 is summarised below: major operator to accept concessionary smartcard transactions on every one of our buses outside London.
More than 240 million journeys are now made each Year to 30 April 2014 2013 restated year on Stagecoach bus and rail services using smartcards and that figure will m m Change grow further as we complete our roll out programme.
In addition, we are Revenue and like-for-like revenue 244.9 232.7 5.2% testing smartphone ticketing using near-field communications technology.
Operating profit 23.9 19.0 25.8% Partnership Operating margin 9.8% 8.2% 160bp Strong partnerships with local authorities are continuing to deliver improved Our UK Bus London operations have already surpassed the expectations we services for customers and support our growth plans.
As well as building good had when we reacquired the business in 2010, reflecting the progress made in relationships in shire counties, partnerships are either in place or have been restructuring the cost base, winning new profitable contracts and improving proposed by bus operators in each of the metropolitan areas in England outside operational performance.
The operating profit for the year ended 30 April London.
Successful, award-winning partnerships, such as that in Sheffield 2014 exceeds our expectations from the start of the year reflecting the further between South Yorkshire Passenger Transport Executive and several operators, positive progress made in the turnaround of the business.
have helped improve bus reliability and punctuality, increase customer satisfaction and generate passenger volume growth.
In Oxford, our partnership Revenue growth with Oxfordshire County Council and other operators has delivered coordinated From 1 October 2013, the business no longer receives BSOG but this is offset by high-frequency bus services and an improved urban environment, whilst a corresponding uplift in the contract prices paid to the business by Transport for maintaining high levels of bus use in the city.
The impact of this change all other things being equal is an increase In Tyne and Wear, as previously reported, there has been consideration of a in both our reported revenues and costs, and a decline in profit margin as potential bus contracting system.
Bus operators have put forward alternative shown in the table below but no overall change to profit.
Excluding the effect better partnership proposals to the transport authority, offering investment in of this change, revenue increased by 2.1%.
As we anticipated, the underlying new vehicles, ticketing, network and customer service improvements, and decline in revenue that was reported in the first half of the financial year was guaranteed financial savings for the public sector.
Tyne and Wear has one of the more than offset by growth in the second half as we benefitted from the nine most used bus networks and recent research found it has the highest customer new contracts won last financial year.
satisfaction of any metropolitan area in England.
Responsibility for deciding on Profitability the merits of the respective partnership and bus contracting proposals has The further progress in improving both operational and financial performance is passed from the now dissolved Tyne and Wear Integrated Transport Authority to reflected in the improvement in operating margin, which was built up as a new Combined Authority, which includes councils in County Durham and follows: Northumberland, with a decision expected in September 2014.
We believe that our extensive engagement with customers, bus employees and other Operating margin 2012 13 restated 8.2% stakeholders suggests significant backing for partnership as the best way Change in: forward for bus services and communities.
Staff costs Olympic payment 0.3% Staff costs Other 2.6% Inter-city coach services Bus Service Operators Grant 3.3 % Inter-city coach services operated under the megabus.
com brand continue to Fuel costs 1.2% grow in the UK and in mainland Europe.
com network in Insurance and claims costs 0.8 % mainland Europe is performing well and we have invested in new left-hand drive Materials, consumables and other costs 1.6% coaches to serve these locations.
We have built on our initial services linking London with Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam and Boulogne to offer several new Operating margin 2013 14 9.8% destinations.
In October 2013, we entered the German market for the first time with a new route from London to Cologne.
We have also added new services to The results for the year ended 30 April 2013 included a net cost of 0.8m as a Ghent, Lille, Rotterdam and Antwerp.
Most recently, in June 2014, we extended result of the agreement reached between London bus operators, Transport for our network into Spain and also widened our footprint in France, with a new London and trade unions to pay additional amounts to bus operators route linking London, Paris, Toulouse and Barcelona.
We continue to explore employees in connection with the 2012 London Olympics.
This payment did not opportunities for the further expansion of the Groups inter-city coach services in recur in the current financial year contributing to the improved operating continental Europe.
In addition and consistent with the trend seen in the first half of the year, other staff costs continue to reduce as a proportion of revenue Outlook reflecting the steps previously taken to reduce units costs to ensure that the We do not expect significant short-term growth in concessionary and tendered business can compete effectively for new contracts.
revenue as local authorities look to minimise concessionary reimbursement During the second half of the year ended 30 April 2014, we benefited from amounts and bus tenders in light of their budget constraints.
This is exemplified falling fuel prices with only around half of our anticipated fuel consumption by the Welsh Governments cuts in concessionary reimbursement rates for bus hedged by financial derivatives against price movements.
This unanticipated operators in Wales.
Our focus is therefore to seek to continue to deliver good saving is reflected in the reduction in fuel costs as a percentage of revenue.
growth in commercial revenue to offset inflationary cost pressures.
As we expected, insurance and claims costs increased in the second half of the Our assessment of the longer term outlook for our UK Bus regional operations year ended 30 April 2014 because the equivalent costs in the prior year included remains as before: the market conditions are positive with a combination of a a benefit from reassessing the level of insurance provisions held in respect of rising population, increasing road congestion, the cost of running a car and historic claims.
widespread concern for the natural environment providing good potential for increased bus usage across the UK.
Furthermore, our business is well positioned The reduction in other costs as a percentage of revenue mainly arises from to outperform the market with its low fares, high customer satisfaction and lower maintenance and other expenses relating to the return of leased buses to continued investment.
page 16 | Stagecoach Group plc 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:36 Page 17 Operational performance and investment Like-for-like charter revenue declined as we continued to adjust our charter We are pleased to have made further steady progress in improving our fleet size to reflect changes in demand and the decline in contract revenue operational performance.
Transport for London closely monitors the delivery of reflects the expiry of certain contracts previously operated by the Group.
its contractors across a range of indicators.
Since we acquired the UK Bus The like-for-like growth in scheduled service and commuter revenue includes London division in 2010, we have improved the standing of the business in declines in revenue on certain airport express services that we have Transport for Londons league tables significantly and are now among the restructured with a view to improving their profitability.
The like-for-like leading operators on key measures.
growth in sightseeing and tour revenue included good growth in revenue at We have announced orders for around 21m of hybrid electric buses for London our Chicago sightseeing operations.
Profitability Current contract portfolio The increase in operating margin was built up as follows: The current, contracted, annualised revenue base excluding contingent quality Operating margin 2012 13 3.3% incentive income and any miscellaneous income of the Groups London bus Change in: operations is estimated at 257.4m which compares to 239.2m of such Staff costs 1.0% revenue for the year ended 30 April 2014 and can be analysed by contract Fuel costs 0.9% expiry date as follows: Sub-contracted services 0.7% Earliest date of contract expiry Annualised revenue Insurance and claim costs 0.2 % m Other 0.2 % Year ending 30 April 2015 28.5 Year ending 30 April 2016 62.2 Operating margin 2013 14 5.5% Year ending 30 April 2017 69.2 Growth in our North America division is continuing to be driven by our interYear ending 30 April 2018 44.1 city megabus.
com services where we have further expanded our growing Year ending 30 April 2019 53.4 megabus.
We have achieved our objective for the year, 257.4 which was to deliver a significant increase in the divisions operating profit compared to 2012 13.
Outlook Having surpassed the expectations we had for the London Bus business when Overall, the financial performance of the non-megabus businesses remains we reacquired it in 2010, the focus now remains on keeping costs under control satisfactory and the integration of the businesses acquired from Coach and aiming to retain and win contracts on acceptable terms.
Given the America in July 2012 has been successfully completed.
competitive environment in which our London Bus business operates, we The changes in operating margin partly reflect the shift in the mix of business believe that delivering further improvement in reported operating margin with a full year of the businesses acquired in 2012 and as megabus.
com would be challenging but we do see potential for growth in absolute revenue continues to grow at a faster rate than the other businesses.
As revenue and and profit over time.
com, staff and fuel costs grow to a lesser extent and therefore fall as a proportion of revenue.
3 North America recorded in the year to reflect our latest assessment of the required provision Financial performance for claims on major incidents.
com work has been subThe financial performance of the North America division for the year ended contracted to third parties resulting in lower sub-contracting costs.
30 April 2014 is summarised below: Megabus.
com expansion Year to 30 April 2014 2013 restated Change US$m US$m % We have further expanded our growing megabus.
com coach network in North America during the year.
It now serves around 130 cities in the United States Revenue 685.7 641.2 6.9% and Canada.
We have also created more than 1,000 new jobs over the past Like-for-like revenue 530.1 510.3 3.9% seven years as a result of the success of the product.
In April 2014, we Operating profit 38.0 21.1 80.1% announced a 14th North America hub, located in Orlando, Florida.
Across Operating margin 5.5% 3.3% 220bp Florida, megabus.
com now serves a total of six metro areas - Gainesville, Jacksonville, Miami, Orlando, Tallahassee and Tampa.
We also launched a new The increase in revenue and operating profit shown above includes the full route connecting Orlando and New Orleans.
This followed the addition of new year effect of the businesses acquired from Coach America in July 2012 and destinations in North and South Carolina in February 2014 and routes between further growth in like-for-like revenue as analysed below.
Baton Rouge and Houston and New Orleans in September 2013.
In July 2013, Revenue growth we relaunched daily services between Cleveland and eight cities.
Year to 30 April 2014 2013 Change Recent research by the Chaddick Institute for Metropolitan Development of US$m US$m % DePaul University found travellers in the United States saved $1.1 billion last year by taking megabus.
com and other inter-city bus operators rather than the Megabus 177.9 152.8 16.4% train or plane.
We believe the market to encourage people to switch from the Scheduled service and commuter 213.6 212.3 0.6% car to the bus is significant.
Charter 78.1 79.7 2.0 % Sightseeing and tour 22.6 21.4 5.6% Contract 36.1 42.2 14.5 % Investment and customer improvements School bus 1.8 1.9 5.3 % The North America division continues to invest in new vehicles and other improvements in customer service.
com expansion in 2013 14 Like-for-like revenue 530.1 510.3 3.9% has been supported by a US$10.5m investment in new double-decker coaches.
Despite the impact of severe weather during the year, further like-for-like We have further improved the megabus.
com website to better provide customer alerts and exchange of trips during periods of weather disruption.
We revenue growth has been delivered.
com continues to be the fastest are also seeking to further improve the safety and fuel-efficiency of our services growing part of the North American business, with the growth reflecting both the full year effect of the new networks launched in Texas and California in through the introduction of the same eco-driving technology we have 2012 13 as well as further growth on more established networks.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 17 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:36 Page 18 Strategic report Canada The financial performance of our rail businesses is in line with our expectations and there is continuing good passenger revenue growth at our South West and We have been working with other bus operators in Ontario on a campaign to East Midlands rail franchises.
Expected increases in the franchise payments to encourage greater customer choice through changes to the current licensed the DfT resulted in a reduced operating margin for the year.
system in the province, which is controlled by government.
The Premier of Ontario and the Minister of Transportation have previously publicly supported a Our efficient financial stewardship of the railway and our ability to generate change to the system, but as yet the regulation has not been modified.
continued growth is benefitting taxpayers.
Recent data published by the Office Research published by Ipsos Reid found that 80% of Ontarians polled believed of the Rail Regulator shows that our South West Trains franchise made the change should be a priority for the Ontario government.
largest net return to the taxpayer of any UK train operator in 2012 13, providing a significant premium which the government can choose to invest in public Disposals services and improvements for passengers.
In October 2013, we completed two small disposals of businesses as part of our Franchise opportunities and negotiations strategic focus on commercial intercity, commuter and scheduled services.
RAZ We are pleased that the rail franchising programme is again moving.
We believe was purchased by DMC Transport, LLC for US$0.8m.
The business, located in it is important to move quickly in restoring the competitive award of franchises the North West of the United States, provides charter services and operating and taking steps to agree commercial contracts to ensure passengers and contracts for the transportation of construction workers to and from work sites.
There are several opportunities ahead and we will bid for In Canada, we sold several small operations to Pacific Western Transportation franchises where we believe we can improve services for passengers and add Ltd for C$4.6m.
This included the last of our remaining school bus operations, value to our shareholders.
In the year ended 30 April 2014, we invested around based in Peterborough and Whitby, a local transit contract business, and 9m in pursuing new rail franchise opportunities.
services providing transport to and from Pearson International Airport in Toronto.
We continue to discuss with the DfT the planned direct awards of new South West Trains and East Midlands Trains franchises.
The DfT has previously Outlook announced that it plans to extend our tenure at South West Trains from Revenue growth in North America remains the highest of any of our divisions, February 2017 to April 2019, the end of Network Rails regulatory Control reflecting the successful expansion of megabus.
In March 2014, the DfT exercised the pre-contracted extension of the continue with the further expansion of the megabus.
com inter-city services, East Midlands rail franchise through to October 2015.
The Group is continuing including the new Florida network where operations began in May 2014. discussions with the DfT on a planned direct award at East Midlands Trains, Although we would not expect the level of increase in operating profit in the subject to agreement of commercial terms, from October 2015 through to year ended 30 April 2014 to be repeated in the new financial year, we remain October 2017. positive on the prospects for the North America Division.
In December 2013, we submitted our bid for the Thameslink, Southern and Great Northern franchise with clear plans to manage the substantial, complex 2.5.
4 UK Rail changes the franchise will face in the coming years.
We were disappointed not Financial performance to win the franchise but see further opportunities for franchise wins.
We are one The financial performance of the UK Rail division for the year ended 30 April of three bidders shortlisted for a new Docklands Light Railway franchise, and we 2014 is summarised below: expect Transport for London to soon announce who has been awarded that franchise.
We have also recently submitted a bid with Virgin for the new East Year to 30 April 2014 2013 restated Coast franchise and we expect the DfT to announce later in 2014 which of the m m Change three bidders has been awarded the franchise.
Revenue and like-for-like revenue 1,252.0 1,201.3 4.2% Our Alliance between South West Trains and Network Rail, where one Operating profit 34.3 41.2 16.7 % management team manages both trains and track, is helping deliver a more Operating margin 2.7% 3.4% 70 bp integrated and customer-focused railway for passengers.
We believe our hard work over the past two years has given us an invaluable insight, which we can Revenue growth leverage as part of our franchising strategy.
We are pleased that South West The Groups two wholly-owned rail franchises, South West Trains and East Trains and Network Rail have entered into a new agreement that extends the Midlands Trains, continue to receive revenue support which partly offsets the duration of their alliance and will build on the successes that the Alliance has extent to which actual revenue falls short of the revenue that was forecast as achieved over the last two years.
The new agreement contemplates that the part of the successful bids for the franchises.
As a result of the revenue support single, joint Alliance management team will continue to have responsibility for arrangements, the profit of our UK Rail Division is less sensitive to changes in both train and infrastructure operations for the next five years to April 2019. revenue than it would otherwise be.
Investment in trains, stations, infrastructure and customer service The Division reported good revenue growth for the year ended 30 April 2014 Strong operational performance has been underpinned by consistently high even after allowing for the adverse effect on revenue of severe winter weather, levels of customer satisfaction across our UK rail division over several years.
The particularly at South West Trains.
latest National Passenger Survey, published in June 2014, shows more than Profitability eight in ten customers at our South West Trains and East Midlands Trains networks are satisfied with their services.
The decrease in operating margin was built up as follows: Expanding capacity and improving the resilience of the track and signalling Operating margin 2012 13 restated 3.4% infrastructure is a key priority, particularly on busy commuter services into Change in: London.
Around 360m is being spent to renew and enhance the from DfT 1.0 % Amounts paid to infrastructure to provide more reliable journeys at our South West Trains Other operating income 0.7% franchise, Europes busiest commuter network.
The first of 108 extra carriages Other 0.4 % have been introduced on the network as part of a 65m programme to provide Operating margin 2013 14 2.7% an additional 23,000 peak time seats every weekday.
Platform 20 at the former page 18 | Stagecoach Group plc 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:36 Page 19 Waterloo International Terminal WIT has been opened ahead of schedule to 2.5.
5 Joint Ventures help accommodate trains during disruption.
The Alliance is also working with 2.5.
5.1 Virgin Rail Group the DfT on significant proposals to re-open the remaining four WIT platforms Financial performance and to extend platforms 1 to 4 at London Waterloo to create extra capacity at The financial performance of the Groups Virgin Rail Group joint venture the UK's busiest station.
excluding intangible asset expenses and exceptional items for the year East Midlands Trains has been the UK's most punctual long distance train ended 30 April 2014 is summarised below: operator for the past four years and we are committed to improving services Year to 30 April 2014 2013 restated further for our customers.
We worked in partnership with Network Rail over the 49% share m m Change summer to deliver a successful 100m resignalling improvement scheme in the Revenue and like-for-like revenue 465.6 441.5 5.5% Nottingham area.
It included one of the largest bus rail replacement operations and we offered affected passengers a 15% discount on rail fares during the Operating profit 2.6 10.5 75.2 % works.
Station improvement schemes have been completed at the key Derby Net finance income 0.3 0.5 40.0 % and Leicester transport hubs and we are rolling out free wi-fi to 30 stations.
East Taxation 0.9 2.7 66.7 % Midlands Trains is creating more than 1,000 extra cycle spaces at stations Profit after tax 2.0 8.3 75.9 % throughout the network, to deliver greener and more integrated travel.
New changing facilities and a cycle repair shop are being introduced at Sheffield and Operating margin 0.6% 2.4% 180 bp Leicester stations.
Until December 2012, Virgin Rail Group VRG operated the West Coast rail Customer service and improved communication and engagement are among franchise under a commercial agreement where it was at risk for variations in our top priorities across our rail businesses.
South West Trains, which has won a revenue and cost, and earned a commensurate return.
To ensure the national Putting Passengers First award for keeping customers informed, has continued operation of the franchise following the DfTs failure to properly launched a new Passenger Forum.
East Midlands Trains has launched a new conclude its re-letting of the franchise during 2012, a temporary commercial customer contact centre with extended opening hours.
It has also become the arrangement was entered into in December 2012.
Since then until June 2014, first train company in the UK to offer a 24-hour, 7-day-a-week point of contact VRG has earned a pre-tax profit equivalent to 1% of revenue from the West for its customers within its control centre.
The team is available to book Coast rail franchise with the DfT taking virtually all of the risk that revenue passenger assistance, answer help-point calls, help to track lost property and and or costs differ from those expected.
deal with any urgent enquiries, as well as engaging with customers via social media.
VRG has now reached an agreement with the DfT to return its West Coast rail franchise to more normal commercial terms.
Under the new agreement, the Light rail West Coast rail franchise is now planned to run until at least March 2017.
The Sheffield Supertram network is benefitting from a five-year multi-millionVRG will look to build on its industry-leading customer satisfaction by pound track improvement project, which will safeguard the future of Sheffields delivering a range of further enhancements to the customer experience, tram network for the long-term.
During the year, we launched a commercial including, high bandwidth wi-fi, a partnership with the Nectar loyalty scheme, smart ticketing scheme, which allows customers to store their tickets additional standard class seating capacity, more ticket vending machines, an electronically on a StagecoachSmart travel card.
It means passengers can access upgraded website and planned new train services from London to Blackpool integrated smart ticketing across Stagecoachs bus and tram operations in and Shrewsbury.
The new franchise has a GDP sharing agreement that is Sheffield.
Recent Passenger Focus research showed that 94% of Supertram intended to ensure that the DfT bears most of the risk of variances in the customers in Sheffield were satisfied with their overall service, above the West Coast Trains revenue resulting from UK GDP differing from that average score of 90% for the five UK light rail networks covered in the survey.
expected at the time of the June 2014 franchise agreement.
A profit share Outlook arrangement also applies whereby a share of the profit above certain preAs we approach the end of the existing period of our two wholly-owned determined thresholds is payable to the DfT.
franchises, the financial performance of the businesses becomes more Business developments challenging compared to that forecast in the original bids for the franchises.
The existing franchise periods end in 2015 for East Midlands Trains and in 2017 VRG introduced a new timetable in December 2013 following investment in for South West Trains.
South West Trains and East Midlands Trains face further four new 11-car Pendolino trains and 62 extra standard train carriages, which substantial increases in the amounts they are due to pay to the DfT as franchise has delivered significant extra capacity.
The new timetable provides new premia amounts in the year ahead.
While we remain focussed on growing through journey opportunities between the Midlands, North West England revenue and controlling costs to offset these increased premia payments, to the and Scotland.
Network Rail has delivered a 7.6m investment in extent possible, the greater opportunities to add value in UK Rail lie in the improvements to overhead power lines on the busiest section of the West planned direct awards of new South West Trains and East Midlands Trains Coast Main Line between London and Rugby.
The work is designed to franchises and in the opportunities to secure other new franchises.
improve operational performance and reduce delays for passengers.
VRG is also working closely to ensure the West Coast franchise is effectively integrated with the Governments planned HS2 network.
Further investment is being made by VRG in customer service improvements for passengers, including a new First Class lounge at London Euston station and accessibility enhancements at other stations.
VRGs West Coast franchise has achieved consistently high customer satisfaction and in the most recent National Passenger Survey, customer satisfaction was 90%.
Outlook The new West Coast Trains franchise that Virgin Rail Group has now agreed enables it to deliver a range of benefits to customers.
The franchise also has the potential to deliver higher levels of profitability than were earned in the year ended 30 April 2014 under the management contract then in force.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 19 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:36 Page 20 Strategic report 2.5.
5.2 Twin America 2.6 Other financial matters Financial performance 2.6.
1 EBITDA, depreciation and intangible asset expenses The financial performance of the Groups Twin America joint venture Earnings from continuing operations before interest, taxation, depreciation, excluding intangible asset expenses and exceptional items for the year intangible asset expenses and exceptional items pre-exceptional EBITDA ended 30 April 2014 is summarised below: amounted to 340.2m 2013 restated: 333.9m.
Pre-exceptional EBITDA Year to 30 April 2014 2013 can be reconciled to the consolidated financial statements as follows: 60% share US$m US$m Change Year to 30 April 2014 2013 restated Revenue 81.6 88.7 8.0 % m m Operating profit 9.1 19.3 52.8 % Total operating profit before Taxation 0.3 0.8 62.5 % intangible asset expenses and Profit after tax 8.8 18.5 52.4 % exceptional items 223.3 220.7 Operating margin 11.2% 21.8% 1,060 bp Depreciation 115.7 110.0 Add back joint venture Trading remains challenging as a result of an increasingly competitive New finance income & tax 1.2 3.2 York sightseeing market, among other factors, and we anticipate that our Pre-exceptional EBITDA 340.2 333.9 share of profit from Twin America will further reduce in the year ending 30 April 2015.
Major international bus operators such as Big Bus and RATP The income statement charge for intangible assets decreased from 16.1m to have entered the New York sightseeing market in recent months adding to an 14.0m.
Of the charge, none 2013: 1.0m related to joint ventures.
already highly competitive New York Tourist market.
2 Exceptional items Litigation The following exceptional items were recognised in the year ended 30 April We have made progress in resolving the previously reported litigation 2014: regarding Twin America.
"The share of profit of joint ventures includes a pre-tax charge of 9.2m in The US Department of Justice and the New York Attorney General together, respect of the Groups share of the financial costs associated with the Twin ""the Government plaintiffs"" initiated litigation against Twin America and its America litigation."
Further details are provided in section 2.5.
"joint venture partners ""the Defendants"", which include two Stagecoach US Virgin Rail Group received a further 2.0m from the DfT during the year subsidiaries in 2012."
The litigation alleges that the formation of the Twin ended 30 April 2014 in respect of the refund of bid and related legal costs America joint venture in 2009 was anti-competitive.
Separately, private incurred on the West Coast rail franchise.
The Groups 1.0m share of this plaintiffs brought a claim based on the same allegations on behalf of a is included within the share of profit of joint ventures as is the related proposed class of customers.
0.2m tax charge in respect of the refund.
The Defendants have not admitted any liability but have agreed a cash A net pre-tax loss of 0.2m in respect of the disposal of certain North settlement of US$19m US$11.9m with the private plaintiffs to fully resolve American businesses is recognised within non-operating exceptional items.
That settlement has received preliminary court approval.
Final court approval is anticipated in approximately six to nine 0.1m of pre-tax costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of businesses during the year ended 30 April 2014 are reported within nonmonths following a period for class notification and claims administration.
The Government action remains pending at this time.
Until the Government action concludes, the total financial cost of the actions cannot be determined.
3 Net finance costs The Group has recorded exceptional pre-tax costs of US$14.8m 9.2m in Net finance costs for the year ended 30 April 2014 were 42.6m 2013 its consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 in restated: 43.3m and can be further analysed as follows: respect of its share of financial costs connected with the litigation.
The ultimate cost to the Group may differ from this as it remains dependent on Year to 30 April 2013 court approval of the settlement with private plaintiffs and also, the outcome 2014 restated of the Government action.
5.3 Scottish Citylink Interest payable and other facility costs on bank loans, Our Scottish Citylink joint venture with Comfort DelGro is the leading interloan notes, overdrafts and trade finance 7.2 6.2 city coach operator in Scotland.
The megabusGold and sleepercoach services, Hire purchase and finance lease interest payable 3.5 5.2 launched in 2012 13, have performed well.
During the year, we launched a Interest payable and other finance costs on bonds 28.0 26.2 dedicated website to market these services.
We are already achieving good Unwinding of discount on provisions 3.9 3.9 load factors and are now focused on effective yield management and Interest charge on defined benefit pension schemes 4.6 5.9 refinements to our customer service offer.
47.2 47.4 Finance income Interest receivable on cash 3.2 2.5 Effect of interest rate swaps 1.4 1.6 4.6 4.1 Net finance costs 42.6 43.3 page 20 | Stagecoach Group plc 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:36 Page 21 2.6.
7 Net debt The effective tax rate for the year ended 30 April 2014, excluding exceptional Net debt as analysed in note 30 c to the consolidated financial statements items, was 16.8% 2013 restated: 21.4%.
The effective rate is lower than the decreased from 538.0m at 30 April 2013 to 461.6m at 30 April 2014, due standard rate of UK corporation tax for the year of 22.8% due primarily to to the Groups continued strong cash generation.
The Groups net debt at adjustments in respect of prior years the utilisation of previously 30 April 2014 is further analysed below: unrecognised tax losses and the impact of the reduction in the rate at which Fixed Floating Total deferred tax is calculated following the reduction in the corporation tax rate rate rate from 23% to 20%.
The tax charge for continuing operations can be analysed m m m as follows: Unrestricted cash 50.6 50.6 Year to 30 April 2014 Pre-tax profit Tax Rate Cash held within train operating m m % companies 170.8 170.8 Excluding intangible asset expenses 182.2 32.7 17.9% Restricted cash 18.9 18.9 and exceptional items Total cash and cash equivalents 240.3 240.3 Intangible asset expenses 14.0 4.5 32.1% US Notes 88.5 88.5 168.2 28.2 16.8% Sterling bond 400.0 400.0 Sterling hire purchase Exceptional items 8.5 1.0 11.8% and finance leases 5.0 68.1 73.1 159.7 27.2 17.0% US dollar hire purchase and Reclassify joint venture taxation for finance leases 38.2 38.2 reporting purposes 1.7 1.7 Loan notes 19.7 19.7 Reported in income statement 158.0 25.5 16.1% Bank loans 82.4 82.4 Net debt 443.2 18.4 461.6 2.6.
5 Fuel costs The Groups operations as at 30 April 2014 consume approximately 399.5m The split between fixed and floating rate debt shown above takes account of litres of diesel fuel per annum.
As a result, the Groups profit is exposed to the effect of interest rate swaps in place as at 30 April 2014. movements in the underlying price of fuel.
The Groups fuel costs include the The net impact of purchases of property, plant and equipment for the year on costs of delivery and duty as well as the costs of the underlying product.
This primarily related to Accordingly, not all of the cost varies with movements in oil prices.
expenditure on passenger service vehicles, and comprised cash outflows of The proportion of the Groups projected fuel usage that is now hedged using 154.2m 2013: 181.9m and new hire purchase and finance lease debt of fuel swaps is as follows: 6.7m 2013: 26.8m.
In addition, 42.0m 2013: 53.4m cash was received from disposals of property, plant and equipment.
8 Liquidity The Group has no fuel hedges in place for periods beyond 30 April 2018.
The Groups financial position remains strong and is evidenced by: The ratio of net debt at 30 April 2014 to pre-exceptional EBITDA for the 2.6.
6 Cash flows year ended 30 April 2014 was 1.4 times 2013 restated: 1.6 times.
Net cash from operating activities before tax for the year ended 30 April 2014 Pre-exceptional EBITDA for the year ended 30 April 2014 was 8.0 times was 268.5m 2013: 329.2m and can be further analysed as follows: 2013 restated: 7.8 times net finance charges including joint venture net Year to 30 April 2014 2013 restated finance income.
m m Undrawn, committed bank facilities of 342.1m at 30 April 2014 2013: EBITDA of Group companies before exceptional items 330.2 309.4 303.8m were available to be drawn as bank loans with further amounts Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.1 2.0 available only for non-cash utilisation.
In addition, the Group continues to Equity-settled share based payment expense 2.2 2.6 have available asset finance lines.
Working capital movements 42.3 27.9 The three main credit rating agencies continue to assign investment grade Net interest paid 33.5 35.2 credit ratings to the Group.
Dividends from joint ventures 8.2 24.9 The Groups main bank facilities are committed through to 2016.
Difference between employer pension contributions and pension expense in operating profit 1.6 2.4 2.6.
9 Capital expenditure Net cash flows from operating activities before taxation 268.5 329.2 Additions to property, plant and equipment for the year were: The net working capital outflow for the year ended 30 April 2014 of 42.3m Year to 30 April 2014 2013 2013: inflow of 27.9m was principally attributable to the timing of cash m m flows in the UK Rail division.
Excluding the cash held within train operating UK Bus regional operations 88.5 90.0 companies, net debt reduced 102.5m in the year.
UK Bus London 2.9 13.3 Net cash from operating activities before tax was 268.5m 2013: 329.2m North America 33.9 68.3 and after tax was 248.3m 2013: 313.1m.
Net cash outflows from UK Rail 37.1 33.7 investing activities were 121.8m 2013: 241.1m, which included 5.5m Other 0.4 2013: 106.7m in relation to the acquisition of businesses.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 21 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:36 Page 22 Strategic report Major financing transactions 2.6.
10 Net assets During the year, the Group entered into various hire purchase and finance Net assets at 30 April 2014 were 79.3m 2013 restated: 16.3m.
lease arrangements for new assets as described in note 30 d to the consolidated financial statements.
11 Retirement benefits The following new financing arrangements were put in place during the year The reported net assets of 79.3m 2013 restated: 16.3m that are shown ended 30 April 2014 and subsequently: on the consolidated balance sheet are after taking account of net pre-tax retirement benefit liabilities of 115.8m 2013 restated: 109.6m, and In May 2013, a new c. 31m three-year rail bonding arrangement was associated deferred tax assets of 23.1m 2013 restated: 25.2m.
agreed to replace an arrangement that was due to expire in November The Group recognised net pre-tax actuarial losses of Nil in the year ended 2013.
30 April 2014 2013 restated: 29.2m on Group defined benefit schemes.
In February 2014, two new one-year rail bonding arrangements of c. 72m and c. 8m were entered into to replace two arrangements that were due 2.6.
12 Capital to expire in March 2014.
The Group regards its capital as comprising its equity, cash, gross debt and In November 2013, a US$70m bank facility which was due to expire in any similar items.
As at 30 April 2014, the Groups capital comprised: February 2014, was increased to US$80m and extended until November As at 30 April 2014 2013 2018.
This facility was subsequently increased to US$85m in May 2014. m m The Group entered into new operating lease commitments totalling Market value of ordinary shares in issue 21.2m in respect of new vehicles.
14 Critical accounting policies and estimates Gross debt 701.9 800.2 The Groups material accounting policies are set out in note 1 to the Net debt see section 2.6.
Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with The Group manages its capital centrally.
Its objective in managing capital is to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the optimise the returns to its shareholders whilst safeguarding the Groups European Union requires directors to make estimates and assumptions that ability to continue as a going concern and as such its ability to continue to affect the reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements and generate returns for its shareholders.
The Group also takes account of the accompanying notes.
Actual outcomes could differ from those estimated.
The interests of other stakeholders when making decisions on its capital structure.
Directors believe that the accounting policies and estimation techniques The capital structure of the Group is kept under regular review and will be discussed below represent those that require the greatest exercise of adjusted from time to time to take account of changes in the size or structure judgement.
The Directors have used their best judgement in determining the of the Group, economic developments and other changes in the Groups risk estimates and assumptions used in these areas but a different set of profile.
The Group will adjust its capital structure from time to time by any of judgements could result in material changes to the Group's reported financial the following: issue of new shares, dividends, return of value to shareholders performance and or financial position.
The discussion below should be read in and borrowing repayment of debt.
There are a number of factors that the conjunction with the full statement of accounting policies.
Group considers in evaluating capital structure.
The Directors principal focus is on maintaining an investment grade credit rating.
As well as considering Pensions the measures applied by credit rating agencies, the other principal ratios that The determination of the Groups pension benefit obligation and expense for the Directors consider are 1 Net Debt to EBITDA, 2 EBITDA to interest and defined benefit pension schemes is dependent on the selection by the 3 Net Debt to market capitalisation.
It is a matter of judgement as to what Directors of certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such the optimal levels are for these ratios.
Those assumptions include the discount rate, annual rate of increase in future salary levels and mortality rates.
13 Treasury policies and objectives are based on actual historical experience and external data.
While we believe Risk management is carried out by a treasury committee and a central that the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the Board.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in copension obligation and future expense.
operation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written principles for overall treasury risk management, as well as written policies Insurance covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit The Group receives claims in respect of traffic incidents and employee risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investing excess liquidity.
The Group protects against the cost of such claims through third The funding policy is to finance the Group through a mixture of bank, lease party insurance policies.
An element of the claims is not insured as a result of and hire purchase debt, capital markets issues and cash generated by the the excess or deductible on insurance policies.
Provision is made for the business.
estimated cost to the Group net of insurance recoveries to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
The estimation of the See note 26 to the consolidated financial statements, for details of balance sheet insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected the Groups exposure to financial risks: settlement on known claims together with an estimate of settlements that the Groups treasury risk management: will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date the Groups management of interest rate risk: but for which claims have not been reported to the Group.
The eventual the Groups fuel hedging: settlements on such claims may differ from the amounts provided for at the the Groups management of foreign currency risk: and balance sheet date.
This is of greater risk in younger operations with a the Groups management of credit risk.
shorter claims history from which to make informed estimates of provisions.
page 22 | Stagecoach Group plc 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:36 Page 23 Taxation receivable or payable taking account of the available, relevant information.
Actual outcomes can differ from the estimates made by the Group and there The Groups tax charge is based on the pre-tax profit for the year and tax rates can be no absolute assurance that the assumptions made by the Group will in force.
Estimation of the tax charge requires an assessment to be made of the hold true.
potential tax consequences of certain items that will only be resolved when agreed by the relevant tax authorities.
Assessment of the likely outcome is based on historical experience, professional advice from external advisors, and 2.7 Current trading and outlook the current status of any judgmental issues.
However, the final tax cost to the The Group has made a satisfactory start to its financial year ending 30 April Group may differ from the estimates.
2015 and overall trading for the financial year to date is in line with our expectations.
Litigation We continue to see positive long-term prospects for public transport in the The Group is from time to time party to litigation.
The nature of litigation is markets in which we operate.
There is a large market opportunity for modal such that there can be uncertainty in estimating the amounts that the Group shift in both the UK and North America to capitalise on rising road will ultimately receive or pay.
Assessment of the likely outcomes is based on congestion, higher car operating costs and increasing environmental legal advice and past experience.
However, the final outcomes may differ from awareness.
Our successful strategy of offering good value travel, investment those reflected in the financial statements.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed and high levels of operational performance and customer service means we in the financial statements to the extent required by accounting standards.
are well placed to achieve further sustainable growth.
We are progressing discussions to reach commercial agreements with the Government to extend Acquired customer contracts and onerous contracts our current rail franchises.
In addition, under the DfTs franchising The Group has a number of contractual commitments most significantly in programme, there are several opportunities ahead to expand our rail portfolio respect of its rail franchises and its London bus business.
In certain and we are focussed on developing bids which will benefit customers and circumstances, IFRS requires a provision to be recorded for a contract that is deliver value for money to government.
We believe our track record of onerous or when acquired as part of a business combination, that is innovation and partnership working can benefit passengers and taxpayers unfavourable to market terms.
A contract is considered onerous where it is and give us a competitive advantage which can generate good returns for our probable that the future economic benefits to be derived from the contract shareholders.
are less than the unavoidable costs under the contract.
Determining the amount of any contract provision necessitates forecasting future cash flows 2.8 Corporate Social Responsibility and applying an appropriate discount rate to determine a net present value.
There is uncertainty over future cash flows.
Estimates of cash flows are Every day, our business and our employees touch peoples lives and we make consistent with managements plans and forecasts.
The estimate of future a significant contribution to society.
Like all businesses, we want to grow, but cash flows and the discount rate involves a significant degree of judgment.
we want to do that responsibly.
Our approach focuses on a number of specific Actual results can differ from those assumed and there can be no absolute key areas: assurance that the assumptions used will hold true.
Our people and our customers Safety and security Goodwill and impairment Accessibility and affordability In certain circumstances, IFRS requires property, plant, equipment and Environmental stewardship and performance intangible assets to be reviewed for impairment.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to Building community relationships the net present value of the expected future cash flows of the relevant cash Corporate governance generating unit CGU or net realisable value, if higher.
The discount rate We take a proactive approach to conducting our business in a responsible applied in determining the present value of future cash flows is based on the manner and this has been independently recognised by a range of Groups estimated weighted average cost of capital with appropriate organisations.
We are a constituent in the FTSE4Good Index Series, meeting adjustments made to reflect the specific risks associated with the CGU.
stringent environmental, social and governance criteria.
The Group has been rated highly for its carbon disclosure and the steps it has taken in reducing Estimates of cash flows are consistent with managements plans and forecasts.
carbon emissions from its business.
We have consistently been rated well The estimation of future cash flows and the discount rate involves a significant ahead of our bus and rail group peers in Management Todays annual review degree of judgement.
Actual results can differ from those assumed and there of Britains top companies.
At the same time, research in the UK by Passenger can be no absolute assurance that the assumptions used will hold true.
Focus has highlighted our sector-leading customer satisfaction.
This all Property, plant and equipment contributes to a positive reputation that in turn supports the recruitment and Property, plant and equipment, other than land, are depreciated on a straightretention of frontline employee and management talent.
line basis to write off the cost or valuation less estimated residual value of The success of our business helps generate income for government to invest each asset over their estimated useful lives.
Useful lives are estimated based in public services and improvements to transport infrastructure.
on a number of factors, including the expected usage of the asset, expected Understanding the impacts of our business and having policies and targets in deterioration and technological obsolescence.
If another depreciation place also means we are well-placed to meet our social and regulatory method for example, reducing balance was used or different useful lives or obligations in each of our markets.
residual values were applied, this could have a material effect on the Groups Right across our global operations, we will continue to work with our depreciation charge and net profit.
stakeholders to become even more efficient and cut our business impact on the environment.
Rail contractual positions We have published separate documents setting out our approach to The UK Rail industry is subject to a complex matrix of contractual corporate social responsibility.
These documents and comprehensive relationships.
The Groups train operating companies are party to contractual information on our initiatives can be found on our website at the following relationships with, amongst others, the DfT, Network Rail and rolling stock link: http: www.
The nature of these contracts is such that there can be uncertainty and or disagreement as to amounts receivable or payable by the Group in This section includes just a small number of examples of our work to accordance with the contracts.
The Group makes estimates of the amounts demonstrate the steps we are taking to meet our responsibilities.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 23 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:36 Page 24 Strategic report 2.8.
3 Employment policies The Group strives to meet its business objectives by motivating and Stagecoach Group has a set of core values and policies, which are detailed in our Group Code of Conduct.
This sets out key principles and provides practical encouraging its employees to be responsive to the needs of its customers examples and guidance to help shape employees corporate behaviour.
It and to maintain and, where possible, improve operational performance.
The includes information on the Groups anti-corruption policy and programme, Group is also committed to providing equality of opportunity to employees.
which is supported by the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors remains This applies to appropriate training, career development and promotion committed to ensuring appropriate processes, controls, governance and opportunities for all employees regardless of disability, gender, sexual culture exists to support the maintenance of these values and behaviours.
The orientation, religion, belief, age, nationality, race or ethnic origin.
The Group Code of Conduct is subject to periodic review by the Group Compliance gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled Committee and the Audit Committee.
We have developed new and expanded persons where a disabled person can adequately full the requirements of guidance for our employees on the use of social media.
A copy of our Code of the job.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy, Conduct can be found at the following link: wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment under normal http: www.
com media Files S Stagecoachterms and conditions and to provide training, career development and Group Attachments pdf .
pdf promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
The Group is committed to employee participation and uses a variety of 2.8.
2 Supporting and recognising our people methods to inform, consult and involve its employees.
Employees Our employees are fundamental to the success of our business.
This has participate directly in the success of the business through the Groups bonus been illustrated during the year by the response of our teams to the and other remuneration schemes and are encouraged to invest through challenges of extended extreme weather.
We believe in engaging and participation in share schemes.
supporting our people and investing in a high quality, diverse team.
We The Group periodically arranges meetings that bring together promote a culture where employees are treated with respect and given the representatives from management and trade unions.
Discussions take place opportunity to develop.
This means that we are able to provide a better regularly with the trade unions representing the vast majority of the Groups service to our customers.
employees on a wide range of issues.
The Group also produces a range of We have a strong vocational training programme in our bus and rail internal newsletters and information circulars that keep employees abreast businesses and we continue to invest in developing our people.
Our UK Bus of developments.
Employees are encouraged to discuss matters of interest business has one of the most extensive vocational training programmes of to them and subjects affecting day-to-day operations of the Group with any bus operator.
Our UK team of around 18,000 bus drivers has completed management.
more than 90,000 training courses as part of the Driver Certificate in The Group is committed to developing a culture of openness across all its Professional Competence CPC initiative, which is accredited by the Driver businesses and ensuring the highest standards of probity and accountability.
Around 150 people benefit at any one time from our engineering apprentice programme, while our graduate development The Board actively encourages employees with serious concerns about the initiative continues to produce directors, senior managers and experts in interests of others or the Group to come forward.
The Group Speaking Up operations and engineering.
We have similar schemes in place at our UK Rail policy is designed to ensure that employees can raise serious concerns division.
More than 200 employees at South West Trains were given the without fear of victimisation, discrimination or disadvantage.
opportunity to achieve an NVQ during 2013 14.
During the year, we also launched a management development programme at East Midlands Trains which offers aspiring frontline employees the chance to develop their skills 2.8.
4 Diversity to forge a career in management.
Our centralised driver training school for The Group recognises and values the individuality and diversity that each our New York and New Jersey bus operations is also helping to improve the employee brings to the business.
We value diversity in its wider sense, quality and consistency of our training.
Major investment is also being including but not limited to gender diversity.
The table below shows the made across our business in dedicated customer service training.
gender split at different levels within the organisation, as at 30 April 2014.
The health and well-being of our people remains a priority.
Many of our The Groups workforce is around 86% male and that high proportion is businesses run dedicated well-being days where employees have access to common in the ground transportation industry.
Gender diversity within the free flu jabs and confidential health assessments.
There is also advice Group is improving as new managers are developed.
For example, 50% of available from bowel cancer and ovarian cancer awareness charities and those current participants in the UK Bus two-year graduate training female employees within our UK bus operations were provided with programme are female.
Encouraging and supporting diversity throughout education and self-examination packs during National Breast Cancer the Group is central to developing our talent pool.
Employees across the UK and North America are given access to 24 7 assistance programmes where they can seek confidential Population Male Female Total % % advice on any problems.
Our successful cycle to work scheme has now been Male Female rolled out across the UK.
It provides an opportunity for our employees to pay Board 8 2 10 80.0% 20.0% for a bike through monthly pre-tax installments.
Senior management 91 17 108 84.3% 15.7% We believe firmly in creating an inclusive and diverse workforce.
In partnership with trade unions, we have introduced management training programmes Whole workforce 30,413 5,057 35,470 85.7% 14.3% and awareness campaigns on various issues, such as mental health.
We have also partnered with the charity Mencap and taken part in a number of work Senior management is defined as those employees who receive awards under the experience programmes for people with learning difficulties.
Groups Executive Participation Plan and individuals who are statutory directors of the corporate entities whose financial information is included in the Groups 2014 We work hard to create a great place to work and build a culture that rewards consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report.
This satisfies the definition set the excellent work of our employees.
Our annual Stagecoach Champions Awards, which are open to all employees, recognise excellence in the areas of out in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations safety, community, health, customer service, environment and innovation.
com, monitors vehicles remotely to ensure that they are operating 2.8.
5 Promoting safety on pre-approved routes.
It also tracks speed, tyre pressures, and idling to Safety is at the heart of our business.
Independent research shows that provide instant feedback and identify trends to help educate employees.
travelling by bus, coach and rail remains significantly safer than journeys by New vehicles for our megabus.
com network in North America are fitted with private car, motorbike, cycling or walking Source: Department for Transport, three-point lap shoulder seat belts.
com was the first major US Passenger casualty rates by mode, 2003-2012.
We are committed to bus coach operator to achieve Transportation Safety Exchange TSX delivering the highest standards of safety.
Our safety record is good, approval for all of its operations.
TSX is an independent safety rating however we continue to drive improvement and encourage a proactive organisation that assesses more than 300,000 passenger and freight culture so it remains a top priority.
Almost a third of our other business units in the United States are The Groups Strategic Safety Framework outlines our overarching approach also TSX approved.
In Canada, we can track and monitor speed, location, to safety.
At our bus and rail operations we have a strong focus on employee departures and hard stops through recent WebTech satellite fleet training, accident reduction, regulatory compliance and security management enhancements.
Night drivers also use sleep prevention devices preparedness.
Health and safety processes and performance are monitored called Nap Zappers to further protect our customers.
and reported on across the Group with action taken should there be a need to address issues within our procedures.
Our Health, Safety and Environmental Committee, chaired by a non-executive director, considers this area of the business and monitors a range of performance indicators, 2.8.
6 Accessible and affordable travel reporting to the Board on these matters.
We expect our suppliers and We believe that providing accessible and affordable travel is central to contractors to have the same commitment as our employees to complying encouraging modal shift from the private car to greener, smarter public with appropriate health and safety regulations and policies.
Stagecoach has for the third time been independently assessed by transport consultants, TAS, as Britains best value bus operator, offering At our UK and North America bus businesses we have in place engineering weekly travel that is significantly cheaper than both other companies in regimes which are stricter than legal requirements.
These are bolstered by a regions across the UK and in London.
robust rolling programme of operational, engineering and health & safety audits at our depots and garages.
Comprehensive training programmes and Stagecoach is the only UK bus operator to operate a long-term nationwide refresher sessions are in place covering all areas of work activity and our discounted travel scheme for jobseekers which offers half-price single and people are encouraged to report any concerns.
We are focused on achieving return bus travel in the UK outside London.
We are also part of a Transport the standards set by regulations as our minimum performance standards.
for London scheme which offers reduced bus, tram and train travel rates for Detailed policies, risk assessments and safe working procedures are in place jobseekers in the capital.
covering all aspects of our activities including noise, vibration, display screen In 2014, we launched a discounted travel scheme for young people in Wales.
equipment and the Working Time Directive.
Performance is measured and Under the scheme, people under the age of 19 receive a third off all adult reviewed at operating company and Group level.
This is supported by bus tickets on all Stagecoach services in Wales, making it easier for young analysis of audit results and review of civil liabilities claims to address any people to access employment and education opportunities.
issues around policies and working procedures.
Our bus and coach services also regularly run extra services to make it easier Our managers contribute to health and safety lessons at local schools within for people to access sporting events and other attractions by public their communities, providing safety advice and information to assist young transport instead of taking the car.
people when using public transport.
Most of our buses are fitted with CCTV for the safety of our drivers and our customers, and we liaise closely with We have continued to expand our budget coach service, megabus.
com, in police where required on promoting road safety and dealing with local the UK, Europe and North America, bringing low-cost travel to more people.
In addition, our local managers often work alongside local authority A study by the DePaul University Chaddick Institute for Metropolitan officials in providing guidance on transport decisions, such as bus station Development in Chicago found that travellers in the United States saved safety or road layout options.
We are continuing to work with Cycle Training more than $1 billion last year by taking megabus.
com and other inter-city UK on raising awareness of the safety of cyclists among our driving team.
bus operators rather than the train or plane.
Customers are also accessing At our UK rail operations, we continue to work closely with industry partners more affordable travel options as a result of our new network of and the Samaritans on measures to reduce the level of suicides on rail sleepercoach services and megabusplus.
com, our integrated coach-rail networks.
More than 100 stations on the South West Trains-Network Rail service between the north of England and London.
Alliance network now have Secure Station status, awarded by the British Our rail networks continue to offer discounted tickets and promotions to Transport Police.
A further 35 stations and 31 station car parks on East encourage people to try the train.
We also offer a comprehensive assisted Midlands Trains have also achieved the same mark.
East Midlands Trains also travel service to support those with additional mobility requirements when works closely with the British Transport Police to identify trends in crime using our services.
data, thereby allowing resources to be focused on risk areas.
We are continuing to invest significantly in new accessible buses and In North America, we have a regular safety programme focusing on key coaches to help wheelchair and mobility scooter users, among others.
In the issues such as pedestrian awareness, lane changing, speed, driver fatigue, UK, we are on track to meet legislation requiring fully accessible fleets ahead and sleep management.
Our computer-based screening system helps of schedule.
identify candidates for driving positions who can progress to our training At our rail stations in the UK, we are making investments in ticketing school.
Our safety executives in the United States have assisted with a number of federal policy reviews covering bus industry regulation, including facilities, waiting areas and other accessibility improvements, including areas such as hours of service and compliance enforcement.
East Midlands Trains has also become the first train company in support centre, covering a number of our US businesses, including the UK to offer a 24-hour, seven-day-a-week point of contact for customers.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 25 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:36 Page 26 Strategic report 2.8.
7 Environmental stewardship 2013 14 We continue to take a responsible approach to environmental matters.
We Greenhouse Gas Emission Source tonnes CO e Kg CO e 2 2 have met our five-year Group-wide carbon targets ahead of schedule and of revenue have cut the carbon intensity of our businesses in the UK and North America by 30% in the past five years.
We hold the Carbon Trust Standard for our Scope 1 global operations in recognition of the steps we have taken to monitor, Fuel combustion natural gas, diesel, manage and reduce our footprint.
petrol and heating oil 1,030,488 0.35 Our plans have been focused to date principally on improving the efficiency Operation of facilities refrigerants 16,798 0.01 and reducing the carbon impact of our transport fleets and buildings.
As well Total Scope 1 1,047,286 0.36 as ensuring we meet our regulatory obligations, our initiatives have helped improve efficiency, cut costs and contributed to the growth and success of Scope 2 our business.
Purchased electricity 217,627 0.07 We have a network of green teams at our operating companies and this Statutory total Scope 1 & 2 1,264,913 0.43 has been central to driving improvement.
Our Group organic growth strategy is designed to encourage people to switch to greener bus and rail Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006 travel, reducing overall emissions from transport and helping address the Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013. global challenge of climate change.
The Group has used the UK Government Environmental Reporting Guidance Over the past year, Stagecoach Group has taken the following measures to methodology in reporting its greenhouse gas emissions, together with reduce the impact of its businesses on the environment: emissions factors from the DEFRA DECC Greenhouse Gas Conversion extending the use of a hi-tech eco-driving system from all of our UK Factors for Company Reporting 2013. regional bus companies to our operations in London We define our organisational boundary using the financial control approach cementing our position as the UK bus industrys leading investor in new and use a materiality threshold of 5%.
We have reported on all the emissions hybrid electric buses, with around 380 now in service in England, sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Scotland and Wales Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
All of these sources fall within increasing the number of vehicles running on 100% biofuel, extending businesses that are included in our consolidated financial statements.
our use of a 30% biofuel mix and introducing more gas powered buses continuing the installation of energy-saving lighting systems at bus Group Metrics 2013 14 depots and railway stations across the UK and in North America delivering improved energy management systems and cutting gas Revenue 2,930,000,000 consumption at offices and depots Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions tonnes tCO e 1,264,913 2 significantly improving waste recycling rates at major train stations, Intensity ratio offices and depots holding our sixth annual Group-wide Green Week to drive up awareness Scope 1 & 2 emissions per of revenue Kg CO e 0.43 2 of environmental issues among our people and our customers in the UK and North America 2.8.
8 Supporting our communities and the economy We have received further independent recognition for our environmental Stagecoach Group is a major employer and our investment in improving our initiatives, including our megabus.
com brand receiving the American Bus transport services also supports thousands of other jobs through the supply Associations 2014 Green Operator Award.
Stagecoach Group works with industry partners and the UK Government on We share our success with local people and communities by investing part of climate change issues, including contributing to the development of policies our profits in good causes.
During the year ended 30 April 2014, 0.7m on adapting infrastructure to mitigate the impacts of climate change.
We 2013: 0.7m was donated by Stagecoach Group to help a number of also support the work of industry bodies and other stakeholders to seek charities and to support fundraising events and vital services.
policies which promote more carbon-efficient modes of travel, such as buses and trains.
Many of our bus companies have adopted specific good causes as their charities of the year and focus for local fundraising.
In North America, our Work is nearing completion on a new five-year Stagecoach Group megabus.
com business donated $1 to the Wounded Warrior Project on sustainability strategy running to 2019.
This will include identifying further Veterans Day for every customer travelling with the service, raising nearly cost-effective energy-saving opportunities, continuing investment to make $25,000 to help support injured servicemen and women.
the business greener, and setting new targets around carbon reduction, water consumption and waste recycling rates.
In our UK Rail division, the South West Trains-Network Rail Alliance Charity Communicating our performance is also a key part of our approach.
Every Panel donates thousands of pounds to local charities every year as well as a year, Stagecoach reports on its carbon emissions through its corporate similar value in complimentary train tickets across the network.
East Midlands Trains has also taken part in several train naming events in support website, www.
We also provide information on our global of local organisations.
carbon footprint to the Carbon Disclosure Project, the worlds largest corporate greenhouse gas emissions database.
Across our business, we provide in-kind support to local groups, including The data below shows our greenhouse gas emissions for the period 1 May buses and coaches for various local and national events.
Emissions are expressed in terms of equivalent employees regularly join in national fundraising events such as Children in carbon dioxide CO e and are also shown relative to revenue.
Need, Comic Relief and Sport Relief.
In November 2013, the South West 2 page 26 | Stagecoach Group plc 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:36 Page 27 Trains-Network Rail Alliance attached moustaches to the front of many trains to help raise awareness for male cancer charities as part of the Movember campaign.
We also support a number of bus and rail industry charities and events each year.
In the UK, we have supported a government back to work initiative where we work with JobCentre Plus offices to recruit and train potential new drivers.
After a six-week Stagecoach training programme, we offer a permanent driving job or individuals return to JobCentre Plus to seek alternative employment, but having hopefully gained a PCV Passenger Carrying Vehicle licence, Driver Certificate in Professional Competence and work experience.
9 Human rights The Group does not see human rights matters as presenting material issues or risks for the Group and therefore the Group does not have specific, detailed policies in respect of human rights.
However, in the Groups code of conduct see section 2.8.
1, the Group recognises the fundamental civil, political, economic and social human rights and freedoms of every individual and strives to reflect this in its business.
A respect for human rights is reflected in our wider policies and in how we do business with customers, suppliers, employees and other stakeholders.
10 Conclusion Our responsible approach to business is reflected in the policies and examples set out in this section 2.8.
We continue to believe that corporate social responsibility and good financial returns go hand in hand, reflecting consideration of all stakeholders.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Mike Vaux Company Secretary 25 June 2014 Stagecoach Group plc | page 27
