Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 07 Strategic Report.
Finance Review 20 Employees 27 Corporate Responsibility 29 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 32 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 08 SuperGroup.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report.
Superdry focuses on high-quality, contemporary products Introduction that, in varying degrees, fuse vintage Americana and SuperGroup Plc SuperGroup or the Company Japanese-inspired graphics with a British style.
They are is the owner of Superdry, a casual lifestyle characterised by: brand operating predominantly in the branded quality fabrics with authentic vintage washes: fashion sector.
unique vintage detailing: world leading hand-drawn graphics: and It targets the younger end of the fashion market, specifically designing for men and women aged between 15 and 25 years tailored fits with diverse styling.
old with affordable, premium-quality clothing, accessories, Market Review footwear and cosmetics.
Increasingly, the brand appeals to a much broader age group as it develops the breadth and Whilst the Group competes with all clothing retailers on an nature of its product ranges.
Already well established in the indirect basis, Superdry occupies a niche position within UK, its home market, the Company and its subsidiaries the the branded fashion market that has relatively few direct Group also operate a significant and continually expanding competitors.
There is a degree of local competition in virtually international business which is developed through websites, every market in which the brand operates, particularly in wholesale partners, a network of franchise stores and, the UK market, but, with the range of developments and increasingly, its own stores.
geographical expansion the Group has undertaken over the last few years, there are a limited number of brands with the The business has expanded quickly over the 11 years of its scale and presence to compete effectively with the Group on life, becoming a truly international brand as it has done so, a truly global basis.
and there has been no slowdown over the past 12 months as the Group has added over 100 new stores to its portfolio The Group operates both on the high street and through around the world taking its total number of stores to 516, with e-commerce channels, competing with traditional retailers a physical presence in 46 countries.
and brands, pure e-commerce operators, and multi-channel businesses.
The retail market is changing rapidly as online At the end of the 2014 financial year 2014 or FY14 the becomes an increasingly important part of consumers Groups direct customer channels consisted of: shopping habits and it is fundamentally important that the Group reacts to those changes and is seen as a leader in the 139 of its own stores: multi-channel environment to retain its competitiveness.
74 concessions: 185 franchised stores: Superdry entered the international market at an early stage 23 licensed stores: of its development and now has a presence in 46 countries around the world: 37% of total sales now come from the 95 shop-in-shop stores: and Groups international business.
This has provided the Group 18 international websites.
with invaluable experience of operating overseas that will In addition to those shops and websites, the Group has a allow it to continue to develop its less established markets.
It successful and growing wholesale business.
In the UK also gives the necessary experience and foundations to allow it sells directly to third party retailers but internationally it the Company to enter new markets around the world.
predominantly uses a distribution network, taking advantage Whilst the Groups businesses in territories outside Europe of local knowledge and expertise in each country.
are growing quickly, the majority of revenues are generated within Europe and, particularly, the UK.
The European clothing market is forecast to achieve expenditure growth of 1.9% during the 2014 calendar year, according to Verdict Research, and this signals the beginning of a sustained period of growth as economic conditions improve across the Eurozone.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 09 SuperGroup is well positioned to take advantage of this Business Model structural growth as it targets new markets and bolsters its SuperGroup designs, produces and sells products exclusively presence with its owned retail estate in more well-developed under the Superdry brand.
Product conception and design markets.
and the overall management of the brand is centrally located at the Groups head office in Cheltenham, along with the The short to medium-term focus of the Group is to grow majority of support functions.
Whilst the design and ordering the retail proposition in Western Europe, with a particular processes are managed within the Group, products are emphasis on Germany.
Going forward it is anticipated that manufactured through the Groups third party suppliers, around 80% of the Groups new space will be in overseas predominantly located in China, India and Turkey.
Whilst the economic difficulties between 2007 and 2012 led to a decline in the overall European clothing market The Group has two primary channels to market: Retail and of around 4% source: Verdict, the German market, which Wholesale.
The Retail business comprises the entire owned represents circa 20% of the total, has experienced positive store portfolio in the UK and mainland Europe, together with growth through this period and is second only to the UK in its the Groups portfolio of websites.
The Wholesale division is economic recovery.
The German market is already a strong made up of four key components: one for the Group, with Superdry presently sold through more than 200 independent stores and a local language website.
International franchise partners and individual franchise The German market is forecast to grow at 16.3% over the stores: next five years and is already the largest clothing market in International distribution partners, supplying the independent Europe, estimated at a value of 58.4bn.
retail markets in their territories: UK key wholesale accounts: and Despite its maturity, the UK is forecast to achieve clothing UK independent wholesale accounts.
expenditure growth of 22.8% between 2014 and 2019, with menswear growth expected to be particularly strong.
The UK remains, however, a highly competitive marketplace with high levels of discounting being used to entice customers and drive sales.
Group function Two main channels Retail Wholesale Owned Franchised Key Independent Licensed Routes to market E-commerce stores stores accounts retailers markets Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 10 SuperGroup.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report continued.
During FY14, the Retail division accounted for 66% of revenue and Wholesale 34%.
SuperGroup has a significant and growing presence around the world, operating through 516 Superdry branded locations in 46 countries.
There are 139 owned stores across the UK and Europe, 208 franchised and licensed stores, all but one outside the UK, and 168 concessions.
The owned store estate operates from three types of store: smaller boutique stores, typically found in Europe: medium-sized stores of around 5,000 square feet principally in the UK, but increasingly in Europe: and the much larger flagship store in Regent Street, London.
Complementing this physical presence, the Group has 18 international Superdry websites.
Retail division Wholesale division Wholesale Internet Own stores Concession Franchised Licensed concessions Total stores EUROPE: Austria 2 3 5 Belgium 2 20 5 7 32 Cyprus 4 4 Czech Republic 1 1 Denmark 1 7 7 Finland 1 1 2 3 France 1 4 47 2 53 Germany 1 10 2 12 Greece 2 4 6 Hungary 1 0 1 Italy 1 8 8 Latvia 1 1 Luxembourg 2 2 Netherlands 1 7 5 1 13 Norway 1 4 4 Portugal 2 2 Slovenia 1 1 Spain 1 8 28 36 Sweden 1 0 Switzerland 2 5 1 6 Turkey 2 2 UK and ROI 1 96 64 1 161 Total Europe 14 139 74 125 0 22 360 SuperGroup.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 11 Retail division Wholesale division accounted for accounted for 66% 34%0 revenue revenue Continued from previous page Retail division Wholesale division Wholesale Internet Own stores Concession Franchised Licensed concessions Total stores REST OF WORLD: South Africa 3 3 China 1 0 Georgia 1 1 Hong Kong 5 2 7 India 8 3 11 Indonesia 5 2 7 Macau 1 1 Malaysia 2 3 5 Philippines 4 4 Singapore 2 2 South Korea 4 14 18 Taiwan 2 16 18 Thailand 4 1 5 Australia 9 10 19 Egypt 1 1 Kuwait 3 3 Lebanon 2 2 Qatar 1 1 Saudi Arabia 2 2 UAE 7 1 8 Canada 2 3 3 USA 1 14 1 15 Columbia 2 14 16 Venezuela 3 3 Total ROW 4 0 0 60 23 72 155 Grand Total 18 139 74 185 23 94 515 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 12 SuperGroup.
The Groups most significant presence is in the UK with 96 The Group has, historically, granted two Wholesale and Retail of its own stores augmented by 64 concessions and one licenses: one in the USA and the other in Australia.
Over its 11 year history in the UK, as brand contracts are long-term in nature and the licence holders awareness and range breadth has grown, the Group has have exclusive rights to the countries in which they operate.
migrated away from franchise and wholesale operations and SuperGroup receives a royalty on the sales generated by the moved its focus towards larger and more profitable owned licensee, who must buy only approved stock from the Groups stores.
Key UK wholesale accounts and smaller independent own suppliers or directly from SuperGroup.
retailers continue to play an important role, presenting As a branded fashion retailer, the Group is focused on managing Superdry product to different customer types and in towns the integrity of the brand in order to deliver sustainable and where it would not be viable to operate a full Superdry store.
Whilst this strategy may at times cause In order to enter a new territory, the Group initially establishes short-term volatility to like-for-like sales growth, management a brand presence through wholesale operations and or by feels that the focus on full-price trading, limiting the level of engaging franchise partners.
In certain circumstances this is clearance activity through discreet channels delivers strong augmented by territory specific e-commerce sites but even cash generation, superior margins and consequently high where it is not, the introduction of the brand to a new market rates of return on capital.
Consequently, the Group has an increases awareness and drives traffic to the.
This unconventional but effective approach to clearance activity, approach allows the Group to grow its business and brand never holding sale periods or overt promotions within its UK awareness with minimal risk and to maintain control over the stores.
Rather than marking down product in situ, as most look and feel of the brand and stores.
Franchisees agree to retailers do, old or slow moving stock is generally cleared buy approved fixtures and fittings directly from SuperGroup through the network of outlet stores across the UK and, and the Superdry visual merchandising team plays a pivotal increasingly, Europe.
For particularly aged stock that remains role in setting up and overseeing the establishment of each unsold, the Group has historically used eBay and discount store.
This model allows the Group to grow in many countries resellers to optimise margins.
This approach preserves the at the same time without stretching internal resources and integrity of the brand by maintaining a more premium feel with relatively low risk, as limited capital investment is required.
across the vast majority of the network.
Whilst it requires a greater investment in working capital, as stock can be held in As the brand develops traction with the customer in a the business for several seasons, it provides the Group with particular territory and the operating risks diminish, the Group, a greater return than more conventional clearance activity where appropriate, will seek to augment wholesale activity and maximises profit per unit.
It also allows the business to with a retail model of owned stores.
As the markets become respond to unusual weather conditions towards the end of a more established and awareness is at an appropriate level, season because, unlike many retailers, stock is not liquidated the Group may seek to open its own stores in those territories, in a clearance sale to meet a season launch.
Outside the UK, using its own capital to deliver larger stores that can showcase stores are governed by the trading practices in the relevant the entire SuperGroup product range.
To achieve this, the territories in which they trade, meaning that limited sales are Group has used strategic acquisitions as part of its growth held in certain parts of Europe at the appropriate times.
It acquired SuperGroup Europe BVBA in February 2011 which provided a platform, through the existing portfolio SuperGroup regards the Superdry brand as being less of stores and an experienced local management team, to sensitive to fashion and design trends than other clothing develop a retail and wholesale proposition across the Benelux retailers and therefore can operate comfortably with the countries and France.
In the last 12 months, SuperGroup has longer supply chain lead times that a wholesale business bought back its territory rights in Spain and Germany and has generally demands.
The Group sells its products during two recently announced a similar deal to acquire its Scandinavian principal seasons: spring summer and autumn winter.
There partner giving it rights to open stores in Denmark, Norway and are two limited supplementary ranges produced for the end Finland.
Deals of this nature allow the Group to accelerate of each season to maintain a degree of newness in stores: expansion by investing its own capital in space whilst retaining high summer and winter flash.
The business also has a the local expertise of the distributor and his or her team.
number of products that are sold throughout the year, known as continuity lines, which provide some protection against particularly unseasonal weather patterns.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 13 Optimising and expanding the Key Growth Drivers e-commerce platforms The roll-out of owned stores In addition to developing brand presence, the growth of Around 86% of the current owned retail estate space is overseas e-commerce clearly has implications for international located in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
Whilst there store expansion, offering an important and valuable insight are still some opportunities for new stores and, in particular, into the strength of the brand, the demand for Superdry relocations of existing stores to larger sites, the majority of products, and the requirements for country-specific product future space growth will come from continental Europe, which ranges.
The Group operates from 18 international websites represents a market approximately five times the size of the with local payment solutions, local languages, and pricing in UK.
The main focus will be on Germany, a market where local currencies.
An opportunity exists to better leverage this Superdry has a proven track record with the potential to investment by improving the underlying conversion of visits emulate the business in the UK, but there will be opportunities to purchase activity.
There are a number of enhancements in all the territories the Group has reacquired or owns the that can help deliver this but an important one is developing rights to, but in particular: the Groups social media presence, an area that has become France integral to the lives of its target customer group in recent years.
The Group does not invest large amounts in traditional Belgium marketing, but believes that social media is an important part The Netherlands of the journey to true multi-channel retailing and will seek to Sweden use it accordingly.
There are also significant opportunities to Denmark increase the number of sites to match the physical presence of Superdry around the globe.
Growing the franchise estate Many existing franchise partnerships have contracted store Driving wholesale business numbers and these alone will provide an opportunity for at In a number of the Groups less mature markets, wholesale least a further 200 franchised stores worldwide over the will continue to play an important part in gaining market share.
The table below illustrates the significant Department stores and independent multi-brand retailers still number of countries where there are already operations with play an important role in the shopping landscape and provide the opportunity to grow and achieve scale.
The Group will a platform for new brands to gain traction and awareness.
continue to seek further international partners for territories In these countries, wholesale operations will complement where it has little or no presence but believes the brand will be franchise stores, e-commerce and, in some territories, owned well received, for example China, Russia and South America.
The Group does this by forming relationships with reputable and experienced partners that have demonstrated a strong track record of developing brands and have sufficient capital strength to invest in a credible store proposition.
SuperGroups current estate European markets broken down based on square feet % by market share % Other 16 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 14 SuperGroup.
Maximising optimising the UK estate Enhancing the Superdry brand through increasing the product range and brand extensions The Group has 544,000 square feet of owned retail space across 96 stores in the UK.
Over the last three years, the The Superdry brand has been significantly enhanced over average size of a typical Superdry store has increased from the past few years with the increase in breadth and depth 5,085 square feet in 2011 to 5,671 square feet in 2014.
The of the product offering.
This has been done by extending product range has grown at a faster rate than this, the result and developing the core ranges to include products that of which is that a number of the Groups stores are now too previously werent offered, such as: space restricted to show the optimum range for that particular premium tailoring: market.
As such there are a small number of towns where the dresses: Group has targeted relocation and resizing opportunities.
accessories: underwear: watches: sunglasses: and cosmetics and fragrance, among others.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 15 The Group has been increasing its focus on womenswear over Sales recent seasons and will continue to do so as it provides a great Sales increased by 19.6% on the year: a strong result in what opportunity to attract new customers and provide like-for-like remains a very competitive and challenging retail environment growth.
Womenswear currently occupies approximately 50% and against a backdrop of such significant developments of retail floor space, on average, to ensure that it has presence in infrastructure.
Revenue growth was relatively consistent and credibility as an offer.
However, it presently accounts for across the two divisions, with Retail delivering sales growth of around 33% of revenues, a fact that the Board views as a 17.7% and Wholesale 23.3% on the prior year.
key opportunity to increase sales through organic growth over the medium-term as sales densities move towards those of The Group achieved like-for-like sales growth of 3.2% in menswear.
As a global brand, product excellence, innovation FY14.
Adjusting for the impact of eBay mega-sales, an and design is key to sustainable long-term growth.
Continued activity the Group undertook historically to clear aged stock, diversification into new categories and ongoing investment in underlying like-for-likes were 4.4%.
Like-for-like sales grew the design team will underpin the strength and longevity of the strongly across the first half of the year, increasing by 8.1%.
Quarter 3, which includes the important Christmas trading period and is the most significant retail quarter of the year, A stable and developing infrastructure saw a rise in like-for-like sales of 4.5% despite the very The Group has made significant investments over the last tough comparative of 9.4% from the year before.
Quarter 18 months in its management team, logistics facilities, and 4 was affected by a lack of new spring stock in store, heavy information technology.
This investment has been made competitor discounting, including some Superdry products to establish the foundations for future growth, facilitate the by wholesale partners, and a late Easter.
The resultant likeexpansion strategy, and provide a platform that will enable for-like sales were down by -3.2%, although this was -1.3% the business to operate more efficiently and effectively in the adjusting for the change in eBay.
There will always be more to do and FY15 will see Product and brand the introduction of a new point of sale and finance system together with a major upgrade of the Groups wholesale With investments made in the size and quality of the system.
It is fair to say, however, that the most difficult of these design department over the last couple of years, the Group changes, the relocation of the Groups main warehouse and continuously strives to improve its overall product offering, the implementation of a new merchandising system, have both in terms of quality and breadth.
The Group continues been largely completed.
to see the biggest opportunities in denim and womenswear, which are still underweight categories in the overall product Review of the Year portfolio and will be a key focus in coming seasons.
In addition, there are new product ranges being introduced, SuperGroup has made significant progress during the for example Superdry skiwear, which will continue to push past year.
The business has undertaken a comprehensive brand awareness and attract new customers.
On 13 February infrastructure improvement programme that will start to 2014, a Premium Lounge was launched on the lower ground deliver tangible benefits into the new financial year, and lay floor of the Regent Street flagship store.
The premium range the foundations for the next phase of growth.
This has been includes Superdrys premium tailoring range, its higher-end achieved whilst simultaneously delivering significant growth in casualwear, called Superdry Luxe, the more premium leather revenues and underlying profits.
Underlying profit before tax jackets, and the artisan Copper Label branded goods.
new ranges provide an opportunity for the Group to extend The Groups core objective continues to be delivering growth its demographic, grow its average transaction value and drive in shareholder value and, in doing so, to build a global press coverage of the brand as well as potentially providing a business that is capable of delivering long-term, sustainable wholesale opportunity with a new set of customers.
profit and cash flow growth.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 16 SuperGroup.
For the first time since the inception of Superdry, the Group Germany offers a significant opportunity for the Group with attended one of the two main London Fashion Week events.
a retail fashion market that is valued at 58.4bn by Verdict The autumn winter 2014 collections for both menswear and Research, some 28% larger than the UK.
The Groups womenswear were launched at the London Collections: confidence in the German market is underpinned by the Mens event on 7 January 2014.
The progress that has been positive performance of the Oberhausen store, which is made over the last few years and the global acceptance of the generating strong positive like-for-like sales growth, and the brand have given the Group the confidence to showcase new success that has been experienced in the Wholesale business ranges at this type of high profile event.
It was well attended to date.
by the Groups international partners and the fashion press.
In July 2014 SuperGroup bought out its Spanish distributor, Store openings bringing the management team in house as part of the deal to preserve expertise and experience.
As with the German Around 100,000 square feet of retail space was opened transaction, this deal allows the Group to invest its own during the year taking the Group to 633,000 square feet capital in the territory to take advantage of opportunities and 139 owned stores.
There was a net increase of 11 that could not be delivered under the previous structures, new stores across the UK and Republic of Ireland, which as well as improving the margins achieved through the included stores in Southampton, two stores in Newcastle, wholesale operations.
The Group has subsequently opened the Cribbs Causeway shopping centre just outside Bristol, ten concessions in the regionally important El Corte Ingles and the Dundrum shopping centre, near Dublin.
In Europe, department store chain across Spain and Portugal.
Despite 15 stores were added to the portfolio, which included new the uncertainties around the Spanish economy, the territory larger-format stores in Aeroville France, Amsterdam, and has provided strong growth for SuperGroups Wholesale Bruges.
These stores follow on from the successful pilot store division over the last few years.
in Oberhausen, Germany, that opened last year and represent a marked change from the current portfolio in Europe which The German and Spanish businesses have both been consists mainly of smaller boutique-style stores.
successfully integrated into the Group during the second half.
In October 2014, SuperGroup bought out its German agent and franchise partner and, in the process, acquired its portfolio of seven stores, adding approximately 14,000 square feet to the estate.
The Group holds a 70% stake in a venture in Germany, which it runs in collaboration with previous management who run the operations for wholesale, franchise and retail.
More importantly, the business now has the rights to the German and Austrian markets, which will enable it to use its own capital to accelerate the roll-out of owned retail stores throughout the country.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 17 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 18 SuperGroup.
Following the activities of FY14, the Group now has 139 owned stores across the European Union and trades from 633,000 square feet.
FY13 FY14 movement FY14 Square feet Stores Square feet Stores Square feet Stores UK 489,000 85 55,000 11 544,000 96 EU 47,000 28 42,000 15 89,000 43 Group 536,000 113 97,000 26 633,000 139 Financial year 2015 FY15 will see the Group open between 80,000 and 100,000 square feet of retail space with the emphasis shifting towards European stores and, in particular, the German market.
The Group has a strong pipeline of space for the next 18 months with the majority of the coming financial years either exchanged or with agreed heads of terms.
Of particular interest is the first European flagship which will open in the German city of Munich in October.
E-commerce Wholesale The Group has delivered improvements in both its website Wholesale revenues represented 33.7% of total Group revenue traffic and its conversion rate during the year.
moving away from discount and voucher related traffic Due to the numerous channels within the Wholesale business drivers, used commonly during FY13, to deliver a premium and the timing issues these generate, sales growth on a experience that is in line with stores.
A significant driver of this quarterly and half-yearly basis can be volatile.
To counter has been the improvement in the service levels offered on the this, the Group chooses to disclose the Wholesale order site, which now includes both free delivery and returns, and book each season, which it believes best reflects the overall a later cut-off time for next day delivery, a benefit provided performance of this channel.
For FY14 the order books grew by the new distribution facility in Burton upon Trent.
Visitor by an average of 25.9% which closely reflects the Wholesale growth did slow during the year as mobile became a more sales growth rate.
important channel for the customer, but the recent release of new mobile and tablet sites across most of the Groups During the year, the Group opened 59 franchised stores international websites puts the business in a strong position and four licensed stores taking the totals to 185 and 23 to return to historical growth rates.
The lower net increase of 46 is due to the transfer of seven franchised stores into Retail after their acquisition The average order value including VAT rose 8.7% to 78.90 through the buyout of the agency and franchise partner in 2013: 72.59, driven by a combination of the growth in Germany, and ten closures.
Of the new stores opened, 29 international business, product mix and around 2% growth in were in Europe, with nine of those in France and eight in the average number of items per basket.
The Group now has a store presence in 46 countries Following the opening of websites in China and the USA over with franchised stores having opened in two new territories the last 12 months, the Group operates 18 international sites during the year: the Czech Republic and Latvia.
in 15 countries, all with localised payment solutions, localised Early indications are that franchise partners will open around content and local currency pricing: three of those have two 50 stores during FY15 but, more importantly, franchise separate versions for multi-language populations.
13 of those partners are contracted to open in excess of 200 further sites also have mobile versions with development underway stores over the next five years.
During April 2014 the Group appointed Jon Wragg as Director of e-commerce.
Jon has extensive retail experience, having recently been Multichannel Director at Asda and previously holding a number of management roles at the multi-brand online retailer, Shop Direct.
E-commerce continues to be a significant global opportunity for the Group and Jons experience and insight, coupled with the investment already made into world-class delivery services, should generate significant growth over the medium-term.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 19 There has been significant investment in information Infrastructure technology IT over the past year.
As well as implementing The Group successfully delivered the rationalisation of its retail the MMS system, the Group has introduced new human warehouses having relocated its retail logistics operation to resources and payroll systems.
Preparations are now a single 500,000 square feet distribution centre at Burton underway for the next phase of planned investment which will upon Trent.
Two warehouses in Gloucester and a small site include the delivery of a new in-store point of sale system, a in Merchtem, Belgium, were all closed by the end of the replacement financial system, and a comprehensive upgrade financial year with all retail inventories, including e-commerce, of the Wholesale system over the next 12 months.
now being dispatched from the new distribution centre.
The operational capability of this site will support the planned Outlook growth for at least the next five years and will generate Whilst the youth sector marketplace remains competitive, significant cost efficiencies from the second quarter of FY15.
the Group has developed a strong management team and The replacement Merchandising Management System improved infrastructure whilst delivering sales and profit MMS was fully implemented prior to the year-end.
This growth that highlight the continuing appeal of the brand.
system is the engine-room of the Retail business and will That platform will enable management to continue to realise allow the business to improve the management of its most opportunities, both in the UK and overseas, and to deliver important asset, stock.
The additional insight and power the profitable growth in the coming year.
The Group will announce system offers will allow the Group to operate a more swift its Quarter 1 results and autumn winter Wholesale order and sophisticated replenishment operation, manage the book, as scheduled, on Thursday 4 September 2014. ever growing complexity of a geographically spread store base, and provide more integrated support for the Groups multi-channel operations.
This is particularly important in a rapidly changing customer environment where the digital and physical environments are becoming increasingly blurred.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
