Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Board of Directors.
Peter Bamford Chairman Peter is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Peter is also Chairman of Six Degrees Technology Limited, PRS for Music Limited and Brandtone Holdings Limited appointed on 1 May 2014.
He is also non-executive director of Rentokil Initial Plc.
Peter was a director of Vodafone Group Plc from 1998 to 2006 where he held senior executive roles, including Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Executive of Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa and Chief Executive of Vodafone UK.
Prior to this he held senior positions with WH Smith Plc, Tesco Plc and Kingfisher Plc.
Peter has served on the boards of public companies for the last 19 years and has extensive experience in developing and growing businesses and brands internationally.
Julian Dunkerton Chief Executive Officer Julian is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Julian has worked exclusively in the retail sector for over 27 years, co-founding the Cult retail chain from a market stall in Cheltenham and turning it into a successful retail chain.
Together with James Holder, Julian established the Superdry clothing brand 11 years ago.
Julian has a deep understanding of the Superdry brand, strong commercial instincts and a feel for its target customers, developed through his hands-on experience of building SuperGroup from the ground up.
Susanne Given Chief Operating Officer Susanne is responsible for the UK Retail division together with the central support functions.
Susanne has held senior positions in a number of leading retailers including John Lewis, TK Maxx, Harrods, Homebase and House of Fraser.
She brings a disciplined and structured approach to the Group developed from over 22 years retailing experience across a diverse range of retailers and product sectors.
Shaun Wills Chief Financial Officer Shaun was previously Chief Operating Officer at Habitat and Finance Director of Fat Face.
Prior to these appointments, Shaun held senior roles at New Look and Debenhams plc.
Shaun has over 22 years experience in the retail sector in finance, strategy, and business development roles.
Hans Schmitt Managing Director International & Wholesale Hans was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2014.
Hans is responsible for international expansion and the Wholesale division.
He joined SuperGroup in June 2013, having previously been President of Europe, Middle East, Africa and the United Kingdom for Warnaco Plc between 2010 and 2012, where he was responsible for brands such as Calvin Klein.
Prior to this, Hans held senior positions at Hugo Boss AG between 1997 and 2010.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 39 James Holder Brand and Design Director James is responsible for brand and product development, and heads up SuperGroups team of in-house designers.
James created the Bench clothing brand in 1992, which became the premier English skate-wear brand in the niche skate BMX market.
In 2003 he teamed up with Julian Dunkerton and developed the Superdry brand.
James brings exceptional clothing design skills to the Group and has been central to the success of the Superdry brand in appealing to its target market.
Keith Edelman Senior Independent Non-executive Director Keith is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
He is also non-executive Chairman of Goals Soccer Centres Plc and a non-executive director at Safestore Holdings Plc, the London Legacy Development Corporation and Thorntons Plc.
Keith was Managing Director of Arsenal Holdings Plc from 2000 to 2008 and Chief Executive of Storehouse Plc encompassing BHS and Mothercare from 1993 to 1999.
Keith has extensive retail and international experience and has served on the boards of public companies for 30 years across a wide range of businesses and markets.
Ken McCall Independent Non-executive Director Ken is a member of the Audit Committee.
Ken is also Managing Director of Europcar Group UK Limited.
Ken was previously Chief Executive Officer of DHL Express UK & Ireland, Chief Executive Officer of TNT Middle East, Africa and Asia and Chief Executive Officer of TNT China.
He brings over 30 years experience in the logistics sector and of running international businesses in Europe and Asia.
Minnow Powell Independent Non-executive Director Minnow is Chairman of the Audit Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Minnow is a non-executive director at Tui Travel Plc, having previously spent 25 years with Deloitte, where he was made a partner in 1985.
He is a chartered accountant and was a member of the UKs Audit Practices Board for six years.
Euan Sutherland Independent Non-executive Director Euan is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Euan has previously served as Group Chief Executive Officer for the Co-op group of companies, Group Chief Operating Officer at Kingfisher Plc and as a non-executive director with the Co-op Food Board.
Prior to this he was Chief Executive of AS Watson UK, owner of Superdrug.
Euan has over 19 years experience within the retail sector having held roles with Boots, Dixons, CocaCola, Matalan and Mars.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
