Strategic report Regional review Europe & Middle East The picture in our Europe & Middle East region is not vastly AST has had another solid year of growth in Europe.
different from the UK & Ireland, but masks a strong year for Marcoule in France has nally opened following regulatory AST with 9.2% growth in constant currency offset by a delays, customers have begun to utilise new capacity revenue decline in our Dutch linen business of 10.9% in added at Venlo, the Netherlands, and we have seen organic constant currency terms.
Overall the regions revenue was growth of 9.2% at constant currency, despite severe largely stable, with revenue of 119.1 million 2013: 120.2 weather in the fourth quarter.
million but reported adjusted operating profit rose 19.8% After the end of the financial year we completed the to 20.0 million 2013: 16.7 million, in part reecting the acquisition of the Bioster Group for 29 million net of cash stronger AST mix.
The acquisition has revenue of 20.2 million, The Dutch economy is still very weak and this is feeding mainly in EtO and electron beam technologies across Italy, through to a contracting healthcare market.
We are Slovakia and the Czech Republic.
continuing to see revenue contraction as the long-term care Europe has been a model for the implementation of our sector moves from institutional care to home healthcare.
AST strategy, and our focus on acquisitive and organic Management focus to restore operational efficiency in light growth has delivered impressive results.
With our enlarged of reduced volumes has been key in the short term.
As network, comprehensive range of technologies and indicated last year, we have completed the closure of an expanding geographic coverage, the region is well placed additional two facilities and have a clear strategy to deliver to support its customers and to continue to grow in line continuous incremental improvements to efficiency.
We will with their success.
now develop a long-term strategy that allows the business to seek growth in adjacent services, reducing its dependency on healthcare linen alone.
