Governance Directors report The Directors submit their Annual Report and the audited consolidated Corporate Social Responsibility accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended The statement on Corporate Social Responsibility on page 38 contains 30 March 2014. disclosures concerning environmental matters, employee involvement and social and community issues.
Statutory disclosures Contractual relationships or other arrangements Group results and dividends The Company has no contractual relationships or other arrangements There was a profit for the period after taxation amounting to with contractors, customers or suppliers that are critical to the business.
A final dividend of The Company has a number of significant agreements.
The only 22.77p is proposed by the Board for the period ended 30 March 2014. agreements considered to be essential to the Group as a whole concern The final dividend will, subject to shareholders approval, be paid on 4 its bank facilities, which include change of control provisions.
In the September 2014 to shareholders on the register at 8 August 2014.
The event of a change in ownership of the Company, these provisions could shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 6 August 2014.
A review of the result in renegotiation or withdrawal of the relevant facilities.
Groups performance for the period ended 30 March 2014 is contained Policy and practice on payment of creditors in the Strategic report.
All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and Bribery conditions with their suppliers and it is Group policy that payments are The Company has further reviewed and updated its policies in light made within such agreed terms and conditions.
Trade creditors at the ofthe enactment of the Bribery Act 2010.
The Company remains period end amount to 44 days 2013: 48 days of average supplies for committed to the highest standards of business conduct and insists the period.
Political and charitable donations The Audit Committee has reviewed and updated the Companys ethics During the period the Group made charitable donations totalling and whistleblowing policies and the policies are available on the 88,000 2013: 5,000.
No political donations were made during the Companys website.
Pensions Treasury and risk management The Group operates a dened contribution Group Personal Pension The Groups treasury and financial risk management objectives, and Plan GPP, which permanent employees are invited to join.
The details in respect of the Groups exposure to these risks, are detailed in provision of the GPP is via Aviva.
note 19 to the financial statements.
All those employees who transfer from the public sector under the Greenhouse gas emissions Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment Regulations 2006 The table below details our Global Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions are eligible to join the Synergy Health plc Retirement benefit Scheme, data for 2014: a dened benefit pension arrangement which is otherwise closed to new entrants.
The Group Company Secretary is the Chairman of the 1 Emissions Tonnes of CO e 2 Trustees.
There are two other Company Nominated Trustees, and Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities one Member Nominated Trustee.
There is a vacancy for one Member GHG Protocol Scope 1 56,961 Nominated Trustee.
Details of all Group pension schemes are Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use contained in note 27 to the Accounts on page 110.
GHG Protocol Scope 2 41,301 Total 98,262 The Company became subject to the Occupational and Personal Intensity metric: tonnes CO2e thousand GBP revenue 0.258 Pension Schemes Automatic Enrolment Regulations 2010 for 1 employees in the UK on 1 September 2013.
The GPP is compliant Assessment results exclude transmission and distribution losses.
and is used for the purposes of these Regulations and was registered We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the accordingly.
Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Permanent employees outside the UK are usually offered membership Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial of local pension arrangements where they exist.
With the exception of scope 1 fugitive emissions which form a very small part of our footprint we do not have responsibility for any Directors indemnity emission sources that are not included in our consolidated statement.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Directors have been granted a continuing indemnity issued by the Company to The method we have used to calculate GHG emissions is the GHG the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, their ofce.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent together with the latest emission factors from recognised public sources that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
including, but not limited to, Defra, the International Energy Agency, the US Energy Information Administration, the US Environmental Protection Directors and ofcers liability insurance Agency and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
During the period the Company maintained insurance cover for Directors and Ofcers liability as permitted under the Companies In some cases emissions associated with our activities have been Act 2006. extrapolated or estimated to ensure as complete a picture as possible.
The largest area of uncertainty relates to sites where we operate within Directors and Directors interests client hospital premises and do not have direct visibility of utility The present Directors of the Company are shown on page 41 of this consumption data.
We are working with sustainability reporting experts report.
No other Director served during the period.
The Directors Ecometrica to further improve our carbon footprint data quality and interests in the share capital of the Company are set out in the reporting processes.
Directors Remuneration Report on page 69.
72 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Going concern the Companys reports and financial statements, to attend and speak at The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies, and to exercise affect its future development, performance and position are set out on voting rights.
The financial position of the Company, its cash ows, No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any review on pages 28 to 32.
In addition, notes 18 to 19 to the financial agreements between the holders of securities that may result in statements include the Companys objectives, policies and processes restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to Articles of Association credit risk and liquidity risk.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the Company the Articles, the Articles may be amended by a The Company has considerable financial resources together with special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
long-term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and market places.
As a consequence, Additional information for shareholders theDirectors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its On a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The notice of the outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company general meeting species deadlines for exercising voting rights either by has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the proxy notice or present in person or by proxy in relation to resolutions foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis to be passed at general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on the Companys website after This statement in respect of the business as a going concern has been the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares prepared in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: in the Company other than: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and Group companies A full list of the Groups subsidiaries is detailed on page 119.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Risk management Companys securities.
Details of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties are set out onpages 33 to 37.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment Substantial shareholders whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that At the date of this report the Company had been notied of the occurs because of a takeover bid.
following holdings of voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares of 0.625p each in accordance with the Disclosure and Power to issue shares Transparency Rules: At the last AGM, held on 25 July 2013, authority was given to the Directors to allot unissued relevant securities in the Company up to a Name Shareholding % maximum of 121,931.96 equivalent to one third of the issued share AXA Investment Managers SA 6,866,545 11.67% capital as at 5 June 2013.
This authority expires on the date of the AGM Prudential plc 3,458,504 6.29% to be held on 23 July 2014 and the Directors will seek to renew this INVESCO Limited 3,087,757 5.30% authority for the following year.
F&C Asset Management plc 3,038,208 5.16% A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to Artemis Investment Management LLP 2,926,688 4.97% the Directors to allot equity securities in the Company up to a maximum BlackRock Inc 2,705,645 4.95% of 5% of the issued share capital of the Company for cash, without Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Limited 2,599,250 4.74% regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This Newton Investment Management 2,561,177 4.71% authority also expires on the date of the AGM to be held on 23 July Kames Capital 2,357,675 4.00% 2014 and the Directors will seek to renew this authority for the Norges Bank 1,991,170 3.41% following year.
Dr Richard Steeves 1,832,472 3.13% Appointment of Directors Share capital The Articles give the Directors power to appoint and replace Directors.
As at 30 March 2014 the Companys authorised share capital consisted Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any of one class of 106,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.625p each of which appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee there were 58,896,145 ordinary shares in issue.
No shares are currently forapproval by the Board of Directors.
During the period, the Company purchased 270,500 shares which were placed into treasury on 6 August 2013 which were The Articles also require Directors to retire and submit themselves for subsequently used to satisfy the exercise of LTIP Options on 13 August election at the first AGM following appointment and all Directors who 2013.
At that date authority had been granted to the Company and held ofce at the time of the two preceding AGMs, to submit themselves remained in force for the purchase of up to 5,852,734 ordinary shares, for re-election.
of which 5,582,234 ordinary shares were unused.
However, in accordance with the requirement under the Code for The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares, annual election of Directors, all Directors will submit themselves for and restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company, are set out in re-election at the Groups AGM on 23 July 2014. the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or the Group Company Secretary.
Shareholders are entitled to receive dividends, when declared, to receive Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 Governance Directors Report continued Powers of Directors Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Company and may exercise all powers of the Company subject to Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that the provisions of relevant statutes, to any directions given by special comply with that law and those regulations.
resolution and to the Companys Memorandum and Articles.
The The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Articles, for example, contain specic provisions and restrictions corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
concerning the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing of new shares are also included in the Articles and such Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of authorities are renewed by shareholders at the AGM each year.
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibilities Responsibility statement The Directors confirm that the Annual Report and financial statements, We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, performance, business model and strategy.
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: Group and parent company financial statements, in accordance with The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and applicable law and regulations.
performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in that they face: and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced asadopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted and strategy.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they Disclosure of information to auditors give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this report company and of their profit or loss for that period.
confirm that so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and each In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director statements, the Directors are required to: to make him herself aware of any relevant audit information and to Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: ensure that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Auditor Separate resolutions proposing appointment and determination For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been ofKPMG LLPs remuneration will be proposed at the AGM on prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: 23July2014.
For the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject toany material departures disclosed and explained in the parent On behalf of the Board company financial statements: and Tim Mason Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless Group Company Secretary itis inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent 4 June 2014 company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
74 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
