Strategic report Regional review UK & Ireland Austerity measures in the UK and Irish economies have Ourinvestment in RFID technology for mass instrument continued to hold back spending within their respective reading is a powerful technological advancement which national health services.
However, there has been a distinct strengthens the economic case for outsourcing, via improvement in recent months that together with a preimproved outcomes for patient safety and service quality.
election boost for the NHS should feed through into a The AST business has shown moderate growth with a more stronger year for Synergy.
AST has delivered an upturn in buoyant medical device market.
In both the UK and Ireland underlying revenue growth of 4.5% compared with last we are performing in line with expectations with 4.5% year, but HSS growth was just 1.0%, reecting at patient growth in constant currency.
volumes, an extending waiting list and the absence of new contract starts.
As a result, our reported revenue in the In Healthcare services, Linen saw another strong UK & Ireland UK&I region was 164.7 million 2013: performance with revenue increasing 4.2% on account of 160.6 million, representing a 2.6% increase from last additional contract wins which have continued into the new year.
The region posted a 0.8% increase in reported financial year.
Our UK labs service grew at 5.2% and was operating profits, reaching 34.7 million 2013: enhanced with the acquisition of Genon, a laboratory 34.5million.
business in North Yorkshire specialising in food allergen testing.
Overall our healthcare products business was at In recent months we have secured an extension and year on year with underlying revenue growth of 1 million expansion of our existing contract with one of our significant legacy non-core product streams were ended during the UK customers, cementing our position providing services to early part of the previous year but continued to strongly many of the large NHS Trusts.
Further, we have won four improve its profitability.
new HSS contracts collectively worth 1.6 million per annum, which we hope is a leading indicator that the Finally, we have invested in new regional head ofces in outsourcing market is once again re-opening.
Derby, putting us closer to major infrastructure links and securing our position in the Midlands, allowing us to attract Our scale and expertise in hospital sterile services has and retain talent in the healthcare industry.
enabled us to invest in the development and exploitation ofpotentially transformational technology such as RFID.
