Strategic report Regional review Americas The Americas region has continued to show good that this deal will prove to be a catalyst for similar growth, in what has been a largely preparatory year: we outsourcing activity in the Americas.
The North Shore have spent time cementing our relationship with North hospital group accounts for 35% of all surgical Shore, working on significant contracts, and making procedures in New York, and our contract reects management changes to ensure future progress across the largest outsourcing of instrument reprocessing both divisions.
Gains in market share from new contract by volume in the world.
wins will ow into the coming financial years, as these are We announced earlier this year that we were selected initiatives that take time to deliver.
Combined reported as preferred bidder for another large outsourcing contract revenue growth for the region was 24.8%, achieving worth approximately $40 million per annum, and now 77.8 million 2013: 62.4 million, with an adjusted expect this contract to be signed shortly and begin operating profit increase of 19.6% to 8.8 million implementation during the summer.
With a bid book up 2013: 7.3 million.
by 40%, a strengthened leadership team and the launch HSS revenue this year increased by 32.0%, reaching of SynergyTrak and RFID technologies, the US has 63.5 million 2013: 48.1 million.
This growth reects become one of our most exciting markets, with prospects the impact of the first full year of revenues from the SRI that bode well for the future.
During 2013, we made a AST delivered consistent reported revenue of 14.2 million strategic change to the provider of a low margin, legacy 2013: 14.1 million representing a net growth of 0.2% disposable pack service acquired with the SRI business.
A much stronger underlying organic growth The new provider warranted the success of the transition was masked by the loss of one of our major Costa Rica but nonetheless revenues reduced by 4 million as customers as they withdrew a product from market.
certain contracts failed to make the transition.
Operating Excluding Costa Rica, reported revenue growth was 6.0%, profits were unaffected, however.
with efficiency and process improvement driving a 9.1% We are gearing up for the full commencement of the adjusted operating profit growth.
We have now ensured North Shore HSS partnership with the opening of our that we have a stable, diverse customer base across the New York supercenter in early summer 2015, and expect rest of our network, with a particular focus on supporting the opening of our enlarged Saxonburg facility.
We have gained an extremely competitive share in targeted global Revenue Operating profit key accounts and have made good inroads implementing 77.8m 8.8m our global strategy around key multinational account 24.8% 19.6% retentions.
We have also considerably strengthened the Americas AST leadership team in recent months, with a particular focus on business development, and the early signs of this investment are being reected in an increase 77.8 in growth.
