s L u e c a o d F Our long-term strategy To achieve sustainable growth in shareholder value we have We deliver our services more efficiently than our a strategy to develop niche, high value-added outsourcing competitors by employing a cost leadership strategy taking services with global potential, to health-related markets.
advantage of our global scale and the deployment of technology.
We also strive to competitively differentiate Our present focus is on high growth markets including Asia ourselves through our people by the way we deliver our and the Americas, where we are principally developing our services, reected in our core values of integrity, innovation, sterilisation services.
Expand the business Focus on high internationally value-added services Our strategy is to continue to Our strategy is to focus solely expand our revenues and further on niche services that have internationalise the Group, high barriers to entry, through organic growth and significant value-added through bolt-on acquisitions content, and a global potential.
to improve the scale of our operations in a specic market or expand the depth of our services.
Growing sustainable value Cost leadership Differentiation from Our strategy is to exercise ourcompetitors Group-wide cost leadership, Our strategy is to differentiate inorder to best focus our ourservices through our people, resources on delivering our viaour shared values of customers needs.
achievement, integrity, accountability and innovation, and through our investments in technology.
Key performance indicators KPIs Principal risks and uncertainties Corporate governance Read more page 18 Read more page 33 Read more page 40 Our values underpin who we are as a business Achievement Integrity Accountability Innovation We believe our success We believe that the way we We take personal responsibility We achieve the best possible comes from our focus on work is as important as what we for our actions and are results by working with exceeding expectations and do.
We care deeply about the equipped to take the right customers to develop new ways our commitment to go that quality of our work and inspire course of action.
of solving problems and extra mile, however small trust by delivering on promises.
the difference.. Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 D i f d f e n r a e p n x t i E a t e
