Strategic report Our business model Creating sustainable value Synergy delivers a range of specialist outsourced services to Applied Sterilisation Technologies healthcare providers and other customers concerned with health management.
In performing these services, Synergy How the business works supports its customers to improve the quality and efficiency Applied sterilisation technologies AST encompasses a range of of their activities, whilst reducing risks totheir patients sterilisation techniques including gamma irradiation, electron, ion and and clients.
x-ray beam irradiation, and ethylene oxide.
Its customers are mainly In addition to core healthcare services, there is a wide drawn from the medical, pharmaceutical and biologicals markets, demand for our services in other markets.
Within our applied including a large number of multinational medical device manufacturers.
sterilisation technologies business we provide services to a In addition, our facilities typically provide sterilisation consultancy, diverse range of customers including food manufacturing, laboratory services and logistics services to support the customer relationship.
We operate the worlds second largest outsourced pharmaceutical manufacturing and veterinary medicine.
sterilisation business, and the largest outside the US.
During the year to 30 March 2014 Synergy delivered services via a regional structure, with management teams responsible for our businesses in the UK & Ireland, Europe & Middle East, How we build long-term value Asia & Africa, and the Americas.
On 1 April 2014, the Board We provide services which are mission-critical for our customers, but decided torestructure the Group, replacing the regional at a level of efficiency which they cannot attain in-house.
Our facilities structure with a service line structure focused on three key are capital intensive and static: our success in delivering sustained global services Applied Sterilisation Technologies, economic value depends upon delivering exceptional customer Healthcare Services andLinen.
satisfaction in long-term customer relationships in order to match capacity to long-term demand.
This change will enable the Group to more effectively implement its strategic objectives and deliver the global organic growth we are striving for, whilst maintaining our Share of Group revenue established reputation for operational excellence.
Further, a sustained focus on services and customer needs will allow the Group to react more swiftly toemerging opportunities.
Whilst the management ofeach business is encouraged to adopt an entrepreneurial style, they operate within a well-developed and consistently applied framework ofoperational and nancialcontrol.
Synergys growth over the last twenty years, both organic and by acquisition, has built the worlds largest supplier of outsourced hospital sterilisation services, and the worlds Our locations second largest supplier ofapplied sterilisation technologies.
Synergy operates 31 AST facilities in 12 countries across 4 continents: The Groups size, structure and accumulated expertise provide in the US, Costa Rica, Ireland, the UK, France, the Netherlands, it with astrong platform todeliver sustained technological Switzerland, Germany, South Africa, Malaysia, Thailand, and China.
development, customer focus, and robust quality On16 May 2014, Synergy acquired the Bioster Group, adding 9 facilities management systems.
These strengths are critical in Italy, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, and a small joint venture in Egypt.
tocreating and enhancing sustainable value.
12 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Hospital Sterilisation Services Healthcare Solutions How the business works How the business works We operate the worlds largest outsourced hospital sterilisation services Our Healthcare Solutions businesses provide a range of services HSS business.
Synergy provides a sterilisation service for reuseable involved in managing the environment in a healthcare setting.
The medical and surgical equipment used in hospital operating rooms.
This services primarily involve infection control, incorporating hospital linen service also extends across other hospital departments, primary care management, hand hygiene, hard surface systems, occupational facilities, dentistry practices and orthopaedic loan set suppliers.
Our health and laboratory services.
Our laboratory services business in scale and expertise in hospital sterile services has enabled us to invest particular is expected to be a source of future growth, incorporating in the development and exploitation of potentially transformational pathology, toxicology, food testing and microbiology.
Our investment in RFID for mass instrument reading is a powerful advance which strengthens the economic case for outsourcing, via improved patient safety and service quality.
How we build long-term value How we build long-term value Synergy provides an essential service at an efficiency and cost which The range of products and services delivered by our healthcare in-house competitors cannot match, whilst increasing operating room solutions businesses deliver value through efficient excellent customer utilisation rates and reducing the incidence of hospital-acquired service, a focus on innovation, and a strategy of cost-leadership which infections.
Our ability to deliver this is built upon well-honed operating enables us to target our resources on our customers needs.
procedures, long-term customer contracts, a proprietary instrument management application SynergyTrak, and our global scale, whichenables us to invest in further technological innovation.
Share of Group revenue Share of Group revenue Our locations Our locations Synergy operates 48 HSS facilities in 4 countries: in the US, the UK, Synergy operates Healthcare Solutions businesses in 4 countries: the the Netherlands, and China.
Work is ongoing to complete a number of US, the UK, the Netherlands and the UAE.
Our healthcare products significant new HSS facilities in the US and China.
On 16 May 2014, business sells worldwide from its head ofce in the northof England.
Synergy acquired the Bioster Group, adding a number of further HSS contracts inItaly.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13
