46 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014 The Directors submit their Annual Report and the audited Director indemnity provisions consolidated financial statements for the year ended Under the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors 31 December 2014.
The Report of the Directors comprises of the Company have the benefit of a qualifying third-party pages 46 to 48 and the following sections of the Annual indemnity provision which provides that they shall be Report which are incorporated by reference: indemnified by the Company against certain liabilities as permitted by Sections 232 and 234 of the Companies Act Location in 2006 and against costs incurred by them in relation to any Item Annual Report liability for which they are indemnified.
The Company has Directors responsibility statements Page 49 purchased and maintains insurance against directors and Financial instruments and financial Financial Statements officers liabilities in relation to the Company.
risk management note 22 Share capital and control Present membership of the Board Page 24 During 2014 no shares were issued or repurchased.
A total of Corporate governance report Pages 25 to 32 70,122 shares were purchased on the open market on behalf Strategic report including principal of the shareholders who elected to participate in the dividend activities and principal risks and reinvestment plan.
uncertainties Pages 4 to 19 Directors remuneration report Pages 33 to 45 The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Financial Statements ordinary shares, being the only class of issued share capital, Share capital note 27 as well as the powers of the Companys directors, are set Corporate Social Responsibility Pages 20 to 23 out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House or can be Results and dividends downloaded from the Companys website.
There are no The profit attributable to shareholders for the year was restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys 45.3 million.
The interim dividend of 3.0 pence per share ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the was paid on 6 November 2014.
No person holds securities in the Company a final ordinary dividend of 4.8 pence per share and a special carrying special rights with regard to the control of the dividend of 7.8 pence per share both payable on 3 July 2015 Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements to those shareholders registered at the close of business on between holders of securities that may result in restrictions 5 June 2015.
A dividend reinvestment plan is available to on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Unless shareholders and this alternative will continue to be offered expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of until further notice.
Association of the Company, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the Acquisitions Companys shareholders.
On 22 October 2014 the Group acquired the remaining 50% of Eka Synthomer Oy now called Synthomer Finland Oy Other than in relation to its borrowings which, unless certain owned by AkzoNobel, its joint venture partner.
Further details conditions are satisfied, become repayable on a takeover, of this transaction is contained in note 29. the Company is not party to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control Directors following a takeover bid.
The Company does not have All the Directors will retire and will be seeking election or agreements with any director or employee that would provide re-election as appropriate at the forthcoming Annual General compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from Meeting other than Mr J K Maiden who will retire from the a takeover.
Board at the close of the Annual General Meeting.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions None of the Directors seeking election or re-election has a relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and service contract other than Mr MacLean and Mr Blackwood awards would normally vest and become exercisable on who each have a service contract which contains a twelve a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any month notice period.
performance conditions at that time.
Governance Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 47 Major shareholdings Employee involvement Other than the shareholdings disclosed as Directors The Group encourages employee involvement in its affairs interests in the Directors remuneration report as at and makes use of an intranet system to promote such 13 February 2015, the Company had been notified under involvement and to aid communication with employees.
Section 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the The Group began the roll out of a Core Values initiative at UK Listing Authority of the following significant holdings of the beginning of 2014 with a view to engendering a common voting rights in its ordinary shares: Synthomer Culture, supporting the Groups growth plans and improving the work place environment.
The roll out will Percentage be completed by the middle of 2015.
Annual regional Ordinary of ordinary management conferences are held to bring senior managers shares shares in Nature together to share ideas and develop policy and values and number issue of holding behaviours.
Briefings are given regularly to all employees Kuala Lumpur to make them aware of the financial and economic factors Kepong Berhad Direct affecting the performance of the Group.
Performance related Group 66,879,401 19.68 interest bonus schemes are in operation throughout the Group.
Direct and Standard Life indirect Political donations Investments Limited 49,377,978 14.53 interest No political donations were made in the year.
Indirect FIL Limited 17,182,396 5.05 interest UK pension funds Direct and The trustees have reviewed the independent investment UBS Global Asset indirect management of the assets of the Company pension schemes Management 17,029,199 5.01 interest in the UK and assured themselves of the security and controls Direct in place.
In particular, it is the trustees policy not to invest in interest and Synthomer plc shares nor lend money to the Company.
qualifying financial Subsidiaries Old Mutual plc 15,608,853 4.59 instruments The Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures whose results of financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally Employment policies affected the Groups financial statements are listed on The Group gives every consideration to applications for page 107. employment from disabled persons.
Employees who become disabled are given every opportunity to continue employment A full list of the Groups subsidiaries, joint ventures and under normal terms and conditions with appropriate training, related undertaking will be annexed to the Companys career development and promotion wherever possible.
Group seeks to achieve equal opportunities in employment through recruitment and training policies.
Statement as to disclosure of information to auditor Each Director of the Company confirms that, so far as he Authority to purchase own shares is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the The Company has a general authority, which expires at the Companys auditor is unaware and that he has taken all conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, to make the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order market purchases of not more than 33,988,076 of the to make himself aware of any relevant audit information Companys ordinary shares in accordance with the terms and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that of the special resolution passed at the 2014 Annual General information.
For these purposes, relevant audit information Meeting.
A resolution will be tabled at the 2015 Annual means information needed by the Companys auditor in General Meeting to renew this authority.
connection with preparing their reports on pages 51 to 55 and 97 to 98.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
48 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued Going concern Independent auditors The Directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on A resolution to appoint  LLP going concern and in reaching their conclusions have taken as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the Annual into account factors including: General Meeting.
the refinancing of the Groups main credit facility in Annual General Meeting July 2014 which involved the putting in place of a new The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am 210 million multicurrency revolving loan for a term of on 30 April 2015 at Manor of Groves Hotel, High Wych, five years.
the final repayment under the 2004 series private placement notes of US$22 million due in September 2016.
By order of the Board After making enquiries and taking account of reasonably R Atkinson possible changes in trading performance, the Directors have Company Secretary concluded that the Company and the Group have adequate 25 February 2015 resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and accounts.
Cautionary statement The purpose of this report is to provide information to the members of the Company.
It contains certain forwardlooking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this report should be construed as a profit forecast.
