Strategic report Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 07 Our markets Health and Protection Medical, clean room and industrial gloves, medical No.
1 37% devices e. g. catheters, condoms and other dipped Dispersions of total sales latex goods.
producer in to emerging Paper Coated paper and board, graphic paper, packaging Malaysia markets and specialty paper.
Construction and Coatings Construction Cement and mortar modification, bitumen No.
1 modification, concrete repair systems, primers, flooring and construction adhesives, liquid applied Acrylic and vinylic membranes, two-pack membranes, flexible roof coatings, sealants and primers.
producer in the Coatings Middle East Acrylic and Vinyl Acetate copolymers for walls interior and exterior, gloss semi-gloss emulsion paints, plasters textured finishes, flexible wall coatings, wood paints, varnishes and stains, anti-corrosion paints, Sales by market industrial coatings and water-based fillers.
Carpet, Compounds and Foam 1 6 1 Construction and Coatings 27% Binding and backing of tufted and other carpets, foam 2 Health and Protection 19% 5 backed carpets, automotive and artificial turf.
Foams 3 Carpet, Compounds and for mattresses, pillows and shoes.
Foam 17% 2 4 Paper 16% 4 5 Functional Polymers 13% Functional Polymers 3 6 Performance Polymers 8% Non-woven fabrics, insulation, textile coatings, printing, gaskets, masking tapes, specialty non-graphic papers, abrasives, tyre cord, pressure sensitive adhesives, packaging and wood adhesives.
Sales by destination 6 Performance Polymers 1 Lithene ultra low VOC liquid polymers for 5 1 Western Europe 53% automotive sound damping.
Alcotex Polyvinyl 2 Eastern Europe 6% alcohol used as a suspending agent in the PVC 3 North America 4% polymerisation process.
Polyvinyl Acetate for solvent 4 Asia 28% adhesives, Polyester resins and composites.
Inorganic 4 5 Africa and Middle East 9% 3 2 non-polymer Specialties for catalysts, flame 6 Rest of World 1% retardants and other niche applications.
