TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Our business model Our network Our business model is based on leveraging our extensive and cost-efficient next-generation network assets, in which we have invested c. 1bn to date, to offer consumers and businesses value for money products and services.
At the heart of our network is the state of the art unbundling Thiscombination of owned and leased assets confers a equipment DSLAMs, MSANs and Ethernet switches that structural cost advantage that allows us to offer fixed line we have installed in over 3,000 BT exchanges the largest broadband and Ethernet connectivity at significantly such deployment in the UK.
This allows us to take control lower retail prices than our competitors.
of the copper line that connects customer premises to We have leveraged this cost advantage to build a sustainable the exchange.
The exchanges are connected via collector broadband market share at the value end of the UK fixed line nodes and 10Gbps collector rings to our dark fibre core market and, since 2012, have begun to further leverage optical network a high-speed, high-capacity all-IP national our network with fast growing IPTV for consumers and backbone that enables efficient and flexible routing of voice Ethernet products for businesses.
The scale and all-IP and data traffic.
nature of our network also allows us to scale it very Access to the copper infrastructure that connects UK efficiently for growing usage.
Over the next five years we premises to BTs nationwide exchange footprint is price plan to expand the bandwidth capacity on our network by regulated by Ofcom, while we lease the fibre backhaul 50100 times at falling marginal operating costs.
This will toconnect exchanges to our core network and dark allow us to support growing customer demand for high fibre that comprises our collector ring and core network speeds and greater data consumption, with longer term on very competitive terms from multiple providers.
opportunities to build fibre to the premise FTTP and converged fixed-mobile products.
Our network coverage Over the past eight years, we have built one of the UKs largest broadband and voice customer bases, attracting those looking for significant bill savings.
FY14 saw us continue to grow significantly as we successfully deliver our quad play strategy, particularly in our value for money TV proposition, built on the YouView platform.
Caching Net ix Caches deployed in Akamai our Edge sites, serving Google 400Gbps at peak Unbundled exchange Collector node MSAN and DSLAMs supplying ADSL, FTTC, EFM and Extend reach of Ethernet access services core network Read more about our extensive network at: www.
com Exchange backhaul Collector nodes Nx1Gbps optical circuits Dark bre, 40Gbps and supplied by BTOR and VM 10 Gbps optical circuits OR, supplied by Geo, BTW, BT Zayo, Hibernia, VM and SSE Core optical networks Two separate national network s with 8Tbps Huawei and Copper 1.6Tbps Innera of capacity Optical Our NGN covers approximately 95% of UK homes, operating Our network gives us a strong value for in 3,027 exchanges.
These exchanges are connected via money advantage our own high-speed, high-capacity all-IP national network, We are able to offer our Consumer and Business customers enabling us to carry all of our customers voice and data services at significantly lower cost than our cable and traffic efficiently and cost effectively.
This is because we operate the benefit through optimised broadband speeds and quality UKs most extensive next-generation network NGN, which as well as access to our growing range of lower cost, value is comprised of our own advanced, highly cost-effective add products and services.
For example, our all-IP Content equipment.
It also means that TalkTalk is able to be the Delivery Network which runs over our NGN puts content only ISP that is committed to offering totally unlimited closer to the end user to increase the quality of experience broadband across all its consumer packages.
02 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Our customers We are the UKs leading value for money provider of fixed line broadband, voice telephony, television and mobile services.
We serve four million residential and business customers under the TalkTalk and TalkTalk Business brands.
Services to consumers Services to businesses TalkTalk is strongly positioned as the leading value for TalkTalk Business continues to drive innovation and money phone, broadband and TV provider for UK homes.
competitive product development that leverages our We are differentiated by our clear and simple tariff NGN capability and is in fact one of the fastest growing structure, low prices, flexibility and inclusion of valuable B2B telecom businesses in the UK.
We believe there is services, such as our ground-breaking HomeSafe, our significant opportunity to use our network to grow all unique network-based security service, which is available ourNext Generation products within TalkTalk Business.
free of charge for all customers on our network and protects In January 2013, we began offering an Ethernet over Fibre the whole home from viruses and inappropriate content.
service which delivers high-speed symmetrical services In the prior year we successfully launched our TV proposition at a significantly lower price point than traditional Ethernet for Plus customers, which included a free YouView set top technologies.
We also launched an 80Mbps product box and in FY14 we launched a lower priced TV proposition withgenerous data allowances and network prioritisation for our Essentials customers.
TalkTalk is one of seven targeted at small and medium sized businesses.
The year partners behind YouView including the BBC, ITV and BT.
also saw us launch a very competitive Next Generation YouView is a broadband based television service with Voice service for businesses requiring high performance differentiated catch-up and on-demand services, and data and voice services, which we have made widely anopen platform for future application driven innovation.
Our partner channel continued Our TV offering has enjoyed strong growth during FY14 to grow in FY14, and the migration of over 100,000 Post Office asit represents a powerful proposition for mass market customers onto our network was a major milestone for value seekers who want flexible access to premium the business.
content without the need to enter into costly long term subscriptions.
We also launched the UKs lowest priced totally unlimited broadband proposition, SimplyBroadband, which is targeted at customers who want a great value broadband product.
We grew TalkTalk Mobile during FY14.
Available exclusively to TalkTalk customers, TalkTalk Mobile offers simplicity, range and some of the most competitive prices in the market for both SIM-only and handsets.
Asaresult, our mobile offering continues to gain strong traction amongst our base.
Market overview Household internet access continued to rise in 2013, with eight in ten households now having broadband access.
Theaverage UK household owns three different types of internet-enabled device, and 86% have at least one.
This is driving significant growth in people accessing the internet from mobile-enabled devices.
Significant scope for growth remains, however, amongst specific demographic groups: 20% of households remain offline, rising to nearly 50% of those aged 6574 and two-thirds of those aged 75 and over.
On-net base million On-net customers % 2014 4.060 2014 97 2013 3.870 2013 95 There are four key players in the broadband and TV market.
competing with BSkyB on pay TV content rights, BT Retail is the largest broadband service provider, followed specifically sports.
Virgin Media, the cable provider, is the third largest Within this context, TalkTalk is clearly positioned as the player followed by TalkTalk.
TalkTalk is the largest unbundler.
leading provider for customers seeking a best value and BT Retail and Virgin Media are positioned at the premium reliable voice, broadband and TV service.
For TV in particular, end of the market, with significantly higher price points.
we have a unique proposition for those homes who want They focus on speed and reliability of broadband connection.
flexible access to premium content without costly long BSkyBs focus is on cross selling broadband and voice to term subscriptions.
We believe this reputation for value its pay TV base, providing discounts to customers who for money puts TalkTalk in a strong position and will only take all three products with them.
BT Retail is also now improve further as we grow our TV and mobile bases.
