TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Directors Report Suppliers payment policy Significant shareholdings It is the Companys policy to develop and maintain key commercial At 14 May 2014, the Company had been notified of the following relationships with its suppliers, one aspect of which is payment interests in the Companys shares: timing, to obtain mutually agreed payment terms.
The Company Number Percentage Name of shares of share capital hascommercially agreed longer credit terms with one of its larger corporate suppliers.
Excluding this supplier, the underlying average Charles Dunstone 294,059,396 30.79% credit period taken on trade payables was 32 days 2013: 39 days.
David Ross 116,160,528 12.16% Including this supplier, the average credit period taken was 42 days Capital Research 2013: 48 days.
and Management Company 61,162,000 6.40% Jupiter Asset Management 37,379,821 3.91% Contracts with controlling shareholders Group ESOT 34,130,266 3.57% There are no material contracts with controlling shareholders, except as disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 39.
Fidelity Worldwide Investment UK Ltd. 30,634,947 3.21% No Director is entitled to any compensation for loss of office on a Alken Asset Management LLP 30,564,840 3.20% takeover or change of control of the Company.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 5 to the financial statements.
The total interests of the Directors are detailed in the Directors Shares held by the Group ESOT abstain from voting.
Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 39.
Share capital Going concern The rights and obligations relating to the Companys shares are set out in On the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, the Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association can be requested the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
tocontinue in operation for the foreseeable future and consequently There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital the financial statements continue to be prepared on the going concern of the Company other than those which may be imposed bylaw from basis, as discussed in the Chief Financial Officers statement on time to time.
In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency page14.
Rules, certain employees are required to seek approval to deal in the Companys shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements Directors indemnities between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfers Directors liability insurance is provided for Directors.
of securities and or voting rights.
There is a general right of the Company to purchase its own shares, Equal opportunities asset out at Article 16 of the Companys Articles of Association.
We celebrate diversity and have an equality policy, which ensures that Inaddition, at the AGM in 2013, the Directors were granted the right everyone is provided with the same opportunities for employment, toacquire 93,124,407 shares.
This right expires on the date of the career development, training and promotion.
As part of this policy, 2014 AGM or24 October 2014 whichever is the sooner.
applications for employment by disabled persons are fully considered, bearing in mind the abilities of the applicant concerned.
In the event The Articles of Association may be changed by special resolution.
of employees becoming disabled during employment a thorough Details in the movements in authorised and issued share capital during process is followed and support provided including income support the period are provided in notes 21 and 22 to the financial statements.
insurance to try to secure their employment.
Appointment of Directors Audit information The rules relating to the appointment and or removal of Directors Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this arecontained in Section O of the Companys Articles of Association.
Annual Report confirms that: The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information ofAssociation.
of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Property, plant and equipment the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken Movements in property, plant and equipment are set out in note 12 as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant tothe financial statements.
audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of the information.
Dividends This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance The Company may, by resolution in a general meeting, declare with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. dividends in accordance with the respective rights of the members, By order of the Board but no dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 11 Evesham Street London W11 4AR TS Morris Company Secretary 14 May 2014 40
