Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Our strategy Our corporate strategy revolves around six interlinking elements, which combine leveraging our network to build scale in value for money products for consumers and businesses, systems and processes simplification, and disruptive innovation.
Our strategy revolves around sixmainprinciples 1 Leveraging the TalkTalk Network 4 Simple Systems and Processes TalkTalk has the UKs most extensive all-IP Next Generation To date since demerger, we have delivered over 100m of cost Network NGN, covering c. 95% of all UK homes with advanced, savings through integration and back-office simplification proprietary equipment located in over 3,000 exchanges.
However, as a relatively young business that has By investing in next-generation switching and data transmission grown very rapidly, we have a significant opportunity to further technology we have been able to further extend our network simplify our technology platform and customer processes.
The declining marginal cost of bandwidth Our Making TalkTalk Simpler programme comprises detailed allows substantial increases in capacity without compromising initiatives to simplify tariffs and access methods, simplify and margins or capital expenditure limits.
To accommodate upgrade our systems, make better use of our data and drive expected future growth, we plan to expand network capacity increasing online self-service by customers.
While lowering by 50100 times over the next five years, and increase resilience the costs of serving and acquiring customers, we also expect and flexibility, whilst reducing network downtime.
This investment Making TalkTalk Simpler to lower customer churn by improving will be within our long term capex guideline of 6% of revenues.
2 Value for Money Products 5 Disruptive Innovation We have an established position as the UKs leading value for We have a strong heritage of launching innovative and disruptive money provider across phone and broadband for consumers products that leverage our network scale and engineering and businesses, TV and mobile products for consumers.
expertise to save customers money.
We were the first to offer We also offer customers high speed Fibre to the Cabinet free fixed line calls between customers, the first to launch free through BTs GEA product.
In addition, our extensive Ethernet broadband, the first to offer unlimited downloads to broadband presence allows us to offer competitively priced data products customers, the first to launch a free TV offer and the first to to businesses across the UK.
Our value for money positioning offer business broadband at under 5 per month.
Our long and growing product offer drives customer loyalty and term innovation agenda includes the potential to build the first sustainable revenue growth, and positions us to take advantage 1Gbps FTTP network in the UK and an advanced fixed-mobile of favourable usage and socio-demographic trends, with a proposition incorporating femtocells and an in-home 4G network.
growing number of older and smaller households in the UK, growing data usage and growing triple play penetration.
6 A brighter place for everyone Our employees are key enablers in delivering our strategic 3 Scale priorities and we have implemented structures and policies that Building on our large and established fixed line phone and foster and develop a uniquely agile and collaborative culture.
broadband base, we are able to achieve significant scale benefits from offering our customers additional products such as pay TV, mobile, fibre and for businesses, high-speed data connectivity.
