TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 UK telecoms regulation The UK telecoms market is regulated by Ofcom, which sets the charges and other terms for wholesale access toinfrastructure and associated services provided by BTOpenreach Openreach, where Openreach is deemed toenjoy Significant Market Power.
Ofcoms objective is to ensure that these wholesale products enable effective retailcompetition in the market, so that consumers and businesses benefit from a choice of services and retail serviceproviders.
Compliance with regulation is monitored internally by the Regulatory Compliance Committee asdetailed on page 16.
TalkTalk relies upon a number of wholesale products from Competition Act obligations by margin squeezing between The areas regulated Openreach to be able to offer services to its customers.
The key itswholesale price for NGA GEA and its retail prices.
by Ofcom that are wholesale products we buy are LLU the copper connections Thethreshold for Ofcom for opening an investigation is most material for into homes, GEA access to BTs Next Generation Access ifthereare reasonable grounds for suspecting the Act TalkTalk are: NGA Fibre to the Cabinet FTTC network and Ethernet fibre hasbeeninfringed.
TalkTalk expects a decision on the future links used to connect exchanges to our core network and also to approach for this investigation later in 2014. connect business customers.
The price and terms of these are set by Ofcom though a triennial market review process which, Ethernet dispute appeal particularly in the case of LLU, gives us very reasonable certainty In December 2012, Ofcom published its determination to of costs going forward.
resolve a dispute regarding Openreachs pricing for various Ethernet services in the period from April 2006 to July 2009, LLU Charge Control which required Openreach to repay TalkTalk for its overcharging.
TalkTalk appealed Ofcoms 2012 LLU Charge Control decision Openreach has appealed that decision to the Competition as did Openreach, which resulted in a 1.12 reduction in the Appeal Tribunal CAT.
TalkTalk and others has also appealed 2013 14 MPF rental charge.
the decision arguing that the determination was too low.
Further detail is provided in notes 9 and 27 to the consolidated This charge control ended on 31 March 2014.
In late May 2014, financial statements.
Ofcom is expected to publish for notification to the European Commission the new charge control for the period to Openreach service performance 31March2017.
The current proposals are for an annual price TalkTalk strives to work closely with Openreach to deliver the change of between CPI -4.25% and CPI 3.00%.
best service for our customers, for example, the timely delivery of connections.
As part of the Wholesale Local Access Market Next Generation Access Review due in late May 2014, Ofcom will set new regulations in Openreach provides wholesale access to its NGA infrastructure order to provide more effective incentives for Openreach to predominantly FTTC, on an equivalent basis to all communication provide a high quality service.
The current Openreach wholesale product is GEA.
TalkTalk uses GEA to provide its fibre broadband products.
SLG dispute Atpresent, neither the price of GEA nor the margin between Ofcom has resolved a dispute regarding whether Openreach theGEA price and BTs retail price are regulated.
In late May 2014, should have paid TalkTalk compensation as a consequence of Ofcom is expected to publish its proposals to impose margin the late delivery of new MPF lines in 2012.
Ofcom determined squeeze regulations and how they will be operated.
that whilst Openreach had breached its obligations, Ofcom did In response to a complaint by TalkTalk, Ofcom, in May 2013, not as part of its determination require Openreach to pay started an investigation of whether BT has breached its TalkTalk any compensation.
Several other areas Appeals framework Communications Data Bill The Government is currently considering whether to introduce The draft Communications Data Bill was published in 2012 of current or changes to the framework of how Ofcom decisions can be andwould have required communications providers to potential legislation appealed and, in particular, whether the current merits-based retainmore communications data than they currently do so.
are significant for standard should be changed.
InApril 2013, the Government announced it was dropping the TalkTalk: Communications Data Bill.
In the Queens speech in May2013 itwas stated that the Government would bring further alternative European Commission Single Market Regulation proposals to help manage the problem of matching internet The EC and European Parliament is currently considering protocol addresses.
At this time nothing further has beenpublished.
If introduced this could havea number of impacts on the mobile and fixed telecommunications market.
The most relevant area for Voluntary measures on parental controls Glossary TalkTalk is the so-called net neutrality regulation.
Following a formal Government consultation into parental C P I : Consumer Price controls, in June 2013 the Prime Minister announced that the Index other three major ISPs would introduce whole home filtering New Communications Bill FTTC: Fibre to the Cabinet systems equivalent to TalkTalks HomeSafe service.
He also The Government had previously stated it was its intention to GEA: Generic Ethernet announced that from December 2012 all providers had introduce a new Communications Bill by the end of Parliament.
Access voluntarily agreed to ask every new customer if they want to use Further to the review work already concluded, the Department ISP: Internet Service parental controls.
This requirement was extended to include all for Culture, Media and Sport DCMS published a policy paper Provider existing customers by the end of December 2014. in July 2013 entitled Connectivity, content and consumers: LLU: Local Loop Britains digital platform for growth setting out areas for action.
Unbundling In December 2013, the DCMS asked Ofcom to report on progress made by providers in delivering their commitments.
MPF: Full unbundling Digital Economy Act Its report is due to be published in mid 2014.
NGA: Next Generation This Act, enacted in 2010, requires ISPs to send notifications to Access As a Board member of the UK Council for Child Internet Safety, customers and log which connections have been used for illegal NGN: Next Generation TalkTalk continues to engage actively with the Government about file sharing.
Expectations are that the earliest notifications Network its policy for protecting children online.
In parallel, TalkTalk and other ISPs are RPI: Retail Price Index discussing with rights holders alternative approaches.
SMPF: Partial unbundling Pursuant to various court orders, TalkTalk is required to block WLR: Wholesale Line Rental access to certain sites that are used for illegal file sharing.
