TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Board of Directors and advisors Chairman: Sir Charles Dunstone Sir Charles is the founder of Carphone Warehouse and created TalkTalk in 2002.
He was appointed Chairman of TalkTalk in 2010.
Sir Charles has directed the developmentof TalkTalk to become one of the leading fixed line telecommunication businesses in the UK.
Sir Charles is Chairman of the Princes Trust, YouView TV Limited and Carphone Warehouse Group PLC.
Executives: Dido Harding Stephen Makin Dido has been Chief Executive Officer of TalkTalk since February 2010.
Prior to that, Stephen joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer of TalkTalk in 2013.
Stephen Dido was Sainsburys Convenience Director, having been appointed to Sainsburys is a Chartered Management Accountant with over 15 years of experience in senior operating board in March 2008.
Dido joined Sainsburys from Tesco PLC where she finance roles, most recently at Shop Direct where he was Chief Financial Officer.
held a variety of senior roles.
Dido is a Non-Executive Director of The British Land Prior to that, he was Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of London Company PLC and is a Trustee of Go On UK.
listed Umbro PLC, until its acquisition by Nike in 2008.
Stephen spent the early part of his career at Asda, where he held a series of senior finance positions.
Non-Executives: John Gildersleeve Ian West John joined the Board in January 2010.
He is currently Chairman of The British Ian joined the Board in February 2011.
He has been involved in the TMT sector for Land Company PLC and deputy Chairman of Carphone Warehouse Group PLC.
around 25 years as a manager, director and investor.
Ian held numerous roles at Previously he was an Executive Director of Tesco PLC.
British Sky Broadcasting over eleven years, latterly as Managing Director of the SkyDigital subscription business.
Ian is also currently an investor in a range of smalland medium sized businesses and co-founded Top Up TV in 2003.
Ianwasasupervisory board member of Kabel Deutschland.
John Allwood Brent Hoberman John joined the Board of TalkTalk in 2010.
He has spent his entire career in media Brent joined the Board of TalkTalk in January 2010.
com and telecoms and held a number of senior executive positions in these sectors in 1998, and was its Chief Executive Officer until it was sold in 2005.
He hassubsequently including Chief Executive of Orange UK, between 2000 and 2004.
Prior to that founded and is Chairman of mydeco and made.
com, and alsoco-founded John spent eight years at Mirror Group PLC as Finance Director and Chief PROfounders and Founders Forum.
Brent is a Director of easyCar.
After leaving Orange he was Managing Director of Telegraph Media Non-Executive Director of Guardian Media Group, Time Out Group and Shazam.
Group, and Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director of Mecom Group PLC.
John is Non-Executive Director of Carphone Warehouse Group PLC and a Governor ofExeter University.
Sir Howard Stringer James Powell Sir Howard joined the Board in July 2012.
Until June 2013, he was Chairman of James joined the Board in July 2012.
James is Chief Technology Officer of theBoard of Directors of Sony Corporation.
Prior to his appointment as Chairman, Thomson Reuters.
In his 14 years at Reuters, James held a number of senior Sir Howard was President and CEO of Sony Corporation.
Before Sony Corporation, leadership positions including CTO for Enterprise: CTO and Global Head Sir Howard had a distinguished 30 year career as a journalist, producer and ofProductDevelopment: Head of Technology Strategy: and CTO for the executive at CBS Inc. After seven years as President of CBS Inc, Sir Howard ReutersFinancial division.
He has also held senior leadership positions at was Chairman and CEO of TELETV, the media and technology company SolaceSystems, Citadel Investment Group and TIBCO Finance Technology.
formed by Bell Atlantic NYNEX and Pacific Telesis.
Joanna Shields Joanna joined the Board in May 2013.
She is a Non-Executive Director of London Stock Exchange Group PLC and Chief Executive of Tech City UK and Business Ambassador for Digital Industries.
She previously held senior executive roles at Facebook, RealNetworks, Google and Bebo.
Advisors Company Secretary Advisors Registrars: Equiniti Limited Tim Morris Principal bankers: Aspect House, Spencer Road Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA DNB Bank ASA Barclays PLC Auditor: HSBC Bank PLC Deloitte LLP Lloyds TSB Bank PLC 2 New Street Square London EC4A 3BZ Corporate brokers: Credit Suisse Europe Limited 1 Cabot Square, London E14 4QJ Barclays Capital 5 The North Colonnade Canary Wharf, London E14 4BB 20
