Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION Deep customer engagement Innovation We continued to see an increase in customer interaction Our innovation pipeline remains strong, and as at 31 March through our global Commercial and Food Innovation Centre 2014 comprised a total of 35 projects, including ten in the final in Chicago, USA and our global network of applications stages.
The composition of the pipeline is well balanced across and technical services facilities.
our three Speciality Food Ingredients platforms, including 36% in health and wellness, reecting our focus on increasing our Customer visits to the Centre increased by 10% in the presence in this area.
year, while just under one-fifth of all customer visits to our six main customer-facing laboratories took place in the During the year, we brought PULPIZ Pulp Extender to emerging markets.
We also saw an increase in the number market, a texturant used to replace tomato paste in a range of visitors from the key areas of marketing, R&D and senior of applications.
In May 2013, we acquired Biovelop, the management leading to growth in the number of customer manufacturer of PromOat Beta Glucan, which has also TM projects being generated.
brought a new, high value, speciality bre PrOatein Oat Protein into our portfolio.
As the level of customer interaction has increased so too has customers perception of our capabilities, with the results from We continue to see strong customer interest in our novel a survey carried out during the year revealing that 63% of our salt-reduction ingredient SODA-LO Salt Microspheres with our customers believe we are exceeding their expectations.
focus now turning to converting customer projects into sales This level of satisfaction is approaching best in class and broadening the range of applications in which SODA-LO and is a positive lead indicator for future growth.
Salt Microspheres can be used.
Impact of visiting Commercial and Food Innovation Centre inChicago, Innovation pipeline by stage of development number of projects USAon customer satisfaction At 31 March 2014 Exceeds expectations Sweeteners Health and wellness As expected Texturants Bulk Ingredients Almost as expected 13 10% 8% 29% 48% 8 63% 7 42% 4 3 All customers Customers in survey collaborating at the global Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Stage 5 in survey Commercial and Food Innovation Centre Survey conducted between October and December 2012, and March and April 2013.
16 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information New markets and customer channels Sustained cash generation Tate & Lyle Howbetters Food Systems blending facility Grain elevator at Fowler, Indiana, USA We delivered another strong performance in the emerging While a number of challenges held back the performance of markets of Asia Pacic and Latin America with double-digit our Bulk Ingredients division during the year, including the volume growth in the period.
The investment we have made to very cold spring and extremely cold and prolonged winter in increase sales coverage and in our applications and technical the US, overall we have delivered a steady performance from services facilities in these regions, including the opening of a this part of the business over the last four years.
new facility in Singapore during the year, isproviding an This has been achieved against a backdrop of very significant excellent platform to attract new customers and engage volatility in the corn market through: directly with them in the local market, share ideas and develop newprojects.
t a relentless focus on efficiency and cost reduction t trading up to higher margin products The creation of Tate & Lyle Howbetter and the agreement to t diverting the corn that we grind to new areas like acquire Winway Biotechnology, amanufacturer of polydextrose green chemistry speciality bre, strengthens our presence in Asia Pacic as we t investing in projects to help dampen risk within the continue to invest in growing our speciality food ingredients division, such as expanding our network of corn business in these faster growing markets.
elevators to enhance the security of supply.
As envisaged when we started our business transformation We will maintain this same disciplined approach as we look to programme four years ago, we are developing a more deliver a steady performance from this division and to ensure geographically diverse company with a reduced reliance it continues to generate a sustained source of cash to grow on the developed markets and an improved risk prole.
our Speciality Food Ingredients division.
SFI sales by region 2014 Bulk Ingredients adjusted operating profit m 1 52% North America 3 19% Emerging markets 2 24% Europe & Middle East 4 5% Rest of world 182 172 172 4 1 157 3 2 2011 2012 2013 2014 Calculated based on SFIs Latin America and Asia Pacific sales of single ingredients excluding Japan, Australia and New Zealand.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 17
