Strategic Report SPECIALITY FOOD INGREDIENTS Performance overview Growth in Speciality Food Ingredients through Sales focus and depth 983m Speciality Food Ingredients develops, produces and markets distinctive, high-quality ingredients for food and beverage 2013 947m customers across the world.
By leveraging our manufacturing Adjusted operating profit facilities, innovative technology and formulation expertise, we help them create more cost-effective, better tasting 213m products for consumers.
2013 213m Speciality Food Ingredients works closely with our Innovation and Commercial Development group to develop a pipeline of new products.
Year ended 31 March Change 2014 2013 Constant m m Reported currency Sales 983 947 4% 4% Adjusted operating profit 213 213 0% 1% Adjusted operating margin 21.7% 22.5% -80bps -70bps Market conditions and trends Food and beverage manufacturers are We delivered another strong The global market for speciality food launching more clean label products in performance in emerging ingredients, and particularly those areas of response to increasing consumer demand markets which are becoming the market where we operate, continues to for more natural products across a broad benefit from a number of strong underlying range of categories.
Global clean label a more meaningful part of the 1 consumer trends: health and wellness, product launches increased by 27% division.
While we face a convenience and clean label.
in calendar year 2013, responding to increasing consumer awareness of food headwind from lower Consumers are increasingly aware of the processing, origination of nished and link between diet and health.
The rising SPLENDA Sucralose prices, unnished goods, and ingredient labelling.
incidence of diabetes and obesity in both we are well placed to capitalise developed and developing markets is Against the backdrop of continuing tough on strong consumer trends as driving consumers, manufacturers and macroeconomic conditions in many governments to focus on healthier countries and tighter household budgets, we leverage the investment products.
In addition to products which coupled with high raw materials prices, we have made to diversify the address calorie and weight management, cost-optimisation continues to be a theme consumers are also increasingly seeking with food and beverage customers looking business both geographically solutions for heart health, including lower at ways to reduce costs and provide more and through innovation.
sodium products, and digestive health, value-based alternatives for consumers including bre-enhanced products.
The without compromising on taste.
number of global product launches Financial performance containing bres or making a low sodium Within Speciality Food Ingredients, volumes 1 1 claim increased by 47% and 37% grew by 4% and sales increased by 4% respectively in calendar year 2013, with also up 4% in constant currency to 983 growth across both developed and million 2013 947 million with good developing markets.
volume growth in Asia, Europe and Latin Changes in consumer lifestyles continue to America, held back by a softer increase the demand for packaged and performance in the US where volumes convenience foods, for consumption both were slightly lower than the comparative at home and on the go.
Adjusted operating profit was in line with a convenient claim increased globally with the prior year up 1% in constant 1 by 25% in calendar year 2013 and, whilst currency at 213 million 2013 213 demand continues to grow in developed million as a result of lower selling prices markets, increasing levels of urbanisation for SPLENDA Sucralose and a lower are driving demand for convenience contribution from the US.
This result products in developing markets as well.
includes the majority of the 6 million Demand for convenience is a key driver for one-off gain from the purchase, sale speciality ingredients that provide added and leaseback of our building in Hoffman functionality such as stability, texture and Estates, US, and 7 million representing Olivier Rigaud extended shelf-life.
20 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information the final annual payment received from McNeil Nutritionals as part of the Engaging with customers realignment of the sucralose business back in 2004.
Operating margins reduced by 80 basis points to 21.7% 2013 22.5%.
Launch of TASTEVA Stevia The effect of currency translation was to Sweetener in Latin America decrease adjusted operating profit by TASTEVA Stevia Sweetener is our new, 2 million.
Launched in 25 countries in just 18 This division comprises three broad months, it is making excellent progress in product categories: starch-based speciality the market, in particular in Latin America ingredients, high intensity sweeteners and where it has already exceeded its sales Food Systems.
targets for the first year.
TASTEVA Stevia Starch-based speciality ingredients Sweetener is tapping into consumer Sales increased by 7% 7% in constant demand for natural, low-calorie currency to 595 million 2013 559 ingredients, particularly sweeteners million with volume growth of 5%.
While and is being recognised by customers percentage operating margins were slightly for its superior taste compared with other lower, operating profit was ahead of the stevia-based sweeteners.
TASTEVA Fruit juice containing TASTEVA Stevia Sweetener prior year.
While we expect to deliver Stevia Sweetener allows customers to with stevia leaf another year of good volume growth in replace more sugar than they could with financial year 2015, the level of sales value other competing stevia products which growth is expected to be lower as a result retain a bitter taste if used in high of the significant reduction in corn prices.
quantities, without using masking or modifying agents, thus improving the In food starches, we saw volume growth nutritional prole and consumer appeal across all regions with particularly strong of their brands.
growth in Latin America and Europe.
In Europe, our strong innovation capability TM and new products, such as CREAMIZ In SPLENDA Sucralose, the renewal we delivered good operating profit and PULPIZ Pulp Extender, helped of a number of large customer contracts growth driven by improved product mix, us maintain a healthy leadership position during the final quarter, including some tight cost control and lower prices for in speciality starches in the region, on a multi-year basis, against the backdrop some raw materials.
particularly within the convenience of an intensely competitive market food and dairy categories.
Our recently opened technical and environment, resulted in an increase commercial facility in Roggenhorst, In speciality corn sweeteners, we saw in the rate of price decline in SPLENDA Germany is helping us work more closely growth across all regions outside the Sucralose during the final quarter with with customers and strengthen our US including very strong growth as in the reduction in price for the full year pipeline of new products.
the previous year in Latin America, where outweighing volume growth.
we continued to expand our business The creation of Tate & Lyle Howbetter Demand for no-calorie natural sweeteners in the beverage and dairy categories.
provides us with a solid platform from continues to grow with 2,860 product Our success in this region over the past which to expand our Food Systems launches during calendar year 2013 few years is a good example of how we business in China and more broadly incorporating stevia, an increase of 56% are steadily broadening the geographic across the region.
As well as bringing new on the prior year.
Against this backdrop, mix of the business and reducing our customers, its high quality local blending we continued to see good volume growth reliance on developed markets.
capabilities are helping to strengthen in our natural no-calorie sweeteners, our offering to existing customers.
It also Our bres range continues to benefit particularly our stevia-based, naturalenables us to leverage additional knowfrom the strong consumer interest in health source sweetener TASTEVA Stevia how and expertise across our network and wellness, and we saw volume growth Sweetener, with a number of customer of Food Systems businesses globally.
across all regions during the period, with product launches during the year.
While particularly strong growth once again in we continue to see good opportunities Asia.
The planned acquisition of Winway for further growth and a strong pipeline Biotechnology will provide us with an for our natural no-calorie sweeteners, excellent platform from which to accelerate the overall contribution to this product the growth of our specialty bres business category remains relatively small.
not only in China but across Asia as a whole.
Food Systems High intensity sweeteners Sales were in line with last year down Sales in this category, which comprises 1% in constant currency at 190 million SPLENDA Sucralose and our no-calorie, 2013 190 million, with volumes 6% natural sweeteners, were in line with the lower, reecting our decision to focus comparative period up 1% in constant on higher margin blends, which more than currency at 198 million 2013 198 offset good volume growth in developing million, with volumes 5% higher.
Despite the lower volumes, Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 21
