Strategic Report BULK INGREDIENTS Performance overview Stable long-term cash ows to fuel our growth Sales Bulk Ingredients manufactures and markets a range of products including sweeteners, industrial starches, ethanol, acidulants and 2,164m animal feed, for food and beverage, industrial and agricultural 2013 2,309m customers around the world.
Adjusted operating profit Bulk Ingredients also partners with a number of bio-based materials companies seeking expertise in the commercialisation 172m of green chemistry fermentation.
One such partnership is our joint 2013 182m venture with DuPont which manufactures Bio-PDO, a bio-based ingredient used in the textile and plastics industries.
Year ended 31 March Change 2014 2013 Constant m m Reported currency Sales 2 164 2 309 -6% -6% Adjusted operating profit 172 182 -5% -4% Adjusted operating margin 7.9% 7.9% 0 bps 10 bps Market conditions World sugar prices, which provide a We coped well with a number A good corn harvest in the US with reference price for some of our products, of challenges during the year as production increasing by around 30% continued to decline steadily during 2013 we continue to provide a steady compared with the previous year and as supply was increased following a recovery in the stocks-to-use ratio to consecutive years of surplus.
However, source of cash to support growth more normal levels, resulted in a significant towards the end of the financial year, prices in Speciality Food Ingredients.
reduction in corn prices in the summer.
stabilised reecting ongoing weather risks However, during the last quarter of the and the potential impact of these on the Looking ahead, our focus financial year, corn prices increased Brazilian crop.
In Europe, sugar prices remains on optimising margins, steadily, driven by rising demand from started to decline in the second half of the maintaining efficient assets and US ethanol and exports.
The latest financial year, reecting an increase in stock 1 production estimate from the USDA levels following the steps taken by the seeking to further dampen the for the 2014 15 harvest is broadly in line European Union in the 2012 13 sugar year risk prole of the division.
with the prior year at 13.9 billion bushels.
to increase imports, and lower consumer demand due to the cold spring.
The unusually cold spring in the US in 2013, constrained demand for carbonated The paper industry, which provides a major soft drinks, a key end market for bulk liquid source of demand for industrial starches in corn sweeteners.
In the three-month period the US, saw a reduction in operating rates to the end of June 2013, US carbonated during the 2013 calendar year as a result of 2 soft drinks sales volume declined by 6.3% lower demand.
In Europe, additional starch against the comparative period, with sales capacity reduced industrial starch prices, volume over the whole year 3% lower.
In putting pressure on margins.
addition to softer domestic demand, lower Conditions in the US ethanol industry 3 Mexican sugar prices resulted in a 24% improved steadily during the year, following reduction in exports of US HFCS to a boost from the large corn crop which Mexico.
The protracted severe cold winter drove production costs down and made weather in the US also created operational US ethanol a more cost competitive fuel.
and supply chain challenges across the Increased demand, which tightened industry, particularly during the quarter ethanol inventories, combined with ended 31 March 2014. logistical difficulties impacting the supply side in the second half of the financial year caused by the severe cold weather, also helped improve ethanol pricing fundamentals.
1 USDA is the US Department of Agriculture.
2 Source: IRI Infoscan Reviews, Total US Multi-Outlet and Convenience FDM, WMT, Dollar, Club, Convenience Stores.
Matt Wineinger 3 Source: US Census Bureau, HTS Export data.
| Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 22 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information A combination of tight supplies, reecting the limited availability of good quality corn Security of supply in the lead up to the new harvest last year and increased demand, kept prices high for corn gluten feed particularly during Investment in grain elevators the second half of the financial year.
Our network of 14 grain elevators silos, Conversely, corn oil prices were lower located in the US corn belt, makes an as a result of the increased supply of essential contribution to ensuring we corn distillers oil from the dry mill have a reliable, high-quality source of ethanol industry.
Corn can deteriorate if not stored well, so there is Financial performance an advantage to keeping the storage in Bulk Ingredients volumes decreased by our own hands: moreover many of our 1% and sales were 6% lower 6% lower elevators have forged long-term in constant currency at 2,164 million relationships with producers who 2013 2,309 million largely due to the provide a consistent supply of locallypass through of lower corn prices.
Adjusted produced corn each year.
Over the last operating profit was 5% lower 4% lower few years we have been adding capacity in constant currency at 172 million 2013 at existing elevators as well as acquiring 182 million as a result of the soft US Grain elevator at Francesville, Indiana, USA new ones, and with that, increasing the beverage season, which reduced demand number of farmers we buy corn from for liquid corn sweeteners, lower returns each year.
from co-products and, in the final quarter, the impact of the protracted severe cold winter in the US.
This result includes a one-off gain of 3.5 million in the first half from the on-sale of Orsan China a monosodium glutamate producer in profit in our citric acid business was lower which Tate & Lyle previously held a stake reference price for isoglucose HFCS than the prior year, with reduced volumes and which was sold in 2009.
The effect in the EU staying high for longer than more than offsetting lower raw material of currency translation was to decrease expected and, in the second half, lower costs.
Our Bio-PDO adjusted operating profit by 2 million.
raw material costs following a good corn joint venture delivered crop.
As a result, overall profits for the full an improved performance during the This division comprises three broad year were ahead of the comparative period.
period as a result of slightly higher volumes product categories: sweeteners: industrial and lower corn costs.
starches, acidulants and ethanol: Industrial starches, acidulants and co-products.
and ethanol Co-products Sales decreased by 5% 3% in constant Sales of co-products decreased by 11% Sweeteners currency to 635 million 2013 667 down 11% in constant currency to 492 In the Americas, bulk corn sweetener million.
Overall returns volumes decreased by 2% largely as from co-products were 7 million lower a result of lower HFCS volumes caused In industrial starches, volumes were 2% than our expectations at the start of the by the cold spring which reduced demand higher.
In the US, where we contract for year, driven by corn gluten feed and corn oil for carbonated soft drinks during the longer periods than in Europe, profit was which more than offset higher returns from second quarter.
Sales decreased by 6% ahead of the prior year as a result of rmer corn gluten meal.
Since over 80% of our down 6% in constant currency to 889 pricing and slightly higher volumes.
In US corn grind is utilised to produce Bulk million 2013 942 million as a result of Europe, lower prices, reecting the pass Ingredients, the majority of this impact is the lower volumes and the reduction in through of lower corn costs and increased recorded within this product category.
corn prices following the large corn crop.
competition, put pressure on margins and Despite lower volumes, profits were ahead reduced profits compared with last year.
of the comparative period as a result of the This part of the business remains modest increase in HFCS unit margins particularly sensitive to changes in secured in the 2013 calendar year the macroeconomic environment.
In US ethanol, which represents a small Operating profits from Almex, our part of our business, the improvement Mexican joint venture, were lower than in market conditions, particularly during the comparative period reecting reduced the second half, resulted in a better volumes and lower margins as a result of performance and a reduction in greater competition from Mexican sugar.
In Europe, sales of bulk corn sweeteners increased by 1% at in constant currency to 148 million 2013 146 million, with volumes 1% higher than the prior year.
We saw the benefit of higher unit margins throughout the year, driven in the first half by sugar prices which provide the Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 23
