Strategic Report OUR BUSINESS MODEL Turning raw materials into distinctive, high-quality ingredients and solutions for our customers Through our facilities across the world we: Collaborate closely with our customers to help them develop new concepts, adapt formulations and get products to market faster Raw materials Draw on the deep sector knowledge of our food scientists and ideas sourced from outside the Company to develop and commercialise the next generation of speciality food ingredients Apply our manufacturing know-how and supply chain expertise to turn raw materials into high quality food ingredients for delivery to our food and beverage customers worldwide.
Sourcing raw materials Most of our ingredients are produced from crops, predominantly corn.
Ensuring we have a reliable source of corn for our plants is essential.
This involves developing long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with growers, farmers and other commercial partners to secure supply: understanding commodity markets: and hedging costs where feasible.
Supply chain ethics are important to us.
We apply clear standards, both operational and ethical, to our suppliers, and work with them to help them meet our compliance needs.
This is essential if we are to meet our customers requirements for traceability, quality and ethical standards throughout the supply chain.
Our operations Page 6 Developing sustainable products Page 36 Our Strategy in Action Pages 16 and 17 12 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Speciality Food Ingredients Customers Innovation and Commercial Development ICD Both divisions, but principally Speciality Food Ingredients are supported by the ICD group.
Innovation and ICD brings together research and development, platform management, global marketing and Commercial open innovation into one global team, to provide Development an integrated approach to developing and commercialising innovative new products and technologies.
Customers Bulk Ingredients Producing high-quality ingredients Understanding our markets We operate through two global divisions Speciality Food Customer insights drive all that we do.
We analyse the Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients.
markets we operate in globally and we use market research to gain insights into consumers dietary habits, their Our production facilities include a network of corn wet mills in perceptions of ingredients, and their nutritional expectations North America and Europe which manufacture both bulk and of food and drinks.
In addition to the plants shared by the two divisions to make corn-based products, we produce sucralose We use these insights to drive our own product development, through two, large-scale, continuous processing facilities in the to differentiate ourselves from our competitors and to help US and Singapore, and operate a number of smaller-scale our customers meet consumer needs.
blending facilities where we make food stabiliser systems.
Each division has its own sales force and commercial operations to provide the necessary focus and expertise for customers in their respective end markets.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 13
