Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sir Peter Gershon CBE Liz Airey Chairman and Chairman of Non-Executive Director and theNominations Committee Chairmanof the Audit Committee Joined the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman Joined the Board in January 2007.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Liz was an investment banker and has extensive financial experience Sir Peter has broad business experience gained in large and complex inthe UK andinternationally.
She was formerly FinanceDirector of international organisations and has held various leadership roles in the Monument Oil and Gas plc.
UK private and public sector.
He was formerly Chairman of Premier Other directorships Farnell plc: Chief Executive of the Ofce of Government Commerce: t Chairman of the Unilever UK Pension Fund Managing Director of Marconi Electronic Systems: andamember t Senior Independent Director of Jupiter Fund Management PLC of the UK Defence Academy Advisory Board.
t Senior Independent Director of Dunedin Enterprise Investment Other directorships TrustPLC t Chairman of National Grid plc t Member of HM Government efficiency and Reform Board t Chairman of the Aircraft Carrier Alliance t Member of the advisory board of The Sutton Trust William Camp Javed Ahmed Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Chief Executive the Corporate Responsibility Committee Joined the Board as Chief Executive in October 2009.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Javed has extensive international experience from a wide variety of Bill worked for 22 years for Archer Daniels Midland Company, before senior management roles.
He started his career with Procter & Gamble retiring in 2007, and held a variety of management positions including and then spent five years with Bain & Co. before joining Benckiser later Executive Vice President, Asia Strategy: Executive Vice President, Reckitt Benckiser plc in 1992 where he gained significant experience Processing: and Senior Vice President, GlobalOil Seeds, Cocoa ofinternational consumer goods markets and held positions including andWheat Milling.
Senior Vice President, Northern Europe: President, North America: Other directorships Executive Vice President, North America, Australia and New Zealand: t Senior Advisor, Naxos Capital and Executive Vice President, Europe.
t Director of Culligan International Other directorships t Member of Mosaic Advisory Board Douglas Hurt Tim Lodge Non-Executive Director Chief Financial officer Joined the Board in December 2008 as Group Finance Director.
Joined the Board in March 2010.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Douglas is a Chartered Accountant.
He held anumber of financial Tim joined the Group in 1988 and has held a number of senior andoperational roles, including US and European senior management operational and financial roles, both in the UK and internationally, positions, at GlaxoSmithKline before joining IMI plc as Finance Director including Managing Director of Zambia Sugar: Group Financial in2006.
Controller: Finance Director of the Food & Industrial Ingredients, Other directorships Europedivision: and Director of Investor Relations.
He is a Fellow t Finance Director of IMI plc oftheChartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Other directorships None Our governance structure Audit Committee Nominations Committee Corporate Responsibility CR Certain responsibilities are Liz Airey Chairman Sir Peter Gershon Chairman Committee delegated to four Board Douglas Hurt, Anne Minto Javed Ahmed, Liz Airey, William Camp Chairman Committees, details of which William Camp, Douglas Hurt, Liz Airey, Sir Peter Gershon, Remuneration Committee areprovided on pages 47 to Virginia Kamsky, Anne Minto, Virginia Kamsky, Dr Ajai Puri Robert Walker Chairman 51 and on page 64.
Dr Ajai Puri, Robert Walker William Camp, Sir Peter Gershon Anne Minto, Dr Ajai Puri 38 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Robert Walker Virginia Kamsky Senior Independent Director and Chairman Non-Executive Director of the Remuneration Committee Joined the Board in December 2012.
Joined the Board in January 2006.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Ginny is Chairman and Chief Executive officer of Kamsky Associates, Robert spent over 30 years with Procter & Gamble, McKinsey Inc. She also served asan Executive Vice President of Foamex andnally, PepsiCo, where he was responsible for the companys International, Inc. and held a variety of leadership roles at Chase beverage operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Other directorships Other directorships t Chairman of Travis Perkins plc t Non-executive director of Dana Holding Corporation t Chairman of Enterprise Inns plc t Member of the US Secretary of the Navy Advisory Panel t Trustee of theChina Institute in America Anne Minto OBE Lucie Gilbert Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Joined the Board in December 2012.
Appointed Company Secretary in August 2012.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Anne was Group Director of Human Resources at Centrica plc from 2002 Lucie was appointed Deputy Company Secretary in 2008 and until her retirement in 2011.
She previously held senior management roles previously held senior company secretarial roles in several listed at Shell UK and Smiths Group plc and was Deputy Director-General companies, including Experian PLC and Brit Insurance Holdings of the Engineering Employers Federation.
Lucie is a Fellow ofthe Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and an Associate of theChartered Insurance Institute.
Other directorships t Non-executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Directorships Committee of Shire PLC None t Trustee of the University of Aberdeen Development Trust t Non-executive director of ExlService Holdings, Inc. Dr Ajai Puri Non-Executive Director Joined the Board in April 2012.
Chairman of the Research Advisory Group.
Skills and experience Ajai has a PhD in Food Science from the University of Maryland, USA.
He was President Research, Development and Product Integrity and amember of the Executive Board of Koninklijke Numico N. V. from 2003 to 2007.
Prior to this, Ajai held various management positions with The Coca-Cola Company, culminating in Senior Vice President Technical, The Minute Maid Company.
Other directorships t Member of the supervisory board of Nutreco N. V. t Non-executive director of Barry Callebaut AG t Non-executive director of Britannia Industries Limited Our Group Executive Committee Javed Ahmed Rob Luijten Olivier Rigaud The Group Executive Committee Chief Executive Executive Vice President, President, Speciality oversees the development and Human Resources Food Ingredients Tim Lodge execution of the Groups strategy, Chief Financial officer Gabriella Parisse Matt Wineinger and has overall responsibility for President, Innovation and President, Bulk Ingredients Robert Gibber achieving business results.
The Commercial Development Executive Vice President, members of the Committee are General Counsel listed opposite.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 39
