Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Business Model Delivering value across the cycle Our vision is to become the UKs leading residential developer for creating value and delivering quality across the housing cycle.
Since we set out the strategy in 2011, we have seen the transformation of Taylor Wimpey to a value driven business, with a long term focus firmly on generating the best quality sustainable returns.
Selecting land Managing the planning Getting the and community homebuilding engagement process basics right Sold Land is the critical raw material for our Designing a sustainable community We work with selected subcontractors Buying a home is a significant financial This value cycle requires significant input Developing sustainable homes and business and the ability to purchase the that meets the needs of local residents, and build using carefully sourced materials and emotional investment.
We aim to from skilled and committed people to communities is a time-consuming right sites in the right locations at the right is attractive to potential customers, to ensure that the homes that we sell make buying, moving into and living deliver aspirational, high-quality homes process, but this provides us with the price and at the right point in the cycle is a and provides attractive returns for are of a high quality and are built safely, in a Taylor Wimpey home as easy as and communities for our customers.
opportunity to undertake regular reviews key driver of shareholder value.
shareholders, requires a consultative efficiently, cost-effectively and with possible for our customers.
over the life of each development to and iterative process of community minimal impact on the environment.
See pages 20, 24, 32 and 35 for more information See pages 20-21, 24, 32 and 35-36 for more information See pages 21, 24, 32 and 36-38 for more information See pages 22, 25, 33 and 38 for more information See pages 22-23, 25, 33 and 38-39 for more information See pages 23, 25, 33 and 39 for more information KPI KPI KPI KPI KPI KPI Our aim is to build homes and communities We are working towards being a more Sustainability that our customers will aspire to and that socially, environmentally and economically enhance the local area.
See pages 30-33 for mor KPI e information Strategic principles Significant ongoing investment in Our Strategy Absolute commitment that a strong margin great quality people and processes.
performance is the way to drive the best Increasing focus on asset efficiency sustainable returns.
and maximising the returns on our Margin underpinned by timing and quality land investments.
See pages 16-17 for mor KPI e information of short term acquisitions and enhanced by Active management of investments extensive strategic land pipeline.
and structure over the housing cycle, Continual improvement philosophy with to reduce risk and maximise returns a relentless focus on adding value to every over the long term.
18 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Delivering Our people Optimising customer service value Sold Land is the critical raw material for our Designing a sustainable community We work with selected subcontractors Buying a home is a significant financial This value cycle requires significant input Developing sustainable homes and business and the ability to purchase the that meets the needs of local residents, and build using carefully sourced materials and emotional investment.
See pages 20, 24, 32 and 35 for more information See pages 20-21, 24, 32 and 35-36 for more information See pages 21, 24, 32 and 36-38 for more information See pages 22, 25, 33 and 38 for more information See pages 22-23, 25, 33 and 38-39 for more information See pages 23, 25, 33 and 39 for more information KPI KPI KPI KPI KPI KPI We aim to balance the long term economic We believe that sustainability is fundamental Operating sustainably is both the right stability and growth of our Company with our to each aspect of our value cycle and, thingto do and brings significant responsibilities to the environment, society therefore, to the long term success of businessbenefits.
and the economies in which we operate.
Cultural principles We will not compromise in ensuring that Knowledge and information are key, we If something is worth doing, its worth everyone leaves our sites safe and well.
take our decisions on fact not emotion.
We behave with integrity, are honest We value individuals from diverse If we make a mistake, we put it right.
and forthright and support each other.
backgrounds and aim to develop potential to the mutual benefit of the individual and We are competitive and dont accept We strive to enhance the environment and the business.
local community and to run our business in a way that is sustainable.
See an example of our business model in action on KPI our Chobham Manor development on pages 24-25 19 2014 2013 2014 20132012 2014 2013 2012 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Business Model continued Short term landbank c. 75k plots in 2014 Selecting land Managing the planning and community engagement process Sold Our strategy to deliver enhanced value locations and market sales price increases, Our strategy to deliver enhanced value We are highly selective with regard to the which contributed to the rise in contribution We believe that a positive and structured types of sites that we buy, focusing on the per legal completion to 49.6k from 38.8k approach to working with others is at the quality of the land rather than the number in 2013.
Also added c. 18k new potential heart of a successful scheme.
We employ dedicated plots to the strategic pipeline, which stood development is a local business and we work land teams in each of our 24 regional at c. 110k potential plots as at 31 December in partnership with the communities in which businesses, who use their expertise and 2014.
39% of 2014 completions were we build to deliver homes that meet their local knowledge to identify potential highsourced from the strategic land pipeline requirements and aspirations.
Progress in 2014 Progress in 2014 Priorities for 2015 Contributed 300 million to our local Added 17,371 plots net to the short term Continue to manage our investments and communities via Section 106 and Section landbank, of which over 50% were converted landbank in line with the cycle.
We aim to 75 planning obligations 2013: 227 million.
from the strategic pipeline, to maintain our source more than 40% of completions from Continued to work to bring forward optimum scale of c. 75k plots.
Average selling the strategic pipeline per annum in the development with a record of 10,779 plots prices increased in 2014 to 213k 2013: medium term.
converted from the strategic pipeline.
191k primarily as the result of enhanced Our Key Performance Indicators KPIs Strategically sourced completions Owned and controlled plots withplanning Conversion of strategic pipeline KPI KPI KPI Objective Objective Objective We are targeting more than 40% of our completions from We aim to maintain sufficient land in our portfolio We aim to convert on average c. 6k plots per annum the strategic pipeline per annum in the medium term.
to enable us to remain selective in future purchases.
Definition Definition Definition Number of completions which originally did not have The total number of plots that we either own or control, Number of plots, which originally did not have planning planning permission when we acquired a commercial with some form of planning consent.
permission when we took a commercial interest in the interest in them, expressed as a percentage of land, which we have promoted through the planning total completions.
process and achieved some form of planning on.
In this way we convert potential plots from the strategic pipeline to plots in the short term landbank.
Why is it key to our strategy?
The strategic pipeline enhances our ability to increase the We operate in a planning constrained environment.
The strength of our strategic pipeline plots on which contribution per legal completion because of the inherent Having a portfolio of land in place is key to planning we are trying to achieve a planning consent is a key margin uplift from strategic plots.
It also allows us to take the required scale of our building operations for future differentiator and enables us to be extremely selective a long term view of sites.
It enables us to be selective in in the short term land market and also reduces the land purchases.
We work with landowners, local authorities and communities to promote the strategic pipeline through the planning process and achieve planning permission.
39% 75,136 10,779 29% 70,628 9,210 65,409 24% KPI See our Sustainability Report 2014 for more information 20 Sold Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 2014 20132012 www.
co. uk Converted 5.3 days HSE training per 10,779 person for site plots from strategic management and pipeline in 2014 Getting the operational staff homebuilding basics right Sold Sold Updated our community engagement toolkit Our strategy to deliver enhanced value AIIR for major injuries from 60 in 2013 to following internal engagement and launched We are committed to providing a safe place 26 in 2014. our new economic benefits toolkit.
in which our employees and subcontractors Provided an average of 5.3 days HSE can work.
We are also committed to high Priorities for 2015 training per person for our site management standards of environmental management.
b Continue to investigate digital aspects of and operational staff 2013: 4.3.
Continued The building process is carefully managed community engagement.
our site safety supervisor training for by our site-based and regional production groundworkers supervisors.
teams to ensure quality, minimise disruption Continue to work to bring forward to residents in the surrounding areas, and to developments by securing planning on our Priorities for 2015 protect and enhance the value of each site.
strategic pipeline and continuing to progress Improve or, as a minimum, maintain the same planning on our short term landbank.
Introduce the next stages of Progress in 2014 our HSE Theme initiative.
Continued to keep our Annual Injury Incidence Rate AIIR low at 209 2013: 207 per 100,000 employees and contractors.
We reduced our a Health and safety KPI Objective We are committed to ensuring that our employees and subcontractors and everyone who visits our sites goes home safe and uninjured.
Definition Reportable all reportable and major injury frequency rate per 100,000 employees and contractors Annual Injury Incidence Rate.
Health and safety is our non-negotiable top priority.
As well as having a moral duty to maintain safety on site, accidents and injuries can have a detrimental impact on the business through additional costs, delays and or reputational damage.
a As of April 2012 the UK Health & Safety Executive HSE changed the definition of reportable injuries from those where the injured person was off work for over 209 three days to being off work for more than seven days.
b We changed our methodology for calculating H&S 207 training days for site management and operational staff 311 in 2014.
Data for 2013 and 2012 has been amended accordingly.
21 2014 20132012 2014 2013 2012 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Business Model continued 184 staff graduated from the Sales Academy in 2014 Our people Delivering customer service Sold Our strategy to deliver enhanced value customer journey, to identify areas of Our strategy to deliver enhanced value No matter what the size or price of a improvement and to deliver a better We want to be the residential developer property, for each customer the home homebuying experience for our customers.
We want to attract that they are buying is aspirational to them.
and retain the best people by having a culture Taylor Wimpey Sales Academy was We will maintain our focus on delivering that people identify with, where they can Highly Commended in the Best Customer high-quality homes and a consistently realise their full potential and achieve success Satisfaction Initiative category at the excellent Customer Journey to all of and satisfaction.
We will continue to seek a Housebuilder Awards 2014. our customers.
We continue to make balance of internal and external appointments, improvements to our online capabilities, in order to combine career development with Priorities for 2015 including our website and use of social the introduction of new perspectives and Customer service will remain a key area of media such as Facebook and Twitter.
We will draw up a comprehensive Customer Service Strategy and action plans.
Progress in 2014 We are very disappointed that the customer satisfaction rate decreased from 90% to 87%.
During 2014 we began an in-depth review of every aspect and stage of our Our Key Performance Indicators KPIs continued Customer satisfaction Employee turnover KPI KPI Objective Objective We strive to maintain and improve our customer satisfaction We aim to attract and retain the best people in the industry scores at 90% or above.
and give them opportunities to develop to their full potential.
Definition Definition Percentage of customers satisfied or very satisfied with Voluntary resignations divided by number of total their new home as measured by the National New Homes employees.
survey undertaken by the NHBC on behalf of the HBF eight weeks after legal completions.
Delivering high levels of customer satisfaction enhances Our employees are one of our greatest competitive the reputation of our business and reduces the costs advantages and they are crucial to executing the strategy.
associated with rectifying poor-quality work.
We aim to keep this within a range of 5-15%.
87% 7.1% 90% 7.5% c 93% 7.1 % c UK employee turnover has been calculated using a different methodology since 2013.
Data for 2012 has been amended accordingly.
This data is for voluntary KPI See our Sustainability Report 2014 for more information turnover only.
22 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 2014 20132012 2014 20132012 www.
co. uk Recruited Total order book value 168 1,397m graduates, apprentices and in 2014 Optimising value trainees Progress in 2014 Our strategy to deliver enhanced value Progress in 2014 During 2014 we significantly increased We look to optimise the value of each site not Continued to review every site through our recruitment for our apprenticeship, graduate only during the initial acquisition process, but value improvement meetings.
Delivered an and trainee schemes, taking on 99 apprentices throughout the planning and development additional 2.7% 2013: 1.7% of contribution including 29 site management apprentices, stages so that the original value is not only margin on completions on land acquired 50 management trainees and 19 graduates protected but enhanced.
2013 total: 89. by undertaking a series of thorough reviews Priorities for 2015 of each site at all stages of its life cycle, Priorities for 2015 Continue to actively review every site and using our value improvement and tracking Continue with learning and development optimise new sales outlets prior to opening.
processes to ensure that we are continually programmes and expand development Implement new sustainability strategy and optimising and delivering the value within our opportunities across our senior teams.
make progress towards our intensity land portfolio.
Continue with our trainee, graduate and reduction target of 25% of direct emissions apprenticeship schemes.
Forward order book as a percentage Contribution per legal completion ofcompletions KPI KPI Objective Objective We strive to maximise the level of contribution per We look to maximise and maintain a strong order book.
Definition Definition Revenue, net of incentives, less build costs, land costs The number of homes in our year end order book, and direct selling costs, divided by the number of homes expressed as a percentage of the number of homes completed excluding joint ventures.
completed during the year excluding joint venture completions.
Our strategy is focused on value and we continue to A strong order book provides our customers with good prioritise both short and long term margin performance.
visibility and provides greater stability for business planning Increasing the contribution per plot is a key driver to and enhances our ability to deliver the best experience for achieving this.
customers whilst driving the most value for shareholders.
53.7% 49.6k 57.4% 38.8k 55.3% 33.9k 23 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Business Model continued Proactively managing everything we do Managing the planning and community engagement process Chobham Manor is being designed to fully capture the family-friendly nature of the neighbourhood while embracing the heritage of east London life, with its famous community spirit and vibrant cultural diversity.
We are undertaking considerable consultation with a diverse range of local communities and other stakeholders.
In addition, we have committed to long term community development plans including a range of innovative projects involving local people.
Selecting land The home of Chobham Manor Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park is the UKs biggest ever remediation project delivered as part of the London 2012 Getting the Olympic and Paralympic Games legacy.
Theland now occupied by Chobham Manor homebuilding used to house the Olympic and Paralympic basics right Basketball Arena and is currently being At Chobham Manor, our focus is on creating redeveloped with 850 quality new homes.
high-quality sustainable homes and Once completed, Chobham Manor will communities and we are delivering this through be one of the largest developments creating Londons traditional family of family housing in London.
neighbourhood of terraced and mews houses.
A number of homes will be multi-generational properties designed specifically for Chobham Manor to appeal to multiple generations of the same family.
In addition to quality new homes, we will also deliver significant supporting infrastructure, such as commercial and retail space, play areas, communal gardens and public open spaces.
co. uk Optimising value Our joint proposals with London & Quadrant for Chobham Manor were selected as part of a highly competitive bid process on Delivering the basis of offering the most attractive financial customer service proposal alongside the best design and delivery Chobham Manors state-of-the-art show credentials for this landmark scheme.
A percentage complex is one of the largest in the London of private revenue received will be paid to the LLDC residential property sector.
It is constructed with land payment made on a per plot basis when over three levels with an impressive reception, each home is completed, thus providing extremely office space and an interactive area which efficient cash flow and a shared risk approach.
features a 100-inch interactive touch table, Chobham Manor is one of the most high-profile smaller touch screens and iPads allowing visitors developments in London and will set the to take a virtual tour of Chobham Manor and standard for future housing development the surrounding area, and browse the homes on the Olympic site.
Visitors can also save and compare floorplans of the new homes, email screenshots to themselves and even see the view from the property.
Our people As part of this regeneration scheme, we have committed to increasing the employment and employability of local residents.
We have specific targets in place for employing construction workers and apprentices from under-represented groups such as those from black and minority ethnic backgrounds, women and disabled people.
We will also provide a range of work experience, voluntary work and training courses for local people college students and have targets for supporting local suppliers and subcontractors including small and medium enterprises.
For more information about Chobham KPI Manor visit www.
