Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 General Board Governance part in the appointment or removal of Executive Directors and in Taylor Wimpey plc Board general succession planning for the Board and other executive positions below Board level.
The Board met on eight occasions during 2014 and there was full attendance at all meetings save for one, as noted opposite.
The Board has considered the number of Board Meetings that take place each year and has concluded that eight meetings remain appropriate but will keep the number under review.
Kevin Beeston Directors make every effort to attend all Board and applicable Chairman Committee meetings, as strongly evidenced by the attendance records over several years.
Where, exceptionally, a Director is unable Number of meetings in 2014 8 to attend a meeting, it is Board policy that the Chairman and or the Directors Attendance Group Legal Director and Company Secretary the Secretary will, Kevin Beeston as soon as possible, brief the Director fully on the business transacted Chairman 8 at the meeting and on any decisions that have been taken.
In addition, the views of the Director are sought ahead of the meeting and Pete Redfern conveyed to those attending the meeting by the Chairman and or Chief Executive 8 the Secretary as appropriate.
This process was followed in respect Ryan Mangold of the one meeting which Rob Rowley could not attend during the Group Finance Director 8 year due to illness for that particular meeting.
Details of the attendance James Jordan of each Director at Board and Committee meetings are set out in the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary 8 tables on pages 52, 56, 60 and 66.
Rob Rowley The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing strategic Senior Independent Director 7 and entrepreneurial leadership of the Company, within a framework Kate Barker of strong governance, effective controls and a culture of openness Independent Non Executive Director 8 and transparency, which enables opportunities and risks to be assessed and managed.
It sets the Companys strategic aims: Margaret Ford ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are Independent Non Executive Director 8 in place for the Company to meet its objectives: and reviews Mike Hussey management performance.
Independent Non Executive Director 8 The Board is responsible for the Companys culture and for defining a Tony Reading and setting the Companys values and standards, which it does, Former Director 2 amongst other things, through a number of policies and codes of a Resigned 17 April 2014. conduct, and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are clearly understood and met.
The Board is led The Board and its Committees in these respects by the Chairman, who ensures the Board operates As at the date of this Report, the Board consists of eight Directors, correctly, setting its culture and, by extension, that of the Company namely: the Chairman, three Executive Directors and four in its operations and its dealings with all stakeholders.
Their names, responsibilities and other details appear on pages 44 to 45.
On 17 April 2014, As also set out in our 2014 Sustainability Report formerly called the Corporate Responsibility Report, the Board is fully committed in line with the Code, Tony Reading retired from the Board, having served nine years, including previously on the Board of George to providing a safe place in which our employees and subcontractors can work, and that our customers can visit, and to high standards Wimpey prior to its merger with Taylor Woodrow to create Taylor Wimpey plc in 2007.
Upon his retirement, Margaret Ford succeeded of environmental management.
The Board receives detailed reports on health, safety and environmental matters at each Board meeting him as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee having been appointed to the Board in April 2013.
Other changes to Committee in respect of the Companys operations in the UK and Spain.
The Companys detailed carbon reporting, as required by BIS, membership saw Kate Barker join the Remuneration Committee on 17 April 2014 so as to ensure that the Committee had at all times is set out on page 30. three Independent Non Executive Directors in line with the Code Operational management of the Companys business is undertaken and Pete Redfern ceased to be a member of the Nomination by the Chief Executive who receives advice from the Group Committee with effect from 1 January 2015.
The GMT is the most senior executive committee and, in addition to the Chief Executive, consists of the The role of the Independent Non Executive Directors is to offer advice and guidance to the Executive Directors, using their wide experience Group Finance Director, the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary, the two Divisional Chairmen, the Group HR Director, the in business and from their diverse backgrounds, details of which are set out in their biographies on pages 44 to 45 and in the Board Land and Planning Director, and the Managing Director of each of the Central London Region and Major Developments Division.
The GMT diversity analysis on page 45.
They also provide a constructive challenge, scrutinising the performance of the Executive Directors meets fortnightly, including once each month with the six Divisional Managing Directors as a wider Group Operational Team.
and satisfying themselves as to the integrity of the financial information made available both to the Board and to the Companys shareholders.
The Non Executive Directors also play an important 52 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk The Board also receives regular reports and minutes from the Board and Committee balance, diversity, independence Treasury Committee, which meets under the chairmanship of the and effectiveness Group Finance Director, and also comprises the Secretary, one of It is the Companys policy, in line with the Code, that proposed the two Divisional Chairmen who rotate periodically and the Group appointments to the Board, and succession planning, are based Treasurer.
The key activities of the Treasury Committee are, broadly, on merit, and judged against objective criteria, whilst also having to monitor and keep under review the Groups financial risks, financial due regard to the benefits of diversity and inclusiveness, including policies, financial facilities, covenant compliance and insurance gender, age, disability, ethnicity, experience and thinking.
The Board programme, and, assisted in this respect by the membership of a also continues to recognise its responsibility to comply with the Divisional Chairman, to review these areas in the light of current and recommendations of the Davies Report and has stated that it will proposed strategic and operational requirements.
aspire at least to maintain the current level of representation of women on the Board two out of eight, representing 25% of Directors.
The following documents are available for review on the Companys website at www.
co. uk corporate investor-relations Board and Committee roles and responsibilities corporate-governance: The work of each of the Board Committees Audit, Nomination and Remuneration is described later in this Report.
schedule of matters specifically reserved for the decision of the Board: Relevant skills and expertise It is a requirement of the Code that the Board and its Committees terms of reference of the Board Committees: Audit, Nomination should have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and Remuneration, which outline their objectives and responsibilities and knowledge of the Company, to enable duties and responsibilities and which define a programme of activities to support the to be discharged effectively.
The Board considers that each Director discharge of those responsibilities: and brings relevant and complementary skills, experience and background policies covering operational, compliance, corporate responsibility to the Board, details of which are set out below, and additional and stakeholder matters, which are reviewed whenever necessary information is also set out in the biographies on pages 44 and to take account of developments in corporate governance, 45, and also on page 149. changes in legislation and revised processes.
Kevin Beeston, Chairman, has a wealth of commercial, financial All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary.
and high level management experience including being a former The Board has an established procedure whereby Directors may CEO of a FTSE 100 company.
Kevin also has significant experience take independent professional advice at the Companys expense of chairing Boards of both public and private companies and of where they judge it necessary to do so in order to discharge their being a non executive director and sitting on audit, nomination responsibilities as Directors.
The Board took advice during the year from Slaughter and May, Pete Redfern, CEO, has operational responsibility for delivering on the preparation of documentation relating to the proposed the Companys strategy in a profitable, safe and environmentally Special Dividend for 2015. responsible manner.
Pete has significant financial, operational and management experience, gained from his various roles in industry Advice was also received from Deloitte during the year via the and from his time at KPMG.
In 2014 he joined the Board of Travis Audit Committee on the significant governance developments Perkins plc as an independent non executive director and serves during the year.
on that companys audit and remuneration Committees, which The Board receives at each meeting a report from JPMorgan will only add to his breadth of experience at plc Board level: Cazenove Cazenove on the sector and the relative performance Ryan Mangold, Group Finance Director, has operational responsibility of the Companys share price.
for managing the Companys finances.
Ryan has financial, treasury, All businesses and employees are expected to operate at all times risk and financial control expertise including that gained from his to the highest standards of integrity and conduct in all matters time with Mondi Group and Anglo American plc: concerning the Group.
Accordingly, there is a Code of Business James Jordan, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary, Conduct, which sets out the standard for individual dealings both is a solicitor and oversees compliance with legal and regulatory internally and externally.
Formal policies have been adopted, which obligations and manages the Secretariat and Legal Departments.
set out the ethical framework within which all Taylor Wimpey James has significant legal, commercial, transactional and regulatory companies are required to undertake their business this includes, governance related experience: in line with the Bribery Act 2010, an Anti-Corruption Policy which requires an annual sign-off by designated senior management.
Kate Barker, Independent Non Executive Director, is an industryThese policies are available for review on the Companys website recognised economist and has led policy reviews for the Government www.
co. uk corporate investor-relations corporatein the areas of land use, planning and housing supply.
Kate also governance and relevant reporting against these is provided to the brings a wider economic insight gained through her various roles, Audit Committee by the Head of Internal Audit.
including as a Member of the Oversight Board of the Office for Budget Responsibility: 53 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 General Board Governance continued Margaret Ford, Independent Non Executive Director, has wideAnnual re-election to the Board ranging experience in a number of sectors and also has extensive The Code now requires every Director to seek election or re-election, knowledge of the property sector, gained through various roles.
as appropriate, at each years Annual General Meeting AGM.
Margaret has significant plc experience including the chairmanship Accordingly, at the 2015 AGM, every Director, irrespective of the of both boards and board committees.
She also sits in the House date of his or her appointment and the length of his or her service of Lords: on the Board, will be submitted for re-election.
Mike Hussey, Independent Non Executive Director, has in-depth Details of the resolutions to be proposed in this respect and expertise in land development and marketing, particularly in London, supporting biographical details of the Directors appear in the gained from his previous roles as a director of Land Securities plc Notice of Meeting on pages 144 to 151. and as head of leasing and marketing of the Canary Wharf Group plc.
As part of the 2014 Board Evaluation process, the Board reviewed Mike is currently CEO of Almacantar, a property development fund and re-affirmed that it considers each of the Non Executive Directors he founded in 2010: to be independent in character and judgement and that there are Rob Rowley, Independent Non Executive Director and Senior no relationships which could affect the Directors judgement.
Independent Director, has a wealth of financial, commercial and The Chairman, at the time of his appointment on 1 July 2010, management expertise, principally from his time as Finance Director met the independence criteria as set out in the Code.
of Reuters plc and Deputy Chairman of Cable & Wireless plc.
Rob has substantial experience as a non executive director including the Information and professional development chairing of audit committees and has recent and relevant financial The Company has procedures whereby newly appointed Directors experience as required by the Code.
including Non Executive Directors receive a formal induction.
This includes training and continuing familiarisation with the Division of responsibilities Companys business, strategy, operations including health and The Board has an established framework of delegated financial, safety and systems, the principles underlying the discharge of commercial and operational authorities, which define the scope their duties as Directors and wider issues relating to the housing and powers of the Chief Executive and of operational management.
The induction also includes meetings with key executives In line with the Code, the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and function heads, advisers and site visits.
As part of the 2014 and the Chief Executive have been clearly defined, set out in Board Evaluation the comprehensive induction process will be writing and signed by Kevin Beeston and Pete Redfern in their further formalised whilst also being subject to specific tailoring for respective capacities.
Ensuring there is no conflict of interest All Directors visit Group operations on a regular basis, engaging In order to assist Directors in complying with their duty to avoid with employees at all levels in order to foster and maintain an conflicts or possible conflicts of interest, it is standard procedure understanding of the business.
Board visits are arranged each year that the Board must first give its clearance to such potential conflicts to operations and at least one Board meeting per annum takes place of interest which would include directorships or other interests in in a regional business over three days.
An important outcome of the outside companies and organisations following which, an entry is 2014 Board evaluation was formally noting the scale of the beneficial then made in the statutory register which the Company maintains impact that such visits can have on Group businesses.
The Group Legal Director and Company Secretary acts as Whenever any Director considers that he or she is, or may be, Secretary to the Board and its Committees and he attends all interested in any contract or arrangement to which the Company meetings.
It is Board policy that wherever possible a formal agenda is or may be a party, the Director gives due notice to the Board in and reports are issued electronically to Directors in respect of all accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Board and Committee meetings at least one week prior to the Articles of Association.
In such cases, unless allowed by the Articles, meeting, in order to allow sufficient time for detailed review and any Director with such an interest is not permitted to participate in consideration beforehand.
Formal minutes are prepared in respect any discussions or decisions relating to the contract or arrangement.
of all Board and Committee meetings and are then circulated and During 2014 no such matters arose.
submitted for approval at the next meeting.
All Board papers are circulated electronically and Board meetings have been effectively The Board undertakes a regular review of each Directors interests, paperless for several years which has worked well and aided the if any, outside of the Company and is satisfied that, in line with the overall efficiency of the overall Board process.
Code, all Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to enable them to discharge their responsibilities as Directors effectively.
The Secretary provides regular briefings to the Board on regulatory Where there have been any outside commitments, the Board is and governance matters which are included as part of his formal satisfied that they do not detract from the extent or quality of time regular reporting to the Board, and are supplemented, as appropriate, which the Director is able to devote to the Company.
by briefings from independent advisors.
The Board also receives regular briefings and updates on environmental, social and governance ESG matters.
The ESG briefing allows the Board to assess the significant ESG risks to the Companys short and long-term value and to identify any opportunities that may arise to enhance value.
Details of ESG risks and value-enhancement pursuits appear in the Sustainability Report which is available on our website www.
co. uk corporate sustainability 54 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk The Chairman, Chief Executive and Secretary meet sufficiently in Relations with shareholders advance of each Board meeting in order to ensure action points The Board actively seeks and encourages engagement with from previous meetings have been implemented and to prepare the major institutional shareholders and other stakeholders and agenda and matters to be covered at the next and at future Board supports the initiatives set out in both the Code and the and Committee meetings as appropriate.
The agenda and minutes Stewardship Code, which aim to foster a more pro-active for the Audit and Remuneration Committee meetings are agreed governance role by major shareholders.
The Board has put by the Secretary with the relevant Committee Chairman.
in place arrangements designed to facilitate contact about business, governance, remuneration and other issues.
This Management provides the opportunity for meetings with the Chairman, the Progress in achieving the Group Strategy is reviewed at each Senior Independent Director as well as the Chief Executive, Board meeting and is reported on pages 16 to 17.
The Chief Group Finance Director, Group Legal Director and Company Executive has responsibility for preparing and reviewing strategic Secretary and other executives, in order to establish a mutual plans for the Group and the annual budgetary process.
The Company also operates are subject to formal approval by the Board.
a structured programme of investor relations, based on formal Budgets are re-examined in comparison with business forecasts announcements and publications covering the full-year and half-year results.
In addition, the Chairman meets with the throughout the year to ensure they are sufficiently robust to reflect the possible impact of changing economic conditions and Companys institutional shareholders from time to time, both proactively and upon request in order to discuss the Company circumstances.
The Chief Executive and the Board conduct regular reviews of actual results and future projections with comparison and its performance, governance and remuneration policies.
As set out in the Remuneration Report, the Remuneration against budget and prior year, together with various treasury reports.
Disputes that may give rise to significant litigation or contractual Committee undertakes a consultation exercise each year and as part of this exercise, the Committee Chairman also engages claims are monitored at each meeting of the Board, with specific updates on any material developments or new matters.
All Directors receive formal reports and briefings during the year The Group has clearly defined policies, processes and procedures about the Companys investor relations programme and receive governing all areas of the business, which will continue to be reviewed detailed feedback through surveys, direct contact and other means, and refined in order to meet the requirements of the business and through which they are able to develop an understanding of the changing market circumstances.
Defined authority limits continue views of major shareholders about the Company.
to be closely monitored in response to prevailing market conditions.
Any investment, acquisition or significant purchase or disposal of The Board encourages all shareholders to participate in the Annual land requires detailed appraisal and is subject to approval by the General Meeting, which is attended by all Directors.
Shareholders Board or the Chief Executive, depending on the value and nature attention is drawn to the Notice of Meeting on pages 144 to 151 of the investment or contract.
which sets out details of the rights of shareholders in connection with the notice of, and participation in, general meetings of the There is a clearly identifiable organisational structure and a framework Company.
This year, there are 20 resolutions being submitted of delegated authority approved by the Board within which individual for shareholder consideration, including, Resolution 19 which is responsibilities of senior executives of Group companies are identified a request for approval of a substantial property transaction as and can be monitored.
The Operating Framework, within which defined in the Companies Act 2006, between the Company delegated authorities, responsibilities and related processes are and Pete Redfern.
explained in detail, is available for review and guidance online by any employee through the Companys intranet.
These activities are At the 2014 AGM, shareholders representing 57% of the Companys reinforced through process compliance and other audits conducted issued share capital voted in the poll.
There was a vote in favour by Internal Audit.
of 12 of the 19 resolutions of in excess of 99% and an average vote in favour across all 19 resolutions of over 98%.
The annual employee performance appraisal process is objective-based, with individual objectives cascaded down Information about the Company, including full-year and half-year from the appropriate business objectives.
The process also results and other major announcements, and additional information identifies training needs to support achievement of objectives.
about shareholder facilities, is published on the Companys website www.
co. uk During 2014 a number of enhancements were made to internal controls, designed to reduce or better manage risk across the This 2014 Annual Report and Accounts business.
These included the embedding of the COINS and Your Directors have responsibility for preparing this 2014 Annual 1B1S ERP business systems, which have improved the accuracy, Report and Accounts and for making certain confirmations timeliness and uniformity of data used to manage, and report on, concerning it.
In accordance with the Code provision C. 1.1 theGroups businesses, and further work towards updating the the Board considers that, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced Operating Framework and Commercial and Finance Manuals, which and understandable and provides the information necessary for guide the businesses in ensuring compliance with Group standards.
shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Board reached this conclusion after receiving advice from the Audit Committee.
The processes of review and assessment followed by that Committee in that respect, are set out on page 64.
