Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Board of Directors Kevin Beeston James Jordan Baroness Ford of Cunninghame Chairman Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Independent Non Executive Director Appointed as a Director and to the post of Chairman Appointed Group Legal Director and Company Appointed as a Non Executive Director on in July 2010, Kevin chairs the Nomination Committee Secretary in July 2011, James, a solicitor, was 25 April 2013, Margaret is a member of the and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
previously Group Company Secretary and General Nomination Committee and also is Chairman of the He is Chairman of Equiniti Group Limited and Counsel of George Wimpey Plc from February 2002 Remuneration Committee.
She is Chairman of STV Domestic & General Limited.
He was formerly until July 2007, when he was appointed to the same Group plc and Grainger Group plc and a non Chairman of Serco Group plc and a non executive position with Taylor Wimpey plc.
Before joining the executive director of SEGRO plc.
She is an Honorary director of IMI plc.
Group, James held senior legal and company secretary Professor of Real Estate at Glasgow University and an roles in industry which included positions with The Honorary Member of the Royal Institute of Chartered Pete Redfern Rugby Group Plc and English China Clays Plc.
Margaret formerly chaired the Olympic Chief Executive Park Legacy Company: English Partnerships: Kate Barker DBE Appointed as a Director and to the post of Chief Barchester Healthcare Limited: and May Gurney Executive in July 2007.
He was previously Group Independent Non Executive Director Integrated Services Plc.
Prior to these appointments, Chief Executive of George Wimpey Plc and before Appointed as a Non Executive Director in April 2011, Margaret had a long career in management that, successively held the posts of Finance Director Kate is a member of the Audit: Nomination and consulting with Price Waterhouse and then Eglinton and Chief Executive of George Wimpeys UK Housing Remuneration Committees.
She is a business Management Centre, which she founded.
He is a non executive director and member economist and is presently a Trustee Director Mike Hussey of the Audit and Remuneration Committees of Travis and Chairman of the British Coal Superannuation Perkins plc and a Trustee of the homelessness Scheme: a Senior Adviser to Credit Suisse: and a non Independent Non Executive Director charity Crisis.
executive director of Electra Private Equity plc and the Appointed as a Non Executive Director in July 2011, Yorkshire Building Society.
Previously, Kate was a Mike is a member of the Audit and Nomination Ryan Mangold member of the Bank of Englands Monetary Policy Committees.
He is Chief Executive of Almacantar, Group Finance Director Committee MPC from 2001 until May 2010.
During a private property investment and development Appointed as a Director and to the post of Group this period, Kate also led two major policy reviews company which he founded in February 2010.
Finance Director in November 2010, Ryan previously for Government, on housing supply and on land He has held a number of senior roles in the property held the post of Group Financial Controller.
Before joining the MPC, she was Chief sector, most recently as an executive board director joining Taylor Wimpey, Ryan was Group Financial Economic Adviser at the CBI.
Kate was awarded a of Land Securities plc.
Prior to that position, Mike Controller of Mondi Group for five years, prior to CBE in 2005 for services to social housing and a DBE was Head of Leasing and Marketing for Canary Wharf which he held a number of senior finance roles in 2014 for services to the economy.
Group plc, and held a number of senior posts in the with the Anglo American plc group of companies.
property industry with the British Council for Offices, the City Property Association, and as Chairman of the Regeneration and Development Committee of the British Property Federation.
He is a Trustee of the Royal College of Surgeons of England.
44 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Board diversity See pages 58-59 for more information KPI 6 XX 3 2 2 2 0 Executive Group Board Non Executive Female Male Board gender diversity 33% XX 25% 22% 22% 22% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Our broad Independent Non Executive Director experience Rob Rowley Nomination Committee Current members: Independent Non Executive Director Kevin Beeston Committee Chairman, Financial services 1 and Senior Independent Director Kate Barker, Margaret Ford, Mike Hussey Property 1 4 Appointed as a Non Executive Director in January and Rob Rowley.
Marketing 1 2010 and as Senior Independent Director in April Media 2010, Rob is Chairman of the Audit Committee 1 Healthcare For mor KPI e information see page 56 and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Public sector 1 Committees.
He is a non executive director and 3 1 Economist Chairman of the Audit Committee of Audit Committee Current members: Materials moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC and is a non Rob Rowley Committee Chairman, Kate executive director of Morgan Advanced Materials plc Barker and Mike Hussey.
He was previously Deputy Non Executive Board tenure Chairman of Cable and Wireless plc, a director of Reuters Plc, and a non executive director of For more information see page 60 KPI 0-2 years Prudential plc: Taylor Nelson Sofres plc: and Intu Properties plc where he was Chairman of the 3-5 years Audit Committee.
Remuneration Committee Current members: Margaret Ford Committee Chairman, Kevin 2 2 Beeston, Kate Barker and Rob Rowley.
For mor KPI e information see page 66 Standing from left to right: Rob Rowley, Margaret Ford, Kate Barker DBE and James Jordan.
Seated from left to right: Ryan Mangold, Pete Redfern, Kevin Beeston and Mike Hussey.
