Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Statutory, Regulatory and Other Information Introduction Directors This section contains the remaining matters on which the Directors The following Directors held office throughout the year: are required to report each year, which do not appear elsewhere Kevin Beeston, Chairman: in this Directors Report.
Certain other matters required to be reported on appear elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts Pete Redfern, Chief Executive: as detailed below: Ryan Mangold, Group Finance Director: an indication of likely future developments in the business James Jordan, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary: of the Company and its subsidiaries appear in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 43: Kate Barker, Independent Non Executive Director: the Remuneration Report appears on pages 66 to 85: Margaret Ford, Independent Non Executive Director: the reporting on the Companys carbon footprint appears Mike Hussey, Independent Non Executive Director: and on page 30: Rob Rowley, Independent Non Executive Director and Senior a list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings, including branches outside the UK, principally affecting the profits Independent Director.
or net assets of the Group in the year appears on page 142: Tony Reading, Independent Non Executive Director, retired changes in asset values are set out in the consolidated on 17 April 2014. balance sheet on page 99 and in the Notes to the accounts The Directors together with their biographical information are shown on pages 102 to 135: on pages 44 and 45. the Groups profit before taxation and the profit after taxation and minority interests appear in the consolidated income statement Retirement and re-election on page 97 and in the Notes to the accounts on pages 102 to 135: The Company has determined that in accordance with the Code, all Directors should seek re-election at this years AGM as explained a detailed statement of the Groups treasury management in the Notes to the Notice of Meeting and on page 54 of the and funding is set out in Note 20 on pages 121 to 123: Corporate Governance Report.
a statement that this Annual Report and Accounts meets the requirements of Provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Each of the Directors proposed for re-election at the AGM is being Code the Code, is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on unanimously recommended by all of the other members of the page 55: Board.
This recommendation follows the completion of the annual performance evaluation process, which included a detailed appraisal details of the Companys long-term incentive schemes as required of the Board, its Committees and in respect of each Director.
3 R are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 information relating to the evaluation is set out below and in the to 85: Corporate Governance Report on page 50. details of a contract of significance subsisting during the The Articles of Association of the Company further regulate the period under review to which a subsidiary undertaking of the appointment and removal of Directors, as does the Companies Act Company is a party and in which a Director of the Company 2006 and related legislation.
The Companys Articles of Association is materially interested appears in the Notice of Meeting on may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers pages 144 to 151: and of the Directors are described in the Corporate Governance Report.
details of an arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or Qualifying third party indemnity agreed to waive any dividends, and where a shareholder has The Company has granted an indemnity in favour of its Directors agreed to waive future dividends, details of such waiver together and officers and those of its Group companies against the financial with those relating to dividends which are payable during the period exposure that they may incur in the course of their professional duties under review, appear later in this Report on page 88. as Directors and officers of the Company and or its subsidiaries affiliates.
The indemnity has been put in place in accordance with section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of which the Company took advice from Slaughter and May.
86 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Audit and auditor Annual General Meeting Each Director has, at the date of approval of this Report, formally The AGM will be held at 11:00 am on 23 April 2015 at The British confirmed that: Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9JP.
to the best of his her knowledge there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Formal notice of the AGM including details of special business is set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 144 to 151 and on the he she has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken Companys website www.
In line with recent as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant practice, voting on all resolutions at this years AGM will again be audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor conducted by way of a poll as the Board believes this gives as many is aware of that information.
shareholders as possible the opportunity to have their votes counted, This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance whether their votes are tendered by proxy in advance of, or in person with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. at the AGM.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte have confirmed their willingness to continue Web communication in office as auditor of the Company.
Following a review by the Audit With shareholders consent, the Company has adopted Web Committee of their effectiveness, details of which are set out on page communication.
The benefits of Web communication are that it: 62, a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte will be proposed at the AGM.
enables the Company to significantly reduce its printing and It is the Companys general policy that its auditors will not carry out postage costs: non-audit services except where it is appropriate to do so and in enables shareholders to access information faster, on the day accordance with the Companys formal policy for the carrying out documents are published on the Companys website: and of such work.
In addition, and in line with the Code, the Committee reduces the amount of resources consumed, such as paper, takes into account the relevant ethical guidance regarding the and lessens the impact of printing and mailing activities on provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
notes the consultation currently under way to consider designating further areas for which the auditor should not be allowed to provide Shareholder communications including the 2014 Annual Report and non-audit services.
Any revision to current regulations or guidelines Accounts are available electronically through the Companys website.
which result, will be taken into account in framing the Companys The Company provides hard copy documentation to those policy going forward and reported on in future Annual Reports.
shareholders who have requested this and is, of course, happy Deloitte provided non-audit services to the Group during the year to meet any such requests.
within the policy framework as described in the Audit Committee Report, details of which are set out in Note 6 on page 110.
Registrar The Companys registrar is Capita Asset Services.
Their details, Basis of Accounting together with information on facilities available to shareholders, The Companys current basis of accounting is UKGAAP, which the are set out in the Shareholder Facilities section on page 153.
Financial Reporting Council has announced is to change for reporting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2015.
The Company has Capital structure chosen FRS 101 as its basis of accounting going forward, and that Details of the Companys issued share capital, together with details will be adopted for reporting from 2015.
Further details may be found of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during in the Audit Committee Report on page 64. the year are shown in Note 23 on page 129.
FRS 101 paragraph 5 a requires the Company to give its shareholders notice of the adoption of the new standard, and to proceed with the proposal provided that a shareholder or shareholders holding in aggregate 5% or more of the Companys issued shares do not object to the proposal, which they may do in writing to the Company at its Registered Office by no later than 21 April 2015.
87 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Statutory, Regulatory and Other Information continued The Company has two classes of shares: Ordinary Shares of 1p, Substantial interests in the Companys shares as at each of which carries the right to one vote at general meetings of 2 March 2015 Number of Percentage of the Company and such other rights and obligations as are set out shares held issued voting in the Companys Articles of Association, and Deferred Shares Name millions share capital which carry no voting rights.
JP Morgan Asset Management Holdings Inc 159.6 4.99 As part of the debt restructuring announced on 21 April 2009 the FMR LLC 156.9 4.84 Company issued Warrants to certain of its lenders giving the holders Schroder plc & Schroder Investment the right, up to 15 May 2014, to subscribe for up to an aggregate of Management Limited 153.1 4.71 approximately 58 million Ordinary Shares representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued share capital at the time the Warrants Legal & General Group Plc 103.4 3.20 were issued.
The conversion entitlement ceased in full on 15 May Standard Life Investments Limited 96.4 3.02 2014, by which time approximately 57 million ordinary shares of 1p each had been issued on aggregate conversions since issue, at the Dividend conversion price of 17.4473 pence per Ordinary Share.
Information relating to the recommended 2014 final dividend is set out in the Chairmans Statement on page 8 and in the notes to The authority given by shareholders at the AGM held on 17 April 2014 resolution 2 on page 148 in the Notes to the Notice of Annual General for the Company to purchase a maximum of 325 million of its own Meeting.
shares remained valid at 31 December 2014.
The authority was not exercised during 2014 or prior to the date of this Report.
The Company Information relating to the recommended 2015 Special Dividend is set has no current intention of exercising the authority but will nevertheless out in the Chairmans Statement on page 8 and in the notes to be seeking the usual renewal of this authority at the AGM and the resolution 3 on page 148 in the Notes to the Notice of Annual General Board will keep the position under regular review.
currently holds no shares in treasury.
The Company will be operating a Dividend Re-Investment Plan There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding, the exercise DRIP, further details of which are set out on page 152 of this Annual of voting rights, nor on the transfer of shares, which are governed by Report.
The DRIP will operate automatically in respect of the 2014 the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are final dividend for those shareholders who have registered a DRIP not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys mandate unless varied by shareholders beforehand and all future shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities dividends, including Special Dividends, until such time as you or on voting rights.
withdraw from the DRIP or the DRIP is suspended or terminated in accordance with the Terms and Conditions.
The Board will keep the Details of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration availability of the DRIP under regular review.
The Employee Share Ownership Trusts generally abstain from voting in respect of shares held by them.
Your attention is drawn to important information which may require your action and which is included with regard to the No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share operation of the DRIP on the 2014 Final Dividend and the capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Substantial interests The right to receive any dividend has been waived in part by the The persons set out in the table below have notified the Company Trustee of the Companys Employee Share Ownership Trusts pursuant to Rule 5.1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules ESOTs over those Trusts combined holding of 13,056,005 shares.
of their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
Moredetails of these ESOTs are contained in Note 12 on pages 140 At 2 March 2015, no change in these holdings had been notified and 141. nor, according to the Register of Members, did any other shareholder Research and development at that date have a disclosable holding of the Companys issued During 2014 the Company continued to build its new standard share capital.
house type range in significant numbers.
This enabled us to validate Directors interests, including interests in the Companys shares, the work that been undertaken in developing them.
This is delivering are shown in the Remuneration Report.
the customer offering, urban design, cost and process benefits that had been targeted.
Feedback from customers and our regional business units will be supported by new projects planned on PostOccupancy Evaluation.
During 2015 we will be looking at how our homes may change in response to the Housing Standards review, particularly in respect of space and accessibility.
We continue to work with our supply chain to identify new products and techniques available to us and appraise them before they will be needed.
We are beginning more focused research over the coming year into how we will meet the anticipated changes to Part L of the Building Regulations in 2016.
As an adjunct to our research and development we continue to contribute to several industry working groups looking at energy efficiency, changes to building regulations and standards and how to close the gap between design and performance.
88 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey sat on the Advisory Board of HOMBRE Holistic The Company promotes share ownership as widely as possible.
Management of Brownfield Regeneration, a four year Seventh In addition to the various share-related reward plans described in Framework EU funded research project looking at sustainable the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 85, the Company also brownfield re-use.
The project was completed in 2014. offers a scheme whereby employees i. e. generally those who do not participate in the Executive Incentive Scheme cash bonus scheme The Company commissioned research work on Carbon Futures, are offered the opportunity each year to exchange part of any cash looking into development scale whole life carbon assessment.
bonus for exceptional performance, into shares of the Company, offering a 20% enhancement to the value if taken entirely in shares Taylor Wimpey also supported Newcastle University on their SUCCESS Sustainable Urban Carbon Capture: Engineering Soils with a holding period of 12 months.
The scheme has operated since 2012 and in 2014 resulted in 724,297 shares 2013: 697,185 being for Climate Change proposal, which has now received funding.
The Company will participate in this project to determine how acquired by 326 employees 2013: 294. carbon capture in engineered soils e. g. land restoration can In addition, the Company maintains all-employee share plans, be adopted from an operational perspective.
including the Save As You Earn share option plan and the Share Incentive Plan SIP, which are offered as widely as possible across Employee involvement and communication the Group.
Over half of our eligible employees participate in one or We are proud of how committed our employees are to Taylor Wimpey both plans or are otherwise already shareholders of the Company.
and the long term success of our business.
We strive to listen to and engage with staff.
During 2014, we undertook an employee Equal opportunities engagement survey and the feedback from our employees is shaping We strive to treat our employees fairly and with respect at all times.
our plans and priorities for the future.
We believe that inviting and We have policies and processes in place to ensure that we act in listening to employee feedback is essential and we will conduct accordance with our cultural values which encompass equal employee surveys on an annual basis going forward.
We encourage our employees and subcontractors to speak up about concerns over any We have active employee consultation committees in our regional wrongdoing at work and provide access to an independent reporting business units and communicate with employees via our half-yearly hotline service.
Teamtalk employee magazine and regular Teamtalk Express email newsletter.
Our intranet includes a wide range of employee We remain committed to the belief that embracing diversity and information from human resources policies to advice for employees inclusion will enable Taylor Wimpey to succeed through a workforce on sustainable living.
It also includes an Open Door forum that puts that is creative and innovative.
We continue to actively embrace the employees directly in touch with our Chief Executive.
During 2015 business and local communities in which we operate and will strive we introduced a new customer services forum on our intranet and to reflect their richness and character to include such aspects as invited employees to voice their thoughts on key customer questions.
gender, race and religion but also diversity of thought, background Employees could post comments within the forum or send an email and experience.
our Chief Executive or Customer Director.
As set out in our Diversity Policy, we remain committed to equality The Company is committed to ensuring open and regular of opportunity in all of our employment practices, policies and communication throughout the Group on both business-related procedures across the Group.
To this end, within the framework issues and issues of general interest.
There is a formal Employee of applicable law, we are committed, wherever practicable, to Consultative Committee structure in place in all operations and achieving and maintaining a workforce which broadly reflects that elected representatives meet with management to consult on of the local catchment area within which we operate.
Intranet systems are continually updated which provide a valuable communication tool across the Group and an No employee or potential employee will receive less favourable important facility for providing employees with access to a wide treatment due to their race, creed, colour, nationality, ethnic range of information.
Information is regularly cascaded throughout origin, religion, political or other opinion, affiliation, gender, sexual the Group via e-mail including regular communications from the orientation, marital status, family connections, age, membership Chief Executive and via verbal briefings and by management or non-membership of a trade union, or disability, unless justifiable presentations.
The Companys internal magazine provides further in exceptional circumstances, for example due to health and safety communication.
considerations particularly on construction sites.
Instruction on equal opportunities is part of the induction programme and diversity is also promoted through awareness training locally and by its inclusion as a business priority at strategy presentations around the business.
Our Diversity Policy which can be found on the Companys website: www.
co. uk corporate sustainability ourpolicies 89 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Statutory, Regulatory and Other Information continued Employment of people with disabilities Agreements It is our policy that people with disabilities should have fair Apart from a small number of borrowing agreements, pursuant to consideration for all vacancies within the Group.
which the Company borrows or is able to borrow money, which could potentially be terminated by the other party upon a change of control The Company is therefore committed, where possible, to ensuring of the Company, there are no significant contracts or agreements that people with disabilities are supported and encouraged to apply which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of for employment and to achieve progress once employed.
will be treated so as to ensure that they have an equal opportunity to be selected, trained and promoted.
In addition, every reasonable Important events since the year end effort is made for disabled persons to be retained in the employment There have been no important events affecting the Company or any of the Group by investigating the possibility of making reasonable of its subsidiary undertakings since 31 December 2014. adjustments to the job, workplace or equipment.
Directors responsibilities statement Charitable donations The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Company has a Charity Committee, which operates within Accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
written terms of reference and charitable guidelines approved by the Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements Board.
The Committees aims are to monitor and review charitable for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to donations made by regional businesses as against the guidelines and prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with to assess and administer larger donations centrally.
The members of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the Committee are the Chief Executive Chairman, Group HR European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected Director, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary, UK Land and to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance Planning Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Marketing, and with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Head of Investor Relations.
The Company and the Committee Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company encourage non-financial contributions also and for employees to law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are participate in charitable causes.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the During the year, Group companies donated 272,790 2013: 255,000 Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
to various charities in the UK.
In addition, many employees at all levels In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the Directors around the country gave up their work and free time to participate are required to: in overnight sleep-outs and weekend trekking to generate additional sponsorship and fundraising for charitable causes including Centrepoint: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Motor Neurone Research: and The Youth Adventure Trust.
consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Further information on the Groups donations, activities and initiatives and prudent: can be found in the Sustainability Report 2014 which is available on the Companys website: www.
co. uk corporate state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been sustainability followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Political donations prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis The Company has a policy of not making donations to political unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will parties, and has not made any this year and neither does it intend continue in business.
to make any going forward.
The Company does support certain industry-wide organisations which directly assist the housebuilding In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting industry such as the Home Builders Federation and the Confederation Standard 1 requires that Directors: of British Industry CBI.
Whilst we do not regard this support as properly select and apply accounting policies: political in nature in any way, the Companies Act 2006 definition of political organisations and related terms is very wide and in certain present information, including accounting policies, in a manner circumstances a donation or a subscription to such organisations that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable or to charities could retrospectively be categorised as a political information: donation in the eyes of the law.
Accordingly, as a matter of prudency, provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific the Company will be seeking the usual annual dispensation from its requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand shareholders at the 2015 AGM so as to be able to continue with the the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions above memberships and make charitable donations without on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and inadvertently breaching legislation.
make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
90 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In accordance with Provision C. 1 of the Code, the Directors are required, inter alia, to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Details of how this was addressed are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 64.
Responsibility statement The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
This Report of the Directors was approved by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2015.
James Jordan Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Taylor Wimpey plc 2 March 2015 91 Inside this section Financial Statements 93 Independent Auditors Report 97 Consolidated Income Statement 98 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 99 Consolidated Balance Sheet 100 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 101 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 102 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 136 Company Balance Sheet 137 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 142 Particulars of Principal Subsidiary Undertakings 143 Five Year Review Shareholder Information 144 Notice of Annual General Meeting 147 Notes to the Notice of Meeting 152 Shareholder Facilities 153 Principal Operating Addresses 92 92
