DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Any director appointed during the year is required, under the Conflicts of interests provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, to retire The Companys Articles of Association take account of certain and seek re-election by the shareholders at the next Annual provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to directors General Meeting.
These provisions permit the Board to consider, and if thought fit, to authorise situations where a The Companys Articles of Association require one third director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, of the Directors for the time being to retire, and each with the interests of the Company.
The Board has adopted Director to retire from office at least once every three years.
procedures for the approval of such conflicts.
The Boards However, in line with Provision B.
7.1 of the Code, the Board powers to authorise conflicts are operating effectively and has determined that all Directors would retire and stand for the procedures are being followed.
re-election on an annual basis.
Internal Control Diversity The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of We strongly support the principle of boardroom diversity, of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, which gender is one element and Anne Sheinfield has been such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate on the Board since June 2010 and the Board is very pleased the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can to benefit from her valuable contribution.
provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Boardroom diversity, including gender, is an important consideration when assessing a candidates ability to contribute The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for to, and complement the abilities of, a balanced Board.
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has been in place for the year under Our Board appointments will always be made on merit review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report against objective criteria, and this will continue to be the and Accounts, and that this process is regularly reviewed by priority rather than aiming to achieve an externally prescribed the Board and accords with Internal Control: Guidance for diversity target.
Directors on the Code the Turnbull guidance.
As noted in the People report on page 23, the continued The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of expansion of the Company means that Ted Bakers workforce internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated is becoming increasingly more diverse.
The Company will the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks continue to support the development and progression of affecting the business and the policies and procedures by all employees, with the aim of maintaining and achieving which these risks are managed.
Management is responsible diversity throughout all levels of the organisation.
for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of the business together with the Communication with Shareholders design and operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks The Group attaches considerable importance to the are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated effectiveness of its communication with its shareholders.
with a variety of internal or external sources including control The full report and accounts are sent to all shareholders and breakdowns, disruption in information systems, competition, further copies are distributed to others with potential interest natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
The Group has an independent internal audit function whose The directors seek to build on a mutual understanding findings are regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee of objectives between the Company and its institutional and the Board.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews shareholders by making general presentations after the interim the effectiveness of the internal audit activities.
and preliminary results: meeting shareholders to discuss long-term issues and gather feedback: and communicating Management reports regularly on its review of risks and how regularly throughout the year.
All shareholders have access they are managed to the Risk Committee, whose main role to these presentations, as well as to the Annual Report and is to review, on behalf of the Board, the key risks inherent Accounts and to other information about the Company, in the business and the system of control necessary to through the website at www.
They may manage such risks, and to present their findings to the Board.
also attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which The Chief Executive reports to the Board on behalf of the they have the opportunity to ask questions.
Executive Committee on significant changes in the business and the external environment which affect significant risks.
Non-executive directors are kept informed of the views of shareholders by the executive directors and are provided with independent feedback from investor meetings.
