DIRECTORS REPORT: OTHER STATUTORy DISCLOSURES DIRECTORS REPORT: OTHER STATUTORy DISCLOSURES Notes to the Executive Directors Policy Table Future Policy Table Non-Executive Directors Differences in Remuneration Policy for All Employees The Board aims to recruit high-calibre non-executive directors A consistent remuneration approach is applied at all levels throughout the Group, except as outlined below, to make Annual bonus NEDs with broad commercial, international or other relevant sure that business strategy and performance are aligned and that the total reward is sufficient to attract and retain high Profit targets are set by the Committee at the start of the experience.
The remuneration policy for NEDs is set by theperforming and talented individuals.
financial year by reference to internal budgets and taking account Board having taken account of the fees paid by other companies of consensus market expectations for profit before tax and All employees of Ted Baker Plc are entitled to a base salary, annual or periodic bonus and benefits dependent upon their of a similar size and complexity.
Market expectations for profit role within the Group.
The maximum opportunity available for a base salary increase is consistent across all employees.
are considered a key measure of business performance for When recruiting NEDs, the remuneration arrangements offered The maximum opportunity for bonus and benefits is based on seniority, responsibility and function of the role.
our shareholders: in considering these, the highest and lowest will generally be in line with those set out in the Non-Executive expectations from the range are excluded to help reduce the risk Conditional long-term share awards are only available to executive directors and other members of senior management Directors Future Policy Table page 28. of distortion.
The funds available for payment of the annual bonus across the Group.
Share option grants under the Save As You Earn scheme are available to all UK employees.
are determined by the achievement of profit before tax, annual Statement of Consideration of Employment bonus and exceptional non-recurring items in a financial year in Service Contracts and Policy of Payments for Loss of Office Conditions Elsewhere in the Company excess of the target.
The maximum bonus payable to staff is The Group Head of Human Resources presents to the Standard provision Policy Details Other provisions capped as a percentage of base salary which varies according to in service contracts Committee at its meeting in February each year on proposed individual contracts.
The maximum annual bonus payable to an salary increases for the general employee population and on Notice periods in executive director 12 months notice from the Executive directors may be Executive directors service executive director is capped at 100% of base salary.
any changes to remuneration policy within the Company.
required to work during their notice contracts include non-compete period, be placed on gardening and non-poaching provisions.
Committee limits any increases in base salary for executive LTIPs 12 months notice from the leave for all or part of the notice directors so that they are broadly in line with the inflationary executive director.
In arriving at the performance criteria for the 2013 LTIP, the period or be provided with pay in increase to be applied across the general employee population comparator group used for benchmarking purposes consisted of lieu of notice if not required to work unless there has been a change in role, or if the salary and listed companies with similar enterprise value to Ted Baker Plc.
the full period of notice.
total reward falls below the targeted median range.
The group included retail and other service sector businesses Compensation for loss of office No more than 12 months Payable monthly and adjusted N A and was approved by the Committee.
in service contracts salary, pension and benefits if the executive director obtains Proposed remuneration arrangements are discussed with excluding bonus.
employee communication groups and senior management.
This scheme was introduced in July 2013 for executive Treatment of annual bonus No payment unless employed Good leavers are entitled to a N A The Committee does not specifically invite employees to directors and other senior executives across the Group.
The on termination on the date of payment of bonus bonus pro-rated to the period of comment on the executive directors remuneration policy but criteria used to measure performance are growth targets except for good leavers.
The service during the year provided any comments made by employees are taken into account.
based on profit before tax per share over the performance Committee retains discretion to the financial targets have been determine whether an executive achieved and all necessary period and share price growth over the award period.
As well as benchmarking the remuneration packages of an director is a good leaver conditions have been met.
The profit per share growth targets were set following executive director peer group, the benchmarking exercise taking account of circumstances The Committee has discretion to consideration of consensus market analyst expectations and performed during the year ended January 2013 included a including in particular death, reduce the entitlement of a good the share price growth target was agreed in consultation separate analysis of salaries paid to other senior executives.
leaver in line with performance and between the Committee and shareholders.
The findings of this report were taken into consideration in the circumstances of the termination.
arriving at current remuneration policy.
Treatment of unvested and All awards lapse except for good For good leavers, the extent N A The Committee felt that these criteria were appropriate for the deferred share awards on leavers e. g. on death, disability, of vesting of awards is at the Group in view of its recent investment in expansion and should The Committees conclusion following the external termination under plan rules ill health, injury, retirement, discretion of the Committee taking encourage management to focus on longer term profitable benchmark report was that the Group should commit to redundancy.
The Committee account of performance to date of growth.
The share price growth target has been favoured target total remuneration levels for senior management retains discretion to treat an leaving and pro-rated for period of over a TSR based measure because the unique profile of executive director as a good employment in the vesting period across the Group within the median range in order to retain the Groups business means that a readily comparable TSR leaver in other circumstances.
The next benchmarking report benchmark was not available.
A commitment has, however, will be performed in the 53 weeks ending January 2015.
The Committees discretion to treat been made to apply the existing dividend policy consistently.
an executive director as a good leaver will take into account the particular circumstances of the executive directors departure.
Outside appointments Executive directors may accept The Committee Chairmans approval N A one Board appointment in another must be sought before accepting listed company.
Fees may be retained by the executive director.
Non-executive directors NEDs have service contracts with NEDs may be required to work during N A the Company which provide: the notice period, be placed on gardening leave for all or part of the 3 - 6 months notice from notice period or may be provided with the Company.
pay in lieu of notice if not required to 3 - 6 months notice from the NED.
work the full period of notice.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 29 30
