DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE The Committee received, reviewed and challenged reports 3 Carrying value of retail fixed assets External Audit the major issues that arose during the course of the from management and the external auditors setting out the audit and their resolution: The Group has invested a significant amount of capital The Committee oversees the Companys relationship with the significant issues in relation to the 2014 Financial Statements outside the UK in its retail store portfolio.
Given the relative external auditors and makes recommendations to the Board key accounting and audit judgements: which related to the carrying value of inventory, accounting immaturity of the brand outside the UK, the payback period in relation to their appointment, reappointment and removal the level of errors identified during the audit: and considerations for a loss of profit claim against AXA and the is typically longer and it is not uncommon for new stores to and approves their remuneration and terms of engagement.
recommendations made by the external auditors carrying value of retail fixed assets.
make losses in their starting phase.
The Audit Committee The Board and Committee also review the independence of in their management letters and the adequacy of challenged management on the evidence on which they the external auditors and consider the engagement of the These issues were discussed and challenged with managements response.
based their assessment as to when an indicator exists for external auditors to supply non-audit services.
They were also discussed with loss making stores and needs to be formally tested.
This Consideration is also given by the Committee to the need the auditors at the time the Committee reviewed and agreed The Company has adopted a formal policy on the supply of included an assessment of performance of retail stores to to include the risk of the withdrawal of the external auditors the auditors Group audit plan, when the auditors reviewed non-audit services by the external auditors.
They may only the original business case, comparing relative performance of from the market in its risk evaluation and planning.
the half year interim financial statements in October 2013, and provide such services on condition that such advice does stores within each region and confirming that managements also at the conclusion of the audit of the financial statements.
not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical assessment was in line with the Committees understanding Audit Tender guidance.
The Committee Chairmans pre-approval is required of the maturity of the brand in each location.
The auditors 1 Carrying value of inventory The Committee considers the reappointment of the external before the Company uses non-audit services that exceed explained to the Committee the work they had conducted auditors each year and assesses their independence on an Inventory is carried in the financial statements at the lower financial limits set out by that policy and the aggregate spend during the year.
On the basis of their audit work, the auditors ongoing basis.
KPMG have been the Companys external of cost and net realisable value.
The fashion industry can is also reviewed by the Committee on an annual basis.
Details reported no inconsistencies or misstatements that were auditors since 2001, with a competitive audit tender process be extremely volatile, with consumer demand changing of the auditors remuneration for audit and non-audit fees are material in the context of the financial statements as a carried out in 2012.
The Committee will next tender the position significantly based on current trends.
As a result there is a disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements.
whole, and in our view this supports the appropriateness of for external auditors in accordance with the 2012 Code.
risk that the cost of inventory exceeds its net realisable value.
The Committee recognises that the independence of the Management confirmed to the Committee that there have auditors is an essential part of the audit framework and the Nomination Committee 4 Misstatements been no significant changes to the approach used to estimate assurance that it provides.
The Committee monitors any nonDuring the year the Nomination Committee the Management confirmed to the Committee that it was inventory provisions from the prior year.
The auditors explained audit work that is undertaken by the external auditors to ensure Committee was chaired by David Bernstein and its other not aware of any material misstatements or immaterial to the Committee the work they had conducted during the that their objectivity and independence is not compromised.
members were Ronald Stewart and Anne Sheinfield.
The misstatements made intentionally to achieve a particular year.
On the basis of their audit work, the auditors reported composition of the Committee during the year complied with presentation.
The auditors reported to the Committee the The Committee has formally reviewed the independence no inconsistencies or misstatements that were material in Provision B.
misstatements that they had found in the course of their work of the auditors during the review year.
KPMG Audit Plc has the context of the financial statements as a whole, and in our and no material amounts remain unadjusted.
The Committee provided a letter to the Committee confirming that it remains view this supports the appropriateness of our methodology.
The Committee is responsible for nominating candidates for confirms that it is satisfied that the auditors have fulfilled their independent within the meaning of the regulations on this appointment to the Board.
responsibilities with diligence and professional scepticism.
matter and in accordance with professional standards.
2 Legal claim against AXA All non-executive directors are advised of the time The Group is pursuing a claim against its previous insurers After reviewing and challenging the presentations and reports To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the commitment considered necessary to enable them to fulfill for loss of profit arising from the theft of inventory from its from management and consulting where necessary with Committee reviewed: their responsibilities prior to appointment.
There is a significant level the auditors, the Committee is satisfied that the Financial the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan of judgement involved in determining the recognition and Statements appropriately address the critical judgements The terms of reference for the Committee are available on and variations from it: amount of any contingent asset arising from a successful and key estimates both in respect to the amounts reported request from the Company Secretary.
outcome of the claim or a contingent liability should the reports highlighting the major issues that arose during and the disclosures.
The Committee is also satisfied that the course of the audit: Group be unsuccessful in its claim.
the significant assumptions used for determining the value Appointments to the Board of assets and liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, feedback from the businesses evaluating the Management confirmed to the Committee the basis of its On 9 January 2014, Andrew Jennings was appointed to the challenged and are sufficiently robust.
performance of each assigned audit team: and assessment of the outcome of the claim and the accounting Board as a non-executive director, effective from 1 February a report from the Audit Quality Review Team of the 2014.
The Committee considered a shortlist of potential implications of its assessment.
Managements assessment 5 Future IFRS developments Financial Reporting Council on KPMG.
candidates in light of the balance of skills, experience, was based on the latest reports from independent experts The Committee has discussed future accounting appointed by the court, the outcome of court hearings during independence and knowledge on the Board, determining The Committee holds private meetings with the external developments likely to affect the presentation of the Groups the year and advice from the Groups external counsel.
against objective criteria that Andrew would be a suitable auditors before each Committee meeting to review key financial statements.
The auditors explained to the Committee the work they and valuable addition to the Board.
In light of the wealth issues within its sphere of interest and responsibility.
To fulfil of Andrews international retail experience, the Committee had conducted, including how their audit procedures were The Committee is responsible for the review of the Companys its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process, did not consider it necessary to use an external search focused on the recognition criteria and or measurement procedures for responding to the allegations of whistle blowers the Committee reviewed: of any contingent asset or liability arising from the claim.
consultancy and open advertising was not used in respect and the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and On the basis of their audit work, the auditors reported no of his appointment.
concerns about possible financial reporting irregularities.
scope of the audit as set out in the external auditors inconsistencies or misstatements that were material in the engagement letter for the forthcoming year: Newly appointed directors are given training appropriate context of the financial statements as a whole.
to the level of their previous experience.
Non-executive the external auditors overall work plan for the directors meet regularly with members of the executive forthcoming year: committee and other personnel within the organisation.
In the external auditors fee proposal: addition, site visits ensure that the non-executive directors gain first-hand experience of developments within the Group.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 15 16
