DIRECTORS REPORT: OTHER STATUTORy DISCLOSURES DIRECTORS REPORT: OTHER STATUTORy DISCLOSURES DirecTors reMuneraTion Policy 2015.
This makes sure that we remain competitive within LTIPs Drives the overall business strategy Share awards will only vest if the the broader retail comparator groups.
continued and objectives and aligns the share price has risen by 10% over Remuneration Policy interests of shareholders and the the 3 year period commencing on The policy described in this section is intended to apply for Remuneration packages for executive directors are structured executive team over the longer term.
the date that the awards are made.
the 3 years beginning on the date of the 2014 Annual General to provide a balance between fixed basic salary and variable No dividends are payable Meeting, subject to shareholder approval.
We have included remuneration based on individual and Group performance.
on unvested or unexercised an explanation of how our forward-looking policy differs from LTIP options.
Non-executive directors are remunerated with fees in line what was in operation for the 2012 13 financial year.
No clawback or malus provisions with market rates.
They do not receive any pension or are included in the LTIP rules.
The aim of the Groups remuneration policy is to attract, other benefits, other than the reimbursement of reasonable In the event of a change in control expenses, and they do not participate in any bonus or share motivate and retain high quality management and to of the Group prior to the end of incentivise them according to the levels of value generated schemes.
the period set for achievement of performance targets the for shareholders.
performance period will be Short and Long-Term Remuneration shortened to the date of change The total size of the remuneration package is judged by Group policy is to use fixed annual elements of remuneration, of control and awards will vest on comparison with the value of packages of similar companies, such as salary, pension and benefits, to recognise the status change of control based on the having regard to: of our executives and to ensure current and future market extent to which any performance the size of the company, its turnover, profits and number conditions are satisfied by competitiveness.
reference to that shortened of people employed: performance period.
If the change The use of short-term annual bonus incentives and Longthe diversity and complexity of the business: of control occurs after the end of Term Incentive Plans LTIPs provides a direct link between the geographical spread of the business: and the performance period, awards remuneration and Key Performance Indicators.
It also creates will vest on change of control to the growth and expansion profile.
a synergy between the executive directors personal return the extent that the performance and the return to investors.
We use target performance to estimate the total potential Performance conditions for future reward and benchmark it according to the criteria outlined Both the short and long-term incentives are used to motivate awards may vary but the Committee above.
External benchmarking analysis is commissioned and reward them for sustaining and growing the success of will consult with shareholders on any every two years with the next report commissioned for the Ted Baker Group.
Future Policy Table Executive Directors The Ted Baker All executive directors excluding To align the interests of executive None.
Sharesave Scheme Mr R S Kelvin have the option directors with the long-term Element Maximum potential Operation and link Performance targets to save up to the statutory limit interests of the shareholders.
to strategy and time period towards options over shares in Ted Baker Plc over any 3 or 5 year period.
Base Salary No maximum salary but annual Salary reviewed annually and N A increases will be broadly consistent reflects the role and sustained Retirement Benefits All executive directors excluding Positioned to ensure broad N A with increase in base salary of value of the individual in terms of Mr R S Kelvin are entitled to competitiveness with market wider employee population and skills, experience and contribution.
pension contributions to a money practice.
generally no higher than the purchase scheme of up to 12.5% Increases will be applied to reflect increase in RPI unless there is a of base salary.
inflation and are in line with wider change in role or responsibility.
Other Benefits Entitlements include car allowance Maximum car allowance entitlements N A and medical expense insurance.
are based on the estimated costs of Annual Bonus Up to 100% of base salary.
Drives and rewards annual Achievement of profit before tax, running a private car.
annual bonus and exceptional non-recurring items against No change to Policy since 2012 13.
Profit targets are reviewed annually for the financial year.
targets New scheme, the 2013 LTIP, implemented in July 2013 as explained in the Chairmans letter and the notes below.
at the start of the financial year.
The Committee reserves the Payment is determined by the right to make adjustments if Future Policy Table Non-Executive Directors Committee following the end of the outcome does not reflect the financial year.
Approach to setting fees Basis of fees Other items Threshold vesting is 0%.
Fees are reviewed at appropriate intervals taking Each NED is paid a basic fee for undertaking The NEDs do not participate in the Companys into account the time commitment expected non-executive director and Board duties.
annual bonus scheme, long-term incentive Annual Bonus policy does not and practice in peer companies of a similar size, A higher fee is typically paid to the Chairman plans, health care arrangements or employee contain any clawback or malus sector and complexity.
share schemes and and do not receive any provisions.
Non-executive director fees are not subject to Up to 150% of base salary per Annual award of shares 25% vesting if compound annual LTIPs claw-back or withholding arrangements.
The Group provides each NED with annum.
The Committee has the which vest dependent on the growth of profit before tax per relevant liability insurance for the duration right to award up to 200% of basic achievement of profit targets share of 10% over the 3 year of their appointment.
performance period beginning with the financial year in which All NEDs stand for reappointment on an annual the awards are made, rising to basis at every AGM.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 27 28
