Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 133 Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and audited financial Employment statements of the Company and the Group for the year ended The Group is committed to employment policies that follow 31 December 2014. best practice and are based on equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective of age, gender, race, colour, sexual This Directors report contains certain statutory, regulatory orientation, disability or marital status.
The Group gives full and and other information.
fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Strategic Report and Governance Review Appropriate arrangements are made for the continued A review of the development of the Groups business during employment and training, career development and promotion the year and its future prospects is included in the Strategic of disabled persons employed by the Group.
If members of staff Report and Governance Review on pages 1 to 89, which should become disabled the Group continues employment, either in the be read in conjunction with this report into which they are same or an alternative position, with appropriate retraining being incorporated by reference.
Results and dividends The Group systematically provides employees with information The results for the year ended 31 December 2014 are set out on matters of concern to them, consulting them or their in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 97.
This enables their views to be taken has proposed a final dividend of 9.0p per ordinary share in respect into account when making decisions that are likely to affect their of the year 2013: 7.0p, payable on 24 April2015 to shareholders interests.
Employee involvement in the Group is encouraged, on the register at the close of business on 20 March2015, giving as is achieving a common awareness on the part of all employees a total dividend in respect of 2014 of 13.5p per ordinary share of the financial and economic factors affecting the Group.
The Group encourages the involvement of employees by means of briefing meetings as well as more informal communications.
2015 Annual General Meeting AGM The Group also enable employees to become shareholders in The Companys AGM will be held at the offices of Hogan Lovells the Company by offering them participation in the Companys International LLP, Atlantic House, Holborn Viaduct, London Save-as-You-Earn scheme which is offered on an annual basis.
Carbon emissions An explanation of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, Details of the Companys carbon emissions are stated on and the recommendation of Directors in relation to these, pages 60-61 and form part of the report of the Corporate are included in the circular accompanying this Annual Report Social Responsibility Committee.
Resolutions regarding the authority to issue and repurchase shares are commented upon under the share Going concern capital section later in this report.
Comprehensive financial forecasts have been prepared and submitted to the Board for review.
Based on the information Corporate governance contained in these forecasts and the assessment of the Groups The Companys Governance Review is contained on pages 42 banking facilities, the Directors have a reasonable expectation to 89. that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Change of control For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in In the event of a takeover, a scheme of arrangement other than preparing the financial statements.
a scheme of arrangement for the purposes of creating a new holding company or certain other events, unvested executive Director and employee share awards may in certain circumstances become exercisable.
Such circumstances depend on the achievement of performance conditions or the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The Company does not have any agreements with any Director or officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
The Group has facility agreements with its bank lenders which contain provisions giving those lenders certain rights on a change of control of the Company.
Financial instruments Information on the financial risk exposure, management objectives and policies of the Group is set out on pages 34 to 37.
134 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity At 10 February 2015, the Company had been notified in provisions for the benefit of its Directors in relation to certain accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the losses and liabilities that they may incur in the course of acting UK Listing Authority, or was aware, that the following held, or were as Directors of the Company or its subsidiaries, which remain beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the Companys shares in force at the date of this report.
at that date: No member of the Board had a material interest in any contract Total voting of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiaries at Number of rights any time during the year, except for their interests in shares and shares % in share awards and under their service agreements and letters Abrams Capital Management, L. P. 19,533,039 9.63 of appointment disclosed in the Report of the Remuneration Norge Bank 13,948,208 6.87 Committee commencing on page 71.
SPO Partners II, L. P. 10,228,331 5.04 Oppenheimer Funds 9,739,579 4.80 Political donations T Rowe Price Global Investments 9,120,166 4.50 The Group made no political donations during the year 2013: nil.
1 Butterfield Trust 8,080,458 3.98 BlackRock, Inc 7,035,217 3.47 Share capital Legal & General Group plc 6,397,334 3.15 Certain key information relating to the Companys shares is shown below.
1 These shares are held by Butterfield Trust as Trustee for trusts for the benefit of Oliver R. Grace Jr and members of his family.
Mr Grace also has an interest in The Companys shares at the year-end comprised an additional 3,489,931 shares.
entirely ordinary shares of 0.002 each which rank equally The Company received no notifications of interests of in all respects.
shareholders indicating a different whole percentage holding at The rights attached to the shares, in addition to those conferred 31 December 2014. on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Companys Articles of Association may only Directors be amended by a Special Resolution of the shareholders.
The Directors of the Company who served during the year were: John Hughes Executive Chairman There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on the 1 exercise of voting rights attached to them, except: i where Eric Hageman Chief Financial Officer, the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting appointed on 1 September 2014 rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of Claudia Arney their holder or any person interested in them to provide the Simon Batey Company with information requested by it in accordance with Maurizio Carli Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act : or ii where their Nancy Cruickshank holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by the FCAs John OReilly Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Michael Tobin stepped down on The Group operates employee share plans as set out in the 24 August 2014 Report of the Remuneration Committee on page 76 and in Brian McArthur-Muscroft stepped down on note 28 of the financial statements.
31 January 2014 In relation to the options granted at the time of the Companys 1 Birth name: Wilhelmus Hageman IPO in 2007, and the Directors deferred bonus shares, an Certain key matters in connection with the Directors Employee Benefit Trust EBT holds shares pending are shown below: employees becoming entitled to them.
20,624 shares were The business of the Company is managed by its Directors so held as at 31 December 2014.
The EBT has an independent who may exercise all powers of the Company subject to the trustee which has full discretion in relation to the voting of such Articles of Association and UK legislation.
Shares held in the EBT have any entitlement to Company are appointed either by the Board or by shareholders dividends waived.
under the Companys Articles of Association and may resign Save as described above, shares acquired through the or be removed in a similar manner.
Companys employee share plans rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
Biographical details of the current Directors are set out on pages 44 and 45.
The Directors interests in the ordinary At the year end, the Company had authority exercisable by share capital of the Company and any interests known to the the Directors to issue up to 67,549,000 shares subject to Company of their connected persons are set out in the certain restrictions.
The Company will seek to renew this Report of the Remuneration Committee on page 87. authority at the 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 135 At the year end, the Company had authority exercisable by Each of the Directors in office at the date of approval of the Directors for the purposes of Section 701 of the Act to make this report confirms that to the best of their knowledge: one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section The Group financial statements, which have been prepared 693 of the Act of up to 20,264,720 shares.
The Company will in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, seek to renew this authority at the 2015 AGM.
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Further details of the Companys share capital are set out in position and profit of the Group: and note 26 of the financial statements.
The Strategic Report and Governance review, along with the Directors report, together include a true and fair review Directors responsibility statement of the development and performance of the business and The Directors have prepared the Annual Report and the the position of the Group together with a description of the financial statements in accordance with their responsibilities principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
under applicable law and regulations.
Further details of this are shown below.
The Directors consider that the Annual report, including the Strategic report, Governance review, Financial statements and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial this Directors report, taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and statements for each financial year.
As required by International understandable and that it provides the information necessary Accounting Standards Regulations Article 4, the Directors for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, have prepared the Group financial statements under business model and strategy.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare the Disclosure of information to Auditors Parent Company financial statements in accordance with Each Director in office at the date of this report has IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial confirmed that: statements have been prepared, as required by law, to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit Company and of the profit of the Group for the year.
information of which the Groups Auditors are unaware: and In preparing these financial statements, the Directors confirm he or she has taken all the reasonable steps that he or she that to the best of their knowledge they have: ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish properly selected and applied accounting policies and that the Groups Auditors are aware of and had access to that applied them consistently: information and relevant employees.
made judgements and assumptions that are reasonable This confirmation is given in accordance with Section 418 2 and prudent: of the Act.
presented information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable Auditors and understandable information: and  LLP, the Groups auditors, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, on the provided additional disclosures when compliance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee and in accordance specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users with Section 489 of the Act, a resolution to re-appoint them will to understand the impact of particular transactions, other be put to the 2015 AGM.
events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
By order of the Board In accordance with the responsibilities of the Directors, the Group maintains adequate accounting records to record all transactions so that they disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Act.
Tony Hunter They are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company Company Secretary and the Group and have taken reasonable steps for the 10 February 2015 prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
