8 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 up to In a typical day What we do across 250 TelecityGroup customer deliveries of equipment A day in the life of a TelecityGroup data centre Theres a lot going on in our data centres where our teams are busy looking after customer requirements around the clock, 365 days a year.
09.00 09.30 10.00 11.00 12.00 Customer service On-site delivery Quality control On-site support Installation work Customer service assistant Engineer retrieves client Server unpacked Client uses courtesy Engineer installs customer grants client access to the hardware from loading bay con gured in build room phone to request hardware and connectivity data centre and delivers to build room following ISO 2700 quality engineer installation cabling while customer management processes relaxes in rest room Data centres for the digital economy Data centre core fundamentals Our data centres are large, industrial facilities, centrally located To ensure continuous operation, our data centres have access in strategic internet hub cities across Europe.
They are built to to redundant high-capacity power supplies, scalable for future the highest technological standards and supported by tried and expansion.
Every site has Uninterruptible Power Supply UPS tested resilience systems.
In this sense they are the non-virtual systems and standby diesel generators capable of supporting part of the digital economy.
the site inde nitely in the event of a failure of grid power.
At the simplest level a TelecityGroup data centre will ensure We understand that outsourcing mission-critical IT systems resilient power, the appropriate environment for IT hardware involves trust.
This governs the principles on which we design to operate most effectively e. g. cooling and humidity control, and maintain our data centres.
high levels of security and re protection.
This infrastructure is supported by the presence of round-the-clock engineering teams to manage the facility and provide customer support.
Customer equipment is connected to networks andother customers via cross-connects, physical cable connections between equipment.
All cross-connects in TelecityGroup data centres are installed and managed by our engineers.
Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 9 up to up to over 400 1,000 25,000 speci c customerindividual customer logical and physical generated engineering visits will be made checks will be made requests on facilities Illustration to be replaced by schematic style of illustration 14.00 16.00 16.45 20.00 01.15 Testing functionality Remote support Monitoring systems Customer service Round-the-clock Customer tests hardware Customer raises ticket TelecityGroup customer performance technical support on-site.
Engineers run from their of ces to the services team receives Managed services team Facility is manned daily resilience test on data centre to request client access request while monitors client hardware 24x7x365 to provide power systems additional cabling receiving other client alerts performance while Building expert support for any Management System alerts or requests monitors the data centre Energy ef ciency Operational and quality standards and operational standards International certi cations demonstrate that best practice and high quality processes are central to our business.
Customers can We are committed to excellence and setting the benchmark benchmark our commitment to quality through our adherence in our environmental strategy and quality standards.
We adhere to established and recognised global standards.
Our data centres to stringent industry standards, and we are recognised as and management systems are certi ed to a wide range of a leader in the market in terms of environmental management international standards including: and best practice.
We proactively monitor a wide range of environmental metrics to ensure our build and operations ISO 27001 for information security management: processes are managed to maximise ef ciency and minimise ISO 9001 for quality management: waste.
Organisations choosing TelecityGroup demonstrate ISO 14001 for environmental management: and they are selecting an operator that puts energy ef ciency OHSAS 18001, the assessment speci cation for and environmental management at the core of its business.
occupational health and safety management systems.
Other certi cations include ISO 22301 for business continuity management.
