44 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Our Board John Hughes CBE Eric Hageman Claudia Arney Role Executive Chairman, leading the Board of Chief Financial Officer, leading Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Directors and, until commencement of the the planning and implementation of and a member of the Audit, Remuneration, new CEO, leading the management of the financial strategy for the Group and Nominations and CSR Committees.
Group and the development of its strategy.
working with the Executive Chairman He is also Chairman of the Nominations and on its wider operations.
Appointment October 2007 September 2014 March 2013 date Experience More than 30 years experience leading complex, Came to TelecityGroup from Was Group Managing Director of Emap high technology businesses operating at a global Royal KPN NV, following a 9 year Inform from 2008-2010 with responsibility for level.
Significant experience of managing growth career at the company.
His most the Media and Public Sector businesses.
companies, especially those supplying complex recent role was as a member of Focused on transforming the predominantly solutions and services to business customers: the Board of Management and Chief advertising funded print trade publishing of mergers and acquisitions: of international Financial Officer.
business in to a subscription based digital data channel expansion: and of development of and information business.
During his tenure, held a number leadership teams.
of senior executive positions at Previously a Director of the Enterprise and Growth Held senior executive positions at Thales Group, KPN, including CFO of KPN Mobile Unit at HM Treasury and responsible for many of latterly executive vice president and chief International, CEO of KPN Belgium the policy issues which affect business including operating officer, responsible for an organisation and Head of M&A and IR.
Has also with over 25,000 people: Lucent Technologies worked at Goldman Sachs, Pearson, the Financial Before joining KPN, spent 9 years where his responsibilities included being Times and Mckinsey.
in London working in Equity Capital president of its worldwide GSM and UMTS Markets at ABN AMRO Bank and in businesses: and Hewlett Packard.
Corporate Finance at Deutsche Bank.
Until 2010, non-executive chairman of Intec Telecom Systems plc and a non-executive director of Chloride Group plc: until 2011 a non-executive director of Vitec Group plc.
External Non-executive Chairman of Spectris plc, None.
Non-Executive Director of Halfords PLC, appointments Sepura plc and JUST EAT plc.
Chair of The Public Data Group Director of CSG Systems International, Inc. comprising Ordnance Survey, The Met Office, Land Registry and Companies House.
A member of the Advisory Board of the Shareholder Executive, and Huawei.
Charitable Ambassador for the Alzheimers Society.
Holds an MBA from the London Not-for-profit roles include Membership of the and other Business School and an MSc in Business Advisory Council of the Said Business Supporter of the Mahogany Opera Group.
Business Economics from Maastricht School at Oxford University, and Chairing the Awarded the CBE for services to international University in the Netherlands.
telecommunications in the Queens 2011 New Year Honours List.
Awarded an honorary Doctor of Science in 2014 in recognition of his contribution to the communications and technology sector and to the wider business community by The University of Hertfordshire.
Holds a BSc in Electrical and Electronic Engineering.
Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 45 Simon Batey Maurizio Carli Nancy Cruickshank John OReilly Non-Executive Director, Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director, Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive of the Audit Committee and a member and a member of the Audit, Director, and a member of the Director, Chairman of the of both the Remuneration and Remuneration, Nominations and Audit, Remuneration, Nominations Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committees.
a member of both the Audit and Nominations Committees.
October 2007 May 2011 March 2013 October 2007 Over 20 years experience in senior Significant experience of managing Worked for Cond Nast in Particular experience in finance roles with particular experience high growth European organisations marketing and advertising eCommerce, marketing, public in the construction and utility industries.
with direct insight into cloud computing becoming commercial director relations, public affairs, property related businesses.
of Cond Nast online in 1995. and business development.
Qualified Chartered Accountant, having spent the first 12 years of his career at Role at VMWare extends to strategic In 2001 launched Handbag.
com Experience within the highly Armitage and Norton now part of planning, business operations and the which was sold to Hearst in 2006, regulated betting and gaming sector KPMG, latterly as a partner of the firm.
management of key functions including continuing on after the buy-out includes being a founder director and sales channels, services and marketing, to oversee their portfolio of former vice chairman of the Remote Between 2000 and 2006, group continuing to grow the region at high pace.
finance director of United Utilities plc.
From 2006 until 2007, chief financial Previously at Google on a short-term In 2008 joined VideoJug and in May Until 2010, managing director officer of Thames Water Utilities assignment: spent five years at Business 2009 moved to the Telegraph Media of remote betting and gaming at Limited.
From 1987 to 2000, worked Objects as senior vice president and Group TMG as executive Director, Ladbrokes, joining the Ladbrokes plc for AMEC plc, initially as deputy group general manager, EMEA, being responsible Digital Development.
board following the completion of the finance director and then, from 1992, for sales, pre-sales, marketing, finance, sale of the Hilton International hotels From April 2012 to March 2013, as group finance director.
customer support and global services.
division in February 2006. was launch CEO of Weve, leading a A non-executive director of Arriva Spent 19 years at IBM, latterly as vice team that secured clearance from Led the Ladbrokes eGaming plc from 2003 to 2010 and has also president of software group for IBM EMEA the EC for the UKs leading mobile division from its establishment in served as a non-executive director and previously vice president and general operators EE, Vodafone and 2001 until 2010, with responsibility of THUS Group plc.
manager for IBMs Tivoli Systems Division, Telefonica to launch a media for international development, and held sales and sales management & mCommerce JV in the UK.
including Ladbrokes growing A member of the Postal Services positions in the government, education Successfully launched the business retail joint venture in Spain, and Commission, responsible for the and healthcare sectors for IBM Italy.
in November 2012 and Weve now oversaw Ladbrokes core regulation of the UK postal services provides a form of blueprint for bookmaking function.
sector from 2010 until 2011. other collaborations like this in various international markets.
A Non-executive Director of Gulf Corporate senior vice president and Founder and CEO of MyShowcase.
Managing director of Coral Marine Services plc since March 2014 general manager EMEA for VMWare, com, a beauty retailer that Interactive, the online and telephone and Non-executive Director of the global leader in virtualisation and champions female betting and gaming arm of Gala Coral Blackrock New Energy Investment cloud infrastructure, responsible for entrepreneurialism.
Trust plc since 2010. managing the EMEA region.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Holds a BSc in Electronic Engineering Holds a first class honours degree Accountants and has an MA in from the Politecnico di Milano in Italy.
