42 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance review introduction 3.
As part of commencement of implementation of the Introductions to our corporate governance succession planning for our two longest serving non-executive reviews in previous years have notedthat Directors, the Board appointed Claudiaas our new Senior implementation of our corporate governance Independent Director.
is ever evolving in a similar way to the Groups 4.
We oversaw the continued development of our Group strategy itself.
This has been particularly the case management structure as it is positioned for the ongoing growth and development of our business.
in 2014 which saw a number of changes in the Group.
Our ethos ofbest practice in corporate 5.
In conjunction with reviews of our management and operations, we obtained external views on the operation and effectiveness governancebeing best practice in businesshas of our Board as part of the Group as a whole: and arranged for helped guide these changes.
Egon Zenhder, who facilitated evaluation of the Board in the This ethosremains a fundamental element of our aim to prior year, to conduct a follow-up review to their previous work.
maximise shareholder value over the long term.
We continue A summary of their work is set out in the Nominations to develop our governance arrangements to ensure that the Committee Report which commences on page 67.
Group can both capitalise on the many opportunities from As in prior years, our Board and Committees each set themselves which it benefits and rise above any challenges it encounters.
specific objectives at the beginning of the year.
These objectives were particular to last year, are ongoing from year to year, or are What our ethos means in practice is that: being developed over a number of years.
Achievement of We haveenhancedthe governance arrangements in the Group these objectives in 2014, and those for the coming year, to help support and guide the great entrepreneurial drive and are summarised in the introductory sections of their individual ambition that our people have: appropriate controls and reports later in this review.
processes that help inform decisions, manage their implementation and enable their review where appropriate: UK Code compliance The Board considers that the Company has complied throughout Our Directors lead from the top in setting the tone as well as 2014 in all respects with all the relevant recommendations of the direction of the Groups strategy and management: as the the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code.
We have Group grows, so the importance of cascading our principles included throughout this governance review all of the main through the business increases: and principles of the UK Code that apply to the Company.
For readers As areas for improvement are identified, they are embraced wishing to review the UK Code in more detail, it can be found on as opportunities to be more successful in the future, to do the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
thingsbetter than we have donein the past, and to ensure that all our stakeholders including shareholders, employees and customers can benefit from all that the Group can offer.
Overview There have been five particularly notable developments in this area for TelecityGroup in 2014: On behalf of the Board 1.
We undertook a thoroughand successful search process John Hughes, CBE Claudia Arney to recruit a high calibre Chief Financial Officer for the Group.
Executive Chairman Senior Independent This resulted in the appointment of Eric Hageman to this role.
non-executive Director The process for his appointment is summarised in the report of the Nominations Committee which commences on page 67.
We commenced the process for recruitment of a similarly high calibre Chief Executive Officer following the departure of Mike Tobin from that role.
This process is being conducted in a similar manner to that for Erics recruitment.
John Hughesagreedto assume executive responsibilities until commencement of the new CEO.
Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 43 Governance calendar for 2014 The overall calendar of meetings of the Board and its Committees for 2014 is shown below: Full report Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Board main meetings p46 Board conference calls p46 Audit Committee p52 CSR Committee p57 Nominations Committee p67 5 Remuneration Committee p71 AGM Specific calendars for the Board and its Committees are shown in their individual reports within this review.
Meeting attendance by Directors 2014 The attendance of Directors at the meetings of the Board and its Committees is shown below: Attended Attended all or part of meeting as invitee Absent Audit CSR Nominations Remuneration 2 5 Board meetings Board calls Committee Committee Committee Committee John Hughes 1 Eric Hageman Claudia Arney Simon Batey Maurizio Carli 2 Nancy Cruickshank John OReilly 3 Michael Tobin 4 Brian McArthur-Muscroft 1 Eric Hageman was appointed to the Board in September 2014.
2 Nancy Cruickshank was appointed as a member of the Audit Committee following its meeting in February 2014.
3 Mike Tobin stepped down from the Board in August 2014.
4 Brian McArthur-Muscroft stepped down from the Board at the end of January 2014.
5 John Hughes and Michael Tobin did not attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee whilst it was considering matters in relation to their own remuneration.
All Directors on the Board at that time attended the AGM.
John Hughes, CBE Claudia Arney Executive Chairman Senior independent non-executive Director
