6 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Connected data centres: at the heart of the digital world 07:15 08:10 Data centres: Use transportation card Exit, ticket barrier Card system runs on Ticketing system retains A day in your life transportation company and cancels ticket validity Most people dont realise how data centres data centre.
Most stations locally but station CCTV also have wireless transmits and records 24 7, impact their day-to-day lives.
But from the point connectivity to a third backed up by data centre you wake up, you rely on services, tools, party data centre applications and content hosted in data centres and delivered over wireline and wireless networks.
06:45 06:46 07:01 07:45 08:11 Woken by radio alarm Switch on lights Check SMS rail alerts Check email on train Buy coffee Some alarms are Your mobile provider uses This involves several Pay for your coffee using and take a shower autocorrected by GPS a data centre network data centres all of which your online app and receive Turn on your hot water satellite signal and for messaging, routing have to talk to each other: loyalty points.
Phone logs using a smart heating app managed through and billing.
Train operator the data centre serving the in to free Wi-Fi service that runs in the cloud a secure data centre uses a data centre to mobile network you are in coffee shop, gathers enabling you to control manage rail information accessing, your internet your number, transmits your heating anytime, service provider and your and records it in their data anywhere.
Your electricity own company centre for use later in account is located in a data targeted sales promotions centre, with payments and personalised service made through several data centres One minute in the life of the internet Data centres are at the heart of todays digital economy.
These transactions depend 57,870 100hrs 204m on networks and IT systems, Pinterest page views of video are uploaded to emails sent every interacting in a data centre.
YouTube every minute minute Based on Datacentres: a day in your life by Tech UK Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 7 08:50 09:05 13:00 19.10 20:30 Swipe card Use email and book trip Meetings and E-Book and film Interact with friends Hotel and airline booking Download a new movie to enter office teleconferences on social media, systems hosted by service or a book for the evening.
Swipe card is locally Use your new cloud based check latest news, providers in data centres.
All the content is available controlled but the system unified communication weather on demand Your ISP data centre and in the cloud hosted watchdog records service to attend online All these services are several third-party service in a data centre.
E-books movements and uploads meetings wherever provided from content providers are involved are connected devices: the batch files to the and whenever you want servers living in data any book you download remote security companys to meet.
Organise audio centres, ISP, email service will involve a data centre, data centre and web conferencing 11.30 and search engine even if it is free using email addresses Check your home and pay as you use plans Using online app and Wi-Fi enabled remote camera Illustration to be updated to be more data centre centric 09:00 09:20 18:30 20:00 22:30 Log on to company system Cash out and Taxi service to station Search engine to Check bank balance The company enterprise Book taxi and pay using Two data centres: ISP and supermarket restaurant network is provided by a online payment service online banking, databases Use your phone for Review and book restaurant telecom provider and their all delivered through apps.
payment using near field online, using location routers and switches which Billing, live tracking communications.
services, search engines, route traffic are hosted in a services, mobile networks Electronic transactions geo-mapping services data centre.
The intranet interconnect in the are enabled by a banks located in data centres, internet extranet are all hosted data centre data centre.
Supermarkets reached over network on servers that are housed in use ICT data and customer data centres.
Access may just data which they manage, be managed by your companys process and store in local server, but likely to be data centres backed up in a data centre Facebook users shared Instagram users posted Amazon made 3.98m 3.3m 347,222 48,611 $169,195 Google searches every pieces of content tweets sent every minute photos of online sales minute Source: Intel Internet Minute Report, 2014: Company data
