46 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Report of the Board Membership of the Board The UK Code provides that independent non-executive Directors should comprise at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman.
Executive Directors Independent non-executive Directors John Hughes Executive Chairman Chief Executive officer Claudia Arney Senior Independent Director Eric Hageman Simon Batey Chief Financial officer John Hughes, CBE Executive Chairman John OReilly Maurizio Carli Nancy Cruickshank It is an essential part of the ongoing success Michael Tobin stepped down from the role as Chief Executive officer on 24 August of any business that it should be led by directors 2014 and a replacement is being sought.
with the relevant skills, knowledge and In addition, the Chief Commercial Officer, the Group Financial experience to do so.
Their contributions should Controller and other members of the senior management team then be maximised.
are invited to give presentations at Board meetings: External speakers are also invited to present at meetings, As Chairman of the Board, this is what I aim for in TelecityGroup.
usually on a matter of strategic interest.
It is, and will remain key to the ongoing success of our business.
Specific objectives achieved in 2014 As part of this, my colleagues on the Board: Focused on shareholder value creation, reviewed strategy in Contribute a wealth and range of knowledge, experience the light of changing external climate and developed rolled-out and skill sets to the Board, our Committees and more widely its updated equity story based on the changing environment: in the Group: and Considered strategy and consequent group organisation to better align with changing market trends, including Have been appointed to our Board and Committees, over a country region organisation and go-to-market strategy: period of years, ensuring their memberships are progressively Initiated detailed strategic planning process: refreshed and a range of perspectives in Board discussions Recruited and integrated new CFO: is maintained.
Acted on key findings of Board assessment and investor Details of our individual Directors and when we were appointed expectations: and to the Board are shown in our biographies on pages 44 and 45.
Focused even more deeply on information and A diagram showing the progressive timing of our appointments infrastructure security.
is included in my report as Chairman of the Nominations Specific objectives set for 2015 Committee on page 69.
The introductory sections of the reports Continue to focus on shareholder value creation, to review of our Committees later in this governance review show when Group strategy in the light of changing external climate and their members were appointed.
to develop roll-out its updated equity story based on the In this report, I summarise our activities in the past year as changing environment: a Board.
Recruitment and integration of a new CEO: Complete the strategic planning process and implement its Developments during the year findings and consequent group organisation, go-to-market Building on the developments in previous years and taking strategy and enhanced solutions offerings including Cloud-IX: account of the results of the Board evaluation last year, we have Act on all key findings of the Board assessment: and sought to continue the process of constant improvement in the Continue to focus even more deeply on information way the Board operates: and infrastructure security.
During the year, we appointed Eric Hageman as our new Chief Financial Officer.
The process for Erics recruitment is UK Code Principles: commented on in my report as Chairman of the Nominations Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the company.
We have maximisedthe value from his appointment as quickly as practical through a There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company between the running of the board and the executive responsibility for the comprehensive induction programme commented on further running of the companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered in the diagram on page 68and drawing on his breadth of skills powers of decision.
Areas in which Eric hasalready provided valuable The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring its input to the Board have included our reviews of shareholder value effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 47 creation and the development and roll out of the Groups Division of responsibilities updated equity story.
Clarity of the responsibilities of, and constructive working relationships amongst, our Directors are at the heart of our We maintained our focus on long-term strategy at each main Board achieving its maximum potential.
Most important in these Board meeting and obtained the input of external consultants are the responsibilities of, and clarity between, the roles of on this.
Chief Executive Officer and Chairman.
As recommended by These discussions included further development of the the UK Code, we have a clear written division of responsibilities Groups ongoing plans for growth and innovation in terms of between these roles.
Following the departure of Mike Tobin as both go to market and organisational strategies in the context of Chief Executive Officer during the year, I assumed responsibility changes in business landscape and the development of the for this role in addition to that as Chairman.
Mindful of this dual Group commented on in the Strategic Report.
role, Claudia Arney, our Senior Independent Director, has agreed to provide additional oversight of Board processes pending In our reviews of strategy in the latter part of the year, we focused my handing back my current executive responsibilities after even more on shareholder value creation and development of the appointment of a new Chief Executive.
This has included theGroups equity storyfor roll-out to investors.
Claudia chairing discussions on particular decisions where I felt At several main Board meetings, we also reviewed the ongoing my dual role might have given me undue influence in these.
development of the Groups IT and infrastructure security.
A summary of the individual responsibilities, and those of our Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary, Whilst we view the process of enhancement as continuing to undertaken in 2014 is given in the diagram below.
evolve as the Group develops, Egon Zehnder in their evaluation of the Board commented on further on page 70 in my report as Chairman of the Nominations Committee indicated that the Board was performing well overall.
Division of Board responsibilities Chairman Chief Executive Officer Agreed with the executive Directors subjects for particular Worked with the Chairman in agreeing subjects for particular consideration by the Board during the year.
consideration by the Board during the year.
Provided strategic insight from his wide-ranging business Led the business and the rest of the management team.
experience and contacts built up over many years.
Responsibilities assumed by the Chairman until a new With the other members of the Nominations Committee: Chief Executive Officer is appointed.
worked with the Chief Executive Officer on the recruitment Led the ongoing development of the Groups strategy of our new Chief Financial Officer: and led the process for with input from the rest of the Board and its advisors.
the recruitment of a new Chief Executive Officer.
Was the principal public face of the Group with shareholders, Assumed executive responsibilities on the departure of customers, suppliers and the industry generally.
Brought matters of particular significance or risk to the Sought additional oversight from the Senior Independent Board for discussion and consideration if appropriate.
Director whilst undertaking that dual role.
Led the recruitment process for the new Chief Met with major shareholders on both strategic and Financial Officer.
Effective division of responsibilities and Board operation Senior Independent Director Company Secretary Led the evaluation of the Chairman following on from the Secretary to the Board and each of its Committees, results of the externally facilitated evaluation of the Board.
reporting directly to their Chairmen.
Provided input to the Board on governance matters.
Assisted the Chairman and executive Directors in bringing the With the Chairman, assisted the Nominations Committee matters they had determined appropriate for consideration in developing the job specification for the recruitment of the during the year onto specific meeting agendas.
new Chief Executive Officer and in the recruitment process.
Kept the Board and its Committees informed on governance Provided additional governance oversight during the period matters, advising on these through their Chairmen.
when the Chairman and Chief Executive roles were combined.
Assisted in the induction of the Chief Financial Officer following his appointment to the Board.
48 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Report of the Board continued Governance calendar for 2014 January March May February April two meetings June Reviews of: Reviews of: Reviews of: Sales & marketing Sales & marketing Ongoing sales & including presentation from development marketing development external specialists KPI reporting development Istanbul business Equity story development Group organisational Post-acquisition review Amsterdam & Paris expansion plans structure of Bulgarian and Polish with regional VP Investor feedback on businesses equity story Update on Committee Agreement of Board objectives for Emerging Markets Region memberships the coming year with Regional VP Review of the Nordics Approval of proposals to be submitted Group IT and with Regional VP to the AGM Infrastructure security Capital expenditure tracker Interim Management Amsterdam expansion Review and approval of annual Statement proposals results, including: Amsterdam expansion Group IT security Preliminary announcement: development Investor presentation: Capital allocation plans Annual Report: Plans for final dividend Review and discussion of: Review of reports on: Strategic considerations and opportunities Customer pipeline and Risk management Trading results and KPIs forecast updates Health & safety Current and planned new build projects and significant Site fill rates Environmental matters capital expenditure plans and progress Financing and accounting matters The day-to-day management of the Groupsbusiness is delegated Board meetings As shown above in the governance calendar for 2014, we hold to operational management within defined authority limits.
This six main Board meetings each year at two-monthly intervals.
includes approval of customer and supplier contracts and routine These meetings, together with any meetings of our Committees, capital expenditure within those limits.
Between Board meetings, are generally held in London over a period equivalent to the non-executive Directorsand Ikeep in touch on key matters approximately one day.
and I involve the Board as a whole where I feel this is appropriate.
Twice this year, we met at one of the Groups other locations in The operation of the business is reported on to the Board as Helsinki and Amsterdam, where we toured the existing facilities, set out on page 50. as well as meeting local management.
Maximising Director contributions When appropriate for specific matters, we also meet usually I seek to maximise the contribution of our Directors at and, by telephone conference between main meetings.
where appropriate, outside Board and Committee meetings on We have a schedule of matters specifically reserved to the an ongoing basis.
We have designed this to ensure that I chair our Board and Nominations and CSR Committee meetings the decisions of the greatest significance are considered by in a way that ensures full and open discussions, as my fellow our Board as a whole.
Chairmen of our other Committees do with their meetings.
A high level summary of key matters considered and decided at each Board meeting and strategy meeting during 2014 is shown in the governance calendar above.
At each main meeting At specific meetings Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 49 July September August two meetings October two meetings November December Reviews of: Reviews of: Reviews of: Reviews of: Long-term strategic planning UK Regionwith Regional VP Strategic planning 2015 Budget Developments in Turkey Investment & infrastructure Equity messaging Capital structure and Appointment of Claudia Arney services Expected full-year outcome financing plans as Senior Independent Director Investor feedback from Capital expenditure optimisation Western Europe Region with half-year results Amsterdam business Regional VP Performances from recent Future plans for Stockholm London Docklands operations acquisitions Strategic updates with Power usage efficiency external advisers Strategy Meeting including: CRM system Operating & Capital Expenditure Industry landscape with external advisers Review and approval of half year Strategy development Operating plans & Budgetwith results, including: Presentations by management regional Vice-Presidents Report of the Audit Committee & external advisers Non-executive Directors fees Announcement Review and approval of: Plans for Board evaluation Investor presentation Interim Management Statement Declaration of interim dividend Agreement for Chief Executive Officer to step down UK Code Principle: Review and discussion of: Investor relations & feedback Reports on implementation The board should use the AGM to Corporate communications of actions agreed at previous communicate with investors and to Minutes of previous meetings meetings encourage their participation.
Induction of new Chief Financial Officer Building upon the process developed for the last time new The induction process was ongoing through, and completed Directors were appointed, a thorough induction process was within, the first couple of months following the announcement undertaken to maximise the contribution of Eric Hageman as of his appointment.
This ensured that hereceived information the Groupsnew Chief Financial Officer as quickly as possible.
both in advance of the first Board meeting he attended and also with the benefit of having attended that meeting.
On appointment Following appointment The Groups new CFOreceived a comprehensive briefing Partly before and partly  in the role prepared by the Company Secretary to supplement the the Groups new CFOseparately conducted: information on the Groups business provided during Business briefing meetings with the Chief Executive Officer recruitment including: and Chairman.
Board minutes for the previous year.
Meetings with members of the Group and regional Key papers from the last Board meeting.
Key papers from previous Board meetings remaining relevant.
Visits to a number of the Groups data centres.
Key brokers reports on the Group.
Meetings with the Groups Auditors and financial, Key Group policies.
Governance information in relation to the Company, including the role of the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
Guidance for Directors of British public companies generally including under law, the UK Code and the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
50 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Report of the Board continued How the Board operates The Chairman, along with the CFO and Company Secretary, Members of the senior management team draw on has established Board processes designed to maximise its the collective experience of the Board, including its performance.
Key aspects of these are shown below: non-executive Directors.
Comprehensive reporting packs are provided to the The Chairman and Company Secretary meet towards the Board, which are designed to be clear, accurate and analytical, beginning of each year to agree an overall calendar of whilst avoiding excess and unnecessary information.
subjects to be discussed by the Board during the year.
Reporting packs are distributed in advance of Board meetings, Board meetings are timetabled to ensure adequate time for enabling them to be as up-to-date as possible whilst allowing discussion of each agenda item for that particular meeting.
sufficient time for their review and consideration in advance Discussions at Board meetings are held in a collaborative of the meeting.
atmosphere of mutual respect and open discussion allowing Clarification or amplification of reports is sought in advance of, for questions, scrutiny and constructive challenge or at, meetings as appropriate.
Once goals have been set and where appropriate.
actions agreed, the Board receives regular reports on their Full debates on key matters allow decisions to be taken implementation.
by consensus although any dissenting views would be Comprehensive management accounts with commentary minuted accordingly.
and analysis are distributed to the Board on a monthly basis.
The development of strategy is led, pending the appointment The Board reviews the Groups risk register at each of its of a new Chief Executive Officer, by the Chairman together with main meetings and challenges this where appropriate.
the CFO with input, challenge, examination and ongoing testing The Board systematically visits the Groups business locations from the non-executive Directors.
both to review its operations and new builds and to meet with Group strategy is reviewed by the Board throughout the year, local management.
with particular strategic matters being reviewed and updated All Directors have open access to the Groups key advisors as appropriate at each main meeting.
as well as to management and the Company Secretary.
Good working relationships exist between non-executive Directors are also entitled to seek independent professional Directors and non-Board members of the senior management, advice at the Groups expense should they consider this which are encouraged by the Chairman and CFO.
Dialogue with shareholders The Board recognises that it is managing the Group ultimately commented on further in the report of that Committee on behalf of its shareholders.
The Companys Annual Report and Notice of AGM are It undertakes this responsibility in such a way so as to seek published as soon as the time required for their printing to maximise shareholder value over the long-term and to allows normally around the beginning of March to provide advance the interests of all of the Groups stakeholders.
the maximum time in advance of the AGM for feedback on A mutual understanding of these objectives between these, which is shared with the relevant Directors.
shareholders and the Board as a whole has been developed as A presentation is given to shareholders attending the set out below.
Companys AGM at which shareholder participation is encouraged, all Directors are present and questions Pending the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer, and feedback are invited.
the Chairman, along with the Chief Financial Officer, meets Proxy votes of shareholders for the AGM are tabulated with institutional shareholder representatives regularly independently by the Companys registrars, announced at to discuss strategic and other matters as well as to give the meeting and published on the Groups website shortly presentations on the Groups results copies of which are after the conclusion of the AGM.
available on the Companys website.
The Board receives reports from the Chairman and CFO In addition, all Directors are able and available to meet with on feedback from institutional shareholders at main shareholders if so requested.
In particular, executive Directors, Board meetings.
the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are all The Chairman also holds meetings with a number of the available to discuss matters with shareholders at any time.
Companys largest institutional investors and any other investor They can all be contacted through the Company Secretary or who expresses an interest in this on governance and other the Groups Investor Relations team.
matters, key points from which are reported to other Directors.
Details of the substantial shareholders of the Company are set out in the The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consults with Directors Report on page 134 major shareholders before any significant changes in executive For more information contact us at ir@telecity.
com or remuneration and reports the results to the full Committee, www.
htm Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 51 I ensure that appropriate training is available to all our Directors.
The year ahead Such training covers the Group, its industry and governance The past year has been one of change and this process is matters more generally.
I review this annually as part of the continuing in 2015 through the recruitment of a new Chief evaluation of the Board.
During 2014, this training included Executive Officer.
I believe these changes are bearing fruit for attendance at seminars by individual Directors: the Group, its shareholders and its other stakeholders, and will continue to do so in the coming year.
I look forward to reporting It also included briefings from our CFO, Company Secretary, further progress again next year.
Auditors, lawyers and investment bankers on subjects including: Updated guidance on remuneration from institutional shareholder groups: Developments in corporate governance: Trends in Directors remuneration: Key reporting developments for the Board and our Audit and Remuneration Committees: John Hughes, CBE Investor related matters.
Executive Chairman 10 February 2015 Management of conflicts of interest My Board colleagues and I avoid conflicts of interest with the Group as far as possible.
Indeed, one of the criteria for our appointment as Directors was that we were free from any such conflicts.
Nonetheless, actual or potential conflicts of interest can arise occasionally during a Directors tenure and the Board has a set procedure in place under the Companys Articles of Association to deal with these as follows: Actual and potential conflicts of interest are notified to the Board before they arise: On such notification, the other Directors consider whether to authorise the actual or potential conflict of interest and, if so, under what conditions: and Such conditions could limit the distribution or use of information to or by a Director or include the Director absenting themselves during discussions on the relevant matter.
Only one Director notified any actual conflict of interest which arose through no cause occasioned by that Director during the year and this was approved and then managed appropriately by that Director and the Board.
Decisions regarding transactions with Directors and their related parties are always dealt with by other Directors.
For example, matters regarding the remuneration of the executive Directors and me as Chairman are handled by the Remuneration Committee.
UK Code Principle: There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
UK Code Principle: All directors should receive induction on joining the board and should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non-executive directors should constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
