DIRECTORS REPORT The directors have pleasure in presenting their report and the audited financial statements for the year to 31 March 2014.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW A full review of the development of the business is contained in the Strategic Report on pages 3 to 33.
A summary of the financial risk management objectives and policies is contained in note 19 to the financial statements.
This Directors Report, together with the information in the Strategic Report forms the management report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The profit for the year after tax of 28,975,000 2013: 27,066,000 has been transferred to reserves.
An interim dividend of 16p per share 2013: 13p was paid during the year.
A final dividend of 19p per share 2013: 18p per share is proposed.
DIRECTORS The names of directors who served during the year and their interests, including those of their connected persons, in the share capital of the Company at the start and end of the year are set out in the table below.
Details of the directors share incentive awards are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 60.
ORDINARY 5P SHARES HELD AT 31 MARCH 2014 31 MARCH 2013 DIRECTOR Charles Wigoder 16,055,866 15,981,041 Julian Schild 116,682 97,624 Andrew Lindsay 132,312 81,465 Chris Houghton - - Melvin Lawson 2,061,869 2,050,000 Michael Pavia 26,391 25,000 indicates non-executive directors In respect of the above shareholdings, Mr Wigoder has a non-beneficial interest in 3,067,683 shares 2013: 2,900,000.
There have been no movements in any of the directors interests in the share capital of the Company between 1 April 2014 and 20 May 2014.
The powers of Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles.
The Articles may be amended by way of a special resolution of the members of the Company.
The Board may exercise all powers conferred on it by the Articles and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, and other applicable legislation.
68 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Board has established a formal, rigorous and transparent process for the selection and subsequent appointment of new directors to the Board.
The rules relating to the appointment and replacement of directors are contained within the Articles.
The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a director appointed in that way retires at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
In addition, Mr Wigoder, as he holds in excess of 20% of the Companys shares, is entitled under the Articles to appoint a director and remove any such director appointed.
In accordance with current best practice, all Board directors will be retiring at the forthcoming AGM and will then offer themselves for re-election.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles allow the Board to authorise such conflicts of interest should this be deemed to be appropriate.
The Board has put in place effective procedures for managing and, where appropriate, approving conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
Under these procedures, the Directors are required to declare all directorships or other appointments to companies which are not part of the Group, as well as other situations which could give rise to a potential conflict.
The Board will, where appropriate, authorise a conflict or potential conflict, and will impose all necessary restrictions and or conditions where it sees fit.
The Company maintains a register of directors conflicts of interest which is reviewed regularly by the Board.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE The Company maintains appropriate insurance to cover directors and officers liability and has provided an indemnity, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006, in respect of all of the Companys directors which was in force throughout the financial year and remains in force.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where a director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
EMPLOYEES The requirements of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of employees are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 29 to 31.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS As at 20 May 2014, in addition to the directors, the following have notified the Company of their substantial shareholdings as detailed below: SHAREHOLDER NUMBER OF SHARES PERCENTAGE OF ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL Standard Life Investments Ltd 7,207,174 9.0% Schroder Investment Mgt 4,996,526 6.2% Legal & General Investment Mgt 3,321,534 4.2% BlackRock Investment Mgt UK 2,429,148 3.0% Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 69 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED CAPITAL STRUCTURE Restrictions on the transfer of shares The Company only has ordinary shares in issue.
Other than as set out below, there are no restrictions on the transfer of the ordinary shares, except where a holder refuses to comply with a statutory notice requesting details of those who have an interest and the extent of their interest in a particular holding of shares.
In such cases, where the identified shares make up 0.25% or more of the ordinary shares in issue, the directors may refuse to register a transfer of any of the identified shares in certificated form and, so far as permitted by the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, a transfer of any of the identified shares which are held in the electronic share dealing system CREST, unless the directors are satisfied that they have been sold outright to an independent third party.
Other than as set out below and so far as the directors are aware, there were no arrangements at 31 March 2014 by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than a holder of securities, or any arrangements between holders of securities that are known to the Company and which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Executive Chairman Charles Wigoder entered into an agreement to charge 325,000 of his shares in the Company as security for a loan from Barclays Bank on 3 December 2013.
The loan enabled him to apply for 57,142 ordinary shares as part of his open offer entitlement which resulted from funding the Companys entering into of the new energy supply arrangements with Npower on 20 December 2013.
Under the terms of the charge, title to the 325,000 shares can be transferred, sold or otherwise dealt with by Barclays following the occurrence of a failure to pay any amount due and payable under the loan.
In addition, certain members of senior management have loans secured against some or all of their shareholdings in the Company which restrict their ability to transfer these shares prior to repayment of the loans.
The Company established a Joint Share Ownership Plan the JSOP on 30 March 2011.
As part of the JSOP an employee benefit trust was established to jointly hold shares with the participants in the plan the JSOP Share Trust.
As at 31 March 2014 the JSOP Share Trust jointly held 500,000 shares with the Chief Executive, Mr Andrew Lindsay.
Prior to vesting, all voting and dividend rights attached to these shares have been waived.
Takeovers There are no significant arrangements to which the Company is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, save in relation to the arrangements with Npower and Everything Everywhere formerly T-Mobile for the supply of energy and mobile telephony respectively, or any agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Authority for purchase of own shares At the last AGM held on 17 July 2013, the Company obtained authority to purchase up to 7,062,061 ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at 11 June 2013.
The Company intends to renew this authority at this years AGM.
70 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Treasury shares The Company had no shares held in treasury during the year.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION Each of the directors has confirmed that so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and that he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Companys position in relation to compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 36 to 42.
GOING CONCERN The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 3 to 33.
The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 18 to 23 and within notes 12 and 19 to the financial statements.
In addition, notes 15 and 19 include the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Under the revised energy supply arrangements which were effective from 1 December 2013, Npower continues to be responsible for funding the principal working capital requirements relating to the supply of energy to the Companys customers.
This includes funding the Budget Plans of customers who pay for their energy in equal monthly instalments and pre-funding the payment of certain energy network charges.
The Group has secured from Barclays Bank PLC Barclays total working capital credit facilities of 25 million for the period to 20 December 2016.
In addition the Group has a transaction loan facility of 100 million with Barclays which was fully drawn down at the year end.
The Company has considerable financial resources together with a large and diverse retail and small business customer base and long term contracts with a number of key suppliers.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks.
On this basis the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The annual financial statements have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with the FRCs Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 issued in October 2009.
For and on behalf of the Board David Baxter Company Secretary 20 May 2014 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 71
