Market overview As customers increasingly choose to shop across different store formats and online, they are looking to retailers to provide a truly seamless, multichannel offer.
These changes to customer behaviour and shopping habits come in the context of continuing economic pressure on household budgets and competitive environments in all 12 of our markets.
Macro trends The economic environment has continued to be challenging in all of our markets.
Although there are signs of improvement beginning to appear, we dont yet see consumers spending more.
In the UK, we use our unique insight from dunnhumby to track comprise one or two people a trend also seen in Thailand, how British consumers feel about the economy in general, as well in part due to rapid urbanisation.
This changing household as their own individual situations.
Our latest quarterly Consumer composition is one factor leading to an increasing preference Today report shows that although some consumers are starting for convenience shopping.
to feel more upbeat about an improving economy, they are yet to feel the benefit in their own pockets.
That is why we remain very We believe that in the longer term rising populations, rapid focused on helping customers to manage their budgets by offering urbanisation and a growing demand for agricultural products them great value for money across their shop.
present a risk to global food security and highlight the importance of building sustainable supply chains.
In Central Europe, after a prolonged period of economic pressure, More information about our work to increase the sustainability of our employment levels and consumer confidence are rising, albeit supply chain is available in the Tesco and Society Report.
from historically low levels, and real incomes are starting to benefit from lower inflation.
Nonetheless, household expenditure is yet to improve significantly.
UK consumers: how do you expect the financial position of your household to change over the next few months?
Although some economies in Asia are rapidly expanding, Get better Get worse Thailand fell into recession during the year and consumers % struggled with higher levels of debt.
Thai consumer confidence 50 was further affected by the escalation of political unrest in the 40 second half of the year.
In South Korea consumer confidence has been on a marked upward trend through the year but household 30 debt has reached record highs.
Consumer confidence in Malaysia 20 has fallen due to concerns over inflation, low wage growth and a proposed sales tax.
10 Populations are ageing and household sizes are declining across our Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan 09 10 11 12 13 14 markets.
In Asia for example, 50% of South Korean households Source: The Consumer Today, dunnhumby, February 2014 Consumer trends More frequent shopping The rise of technology Technology is changing the way we consume.
The role that it plays in customers lives has Proportion of UK customers shopping three changed as it becomes a fundamental, or more times a week for food and groceries essential part of everyday life a way to stay connected, to manage banking and bills, a part of education and often essential for work.
While the pace of adoption of online shopping, particularly for groceries, 29% in 2009 43% across our markets is unclear, the transition is certainly well underway.
It is not just of UK customers use a mobile phone transactional consumers are increasingly to compare prices or look up customer using the internet to research purchases.
49% in 2013 reviews while in store In the UK, for example, over half of purchases are influenced by digital channels, 63% of shoppers use their smartphone in store and Technology is changing the way we consume.
43% of customers use a mobile phone to compare prices or look up customer reviews The role that it plays in customers lives has while shopping in store.
The influence of changed from being a practical tool to becoming a the internet is rising across all our markets: two thirds of Malaysians have access to the much more fundamental and essential part of life.
internet, for example, while almost half of Czechs own a smartphone.
08 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Multichannel Multichannel cuts across the digital Customers value retailers who get it right and the physical.
It is transactional and Average annual spend with Tesco non-transactional.
It is not just about selling products but also about the way we interact with and engage customers.
In-store only Being truly multichannel is not just about having a website it is about putting the 2.04x customer at the heart of our business and In-store online grocery giving them one seamless, joined-up relationship, be that through media, 2.98x social media or even a customer service In-store online grocery general merchandise online desk in store.
In-store Online grocery General merchandise online With this rise of technology and digital of retailers are changing too and they are the proportion of customers shopping three capabilities, consumers are changing the looking to retailers to provide a truly or more times a week for food and groceries is way they shop.
Customers want to be able multichannel offer one that joins up up from 29% in 2009 to 49% in 2013. to shop however, whenever and wherever all the different channels to give them a they want.
They want to shop across store seamless experience.
Health and wellbeing is also a growing trend.
formats, on smartphones and on tablets.
Over half of the UK population worry about They are no longer choosing just a simple Value continues to be a priority for consumers their health and food is at the centre.
Quality trip to a store, but are making much more across our markets and they are changing the fresh food and provenance are priorities for dynamic and complex journeys to purchase.
way they shop in order to find the best value customers across our regions.
In Europe and They are bouncing between channels, for money.
They are on the look-out for the the UK, interest in and awareness of placing an order online and picking it up in best prices, promotions and deals.
The sharp provenance have intensified since the meat store, for example.
They are combining fewer rises in fuel prices across the world coupled contamination issues last year.
In Asia big shopping trips with more frequent, with pressure on disposable income has wet-markets continue to be a popular choice top-up shops at convenience stores.
As their amplified a shift to smaller, more frequent, for fresh meat, fish and poultry.
behaviour is changing their expectations convenience shopping missions.
In the UK, Industry trends In the UK, food retail sales growth In the UK, food retail sales growth has remained subdued over the last year, reflecting the challenging economic environment and has remained subdued over the last continuing pressure on consumers.
Although new space has been year, reflecting the challenging a key driver of top-line growth for many in the industry, we have seen a reduction in large store openings.
In the UK net new space economic environment and continuing among the largest four grocery retailers in 2013 was 38% lower pressure on consumers.
In many of our markets performance of larger stores has been more challenged.
Net new space In response to a consumer desire to shop more frequently and closer to home, many retailers are focusing their opening programmes on the convenience market and smaller format stores.
An acceleration in openings of small format stores is something we have also observed in our European and Asian markets.
In the UK the online grocery market has continued to grow strongly, with all the major UK food retailers now operating a grocery home shopping service.
We have also seen a rapid growth in Click & Collect over the last year, including trials of non-store collection locations.
UK largest four grocery retailers While online grocery is still in its infancy in Central Europe and Asia we expect it to continue to grow.
In Poland, for example, the value of the online food market doubled in size from 2008 to 2011, 000 sq ft 38% and is expected to have more than doubled again by 2014.
6,000 less new space 5,000 than in 2009 Across our markets the industry remains highly competitive.
In the 4,000 UK and Europe the discounters continue to grow market share and open new stores.
Promotional intensity has remained elevated in 3,000 the UK and couponing has been a feature in many of our markets.
2,000 1,000 We have seen continued development of own-brand products by 0 retailers across the globe as they seek to appeal to broader groups 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 of consumers and respond to demand for better value.
Source: IGD Datacentre Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 09
