Executive Committee With extensive UK, international and digital experience, our Executive Committee oversees the implementation of the strategy set by the Board and is chaired by the CEO.
Philip Clarke Laurie McIlwee Matt Atkinson Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Chief Marketing Officer Philip Clarke was appointed to the Board in 1998 as Laurie McIlwee was appointed to the Board in 2009 Matt joined Tesco in 2011 as Group Marketing and Supply Chain Director.
Prior to his appointment as as Chief Financial Officer, having joined Tesco in 2000 Chief Digital Officer.
Before joining Tesco, Matt was the CEO in March 2011 he was Asia, Europe & IT Director.
as UK Finance Director and later Distribution Director.
Global CEO of HAVASs digital and data businesses.
Philip began his career with Tesco in store during 1974 Prior to Tesco, Laurie worked for PepsiCo in a variety of Prior to this, Matt had a diverse background in and worked part-time through school and university.
roles including Vice President of Business Planning at marketing, brand and agency management.
Philip held several positions in Store Management before Frito-Lay International, as well as CFO and Finance holding a number of roles in commercial and marketing.
Director roles at a number of PepsiCo subsidiaries.
Benny Higgins David Hobbs Alison Horner CEO Tesco Bank Group Business Planning Director Group Personnel Director Before joining Tesco Bank, Benny served as Chief David joined Tesco in 2002 as UK Operations Alison joined Tesco in 1999 as a Personnel Manager Executive Officer of Retail Business at HBOS PLC.
Development Director and has since held various and was later promoted to Personnel Director for Between 1997 and 2005 Benny was Chief Executive positions including UK & Ireland Support Office Director, Tescos UK operations.
After eight years in stores and of Retail Banking at the Royal Bank of Scotland.
UK Business Planning Director and International general merchandise roles she joined the Executive Prior to joining RBS, Benny was at Standard Life Operations Development Director.
His international roles Committee in 2011 as Group Personnel Director, for 14 years.
He has been Chief Executive of Tesco included COO in Malaysia and China.
He was promoted with responsibility for the development of our Bank since 2008. to Group Business Planning Director in November 2013.
Steve Rigby Rebecca Shelley Robin Terrell Group Property Director Group Corporate Affairs Director Group Multichannel Director Steve joined Tesco in 1995 as Assets and Estates Rebecca joined Tesco in May 2012 as Group Corporate Robin joined Tesco in February 2013 as Group Director, and became European Property Director Affairs Director.
Prior to Tesco, Rebecca was a partner Multichannel Director.
He was promoted to UK Property Acquisition at Brunswick LLP where she advised a range of at Amazon, ultimately as VP & Managing Director, and Estates Director in 2007 and appointed to companies on financial and corporate reputation with responsibility for Amazons UK and French the UK Leadership Team in 2011.
From 2000 to 2007, Rebecca worked at businesses.
Robin has also held senior e-commerce was appointed Chief Property Officer for China.
Prudential as Group Communications Director and multichannel roles at Figleaves.
com, John Lewis Steve was appointed to the Executive Committee and was a member of its Executive Committee.
on 1 November 2013 as Group Property Director.
Laurie Mcllwee resigned from the Board on 4 April 2014.
28 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Chris Bush Jill Easterbrook Kevin Grace Managing Director UK Managing Director Developing Businesses Group Commercial Director Chris joined Tesco in 1982 and has held various Jill joined Tesco in 2001 and has held leadership Kevin joined Tesco in 1982 and has held a number positions including Store Manager, Store Director roles across the Group including Retail Operations, of roles including Support Office Director, COO of and International Support Office Director.
Between Group Strategy, Corporate Affairs and Clothing stores South Korea, CEO of Poland and UK Property 2004 and 2012, he worked abroad as COO Tesco and online.
As Managing Director Developing Director.
Kevin joined the Executive Committee in Homeplus, CEO Tesco Malaysia and CEO Tesco Lotus.
Businesses since January 2013, Jill leads a portfolio of 2011 and has responsibility for commercial practice Chris returned in March 2012 as COO UK and was diverse businesses including Ireland, Telecoms, One across our markets and sourcing from over 70 appointed UK Managing Director in January 2013.
Adrian Morris Trevor Masters Mike McNamara CEO Asia Chief Information Officer Group General Counsel Trevor joined Tesco in 1979, starting his Tesco career as Mike joined Tesco in 1998, having previously Adrian joined Tesco in September 2012 as Group a Store Manager, and later a Store Director.
Trevor held worked at Accenture and BT.
He sat on the Board General Counsel.
Prior to Tesco, Adrian worked at BP the role of Operations Director for Extras in the UK of Tesco.
com from its inception in 1999 through plc as Associate General Counsel for Refining and during a period which saw the expansion of the Extra to 2006 and led the transition of Tesco.
From 2002 to 2009, Adrian was with estate from 9 to 200 stores.
He has also served as a fully online platform, as well as the national roll-out Centrica PLC, initially as European General Counsel CEO Central Europe and became CEO Asia in 2011. of the service.
Mike is also the Chairman of Tescos and then as General Counsel for British Gas.
Jonathan Lloyd Ken Towle Managing Director Central Europe and Turkey Company Secretary Ken joined Tesco in 1985 and has held a number of Jonathan Lloyd was appointed Company Secretary roles including various UK operations roles and CEO to the Board in December 2006.
He joined Tesco as of Tesco China.
Ken joined the Executive Committee Deputy Company Secretary and Corporate Secretariat as Internet Retailing Director in 2011, before taking up Director in April 2005 from Freshfields Bruckhaus his current role as Managing Director of Central Europe Deringer.
Jonathan is also Company Secretary and Turkey in February 2013. of Tesco Bank.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 29
