Directors report The Directors present their report, together with the audited The Company is not party to any significant agreements that accounts for the year ended 22 February 2014.
Other information would take effect, alter or terminate following a change of control that is relevant to the Directors report, and which is incorporated of the Company.
The Company does not have agreements with by reference into this report, can be located as follows: any Director or Officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that Page provisions of the Companys share plans may cause options Future developments 1 to 25 and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Greenhouse gas emissions 19 Financial instruments and financial risk management 25, 99 to 108 Companys shareholders Corporate governance report 26 to 40 The Company has been notified of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares as at 22 February 2014 and as at the date of this report: The Company has chosen, in accordance with Section 414 C ii of the Companies Act 2006, and as noted in this Directors report, to % of issued share % of issued share include certain matters in its Strategic report that would otherwise capital as at capital as at the date 22 February 2014 of this report be required to be disclosed in this Directors report.
The Strategic Berkshire Hathaway Inc. 3.98 3.98 report can be found on pages 1 to 25 of the Annual Report and Norges Bank 6.09 7.002 Financial Statements 2014.
Group results Articles of Association Group revenue excluding VAT rose by 151 million to 63.6 billion, The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by representing an increase of 0.2%.
Group profit before tax increased special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Profit for the year including discontinued operations was 970 million, of which 974 million Directors and their interests was attributable to equity holders of the parent company.
The Directors who served during the year were: Mark Armour: Sir Richard Broadbent: Gareth Bullock: Patrick Cescau: Stuart Dividends Chambers: Philip Clarke: Olivia Garfield: Ken Hanna: Laurie The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend McIlwee: Deanna Oppenheimer: and Jacqueline Tammenoms of 10.13p per ordinary share, to be paid on 4 July 2014 to Bakker.
Laurie McIlwee stepped down as CFO and from the Board members on the Register at the close of business on 2 May 2014. with effect from 4 April 2014.
The biographical details of the Together with the interim dividend of 4.63p per ordinary share Directors are set out on pages 26 and 27 of this Annual Report.
paid in December 2013, the full-year dividend will be maintained at 14.76p per ordinary share 2012 13: 14.76p.
The interests of Directors and their immediate families in the shares of Tesco PLC, along with details of Directors share options, Fixed assets are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report set out on Capital expenditure excluding business combinations amounted pages 41 to 61. to 2.7 billion compared with 2.7 billion the previous year.
At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material Share capital and control of the Company and significant interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of agreements its subsidiaries.
A qualifying third-party indemnity provision as Details of the Companys share capital, including changes during defined in Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 is in force for the year in the issued share capital and details of the rights attaching the benefit of each of the Directors and the Company Secretary to the Companys ordinary shares, are set out in Note 27 on who is also a Director of certain subsidiaries of the Company in page 116 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014. respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, to the extent No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights with regards permitted by law.
In respect of those liabilities for which directors to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on voting rights may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a directors or the transfer of securities in the Company and the Company is not and officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year.
aware of any agreements between holders of securities that result in such restrictions.
Employment policies Our core purpose is at the heart of our business: we make what The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2013 AGM matters better, together applies to our colleagues as well as our to purchase its own shares in the market up to a maximum customers and communities.
of approximately 10% of its issued share capital.
No shares were purchased under that authority during the financial year.
We believe it is essential for our colleagues to have a voice.
The Company is seeking to renew the authority at the forthcoming Listening and connecting with colleagues enables us to understand AGM, within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
what matters to them and to respond by taking action to make what matters better.
We use a variety of communication channels Shares held by the Companys Employee Share Incentive Plan to regularly engage, consult, inform and connect with our teams Trust, International Employee Benefit Trust, Tesco Ireland Share so that the views of our colleagues can be taken into account when Bonus Scheme Trust and Tesco Employee Share Scheme Trust key decisions are made that affect them.
rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
Voting rights and rights of acceptance of any offer relating to the Our Values underpin our development of fair and inclusive policies shares held in these trusts rests with the trustees, who may take and encourage advocacy, engagement and loyalty so that our account of any recommendation from the Company.
Voting rights colleagues can be their best and help to deliver a fantastic customer are not exercisable by the employees on whose behalf the shares experience.
Collaboration and working as one team means we are held in trust.
make a greater difference collectively rather than as individuals.
Unless otherwise stated, all figures are reported on a continuing operations basis and exclude China and the United States which have been treated as discontinued.
62 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information We are committed to improving the skills, knowledge and wellbeing Going concern of our colleagues.
Our selection, training, development and The Directors consider that the Group and the Company have promotion policies ensure equal opportunities for all colleagues adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable regardless of factors such as gender, marital status, race, age, future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern sexual preference and orientation, colour, creed, ethnic origin, basis in preparing the financial statements.
religion or belief, disability or trade union affiliation.
All decisions are based on merit.
Events after the Balance Sheet date On 21 March 2014, the Group entered into an agreement with We actively encourage colleagues to become involved in the Trent Limited, part of the Tata Group, to form a 50:50 joint venture financial performance of our business through a variety of in Trent Hypermarket Limited which operates the Star Bazaar retail voluntary share schemes.
The Groups investment is 85 million.
Political donations On 2 April 2014, the Group, through its subsidiary dunnhumby The Group did not make any political donations 2012 13: nil or Limited, acquired Sociomantic Labs Sociomantic, a Berlin-based incur any political expenditure during the year 2012 13: 33,583. global leader in digital advertising solutions, for 124 million.
Sociomantic operates in 14 countries worldwide, with clients in Compliance with the Groceries Supply Chain Practices retail, financial services and travel services.
Market Investigation Order 2009 and the Groceries Supply Code of Practice Code Auditors The Code places obligations on grocery retailers with a turnover A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors greater than 1 billion to maintain a Code compliance programme, of the Company and the Group will be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
which includes training staff and providing information to the Competition and Markets Authority.
In addition, the Code sets out Directors statement of disclosure of information to auditors a number of provisions which relate to different aspects of the Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the relationship between a retailer and supplier.
date of this Annual Report and Financial Statements have each confirmed that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit We are committed to treating our suppliers fairly and work in information as defined by Section 418 of the Companies Act collaboration with them wherever possible.
We have in place 2006 of which the Groups auditors are unaware, and each of a Code Compliance Officer supported by a compliance team the Directors has taken all the steps he she ought to have taken including a Code auditor.
We have an audit plan and our approach as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit enables us to identify any gaps in our processes so they can be information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware quickly fixed.
We also have in place an ongoing compliance training of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be programme for our buying teams, with comprehensive training interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 for relevant new starters and annual refresher training.
We have of the Companies Act 2006. strengthened our compliance in this area through the improvement of our e-learning tool to provide interactive online training for Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information staff.
We have also generated new mechanisms to improve our Where this document contains forward-looking statements, these paperwork and agreements with our suppliers.
are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of their approval of this report.
In the past year we have actively engaged and co-operated with These statements should be treated with caution due to the the recently created Groceries Code Adjudicator GCA, Christine inherent risks and uncertainties underlying any such forwardTacon, and her office.
We have also focused on communication looking information.
The Group cautions investors that a number and dialogue with our suppliers.
of factors, including matters referred to in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in Twelve Code-related complaints were raised by suppliers this year, any forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, but are not all of which were resolved through discussion with the suppliers limited to, those discussed under Principal risks and uncertainties concerned.
We have had two instances where complaints were on pages 20 to 25 of this Annual Report.
referred to the Code Compliance Officer, although in neither of those instances was a formal dispute raised as both matters were By order of the Board resolved with the suppliers concerned.
There was one instance in which an alleged breach was raised by a third party in relation to Jonathan Lloyd requests to a limited number of suppliers for funding associated Company Secretary with shelf positioning.
The requests from suppliers were withdrawn 2 May 2014 and the matter was openly discussed with the GCA.
Consequently, the GCA issued a GSCOP clarification in March 2014 on the issue.
This provided guidance for suppliers and retailers on the interpretation of the GSCOP provisions relating to shelf positioning.
The Code Compliance Officer regularly reports to our Compliance Committees and Audit Committee, which retain effective oversight of our compliance with the Code.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 63
