990,007 953,938 894,261 875,970 846,501 899,172 902,148 868,279 854,941 834,107 779,634 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 23 Market overview Increasing demandfor 1 international travel andleisure The global travel and tourism market has grown over the past decade and is expected to continue growing at a 4-5% CAGR over the next five years to reach almost $1.3trillion.
Average income per capita is forecast to grow by more than 50% worldwide by 2020, thus driving increased demand for international travel and leisure.
As a result, by 2030, international tourist arrivals are expected to reach 1.8 billion per year, having exceeded 1 billion for the first time in 2012 worldwide.
The majority of this absolute growth is allowing customers to build their own trips.
expected to come from emerging markets, Our omni-channel approach allows us to 2 with Europe forecast to experience low singleleverage our customer insights, deepen our digit growth over the next five years.
In these relationships seamlessly with them across mature markets, there continue to remain multiple touchpoints, and serve and delight substantial opportunities within specific them in their holiday experiences.
customer segments that can be captured by agile operators who can deploy innovative Economic environment services through multiple distribution The travel industry is inherently cyclical, driven channels to meet changing customer needs.
by GDP, capacity availability and volatility The lines between traditionally distinct shocks such as political and local weather intermediary players continue to become events.
GDP growth in our three largest increasingly blurred as online intermediaries markets, the UK, Germany and Sweden, capture greater value across the value chain.
met or exceeded expectations in 2013, realising growth of 1.7%, 0.5% and 1.6% Thomas Cooks strategy reflects these respectively.
In addition, despite a modest industry dynamics.
We are capturing downward revision of expected growth, the growth in our existing markets by offering a Eurozone is expected to grow by a further differentiated, quality-controlled and trusted 1.3% in 2015, creating a stable platform for portfolio of hotels and increased flexibility in continued growth in the leisure travel industry 3 Source:IMF.
Emerging economies continue to be the main driver for overall global growth, although signs of a slowdown for some of 1 these economies have caused a downward Tourist expenditure $ billion 2013 prices revision of GDP forecasts by leading credit agencies.
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 Spending by outbound tourists abroad, including their payments to foreign carriers for international and local transport that are purchased when abroad.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 24 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Market overview continued The internet continues to strongly influence the world in which we live: in 2013, online retailing in Europe grew by 21.1%.
of this legislation in Gibraltar.
During this Regulatory and political environment period, the original EU law has continued to Consumer protection is a constant and be modified by various EU countries such that increasing area of focus at the EU level.
its original scope and application has been Within the framework of regulations and much increased.
standards in each of our source markets, we offer our customers the assurance of financial In this respect, two recent UK examples are protection including the reimbursement of note.
One is where the Supreme Court of travel costs in the event of insolvency or in the UK has established that claims for bankruptcy of a tour operator.
The European compensation are permissible in instances Package Travel Directive PTD places of technical fault, even though the original various disclosure and liability obligations drafting of the EU legislation recognised that upon us as marketers of travel packages.
technical faults were an area for which no The reconsideration of this directive started compensation would be payable.
In another at the EU level in July 2013 and is expected UK case it was established that compensation to conclude in spring 2015.
The proposed claims for delayed flights are valid even if the revision is anticipated to enhance consumer flight took place up to six years ago, and again, protection rights and to create a more level this finding is inconsistent with the application playing field among operators.
The UK elsewhere in the EU.
Government has announced that it will, once the PTD is agreed, reconsider the Since its introduction, this legislation has industrys ATOL consumer protection regime.
impacted the airlines industry significantly.
We continue to engage with all key European We continue to engage in lobbying institutions to seek the best outcome for governments in the interests both of our consumers and for the industry.
industry and of our customers, and to remind them of the importance of travel and tourism The airline industry is heavily regulated as a source of employment and driver principally for safety reasons.
increasing levels of taxation and the enhanced protection of consumer rights.
Our holiday programmes are also influenced European airlines, including our own, are by national and political events, and the subject to air passenger rights legislation responses of governments to them.
We follow whereby airlines may be required to pay such governmental travel advice closely and compensation to passengers whose flights are able to shift our flying programme and are delayed by more than three hours.
hotel capacity to alternative destinations at This legislation is also in the process of short notice in order to continue to meet our revision within the EU, but progress has been customers expectations.
interrupted by a sovereignty dispute between Spain and the UK regarding the applicability Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 25 % of traffic by device, 20132014 Desktop Tablet Phone 1 52% 28% 20% 2014 2014 2014 13% 66% 21% 2013 2013 2013 Online intermediaries have traditionally Despite these industry dynamics, Thomas Key industry trends operated with one of four business models: Cook, which operates its own Group 2 A number of mega-trends continue to content, metasearch, agency model, Airlines but also purchases approximately influence and steer the leisure travel market.
These disruptive 45% of its air capacity from third parties, These include: technological innovations, fuelled by the is able to leverage our strong position proliferation of start-ups in the sector, offer in the marketplace to differentiate our The growth of digital and online greater choice and flexibility to the end services.
Our dynamic packaging engine business models consumer than ever before.
allows customers to customise individual components of their travel, backed The internet continues to strongly Against this backdrop, Thomas Cooks trusted by our quality assurance guarantee.
influence the world in which we live: in product portfolio, high-quality customer The optimised thomascookairlines.
com 2013, online retailing in Europe grew by experience and deep relationships during all website has increased visitors and made 21.1%.
The accessibility of choice, both touchpoints of the customer journey provide booking easier during 201314, resulting through online travel agents and third-party us with an exciting opportunity to leverage in improved conversion.
We continue to comparison sites, and also online reviews the webs capabilities.
During the past year, introduce new long haul flights to popular sites, means that the rise of digital is expected with further improvements and functionality destinations.
In addition, our focus on onto continue indefinitely.
This presents a huge of our Group websites, we have generated time performance has driven improvements opportunity for Thomas Cook to combine our more than 3 billion through the web, of during 201314, from our targeted 82% 173-year experience and depth of knowledge which 0.5 billion came from mobile devices.
to 82.6%, and rising from 78% during of the leisure travel industry with the rising 201213.
Moreover, we are continuing to web presence and increasing use of mobile make improvements in the airline fleet: by 3 Low-cost air travel technology to drive sales further.
2016, 95% of the fleet will be either new Low-cost airlines have grown dramatically or refurbished with new cabin design and In FY14, there has been a shift in our in Europe and are now moving up the interiors to create greater customer comfort.
A higher value chain and becoming integrated tour proportion of customers are accessing operators, thereby offering more choice our website via a tablet or a mobile device, and flexibility to the consumer than ever whereas the desktop computer is becoming before.
Excess capacity in 2014 resulted less popular as the device for browsing in increasing pressure on the industry as a our website.
Combined with the growing threat of online disruptors, consumer power to drive competitive prices remains at an all-time high.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
