8 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Overview: Our investment case Why invest?
Our value proposition We create value by offering a wide range of travel products and services to suit all customer needs, reaching our customers seamlessly through omnichannel distribution.
Our value proposition is underpinned by the strength of our brand and our high tech, high touch approach, enabling customers to search for and book their travel arrangements through the channel of their choice, while providing a quality assured travel experience backed up by strong customer service.
The key aspects of our value proposition are as follows: Brand strength: Thomas Cook is one of the leading brands in the leisure travel market.
Building on a 173year history in the travel business, the Thomas Cook brand serves as a strong 1 master brand for the Group and is complemented by a range of wellknown regional brands, including Neckermann, Condor, JetTours, Ving, Spies and Tjreborg, which are joined by our new unifying mark, the Sunny Heart.
Product breadth: We offer a wide product range and choice of destinations enabling us to meet customer demands and preferences.
We have a history of successful product development 2 and launch, including developing exclusive and differentiated products such as the Sunwing, Sunprime, Smartline and Sentido concept hotels, which aim to deliver a consistent, highquality, branded hotel experience to our customers, as well as partnership hotels which also offer a highquality and exclusive hotel experience under local brands.
Distribution reach: We benefit from an omnichannel distribution system for our products, which include retail stores, websites and call centres, as well as thirdparty travel agents.
Access to 3 a range of distribution channels enables us to maximise customer reach and provides choice to our customers.
We aim to build on this strength through the development of a single customer gateway which will enable the delivery of a consistent, personalised customer experience with access to a full range of products, services and personal recommendations across all distribution channels.
Service and quality: Our customer service representatives are present at many customer touchpoints, including in stores, on our aircraft and in destination, providing reassurance and 4 ensuring a highquality travel experience.
We have a health and safety assurance process for our products.
Our product inventory is quality assured, taking into account reviews and recommendations of our own customers and thirdparty reviewers.
For our high volume destinations and accommodation, we carry out our own professional checks to ensure our product is fully quality controlled.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 9 Three key drivers Measured through specific targets The delivery of our investment case Our targets and Key Performance Indicators KPIs for our is based on three key drivers: Transformation and profitable growth strategy FY12 FY13 FY14 FY14 FY15 P rofitable growth supported actual actual actual target target by new product New product revenue N A 94m 280m 300m 700m 1 1 Web penetration 34% 36% 38% 40% 50% D igital growth supported Targets Costout profit by innovation improvement cumulativerunrate 60m 194m 400m 360m 500m C ost-out and profit improvement 2 Sales CAGR N A N A 2.1% 2.5% 3.5% Underlying gross margin 3 improvement N A 0.8% 1.5% 1.2% 1.5% KPIs Underlying UK EBIT margin 0.1% 2.2% 3.5% 3.5% 5% 4 Cash conversion 11% 48% 62% 55% 70% Notes: 1 Measured on a last 12 months departed basis.
2 Compound annual growth rate from FY13 to FY15 including new product revenue.
3 Underlying gross margins, adjusted for disposals and shop closures on a likeforlike basis.
4 Cash conversion defined as net cash from operating activities less interest paid as a percentage ofunderlying EBITDA.
Strong financial planning Supported by our great people... We have developed a strong financial Our people are key to the ongoing delivery and sustainability of our plan for profitable growth from a solid base, Transformation and profitable growth strategy.
We have created a single 2 underpinned by: culture across the organisation, supported by our Code of Conduct: and our 2014 groupwide employee engagement survey results increased 1.
An improved financial position following globally over 4% on the prior year and there is a clear sign that many therecent recapitalisation.
more of our employees support the Transformation and understand 2.
Detailed bottom up plans owned their part in it.
Embedded targets and KPIs aligned Our brand approach and our values with ourexternal commitments.
Brand approach The Group has a mediumterm planning horizon High tech, high touch supported by detailed financial projections prepared and owned by eachbusiness.
70% of travellers want a relationship with their holiday The plan for each business is rigorously reviewed provider that goes beyond just booking and paying for by Group and segment management through a trip.
93% of travellers either search for content online aseries of meetings to produce arobust result.
or express apreference for booking online if possible 3 The Group financial plan is reviewed and Brand values approved by the Board on an annual basis Trusted and updated regularly to reflect changes to projections as theyarise.
Trust, consistency and a strong brand are the most important drivers of customer choice The approved plan is fully aligned with externally communicated targets and KPIs and with managements objectives and Innovative remuneration schemes.
We continue to enrich our online offer with leading digital innovations to improve conversion rates Personal 50% of travellers feel overwhelmed by the amount of information and choice when booking 66% of travellers wanthelp in choosing the right product for them Financial statements Governance Strategic report
