26 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Value creation How is valuecreated?
We create value by offering compelling tour products and services, supply of airline and seat capacity, digital innovation and multi-channel reach.
Q: How does Thomas Cook create value through its business model?
Service and assurance A: We offer our customers an integrated, end-to-end travel experience, underpinned bythestrength of the ThomasCookbrands We help make sense of the Purchasing Production and Sales via overwhelming choice of travel andsupply of marketing of travel omnichannel airline seats packages, distribution system products available to customers andhotel beds components and web, phone and We differentiate ourselves from ancillaries facetoface competitors by offering high levelsof service throughout 3 thecustomer journey We offer the assurance of a quality-controlled product portfolioand financial security Third Third party party Brands, services and product package portfolio Inhouse Inhouse Shareholder Customer Innovation value value Q: What makes hotel Q: How does Thomas Cook Q: Why do customers buy partners and other develop and sustain its from Thomas Cook and suppliers want to work competitive advantage?
why do they continue with Thomas Cook?
A: We respond to customer Where does Thomas A: Our distribution strength needs and preferences, Cooks competitive Our industry expertise andto industry trends advantage come from?
andmarket intelligence We invest in our core Our deep supplier brands, and in our A: Product range and choice relationships, dedicated processes and technology Value for money service agents and field infrastructure Service and assurance support We are proud innovators Brand strength inour industry Service and assurance Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 27 Compelling branded travel packages, components and ancillaries We have a presence in 14 source markets across Europe and Airshoppen, our successful duty-free sales service in 1 our trusted product portfolio allows us to capitalise on the Northern Europe, provided another area of growth in 2014 leisure travel industrys 4% year-on-year growth worldwide.
and we are currently expanding this to Condor, with future expansions planned to other Thomas Cook airlines.
Our tour products, ranging from our differentiated concept and partnership hotels to fast-growing flexible trips, meet the needs of a wide array of customer segments.
We mitigate the inherent seasonality in the business through our Winter Sun offering and are on-track to reshape our business portfolio and realise 1.2 billion of new product revenue growth by 2017.
Our product strategy aims to satisfy a wide array of customer needs 2  hotels and flexible trips Grow our Satisfy more Mitigate Underpin our differentiated, customer needs with seasonality through portfolio by quality controlled hotels flexible trips Winter Sun sales Grow our concept hotels, Attract new customers and Push more Sun & Beach Implement Quality offering a controlled, valuemeet existing customers holidays during the winter Control standards and added holiday experience and increasing demand for season to deliver working improvement plans to sold exclusively through us flexible trips through capital improvement provide a consistent holiday dynamic packaging and experience in our Concept Expand our partnership component sales andPartnership hotels hotels delivered by leading 3 hoteliers with a track record Support flexible trips plan Curate our Long Tail portfolio of quality with a competitive, lowthrough a rigorous Quality cost operating model for Assurance approach our LongTail portfolio and Hotels4U.
com platform Financial statements Governance Strategic report 28 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Value creation continued Customer value Industry-leading customer service Quality and assurance We create value by focusing on our customers and building We have a high level of trust with our customers.
Our product relationships with them.
Our customer service is present inventory is quality assured, taking into account customer at many different touchpoints including in-store, online, and third-party reviews.
For our high-volume destinations, on the aircraft and in-destination, and we aim to provide we carry out our own professional checks to ensure that high-quality seamless advice and support from the time a high standard is maintained.
An active health and ofbooking through to the holiday and return home.
safety assurance process is also in place across our entire product range.
Our experience, flexibility across platforms and destinations, and deep sector expertise means that the level of service Brand strength ourcustomers receive via the internet, face-to-face, in-resort, Thomas Cook is one of the leading leisure travel brands phone or on mobile devices cannot be matched by other inthe industry, given our 173-year heritage.
tour operators or online travel websites.
This Thomas Cook master brand is supported by a number In addition, our customer service is tailored to each of well-known local brands across our source markets, individual, meaning the content, timing and structure of including Condor, Neckermann, JetTours, Ving and Spies, our interactions are personalised to meet the needs of each which are integrated with the Thomas Cook Group through individual customer.
We recognise that trust and consistency are two of the most important drivers of conversion across our source markets: 66% of travellers want help in choosing the right experience and more than 80% of travellers read numerous reviews Our Voyager before making a decision on a hotel.
Android vision What differentiates Thomas Cook Reinventing travel for the vs. tour operators vs. both vs. OTAs digital age across every Customer customer touchpoint empowered by Larger array of Customer trust from True omni-channel leading technology exclusive concept and consistent highapproach enabling partnership hotels quality experience customers to Relationships that Deeper insight into research and book extend to shorter who our customers when and where trips, pre-booking are and how they itsuits them andpost-travel areevolving Cost and capacity Established culture of Lower cost of air travel Access to continuous cost-out concept hotels and improvement and to exclusive andThomas Cook partnership hotels Business System Destination More asset-light Web Stores Contact centres services approach to hotel Deliver agnostic, Trusted advice to Help to smooth The face andairline capacity slick user bring the holiday the holiday of the only experience as to life well before experience when Thomas Cook your first port you set foot on you need it.
Support with Digital infrastructure Technology Digital spiritualisation Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 29 Supply of airline seats and hotel beds Our core business model as a tour operator allows customers Airlines and seat only 1 to select either fully packaged holidays or individual Our in-house airlines support our tour operator business, components of holidays, in line with their preferences.
which provides services to the Thomas Cook Group as well Given our position in the market, we are able to leverage asthird parties.
our Group buying power to take measured risks in inventory and balance such risks against customer demands.
Our Airlines has also maintained focus on the development of classic packaging remains popular for Sun & Beach breaks, the Transformation programme One Airline, where the which remains one of the largest and most popular market Groups horizontal integration has continued apace, bringing segments within Western Europe.
There has also been a several high tech, high touch changes to create value.
growth in the amount of dynamically packaged holidays over the last year, and this will remain a key strategic focus for the Company.
What Transformation Classic packages means to Classic or pre-packaged holidays combine two or more Sarah & components of a holiday for example, a charter flight and hotel and are sold as a single product to the end consumer Christina directly through our omni-channel distribution routes and 2 tothird-party travel agents via partnerships.
Dynamic packages Dynamic packages allow customers to tailor their holidays in line with their individual requirements destination, duration, quality and price are all customisable.
We source these holiday components from a range of third-party providers, package them with other services, and resell them to the end consumer directly or to a third-party travel agent with a mark-up or commission.
Local adaptations of our business model exist across our source markets, depending on the level of vertical integration among our airlines, tour operators and distribution channels.
In the UK, Northern Europe and Belgium, as an example, we operate as a vertically integrated tour operator, providing holidays to customers through our Condor flight attendants integrated distribution of retail stores, websites and call 3 centres.
In Germany, however, we originate a significant proportion of passenger volumes through our German airline Condor, and the majority of travel products and services are distributed through third parties.
assessing what you do and why you do it, then making positive changes for the better.
We live in a dynamic world, customers needs change and we have to change.
We cannot do the same things and expect different results.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 30 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Value creation continued Digital innovation and distribution Innovation has always been a core part of what makes Web us Thomas Cook, and currently our entire organisation is Our fully responsive website continues to be at the forefront re-orienting around digital.
of our digital agenda, with our new technology stack providing a faster and more reliable experience.
More than To date we have launched successful omni-channel 3 billion of web sales and 0.5 billion of mobile sales in initiatives such as WishList, which enables customers to FY14 demonstrates our commitment to innovation and move easily between store and web channels and recent achievements to date.
winner of the TTGs Leading Edge Award for Innovation and MyAccount, which enables web customers to conduct Since launching in May 2014, the new UK website has research, planning and booking activities seamlessly delivered year-on-year online package booking increases across devices.
of 11% for desktops, 61% for tablets and 212% for mobile.
The continuing channel shift towards the web is not only We are undertaking initiatives to bring iPads to more of our more cost effective but also enables us to attract a new stores, allowing staff to showcase the best of our products generation of customers.
Our Digital Product Development more easily than is possible through paper brochures Team is dedicated to making a constant flow of innovative andto our in-destination representatives, enabling them iterative improvements to our websites, based on a test tounlock inefficiencies and take in-resort customer service and learn process, and centred around our overall digital to a new level.
These innovations will provide us with a deeper insight into In addition, the launch of the new airline seat-only website our customers needs and behaviours, thereby allowing us flythomascook.
com has delivered an increase in visits to leverage our customer analytics and CRM to cater more and conversion for seat only, which aids the Group Airline closely to an individual.
performance in the face of strong competition.
The website is built using responsive design, which provides an optimal viewing experience across a wide range of devices such as desktop, tablet and mobile devices.
Our digital progression 2017 18 A leading tech innovator 2015 16 A truly digital ThomasCook 2013 14 Building Lead the industry in digital the foundations innovation, both online and in retail Deliver leapfrog performance Act as an incubator for start-ups on Mobility inthetravel industry Improve and embed our capabilities Ensure digital is lived and across the Group breathed by our people Stabilise current platform and launch Ensure stores deliver as our new ways of working digitalfrontline for customers Deliver Group-wide IT integration architecture Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 31 Shareholder value Stores How we generate returns from our 1 products and services Our Retail Transformation is continuing.
We have further developed OneWeb retail, our new point of sale system that We defined seven strategic KPIs in March 2013 to generate uses engaging content from OneWeb along with Trip Advisor returns from our products and services around two main areas: scores, priority badging of our key properties and red routes.
Sustainable and profitable growth Our latest Concept store at Bluewater has opened: including Several of our targets are articulated around revenue growth a trial of Oculus Rift Virtual Reality headset we can walk and profit improvement.
Our new and enhanced product customers through our Sentido Resort with soundscape offering is expected to deliver the largest part of our future and Sentido fragrance and also our aircraft.
We have a proof revenue growth, with a compound annual growth rate of of concept app developed by Microsoft partner Infusion at least 3.5% over the period FY13-15.
This growth rate in response to customer research from our other Concept is underpinned by our new product expansion strategy stores.
This has two elements: Inspiration and Inspire Me.
where we have targets to grow exclusive and flexible revenue We have introduced a kids zone in partnership with Disney streams by 700 million by FY15 and 1.2 billion by FY17.
with tablets for children to play on.
In addition, our cost-out and profit improvement plans focus We have reduced the administrative tasks for stores to allow on the delivery of efficiency in initiatives totalling in excess of them to spend more time with our customers and improved 500 million by FY15 under the current Wave 1 programme 2 ways of working, focusing on performance briefs at the start and by a further 400 million by FY18 under Wave 2. of each shift and management observation and coaching.
Tablets and Wi-Fi have also now been rolled out to all stores.
Cash generation and strengthening of balance sheet Contact centres Following the successful recapitalisation of the business in FY13, a key element of our corporate strategy remains cash Our contact centres sell directly to customers, as well as flow generation and the retention of a greater proportion providing sales and customer support at any customer of our earnings for reinvestment in the business, debt touchpoint in the customer experience.
A holiday is one reduction or distribution to Shareholders.
In that context, of the most important items of discretionary spend for we have a specific cash conversion target of 70% by FY15 our customers, and we recognise this importance by as a measure of our effectiveness in translating profitability ensuring that all support is tailored to each individual caller to cash.
Improving the operating cash flow profile of the and delivered through personal contact rather than an business, together with the proceeds from our disposal automated computer system.
fide-risking programme, will allow the Group to repay its debt to levels consistent with the reinstatement of dividend The service is available out of hours, and complements our payments in due course.
web and retail offering, ensuring the customer is provided with a comprehensive shopping experience.
This offering will continue to support the growth of our digital organisation How we distribute those returns 3 and our omni-channel strategy.
As our first phase of our Transformation reaches its conclusion, our focus remains on ensuring a sustainable, profitable outlook for the Group, our employees and many stakeholders.
Our strategy of profitable growth and cash generation will position the business to deliver value to Shareholders in three main areas: share price appreciation debt reduction dividend payments Our short-term priority remains debt reduction to improve the strength of our balance sheet and reduce the Companys debt-servicing burden.
The repayment of the 400 million Eurobond, which matures in June 2015, represents the first milestone in deleveraging our balance sheet, putting the Group in a better position to articulate a dividend policy atthe end of FY15.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 32 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 working closely with all of the segments and measuring performance and targets.
Everything is ultimately about harnessing People, Products and Profits to deliver a growth vision for the Company.
What Transformation means to L ara Senior Finance Business Partner Functional Reporting
