14 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 At the end of Year 2 ofthe Transformation, Thomas Cook is leaner, fitter and more agile, with a solid foundation on which to build.
Harriet Green Chief Executive Officer Harriet Green was the CEO up to and including the date of this report Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 15 Chief Executive Officers Q&A Focused on game- 1 changing new products, digital innovation and robust execution The leisure travel sector is changing at pace as higher incomes, 2 more leisure time, better transport links and technology-enabled marketing excite imaginations and inspire more people to take more personal journeys, more often.
Its one of the largest global industries where the disruption of technology has had a massive impact, opening endless possibilities for providers and customers alike.
Its against this fast-changing backdrop that the Transformation of Thomas Cook continues arguably the oldest and best-known name in travel with a 173-year heritage.
Thomas Cooks Transformation journey began in 2012 and has made huge progress.
The momentum of the first 365 days hascontinued into the second year and here Harriet Green, 3 ChiefExecutive Officer answers some of the questions shes mostfrequently asked.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 16 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Chief Executive Officers Q&A continued Rebuilding belief internally is vital and taking Since we began this journey just 24 months Q: How has the second year of the our team with us on the Transformation ago weve improved underlying EBIT Thomas Cook Transformation is also critical to the long-term success of by 200 million and delivered nine differed from the first?
consecutive quarters of profit growth, as we continue to strengthen our balance sheet.
A: Transformations take time, a great We have just completed our second ever Gross margin has improved and this year net team, a high level of resilience and total global, all-employee engagement survey and debt reduced by over 90 million, despite 24 7 commitment Thomas Cooks is at pleasingly engagement was up globally over significant capital expenditure and ongoing least a six-year journey and each phase of 4% on the prior year, a strong indication of the Transformation costs.
the journey will bedifferent as we evolve success we are having in changing attitudes and grow.
The strong feedback from our We have focused closely on fide-risking our teams was their belief that were changing business and significantly improving the In our first year we had some immediate Thomas Cook for the better.
quality of our revenue through a number of and critical actions to take to stabilise and measures, including a disciplined focus on refinance the business, which we did with We asked a selection of employees from our core business portfolio.
By taking some our successful 1.6 billion recapitalisation in all parts of the business, representing tough decisions we have radically improved June 2013, and our extensive work to remove different segments and functions to share the quality of our revenue and earnings cost, fide-risk the business and improve the what the Transformation means for them disposing of 590 million of revenue from quality of our revenues.
During the first and you will see their thoughts featured loss-making and non-core businesses that year of our Transformation journey we also throughout this report.
Our people own together delivered a combined underlying unveiled our new strategy for sustainable, the Transformation and are committed to EBIT of just 3 million.
Weve also cut risk profitable growth and reduced complexity as delivering our promises.
They are at the very capacity in our more challenging markets we started to build a more agile, responsive heart of delivering the changes we need.
It is of France and Russia and discontinued business capable of responding at pace to our teams that ensure every customer has the unprofitable lines elsewhere in the Group, customer need and the world in which we best possible experience one that exceeds giving us a stronger base on which to now live.
We built the critical foundations of the their expectations and builds loyalty, build further.
Our UK business, so vital in business creating a new Leadership Team ensuring they will want to travel with us again.
the Transformation of Thomas Cook, has which combined the strength and experience A passion for customer service lies at the benefited from the changes we are making of a third of those already in senior leadership heart of all we do a powerful component demonstrated by the 1.3% year-on-year roles, saw approximately a third promoted when combined with new products designed improvement in EBIT margin to 3.5%, in line from within the organisation and a third to meet customer need and a strong omniwith our FY15 UK EBIT target of 5%.
were brought in from outside, bringing much channel approach ensuring we remain needed expertise.
At the end of our first year relevant to our customers changing needs, Its been hugely rewarding to see some we rebranded, uniting our global teams more and available to them however, whenever of the work weve begun start to come to closely than ever before behind our Sunny and wherever they want to connect with us.
fruition and deliver results whether our new Heart brand, sending a clear message to In the year ahead every leader at Thomas OneWeb website delivered for the UK and customers, partners and employees alike Cook will have a single measure of customer now being rolled out into other markets, or that Thomas Cook was back, stronger than satisfaction at the heart of their individual our significantly improved and differentiated before.
This was particularly important for performance measurement exceeding product portfolio increased by 165 new our employees as we develop and evolve customer expectations and building loyalty partnership and concept hotels this year, our culture and create a renewed sense of are an important differentiator for us as we with more new concepts in development.
If our first year was about bold decisions and building the foundations, then our second year has been about rigorous delivery, resilience in the face of tougher trading conditions, fide-risking our business, significantly improving the quality of our revenues and embedding the changes we began to make in the first year.
All of this whilst focusing on gamechanging product development, digital innovation, profit improvement and building a high-performance team and culture, capableof consistent, long-term delivery.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 17 The significant improvements we have made deliver results.
Our products are targeted Q: Youve been very good in our product offering is another important at giving our existing customers what they attaking cost out, when will 1 step in fide-risking our business and these told us they wanted through their extensive theCompany start to deliver changes further strengthen our offering.
feedback, whilst attracting new customers to our increasingly differentiated and topline growth?
The success of our cost-out programme unique approach.
A: In major Transformations like this one, is already evident and Wave 1 has now you have to start with financial turnaround delivered cumulative benefits of 400million, The right products, underpinned by our generating cash and reducing cost.
and we have raised our FY15 target from assurance of quality and the trust that We absolutely know we cant shrink our way 460million to over 500million.
The plans comes from being the oldest and best-loved to greatness and the Management Team for Wave2 our profit improvement plan name in travel brands offers customers a remain focused on driving top-line profitable which will fundamentally change how compelling proposition.
growth through the rigorous execution of we do business are also becoming firmer our strategy.
and we are increasing our Wave2 target by Our omni-channel approach and significant another 30million to 180million.
We are investment in the web is also changing Our strategy is creating a platform for top-line reshaping to become a more efficient and our operating model as we focus on being growth which, as we breathed life into it, is set effective operating model as befits a relevant to our customers ensuring our to deliver.
technology enables us to be there and connect with them however, whenever From the start of our Transformation we We have made good progress against our andwherever they need us.
identified publicly that we needed to develop publicly stated KPIs, and although we are of 2 a strategy for profitable growth and thats course disappointed that we narrowly missed The Management Team will continue to focus what weve done.
The core of our strategy is a couple of the more stretching targets we will on what we can control as we strengthen built around: continue to focus on those areas and remain the business to deliver results and build on confident that we can deliver.
There is no the strong momentum we have created, Growing profitably through complacency amongst the Leadership Team whatever the market conditions.
our trusted product portfolio and our commitment to deliver is stronger than ever.
Q: How is Thomas Cooks Delivering our omni-channel productstrategy progressing?
Thomas Cook at the end of Year 2 is leaner, vision, there for customers What further changes can fitter and more agile, with a solid foundation however, whenever and on which to build evidenced by our ability weexpect to see?
wherever they want to to withstand significant headwinds this year, reach us A: Our product portfolio wasnt strong particularly the effects of the unrest in Egypt, enough in some of our key markets and airline over-capacity, fears around Ebola Optimising costs and cash we had candidly failed to keep pace with and the economy in Germany all factors through the Thomas Cook customer needs.
We were missing huge that could have been enough to irrevocably Business System opportunities by not offering our customers damage Thomas Cook of old, but now were the products they needed and wanted and Owning and taking risk in the more resilient and building on the solid 3 our extensive traveller survey in 2012 gave us right assets and capacity foundations laid down over the last two years.
real insight into our customers.
This research, still some of the most comprehensive in the My personal belief is that getting better Transforming our industry, has helped to guide and shape our never stops and in a high-performance organisation, culture approach to new product development as we business this means consistent execution, and capabilities have driven hard to become more relevant being the leaders the environment demands and really differentiate our product portfolio.
and keeping our customer at the heart of all we do.
We are making significant progress in all of The quality assured, trusted holiday these elements, and the signs are good.
Were experience that customers associate well positioned for future growth, with an with our brand is a major factor in why improved balance sheet, a fide-risked business customers choose to travel with Thomas and better quality revenues.
Less cost and Cook a guarantee of support, quality and a much improved product portfolio has commitment a trusted partner in their already delivered incremental new product travel experience.
The survey told us again revenues of 280 million since 2012 with and again that this trusted reputation was the much more to come as new products and biggest single factor why customers entrust concepts come to market and begin to their holiday experiences to Thomas Cook.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 18 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Chief Executive Officers Q&A continued Our focus on quality is now even more Our latest concept SunConnect is for Q: How are you making your rigorous than before with all properties those who want to stay connected on their business more resilient and able subject to regular and rigorous review.
Weve holidays as we embrace the future, with a to withstand external pressures strengthened our Quality Team and they now combination of fantastic digital features to work across markets to consistent standards complement the more traditional features.
and measures with stringent improvement Full Wi-Fi throughout, teen lounges, docking A: Over the last two years weve continued plans put in place, and monitored, for bars to recharge your devices as well as to remove unprofitable, higher-risk business any hotel which fails to meet the required yourself, all sorts of fun activities for all ages, and lay the foundations for further profitable standards.
These measures, and more, are such as geocaching and GPS treasure hunts growth by significant investment in new designed to give our customers the peace supported by a Connect Scout our webproducts and our strategy.
This, combined ofmind they have come to expect and rely savvy holiday rep ready to meet your needs.
with the reshaping of our portfolio, saw a onfrom the oldest name in leisure travel.
gross margin improvement of 60 basis points We have other exciting new concepts in across the Group on a like-for-like basis.
Profitable growth through personalised development which we look forward to and trusted products is one of the essential sharing in the year ahead and with the Strengthening our product portfolio and pillars of the Thomas Cook Business System power of the web we are now able to launch removing poor performing hotels from our our operating methodology to further new products outside of the traditional inventory has been a major factor in the professionalise not only our business but brochure cycle.
improved performance of our UK business alsoour industry.
such a key aspect of the turnaround of As well as exciting our customers, our new the Group.
Customers are used to personalisation in all products are delivering results.
Revenue from that they do and their travel experience is new products was up cumulatively to In addition, our significantly strengthened no different.
Customers want flexibility and 280million fantastic progress towards balance sheet and debt profile has fide-risked unique experiences.
Through our wide range our FY15 target of 700million.
Bringing on our business and is already delivering higherof regional airports and airline partners we new properties, destinations and concepts quality revenue.
This is vital for the long-term are able to dynamically package our hotels takes time but the results we are seeing from strength and success of the business, giving and flight options to give each customer the those new products as they are launched us the ability and strength to withstand the personal choices they want.
kind of challenges posed by recent world Expanding our Winter Sun and City Break events and airline over-capacity.
Our concept hotels are central to our strategy, offerings also remains a focus for us and we and offer something different to match every have added new destinations in Cape Verde, We have delivered growth despite these budget whether for families or adult-only the Caribbean and the USA including many challenges assisted by an ongoing focus on travellers they continue to drive growth and new flight routes.
reducing cost and maximising efficiency profitability.
Customers love them and they building a more agile business, capable of result in repeat early bookings.
More information responding quickly to change.
See page 36 Our focus on structural change will continue By removing unprofitable, high-risk properties to be key as we operate a leaner business for we are further improving the quality of our example, bringing together our four separate business and fully expect our cumulative airlines to operate as one airline segment new product growth to reach 700million has driven huge efficiency, reduced cost and by2015 and 1.2billion by the end of 2017, strengthened our operations.
This is the very with increased margins.
essence of our Wave 2 Profit Improvement drive reshaping our business for the future.
Strengthening our product portfolio and removing poor performing hotels from our inventory has been a major factor in the improved performance of our UK business.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 19 The Thomas Cook Business System to our expert advisers whether by phone Weve created some exciting apps to support operatingmethodology, which we orin person is also very important for many our customers in their travels, providing 1 introducedlast year, is central to driving a of our customers.
information to our customers in the way they culture of continuous improvement and is want to receive it we already offer our Digital the approach that underpins all we do as As part of this omni-channel approach we Companion app in Northern Europe and very we further professionalise and differentiate now have seven concept stores in the UK popular Travelguide in Germany, and there is our operations.
At the core of the Thomas offering a truly differentiated customer more innovation to come.
Cook Business System is a lean management experience as seen on pages 30 and 31. philosophy of continuous improvement.
Whilst our online Transformation enables Weve seen growth in our mobile bookings on seamless connection across channels thomascook.
com of 74%, as the expansion We have also introduced better governance through innovations like wish-list, which of our mobile services has become a key and a robust approach to risk management, enables customers to shortlist in-store and element of our online and omni-channel all part of becoming a more nimble, agile then peruse their personal shortlist from the strategy.
29% of airline bookings are now and responsive business more resilient comfort of home to make a final decision, made via mobile or tablet, and weve andbetter able than before to anticipate before booking through whichever channel established a dedicated mobile hub in andcope with change.
works best for themconnecting e-tail Stockholm with more exciting innovations and retail.
Q: When will Thomas Cook Every online customer now has access to We continue to attract great talent to reachthe tipping point my account their personalised repository, strengthen our digital and innovation onitsdigital evolution?
accessible through every channel and device, expertise and ensure there is no let-up in the 2 providing a full summary of all the Thomas speed and breadth of innovation.
In addition A: Enabling customers to access our services Cook news and tools bringing our high tech, to a number of significant appointments through multiple channels in an integrated high touch vision to life for our customers and promotions, including a promotion and seamless manner, and transforming our andemployees alike.
internally to the newly created role of Chief business to become a truly digital enterprise Innovation Officer.
In addition, we have is central to our future and with the heavy We now offer 360 degree videos of our added real digital expertise to our main plc lifting that has already taken place in the destinations, easy-to-access Trip Advisor Board, and our unique Digital Advisory Board, last two years we are now poised to take ratings, and connect our customers through comprising external experts in their fields advantage of the firm foundation for digital the power of social media to share their and some of our very best internal digital growth that weve established.
experiences, truly harnessing the knowledge talent, continues to keep us at the forefront and power of our employee experts and ofdigital innovation.
Digital progress is never in a straight line in my others who have visited the destination experience.
We need to invest in the changes Learn more about the Digital Advisory Board previously to bring the vacation experience required, drive digital innovation, be bold and See page 37 tolife for our customers.
prepared to disrupt the old ways of working.
An exciting new global marketing initiative Once this is done, the elusive tipping point called the One Campaign is being will come.
This will work through all channels, in all markets and really harnesses our We have made huge strides in this area 3 digital capabilities toexcite and delight with the biggest changes well underway our customers.
and poised to deliver the change we are committed to as we move ever closer to In this area, as with many others, Thomas the tipping point.
Where we focus we make Cook is winning awards and recognition best a difference.
airline, best use of social media and many more as evidenced on page 22.
Our omni-channel strategy is exciting and delivering change right across the business.
We are bringing the holiday experience Our research continues to show that ever closer, breathing life into it for our customers appreciate the wide range of customers through the exciting introduction channels we offer for them to connect with of augmented reality into our brochures.
In todays connected world we need to Virtual reality headsets are launching in our be there for them however, whenever and primary retail outlets in the coming weeks wherever they need to reach us technology adding a new dimension, allowing customers offers more tools and more opportunity for to experience and feel their next adventure this than ever before through as part of our and see for themselves the innovative high tech, high touch commitment, access changes were making.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 20 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Chief Executive Officers Q&A continued embrace the skills they need to better support Q: How are you sustaining our customers in the fast-changing world the pace?
A: Transformations of this kind are a24 7 challenge and we have invested time Much needs to be done and with a mantra and energy in starting the process of that getting better never stops the change internally, creating a culture of Management Team are ready to embrace high performance and belief and bringing and drive forward into year three of our our people along with us.
Our employees told us in our Transformation of this scale in just two years latest survey that they really feel we are back has required real pace and commitment and are better and the overwhelming majority andour people told us in the survey that feel that we are changing the business for the theyfelt the rapid pace of change was right better, and this progress willcontinue at pace.
for what we need to do, whilst 50% of our leaders think we should go even faster!
The Transformation of Thomas Cook into a company with a market capitalisation of Our people are ultimately the ones driving the just under 2 billion and a share price of over change their passion for our customers, love 136 pence is one I have been proud to lead.
of the brand and belief in the Transformation I always said that I would move on to another is ultimately our greatest differentiator and company with fresh challenges once my work vital to delivering the change we need to see.
Ive been working closely with Peter Fankhauser during the last two years Sustaining energy is vital and we are investing and I wish Peter Fankhauser and all of the heavily in our people and leaders through team at this re-energised company continued active development, engagement and success, as they move to the next phase of the mentoring programmes.
pride, and the power of the external recognition were receiving across the Group Thomas Cooks business is about delighting is hugely powerful to our teams.
Weve our customers every day and delivering the listed some of the awards weve received best weeks of their year.
Travel is an exciting on page 22 usually won in the face of stiff business, as Thomas Cook himself said competition from other major global players.
We are changing the culture of our business Harriet Green and exciting internal programmes like lets Chief Executive Officer go digital are helping our own teams to 25 November 2014 [Travel] provides food for the mind: it contributes tothe strength and enjoyment of the intellect: ithelps to pull men out of the mire and pollution of old corrupt customs: it promotes a feeling of universal brotherhood: it accelerates the march ofpeace, and virtue, and love it also contributes to the health of the body, by a relaxation from the toil and the invigoration of the physical powers.
Thomas Cook Cooks Excursionist, June 1854 As at 24 November 2014.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 21 1 2 3 Peter Fankhauser Chief Executive Officer with effect from 26 November 2014 Financial statements Governance Strategic report 22 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 External recognition of our Transformation achievements In the second year of our Transformation the have been recognised in many of the areas in Thomas Cook Group received significant, highwhich the Thomas Cook Business System guides profile recognition for our strong leadership, the us, most notably our strong leadership, digital actions we have taken to stabilise the business and advances, innovation and our significant product the strategic direction we have taken to achieve improvements all underpinned by our obsession sustainable, profitable growth in the longer term.
with keeping customers at our heart.
We received more than 70 accolades from financial Below are just a few of the Groups highlights institutions, the travel industry in our segments and afulllist of the awards and accolades bestowed internationally, consumer organisations and, most upon us since we began our Transformation importantly, a large number being voted for by our journeyin 2012, including local awards, can be customers.
All strong endorsements that we are found on www.
com under moving in the right direction and giving confidence theAbout menu.
to all our key stakeholders.
We are delighted to 42nd Annual Veuve Cliquot Business Woman Award Travelmole Web Awards UK 8 October May 2014 Best Airline Website and Best use of Social Media for Winner CEO, Harriet Green, Thomas Cook Group plc @thomascookcares.
Shortlisted in Best Tour Operator website NED Awards Non-Executive Director April 2014 Twentieth Annual Danish Travel Awards 8 October Quoted Company Official List Chairman, Frank Meysman, Northern Europe Thomas Cook Group plc Won Best Danish Charter Airline and Spies won Best Danish TourOperator PLC Awards March 2014 Congress of the Belgian Data Quality Association Achievement in Sustainability Award Thomas Cook Group 9October, Belgium Turnaround of the Year Thomas Cook Group plc Data Quality Award Business Finance Awards March 2014 Acquisition International and DealFeed FD of the Year CFO, Michael Healy, Thomas Cook Group plc Thomas Cook Group awarded Support Services Deal of the Year for the UK for sale of our Corporate Travel business UK Stock Market Awards March 2014 Sector Success Awards operated by DealFeed FD of the Year CFO, Michael Healy, Thomas Cook Group plc Voted Best in Sector UK Package Holidays and Sector Innovator Award for International Leisure Travel Institute For Turnaround Awards 2013 Group Corporate Comms Awards 26 November UK Turnaround & Transform Listed Company Award 2013 Thomas Cook Group plc Highly Commended for Best Rebrand Leader of the Year 2013 Thomas Cook Group plc National Business Awards UK November 2013 Women in Business Award Travel and Leisure Leader of the Year 2013 CEO, Harriet Green Moira Lumsden, Dundee store Nominated by RSM World Branding Awards ceremony 26 October, London ICSA Excellence in Governance Awards 12 November 2014 Thomas Cook Group awarded Brand of the Year in the National Shortlisted for Best remuneration report and Travel and Leisure category Best Board Disclosure in the FTSE 250 Eye For Travel Award 1 October, Germany British Legal Week Awards 27 November 2014 TC Neckermann won an award for Travelguide App Craig Stoehr Winner, General Counsel of the Year German Fairness Awards 7 October Presented to both Thomas Cook and Neckermann survey bycustomers
