Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 33 Review of strategy Our strategy 1 in action Our strategy, announced in March 2013, is to deliver sustainable profitable growth by providing trusted, personalised holiday experiences through a high tech, high 2 touch approach.
We are already delivering on the targets and KPIs we outlined as part of the current phase of our Transformation, and we expect further phases ofTransformation as we balance speed of change against the lead times and investment required for successful implementation.
The five key elements of our Transformation strategy that will reposition us for success in the modern travel industry are: Growing profitably through our Offer the very best exclusive and differentiated portfolio trusted product portfolio inindustry and a low-cost delivery model for undifferentiated butquality-assured products What Delivering Voyager Android A leading tech innovator with a seamless omni-channel and omni-channel vision approach and an ability to incubate new and innovative ideas Transformation 3 Optimising costs and cash through Renowned across industries for our ability to deliver consistently means to Thomas Cook Business System against margin and cash targets with professional systems and processes Owning and taking risk in the The industry leader for capacity risk management rewarded right assets and capacity bymarkets with industry-leading multiples Transforming our organisation, A performance-driven organisation and culture which attracts culture and capabilities and develops distinctive leaders, is focused on customers, andstimulates innovation Our aspiration is to be an industry and market leader in every element of our strategy.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 34 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Review of strategy continued Before addressing our strategy in more detail, we highlight a few Secondly, whilst keeping the customer at the heart of everything we key factors that differentiate us from our competitors.
do, we manage our business cost efficiently and seek to ensure that we are rewarded for taking capacity risk in airlines and hotels.
We have Firstly, we seek to provide our customers with a true omni-channel a significant advantage over other Tour Operators through our asset-light experience.
Customers can research and book their holidays and approach to hotel and airline capacity, re-balancing our hotel portfolio ancillary products when and where it suits them, whether on the to take capacity risk only in higher-margin differentiated hotels.
web or mobile devices, in-store, contact centres or in-destination.
Relative to OTAs, our established relationships and scale of organisation, This allows us to build relationships with our customers beyond their with over 20 million customers, give us a significant advantage by holiday, across a number of touchpoints, in a way that sets us apart enabling us to gain exclusive access to top-quality hotels.
from online travel agencies OTAs.
Our established culture of continuous cost-out and profit As customers are travelling more frequently than before, we are able improvement sets us apart from other operators in the leisure travel to extend our relationship with the customer beyond their annual market.
This culture is encapsulated in a disciplined operating model summer vacation to winter sun and shorter city breaks, pre-booking that we call the Thomas Cook Business System, illustrated below.
and post-travel, giving us deeper insights into who our customers are and how their needs are evolving and allowing us to offer the We built our unique Thomas Cook Business System by studying most suitable holidays and ancillary products to fulfil their needs.
best practices across many industries including consumer, high tech The strength of our 173-year-old brand and our holistic approach and industrial industries.
The system is reflected throughout our towards our customers has earned Thomas Cook a reputation strategy and forms the basis of our second wave of cost-out and for providing a trusted, consistent and high-quality experience.
It will professionalise our business, helping us Combined with our large array of exclusive concept and partnership drive profitable growth through four major pillars as illustrated hotels, this approach sets us apart from other operators in the leisure while keeping the customer at the heart of our business.
It is central travel market, including many traditional Tour Operators.
to our whole Transformation, supporting our ongoing journey and helping us shape the future of the Group and successfully drive continuous improvement.
The Thomas Cook Business System Profitable growth through trusted, High Tech, High Touch: personalised products a digital business Customer-centred design of trusted, Business system shifted personalised products increasingly online Quality assurance of products Digitising activities to bring Voyager and service Android alive Controlled concepts delivering Structurally lower costs: increased spans enhanced value and fewer layers Future growth through operational Accelerated new product development strengths, new partnerships and internationalisation Top-to-bottom leadership and Efficient structures, systems and relentless performance management processes through lean & innovation Customer Systematic performance management Group-wide horizontal processes against aligned strategic and supporting vertical businesses, driven at the heart operational targets through a Wave 2 of cost-out and profit Integrated risk processes improvement initiatives Leaders throughout who inspire and Lean operating system driving support people to deliver continuous innovation and improvement Consolidated shared services enabling local delivery This system is underpinned by: Listening to and acting on the voice and insights of customers Lean with ourselves, lavish with our customers Employees who live for delivering our brand, promise and Our customer at the heart of all goals for all employees products consistent with core values Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 35 Growing profitably through A range of high-quality holiday experiences our trusted product portfolio 1 that appeal to a variety of customers Our product strategy aims to satisfy a wide array of customer needs while generating significant revenue and margin growth.
We are expanding our high-margin, differentiated hotels including concept and partnership hotels and shifting high-cost commodity products Sunwing Family Resorts are to a trading hotels operating model with low-cost automatic sourcing our prime family hotels, with and no capacity risk.
We are also meeting the increasing customer spacious, family-friendly demand for flexible products through dynamic packaging, enabling apartments loaded with smart us to attract new customers who would not typically consider booking details.
All hotels have excellent a package holiday.
In addition, we offer a wide range of component locations.
With a kids club, spa travel products whether this is a hotel or flight only.
Throughout, our and gym, there is something product portfolio is underpinned by rigorous quality control and forthe whole family assurance to ensure that we meet customers expectations.
Within concept hotels, we are expanding our five concept chains, SunConnect, Sunwing, Sentido, Sunprime and Smartline across the Group.
We are also sharpening these concept definitions and SENTIDO Hotels & Resorts looking to develop new ones to drive further growth.
These hotels are aimed toward discerning have a central concept design and have a successful track record in 2 travellers, who value healthNorthern Europe and Continental Europe.
Concept hotels now span conscious cuisine and 13 destination markets including Turkey and Tunisia, where we are wellness facilities, along with thebiggest leisure chain, as well as Spain and Greece.
Over the last wide-ranging sports and year the number of guests at our concept hotels increased by 42% entertainment programmes an impressive result so early in our new product strategy.
We aim to cover the investment costs of our concept hotel expansion both by removing underperforming hotels from the Groups hotel Sunprime Hotels are our portfolio and leveraging our scale to secure better rates.
The Group adult-only resorts, for those utilises a number of operating models, including franchises, to deliver that appreciate the good this concept hotel offering.
things in life, with prime locations, peaceful pools Concept hotels offer a controlled, value-added and consistent andmodern restaurants holiday experience, based on a defined list of features tailored to meet customer demands.
These hotels generate, relative to other products in the Group, higher margins as a result of earlier booking rates andgreater customer loyalty, and are mostly marketed and soldthrough Thomas Cook.
3 Smartline hotels are a great value option for young travellers.
The eye-catching, colourful interior design is chic and inviting SunConnect is the first digitally enabled hotel brand, making the holiday experience even more relaxed through technology.
Extra features at these familyfriendly resorts include the ability to browse and book daily activities through phone or tablet Financial statements Governance Strategic report 36 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Review of strategy continued We are also expanding the number of hotels we partner with.
These are leading global hoteliers, such as H10, Iberostar, Meli, Paloma and Sunrise.
These hotels are selected for their track record of quality and customer-valued features such as family-friendly or over 60, or specific themes such as wellness.
Selected hotels from our partners are exclusively available to Thomas Cook.
Over time, allpartnership hotels will be exclusively available to our customers.
Since the end of FY 2013, we have increased the number of concept and partnership hotels to 475, and we are confident that we will achieve our previously announced roll-out plans.
We aim to have 640and 800 concept and partnership hotels by FY15 and FY18 respectively, as we focus on maximising occupancy levels at our concept hotels through advanced inventory management.
In addition to driving differentiated product growth, we are meeting the increasing demand for more flexible trips with dynamic packaging.
What We have achieved early success in the Nordics with a 55% increase Transformation in bookings since launching in January 2014 and no corresponding means to reduction in demand for other products.
We believe that dynamic packaging will also boost our Group-wide profitability as we offer it in Malin a cost-efficient way, partly through our high-quality Long Tail portfolio and Hotels4U platforms.
It will also help drive component sales.
HR Services Adviser We are also growing our portfolio of City Breaks.
This, together with Sun & Beach holidays offered during the winter, helps smooth the being truly inspired.
Its certainly seasonality of our cash flow.
Specifically, we have added a number of new winter hotels in Winter 14 15 and introduced new destinations, an ambitious Transformation such as Cape Verde.
We have already seen positive early signs with journey with some challenging improved bookings for Winter 14 15, and are currently evaluating growth opportunities in destinations such as Turkey and the Canaries.
What I like about To strengthen the long haul city business and the winter sun business, Thomas Cook has launched new routes to Windhoek, Grenada and Thomas Cook is that it doesnt increased capacity to Bangkok in Winter 14 15.
For Summer, we matter where you work in the continue to expand our profitable long haul business with the new routes from Manchester to New York and Miami, as well as from organisation, the vision is so clear, Frankfurt to Providence and Portland.
and this makes people work even harder to achieve great things andto be part of something big.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 37 Together with our eCommerce Centre of Excellence, our Digital Delivering the Voyager Android Advisory Board DAB has been instrumental in vastly improving and and omni-channel vision 1 substantially embedding our digital capabilities across the Group and Our Voyager Android vision responds to changing customer needs helping restructure our business to focus on the web.
The DAB is an and aspires to reinvent travel in the digital age across every customer important conduit to identify and attract the brightest and best digital touchpoint or channel web or mobile devices, in-store, contact talent into the Group.
It also advises the Groups Board on leadingcentres or in-destination.
We are repositioning Thomas Cook from a edge trends for online businesses and digital Transformation.
retail-based travel company to a truly omni-channel digital company, offering a seamless customer experience through all available One significant current trend is a major shift in customers channel channels, spiritualising a digital approach across our organisation preferences, specifically the move within the online environment from the inside out.
In time, we plan to be a true technology innovator, fromdesktop to mobile devices.
In the past year, an increasing leading the industry in both online and in retail.
This Transformation number of our own customers have booked their holidays on a tablet will be supported throughout by leading technology infrastructure, or on their mobile phones whereas the percentage of online bookings building on the substantial consolidation and simplification of our IT via desktops, albeit still high, has declined.
Since launching our new infrastructure that we have already achieved.
UKwebsite in May 2014, bookings on tablets have increased by 54% and bookings on mobile phones have jumped by 179%.
Digital Advisory Board 2 External advisors Internal advisors Kate Smaje, McKinsey Partner Harriet Green Peter Fankhauser A Group of external experts, specialists in Group CEO until Formerly COO, now their different fields, who work with our 25November 2014 Group CEO from own leaders and talented performers to 26November 2014 drive a culture of leading-edge innovation at Thomas Cook, and ensure the continued momentum of ourdigital strategy.
Laurence John, CEO and founder John Straw Marco Ryan ofCTRLio Entrepreneur Chief Innovation inResidence Officer from andChairman of January 2015 theDABfor 2014 Simon Darling, Partner at Jenny Peters Tim Van Genechten Jack&AnnaLtd Group Head of Group Head of Brand Communications & Strategic Marketing Nick Suckley, founder of agenda21 Sandra Campopiano Magnus Wikner 3 and DataShaka Chief People Officer Managing Director Northern Europe Jo Hickson, Head of Innovation Salman Syed Christoph Debus atHome Retail Group Managing Director UK Chief Air Travel Officer Tom Woods, Partner at Foolproof Tomasz Smaczny Michael Tenzer Chief Technology Managing Director Officer Central Europe Kathryn Parsons, co-founder Remo Masala ofDecoded Chief Marketing Officer Financial statements Governance Strategic report 38 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Review of strategy continued Annual web booked revenues now represent approximately For the first time in the travel industry, on a trial basis we have also 3 billion, including mobile and tablet bookings of almost 0.5 billion.
offered customers a full sensory virtual reality experience in our This demonstrates our ability to respond rapidly to changing customer Bluewater concept store in the UK.
This try before you buy facility, preferences and aim to leapfrog our competitors through superior using Oculus Rift, a head mounted virtual reality 3D display, allows mobile delivery of our products.
Through innovation, we have clearly customers to enter a virtual world where they experience a 360 become more relevant to a new generation of customers in the degree, stereoscopic tour of one of our concept hotels, as well as the travel market.
in-flight experience from our airlines.
This recent trial in Bluewater demonstrates our ambition to leverage digital advancements to further improve the customer experience in this instance to enhance Web and mobile tablet bookingrevenue what our customers experience in retail today and in the years to come.
We have launched a new programme to address the culture shift toward digitisation in our organisation which focuses on increasing awareness and engagement in digital as well as improving the digital knowledge of all people in the business.
Our business segments are running Lets go Digital awareness weeks, which involve a range of activities to excite and engage people in all things digital, including presentations from leading digital companies, such as Facebook and Twitter, as well as those currently undergoing digital Transformation, such as Waitrose and Vodafone.
Practical sessions are offered to help people get hands on with digital ways of working.
To support further engagement in our new digital products, we 3bn 500m launched the Eagle Eyes initiative which encourages our people 2014 2014 to log onto our websites and identify improvements we can make to the online customer experience.
This has been met with a fantastic response.
We continue to offer iclinics, our bitesize digital knowledge sessions These dramatic changes are also reflected in our web penetration which gives our people insight into the fast changing world of digital, results, from 34% two years ago to 38% today as we progress inspiring them to improve their own learning.
Following the success of towards our future target of 50%.
Our revamped UK website and the iclinics we plan to introduce a TC Digital Academy in 2015.
We also our investment in OneWeb and MyAccount a feature that enables offer a reverse mentoring initiative, which pairs up our leadership customers to transact and interact with us seamlessly across multiple with digital experts across the business to create an additional digital channels are contributing to this, as are substantial improvements to learning opportunity for our leaders.
the content we provide on the web, including adding videos of resorts and additional information about the hotels and surrounding areas.
Finally, in-destination, we are enhancing and differentiating our We expect web penetration to improve further as we roll-out our new customer service and customer satisfaction to set ourselves apart website to other markets beyond the UK, with benefits expected from other travel companies, especially OTAs.
customers in-destination and our customers feel secure in the knowledge that, no matter the situation that may arise whilst they This digital Transformation not only benefits customers through an are abroad, we are there to help them.
We are embedding new ways enhanced online experience, but it also improves the profitability of of working through our Group Destination Management GDM our business.
We estimate that the cost to serve our customers via the Academy and drawing on pockets of excellence that exist today, web is approximately 50 lower than doing so in-store.
As we steadily for example in the Nordics.
All our GDM and Quality colleagues will migrate our customers online, we also expect to reduce the number of have access to tablets, linked to our CRM system, to allow for rapid contact centres and stores we have, with associated cost benefits.
response to customers and also improve the sales process.
We are already applying the Lean principles in some destinations and We have not only consolidated the number of stores.
We are also improving all our processes including those critical moments of truth adapting many stores to deliver as our digital frontline, which at the airport, the transfer process, the customer communication and includes developments such as the award-winning Wish List, engagement processes and how we bring the holiday to life through where customers enter a store, research holidays with the help of a our Welcome meetings.
consultant who then emails a selection of hotels to the customers sothey can discuss it at home and book it online whenever they wish.
We have also introduced iPads in our concept stores, thereby reducingthe need for brochures.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 39 The Thomas Cook Business System is also a key enabler of the Optimising costs and cash through successful implementation of our Wave 2 cost-out and profit the Thomas Cook Business System 1 improvement programme.
We expect that Wave 2 will deliver benefits Our approach to cost-out and improving our cash flow and working of around 400 million for more details, see below.
Key drivers capital is underpinned by the Thomas Cook Business System, include improving our hotel and airline yield management, integrating as illustrated on page 34.
By adopting these best practices and our IT, HR and finance functions, digitising our business and optimising becoming a more professional organisation, we have been able to the delivery channels through which we operate.
significantly accelerate and increase our delivery of cost-out and profit improvement benefits, with higher Wave 1 cost-out targets at each market announcement.
Ultimately, we will operate as one, integrated business, simplifying our systems and processes and focusing on our core product.
2 400m Annual benefits delivered by Hotel and airline FY18 yield management Yield management Common product processes & systems Optimised yield management Group airlines synergies 3 Enablers IT transformation Channels and digitisation Synergies from coordination of Wave 2 initiatives Group-wide CRM support functions Omni-channel approach Fit for purpose HR organisation Channel shift through Group-wide IT function web presence Culture of continuous improvement & efficiency Financial statements Governance Strategic report 40 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Review of strategy continued Owning and taking risk in the right assets and capacity Our aspiration is to move from taking capacity risk in undifferentiated airline and hotel capacity to focusing risk on differentiated products with higher margins.
Since 2012, we have fide-risked our portfolio andimproved revenue and earnings quality by exiting unprofitable and high-risk business, including disposing of loss-making and non-core operations, implementing strategic reductions in risk capacity in France and Russia, and discontinuing low-quality, unprofitable commodity products.
At the same time, we have been investing in and expanding our higher return exclusive, core product offering concept and partnership hotels where we are rewarded fortaking capacity risk.
Group Product Progression m 1,200 300 200 700 100 600 c. 90 FY13 FY15 FY17 Total new product Exclusive product Flexible product FY13 FY15 FY17 Target number exclusive hotels 309 640 800 Revenue contribution from concept On track andother core product c. 80% todeliver 95% We are focused on managing our airline as efficiently as possible.
With 88 aircraft, we are the eleventh largest combined airline in Europe by fleet size.
We are renewing our fleet by replacing older aircraft with 25 brand new A321 aircraft between summer 2013 and summer 2016 and we are also investing around 100 million in refurbishing and reconfiguring our fleet.
This gives us a very efficient and modern high-quality airline which supports our own tour operator business with fully competitive market-based seat rates.
We also have a successful, standalone and profitable seat only business.
We are driving ancillary sales, such as meal concepts on short medium haul flights, upgrade offers and pre-order duty free shopping, which substantially enhances and diversifies our airline revenues.
In recent years, there has been a significant increase in airline capacity, Our upgraded fleet specifically in low-cost carriers, which has led to very competitive We are making significant investments to improve the quality of our airline pricing.
We are able to benefit from this as we already procure more customer experience, including cabin refurbishments and the introduction than 45% of our air travel capacity from third-party airlines.
Our four of 25 brand new aircraft, resulting in a jump in customer satisfaction scores airlines have combined various operations, allowing us to better while also delivering operating efficiencies.
manage our capacity throughout the season and we continue to drive operational improvements and synergy benefits which will total110 million by 2015.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 41 Transforming our organisation, culture and capabilities 1 Our vision is to have a high-performance culture focused on successful delivery of our strategy.
We have continued to build a more effective What organisation by strengthening our Management Team, both through Transformation external recruitment as well as internal promotion, realigning the means to Executive Committee and breaking down regional silos.
We have improved staff engagement and we are building a culture and organisation that firmly places the customer at the heart of everything they do.
Brett From where we started in 2012, faced with huge organisational, cultural and capability changes, and not necessarily able to attract top talent, we have substantially transformed our Leadership Team by promoting existing talent and also attracting new talent from outside.
For example, in 2014 we strengthened our Quality Assurance function with the addition of 50 people from within the Group.
Of our 40 person Senior Digital Team, over half are new hires, many joining from leading digital companies.
We have also strengthened our Marketing Team by appointing a new Group Head of Marketing 2 who is overseeing the development of the Groups online and offline marketing programmes and brings a wide range of experience to help enhance Thomas Cooks strong market position and brand.
Desktop Support Engineer For more information on our people and our culture, please refer to the section on Our People from page 43.
Here we provide more detail on communicating and engaging with our employees, our most recent employee engagement survey and our recognition schemes and our talent development programmes.
Notwithstanding these achievements, we are fully committed to Aperson, when in character, achieving even more so that Thomas Cooks full potential is realised.
is able to transform from the We are accelerating the development of our new products, improving the risk reward profile of our portfolio, driving further efficiencies, ordinary to the extraordinary.
enhancing our IT systems and digitising the business, while continuing to ensure we attract and retain the very best people.
Our relentless Transformation means going focus on delivering sustainable profitable growth remains, as does beyond your form and the our commitment to transform Thomas Cook into a beacon of best 3 practice for the whole travel industry.
Our people section From page 43 Financial statements Governance Strategic report 42 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 For me, the Transformation means opportunity: for change, for growth and for learning: for the Group, for the finance team and for me as an individual.
What Transformation means to Rosie Deputy Group Financial Controller
