CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Robert Walker Ruth Anderson Christopher Rogers Robert Walker was appointed as a non-executive director in Ruth Anderson was appointed as a non-executive director in Christopher Rogers was appointed as a non-executive director September 2009 and became Chairman in May 2010.
She is a non-executive director of Ocado plc, Coats plc, on 1 September 2013.
He is a chartered accountant, of Enterprise Inns plc, and of Eagle TopCo Limited.
He was chairman Coats Group plc, The Royal Parks - an executive agency of Managing Director of Costa Coffee and a director of of W H Smith PLC, Williams Lea Group Ltd, Americana International the Department of Culture, Media and Sport, and a trustee of Whitbread PLC, of which he was Group Finance Director from Holdings Ltd and BCA Marketplace, senior independent director the charity, the Duke of Edinburghs Award.
He was Group Finance Director of of Tate & Lyle PLC and Group Chief Executive of Severn Trent Plc.
accountant, and held a number of positions in KPMG UK from Woolworth Group PLC from 2001 to 2005 and previously Previously, he spent over 30 years with Procter & Gamble, McKinsey 1976 to 2009, being a member of its board from 1998 to 2004 held senior roles in both finance and commercial functions and PepsiCo and has also served as a non-executive director on a and Vice Chair from 2005 to 2009.
She is Chairman of the in Comet Group PLC and Kingfisher PLC.
He was also a number of other FTSE 100 and 250 boards.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Stay Safe Committee.
non-executive director of HMV Group PLC from 2006 to Nominations Committee and a member of the Remuneration and 2012.
He is a member of the Audit Committee and the Stay Safe Committees.
Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director John Carter Coline McConville John Rogers John Carter joined Sandell Perkins as a management trainee in 1978.
Coline McConville was appointed as a non-executive director on John Rogers was appointed as a non-executive director on He held a number of regional management positions, before being 1 February 2015.
Coline is currently a non-executive director of 1 November 2014 and is currently Chief Financial Officer of appointed Managing Director, Operations in 1996, and a director of TUI AG, Inchcape PLC, Fevertree Drinks PLC, UTV Media PLC J Sainsbury plc and a member of the Board of Sainsburys Travis Perkins plc in July 2001.
He became Chief Operating Officer in and Wembley National Stadium Limited and was formerly a nonBank plc.
During his career at Sainsburys he has held the posts February 2005 and Deputy Chief Executive in December 2011. executive director of Shed Media PLC and HBOS PLC, of Property Director, Director of Group Finance and Director of He was appointed Chief Executive on 1 January 2014.
He is a trustee and a global advisor and director of Grant Thornton International Corporate Finance.
Prior to joining Sainsburys, John held of the Building Research Establishment.
He is a member of the Limited.
Previous to that Coline was Chief Operating Officer and a variety of financial, operational and strategy roles.
Stay Safe Committee and Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Chief Executive Officer Europe of Clear Channel International John is a member of the Audit Committee and the Limited.
She holds an MBA from Harvard Business School, Nominations Committee.
where she was a Baker Scholar.
Coline joined the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee of the Board upon appointment and has since joined the Audit Committee.
It is anticipated that she will become Chair of the Remuneration Committee in due course when Andrew Simon retires.
Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Tony Buffin Pete Redfern Andrew Simon O.
B. E. Pete Redfern was appointed as a non-executive director on Andrew Simon O.
B. E. was appointed as a non-executive director Tony Buffin was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 8 April 2013.
He is currently Chief Executive of in 2006.
He is a non-executive director of Finning International He is a chartered accountant and was previously with the Coles Group in Taylor Wimpey plc and is also a Chartered Accountant.
Inc. Canada, Management Consulting Group plc, SGL Carbon Australia where he was Chief Financial Officer from 2009.
Prior to that Pete was previously Chief Executive of George Wimpey Plc SE Germany, Exova Group plc, Icon Infrastructure Management he was Chief Executive Officer of the Loyalty Management Group.
He is a and prior to that, he held the roles of Chief Executive and LLP Guernsey, Icon 1A GP Ltd, BCA Marketplace and member of the Executive Committee.
Finance Director of its UK Housing division.
Pete is a member Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd Bermuda.
He was previously of the Remuneration Committee, Stay Safe Committee and Deputy Chairman of Dalkia plc, Chairman, and before that Chief the Nominations Committee.
It is anticipated that he will Executive of Evode Group plc and has also held non-executive become Chair of the Stay Safe Committee in due course when directorships with Severn Trent Plc, Ibstock PLC, Laporte Plc, Andrew Simon retires.
Associated British Ports Holdings PLC, and Brake Bros Holdings Ltd.
He is the Senior Independent Director and chairman of the Remuneration and Stay Safe Committees and a member of the Nominations Committee.
82 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 83 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 84
