SECTION HEAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Tony Buffin, and non-executive directors Robert Walker, Business Review Chris Rogers, Andrew Simon and Ruth Anderson will all A review of the Groups position, developments, activities in seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
the field of research and development and future prospects John Coleman retired from the Board on 31 October 2014. can be found in the Strategic report on pages 38 to 43.
Whilst The names of the Directors at 31 December 2014, and the Group operates predominately in the UK it does have a Coline McConville who was appointed on 1 February 2015 few branches in the Isle of Man and the Republic of Ireland.
together with their biographical details are set out on pages 82 to 84.
All of these Directors held office throughout Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting the year, except John Rogers and Pete Redfern who were Details of the Groups Green House Gas Emissions can be appointed with effect from 1 November 2014, and found in the Environmental Report on pages 74 to 77.
Coline McConville as noted immediately above.
The DIRECTORS REPORT Executive Directors have rolling 12 month notice periods in FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 Results and Dividends their contracts.
The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
In the light of the formal evaluation of The Group results for the year ended 31 December 2014 their performances as a result of the process described on and dividends for the year ending 31 December 2014 are page 91, Robert Walker, Chairman, confirms on behalf of the The Directors present their annual report and audited accounts for the set out on page 132.
If approved at the Annual General Board that all directors continue to be effective in, Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 1 June 2015 to and committed to, their roles.
The Corporate Governance statement those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1 May 2015.
Directors and officers of the Company are entitled to be on pages 88 to 93 forms part of the Directors report.
indemnified out of the assets of the Company in respect Balance Sheet and Post Balance of any liability incurred in relation to the affairs of the Company, or any associate company, to the extent the Sheet Events law allows.
In this regard, the Company is required to The balance sheet on pages 134 and 135 shows the Groups disclose that under article 140 of the Companys Articles of financial position.
No important events have occurred since Association, the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity, the balance sheet date.
to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 against liabilities incurred by them in the execution of their duties Principal Risks and Uncertainties and exercise of their powers.
This indemnity is currently in force.
In addition, if proceedings against directors are A review of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are instituted subsequent to any person acquiring control of on pages 58 to 63. the Company, the Company has agreed with each of the Directors that pursuant to article 140 D of the Companys Financial Risk Management Articles of Association, the Company shall provide a Director with funds subject to certain restrictions to meet Details of the Groups approach to capital management expenditure incurred by that Director in defending any and the alleviation of risk through the use of financial criminal or civil proceedings.
instruments are given in the Financial Review on pages 32 to 37.
Specific quantitative information on borrowings A copy of the Companys Articles of Association which and financial instruments is given in notes 23 and 24 on contains this indemnity is available for inspection at the pages 165 to 173 of the annual financial statements.
Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at and during the period Directors and Their Interests of 30 minutes prior to the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, John Rogers, Pete Redfern and Coline McConville will be None of the Directors had an interest in any contract to standing for election by shareholders at the Annual General which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party Meeting, having been appointed to the Board since the last during the year.
The Board believes that John Rogers, Pete Redfern and Coline McConvilles strong The Company has undertaken to comply with the best general management and financial background coupled practice on approval of directors conflicts of interests in with their experience in a number of operational roles will accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
greatly benefit the Company, complement the skills of the These provisions have operated effectively.
Under the other Board members, and confirm each of them as ideal Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation choices as a non-executive director.
where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code requires Companys interests.
that all directors of FTSE 350 companies are subject to re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting each The disclosable interests of Directors at 31 December 2014, year and therefore executive directors, John Carter and including holdings, if any, of spouses and of children aged 120 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 121 SECTION HEAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE under 18, were as detailed in the Directors Remuneration persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of share ownership trust.
The ordinary shares are listed on the has the power to issue shares and to purchase its own Report on page 114. other employees.
All the shares rank pari passu.
shares and is seeking renewal of these powers at the The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are set forthcoming Annual General Meeting in accordance with the The Groups policies and practices have been designed to out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Fully paid restrictions and within the limits set out in the notice of Substantial Shareholdings keep employees informed on matters relevant to them shares in the Company are freely transferable.
As at 31 December 2014, the Company had been notified as employees through regular meetings and newsletters.
no persons that hold securities carrying special rights of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide There are a number of agreements to which the Company with regard to the control of the Company.
Details of the voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the range of matters affecting their interests.
All employees with is a party that may take effect, alter or terminate upon a structure of the Companys share capital and changes in the Company as at this date no other such notification from more than three months service are eligible to participate change of control following a takeover bid.
None of these share capital during the year are also included in note 20 to any other shareholder had been received by the Company : in the Companys Sharesave and Buy-As-You-Earn plans.
agreements is considered significant in the context of the the annual financial statements.
Details are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
As at 31 December 2014 the Travis Perkins Employee Share Number % There are no agreements providing for compensation Political Donations Ownership Trust owned 2,428,156 shares in the Company Sprucegrove Investment 13,026,336 5.24% for Directors or employees on change of control.
As set 0.98% of issued share capital for use in connection with Management out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 109, The Group did not give any money for political purposes the Companys share schemes.
Any voting or other similar BlackRock Inc 12,642,678 5.08% service contracts for executive directors do not specify any nor did it make any donations to political organisations or decisions relating to those shares would be taken by the particular level of compensation in the event of termination independent candidates or incur any political expenditure Majedie Asset Management 7,989,646 3.21% trustees, who may take account of any recommendation of following change of control of the Company.
Pzena Investment 7,847,602 3.16% above, the Company has agreed with each of the Directors Management There are no restrictions on voting rights attaching to the that it shall provide a director with funds subject to certain Auditor Legal & General Investment 7,767,618 3.12% Companys ordinary shares.
The Company is not aware of restrictions to meet expenditure incurred in defending Management Deloitte LLP is the Companys auditor at the date of this any agreements between holders of securities that may any criminal or civil proceedings if such proceedings are report.
Following the decision of the Audit Committee, the result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on instituted subsequent to any person acquiring control of AXA Group 7,693,143 3.09% Company is currently putting the role of external auditor out voting rights.
to tender and the decision is expected to be available on Any notifications received by the Company after The rules governing the appointment and replacement of By order of the Board 27 March 2015.
For further details of the tender process, 31 December 2014 and up to the 1 April 2015 being a board members and changes to the Articles of Association please refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 94. date within one month prior to the publication of the Deborah Grimason accord with usual English company law provisions.
The Deloitte LLP is also participating in the tender process.
AGM notice are disclosed in the AGM notice.
Company Secretary and General Counsel powers of the Companys Directors are set out in the Depending on the result following the tender process, 2 March 2015 Companys Articles of Association.
In particular, the Board resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Close Company Status Meeting to either re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys The close company provisions of the Income and auditor or appoint a new auditor as the Companys Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the Company.
auditor, and to authorise the Directors to fix the relevant auditors remuneration.
Employees Statement on Disclosure of Information to Statements on employee matters are contained in the the Auditor section of the annual report entitled Capturing the Way Things are Done Around Here on pages 64 to 69.
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: Details of the number of employees and related costs can be found in note 7 to the financial statements.
So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: The Company is committed to equality of opportunity and and recognises the benefit of diversity within its workforce.
Its approach to the matter of diversity on company boards is The director has taken all reasonable steps that they ought set out in the Nominations Committee report on page 118 to have taken as a director in order to make themselves and in the section of the annual report entitled Capturing aware of any relevant audit information and to establish the Way Things are Done Around Here on pages 64 to 69. that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
The Company has an equal opportunities policy aimed at ensuring that employment decisions are based on ability This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in and potential regardless of gender, race, colour, ethnic accordance with the provisions of s. 418 of the Companies origin or sexual orientation, age or disability.
In particular, Act 2006. applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully and fairly considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of Share Capital and Change of Control the person concerned.
In the event of a member of staff As at 31 December 2014 the Company had an allotted and becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their fully paid share capital of 248,702,988 ordinary shares employment with the Group continues and that appropriate of 10 pence each, with an aggregate nominal value of training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Company that the 24,870,298.80 including shares owned by the employee training, career development and promotion of disabled 122 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 123
