SECTION HEAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE T otal shareholder return TSR increased ahead of the Performance Outcomes peer group Group Performance in the 2014 Financial Year The Committee ensures that senior executive incentive The Group delivered a strong set of financial results and targets are stretching, aligned to the business strategy and solid returns for shareholders in 2014 through continuing to drive long term shareholder value.
The ultimate measure outperform in the majority of markets in which it operates.
DIRECTORS of success in a business is consistent shareholder value The highlights from a very successful year were: creation: the Committee feels that the Groups short and long term rewards should reflect this.
Over the last five A djusted profit before tax increased by 12.8% years the Group has consistently outperformed its peer REMUNERATION A djusted EPS up by 14.9% competitor groups TSR performance and whilst the executive team has been rewarded through a combination Lease adjusted r eturn on capital employed 10.4% of short and long term incentives, the combination of a turbulent market and stretching targets has resulted in the F ull year dividend of 38 pence 2013: 31 pence, increasing REPORT executive remuneration history illustrated below: by 22.6% 2013: 24% FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 F ree cash flow increased by 6% Cumulative TSR to Date 160 This report sets out the Groups remuneration policies for its Travis Perkins 147.3 140 directors and senior executives and how these policies will be applied Peer roup 136.2 120 in practice.
The policy is available to view on the Companys website in 100 102.5 the investor centre.
Remuneration Committee Chairmans remain unchanged: Combined 33% 42% 69%74% 42% Statement Remuneration should be competitive and contribute STI LTI Dear Shareholder, achievement to the delivery of short and long term superior Bonus achievement in year of performance, LTIP vestin in year of vestin financial returns for shareholders In my last year, both as Senior Independent Director and in my role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am Remuneration should contain significant performance Performance against the range of financial, operational Alignment Between the Groups Growth Strategy delighted to present this report, on behalf of the Board at related incentive elements and longer term targets and KPIs is monitored on a regular the conclusion of a very successful year.
The Committee is comfortable that the annual bonus Reward mechanisms should ensure that a significant The Groups growth strategy and Key Performance Shareholders will recall that 2012 and 2013 were busy outcomes for 2014 reflect business performance.
The proportion of variable pay is delivered in deferred Indicators KPIs were presented to shareholders at its years of leadership change and transition as the Committee table overleaf sets out the Groups framework for linking its shares with clawback provisions ensuring that Operational Briefing held on 27 November 2014 and are established, following extensive consultation, the pay and growth strategy with pay and performance outcomes: the executives retain a meaningful personal stake in the described in detail on pages 6 to 9. performance framework for the newly appointed Chief financial measures denoted in bold text EPS and LAROCE Groups success Executive Officer, John Carter, Chief Financial Officer, represent 80% of the maximum annual bonus payment.
Tony Buffin and the Executive Committee team members.
All colleagues should be able to share in the success of the Group through participation in both annual I was pleased with the high level of shareholder support bonus schemes and longer term share plans shown through the votes received in favour of both the The approach to basic salary increases should be remuneration report and the Committees policy statement.
consistent across all colleagues including no pay The policy on directors remuneration received a 93.28% increases for mergers and acquisitions activity binding vote at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and is included in this years report again for ease of reference.
98 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 99 TSR % SECTION HEAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE to be one of the most challenging tasks undertaken by the The Performance Share Plan PSP contained only a What Enabled by Annual Bonus Remuneration Committee.
clause which allowed adjustment of PSP grants to effect Financial and Non-Financial Customer Optimisin clawback clauses in other plans.
The PSP plan rules have Ways of Workin Tar ets KPIs Innovation the Network The recession brought new challenges.
Global and recently been amended such that all the executive bonus domestic economic uncertainty combined with declining plans now include full malus and clawback clauses.
The customer confidence and poor availability of credit wrought circumstances in which malus and clawback could apply are Network EPS havoc in the construction sector.
Alongside these market as follows: expansion ROCE LAROCE uncertainties there has been an increased governance focus KPIs Multi-channel COGS People en a ement on pay and performance which extended well beyond the Discovery of a material misstatement resulting in an 2014 pro ress financial services sector.
adjustment in the audited consolidated accounts of the Exploit scale Safe sites Company advanta es Collea ue en a ement In 2010 11 the Group believed that market growth in its Customer Customer satisfaction sector over the subsequent three year period would be The assessment of any performance target or condition in Workin safely perception Sales intensity from implants much stronger than that which has occurred, and the LTIP respect of an award was based on error, or inaccurate or Better portfolio Online sales rowth targets were set accordingly.
misleading information mana ement As a result of the market recovery taking longer than the The discovery that any information used to determine the Group and other businesses anticipated and despite the number of shares subject to an award was based on error, TSR, A re ate Cashow and CROCE form the basket of performance measures for LTIPs outstanding performance of the management team over or inaccurate or misleading information the intervening three year trading period, the targets have Action or conduct of an award holder, which in the been partially met, resulting in a partial vesting of LTIPS Annual Bonus Pay & Performance reasonable opinion of the Board, amounts to employee 37% under the Performance Share Plan and nil vesting misbehaviour, fraud or gross misconduct Annual Pay Review The very strong business performance in 2014 was again under the Co-investment Plan for the Executive Directors driven by the delivery of managements planned strategic and over 200 senior managers in 2014.
The basic salaries of the Chief Executive and the Malus will apply up to the date of the bonus determination programme of work.
The rounded assessment of financial Chief Financial Officer increased by 2%.
This is the eighth and clawback will apply for 3 years from the date of bonus Looking forward a similar pattern is anticipated in 2015 with outcomes and achievement against other strategic growth successive year of consistency in approach to the annual determination under the bonus arrangements.
Malus will partial vesting of awards granted in 2012.
KPIs has resulted in an annual incentive payment for pay review across the whole organisation.
As a result, apply for the 3 year period from grant to vesting with executive directors and central function managers of with effect from 1 January 2015, John Carters and Remuneration Policy clawback applying for the 2 year period post vesting under typically 85-90% of the annual bonus opportunity.
Tony Buffins basic salaries increased to 673,200 and the Performance Share Plan and the Co-investment Plan.
The precise outcomes are set out later in the remuneration The remuneration policy remains unchanged and is set 520,200 respectively.
report on page 111. out again on pages 103 to 110.
In contrast to prior years The Committee is comfortable that the rules of the Plans of significant change there has been no requirement to provide sufficient powers to enforce malus and clawback % of Annual Bonus formally consult with shareholders on any remuneration if required.
KPIs for Strate y for Growth Performance in 2014 max issues during 2014.
The Committee has, however, discussed Minimum Shareholding & Holding Periods and carefully considered the guidance notes issued by Below Tar et On Tar et Above Tar et the ABI, ISS, NAPF and PIRC prior to the publication of The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the current Adjusted EPS Growth 50% this report.
shareholding requirements for the Executive Directors of 200% of salary and believes that these remain appropriate.
Forward Looking Remuneration Challenges In addition, the Committee feels that the combination of LAROCE ROCE 30% Under the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code these minimum shareholding requirements and the multiple for reporting years beginning on or after 1 October 2014 deferral periods under the Company incentive plans means companies are required to include a clawback provision in Non-Financial 20% that additional post holding vesting periods are not currently their share plans and bonus arrangements on a comply Multi-channel required.
The Committee will review this position on an customer perception or explain basis.
In addition, companies are required annual basis.
network expansion to consider under the Code whether for share-based people en a ement remuneration, the Remuneration Committee should require The Committee will also be looking closely at the EU Market safety directors to hold a minimum number of shares and to Abuse Regulations.
Under these regulations the definition of hold shares for a further period after vesting or exercise, closed period will change to 30 days preceding publication A large number of the Groups business unit teams and apply to the senior team.
Half of the bonus earned for including for a period after leaving the Company, subject to of the financial statements for any period.
Under the insider branch managers exceeded their plan targets by more the Executive Directors and the Executive Committee is the need to finance any costs of acquisition and associated dealing regime there would also be a period equivalent than 5%.
I am therefore delighted that these outstanding deferred into shares which are subject to forfeiture if target tax liabilities.
to the Groups existing closed periods in which no dealing performances have been rewarded with maximum bonus share prices are not achieved over the following two years.
Malus & Clawback payments in their respective schemes which are all tailored This mechanism ensures that there is a meaningful deferral This raises a number of questions to be considered with to meet the operational plan and growth expectations of of variable pay on an at risk basis for the Groups most Currently a full clawback provision applies to both the respect to executive bonus plans including very restricted each business.
executive bonus plan the Deferred Share Bonus Plan - opportunity to exercise vesting awards for example.
In which applies to Executive Directors and the majority of Whilst there is a great deal of consistency in financial Long Term Incentive Plans particular the Groups Deferred Share Bonus Plan has only Executive Committee members and the Co-investment performance measures across all business areas with a a short exercise period 6 months and so the issue is Over recent years the setting of appropriately stretching Plan the Share Matching Scheme - which applies to a wider strong focus on ROCE and LAROCE, the deferred bonus particularly acute for this plan.
performance targets for long term incentives has proved group typically including business unit managing directors.
arrangements, approved by shareholders in 2014, only 100 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 101 SECTION HEAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In addition from 2017, the window in which grants can be schemes, which matured at the end of the year.
The gain made under the long term incentive plans will be limited to for each employee vesting at the maximum level in the five about 3 weeks between the results announcement and the year scheme was around 42,500.
Following the invitation start of the full year closed period.
Whilst most grants have for the new 2014 Sharesave plan over 10,000 colleagues historically been made within this window, delayed grants are now active savers which is an 18% increase from 2013. would now be prohibited.
Summary These issues will be considered by the Committee over Executive director remuneration has reflected the strong the coming months and may result in changes to current overall performance of the Group with annual bonus plan mechanics.
payments at 89% of maximum being above last year.
This pay and performance pattern extends across most of the Remuneration Elsewhere in the Group Groups businesses with the majority of colleagues receiving The Committee takes into account remuneration packages a bonus award in respect of the 2014 financial year.
The available to all colleagues when considering executive pay.
partial vesting of LTIPs at 21% reflects the volatile market As with many companies, senior management participate in conditions at the time the targets were set, which will impact a wider range of incentives than the majority of colleagues.
the vesting outcome for 2015 as well.
The Group recognises that it has to operate on this basis A more turbulent economic environment coupled to attract and retain high-quality managers, but ensure that with increased governance regulation has spanned a a significantly higher proportion of reward for this group is significant part of my nine-year tenure as Chairman of weighted on variable incentive outcomes.
The Groups organic and All colleagues are entitled to a competitive remuneration acquisition strategy for growth, level of business change and package that includes basic pay, bonus, pension, life people and succession agendas over the same time period assurance cover, Sharesave, Buy-as-You-Earn shares, have required reviews of its reward framework and have colleague discount, tax-efficient benefits such as childcare resulted in a relatively high level of shareholder dialogue vouchers and the cycle-to-work scheme, a range of on remuneration issues.
I believe that, with the advice and voluntary benefits, and paid annual leave.
support of the Groups major shareholders the Group has been able, on balance, to navigate a course of action on In order to improve the accessibility, understanding and take each occasion which has enabled it to retain and recruit top up of these benefits the Group followed up 2013s launch talent and has aligned the interests of multiple stakeholders.
of a colleague benefits brand PERKS with the launch of an online benefits platform myPERKS during the year.
The The 2015 remuneration report will be written by Coline hub is open to all employees of the Travis Perkins Group McConville who joined the Board in February 2015 and and it provides detailed information about all the rewards will be appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration and benefits that are included in the Perks scheme as well committee in November 2015 as I step down from the as specific access to colleague rewards, benefits, discounts, Board.
Coline brings a wealth of remuneration experience advice and guidance.
from her other non-executive director roles and shares the Groups philosophy and approach to remuneration matters Included in myPERKS is a comprehensive range of flexible which has guided us well over the last nine years, in an benefits where employees can trade some of their benefits environment that is now more demanding, regulated and in favour of others or elect to increase or decrease their dynamic than when I joined the Board in 2006. benefits to suit their lifestyle or circumstances.
Current I anticipate that Coline will have a different, but equally full flexible benefits range from savings on mobile phones and remuneration agenda in the medium to long term and childcare vouchers to income protection and the Groups I hope that the high level of shareholder support the Group healthcare cash plan.
The Group has plans to continue to has received to date continues.
expand the portfolio of benefits available during 2015 and beyond.
A key principle for myPERKS is ease of access and I take this opportunity both to wish Coline every success for so it has been designed to enable access through work or in the Groups pension plan and its PERKS colleague benefit the future and to thank all of the Groups shareholders 2.
Policy Report home computers, mobile phones or tablets.
brand launched in 2013, and extended to an online website I have spoken to personally for their time and input over the The Groups remuneration policies are not unique to its myPerks during 2014, covers flexible benefits, employee last nine years.
Over 19,000 colleagues are active members of a group directors.
The same principles underpin how the Group discounts, health and welfare benefits and risk and pension scheme.
Contribution rates made by the Group rewards and compensates all its colleagues.
It aims insurance benefits and is all inclusive.
range from 1% to 20% of qualifying earnings under the Andrew Simon to provide base pay to all colleagues that is market defined contribution scheme.
The defined benefits schemes How the Groups policies specifically apply to Directors Chairman of the Remuneration Committee competitive, all colleagues are provided with the opportunity are closed to new members, but over 1,600 colleagues is detailed on the following pages.
Following shareholder 2 March 2015 to share in the Groups success through a variety of bonuses continue as active members of a defined benefit scheme.
approval these policies applied from 28 May 2014.
It is and incentive schemes where return on capital employed The Groups Sharesave scheme continues to be a great intended that the policies apply for three years from the measures aligns colleagues from store and branch success.
In 2014 around 3,559 colleagues shared returns of date of approval.
Relevant parts of the policy are restated operations to the CEO.
All colleagues are provided with the close to 34m gains of 21.5m from five and three year here for ease of reference.
opportunity to prepare for retirement through participation 102 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 103 SECTION HEAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Future Policy Table Remuneration Element Link to Strategy Operation Maximum Potential Value Performance Metrics Remuneration Committee Discretion Base Salary Core element of total Reviewed annually as at 1 January.
Factors influencing The Remuneration Committee None.
The Committee retains discretion to award package, essential to support decision include: The Committee normally salaries of above median levels or increases recruitment and retention of considers the relevant market in excess of the general population where Role, experience and individual performance high calibre executives.
median as the maximum salary necessary to attract high calibre candidates, Pay awards elsewhere in the Group level required.
to reflect performance and recognise changes in External market benchmarked against the roles and responsibilities.
In the normal course of events FTSE 75-125 companies the maximum salary increase for The Committee retains discretion to review the General economic environment executive directors will be in line appropriate peer comparator group used for with the general employee increase.
Benefits Maintain competitive package Directors are currently entitled to: Benefit levels reflect those typically None.
with range of benefits for the available to senior managers within Private medical insurance director and their family.
the Group and may be subject to Income protection minor change.
Annual leave - up to 30 days The maximum potential value Fully expensed company car or cash alternative being the cost to the Company to Life insurance of up to 5 times salary provide those benefits.
Pension Helps executives provide for No director actively participates in a defined benefit 25% allowance or contribution.
Up to 25% of salary is provided either as a cash allowance or as part allowance and part pension contribution.
Cash allowances are paid gross and after statutory deductions provide a net benefit of 13.25% of salary.
Pension allowances will not be included in the salary figure to be used to calculate bonus or the level of award under long term incentive plans.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan Rewards achievement of Targets are set annually in line with the performance metrics Maximum bonus opportunity under Bonus measures include: The Committee retains the discretion to review annual financial and key see aside.
the plan is 180% of annual salary.
the weighting of measures and to set the Financial targets relating to business strategy objectives.
performance targets and ranges for each metric profitability and return on capital Total bonus level is determined after the year end, based on including the long-term equity rate of return Individual or group targets pertaining Rewards personal performance achievement of targets.
which determines the rate of vesting of the to delivery of the business strategy measured against key deferred bonus element.
50% of the total bonus is paid in cash within 4 months of the objectives.
Financial targets are based on group year end.
The remainder of the bonus is deferred as shares.
For financial targets the Committee will Annual Operating Plan AOP with Deferred element encourages determine the amount of bonus which can be Bonus deferred as shares is subject to forfeiture if target share bonus threshold and maximum longer term shareholding earned for achievement of AOP.
Target share prices are based upon the bonus set equidistantly around AOP.
and aligns reward to average share price during the bonus year inclusive of a Threshold will be a maximum of shareholder interests.
This determination will be based upon an compounded long-term equity rate of return.
assessment of the degree of difficulty in Malus & clawback and achieving AOP taking into account market The deferred shares are split into 2 equal tranches.
Tranche 1 vests Performance below threshold results performance based forfeiture conditions, improvement on prior year if after 1 year, by comparison to the highest 30 day average share in zero bonus.
Bonus earned rises from provisions discourage performance required, and other relevant factors.
price during the period, the target share price is met.
If the target 0% to 100% of maximum bonus excessive risk taking and share price is not met 50% of tranche 1 is forfeited.
opportunity for levels of performance short-term outlook ensuring between threshold and maximum that executive and shareholder Tranche 2 vests if after two years, by comparison to the highest targets.
30 day average share price during the period the target share price is met.
If the target share price is not met at the end of two years Performance conditions and 50% of tranche 2 is forfeited.
weightings are set out in the Statement of Implementation of the In determining achievement of target share prices dividends paid Remuneration Policy in 2015. during the period will be added.
Dividend equivalents on vesting shares may be paid.
continued overleaf 104 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 105 SECTION HEAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Future Policy Table continued Remuneration Element Link to Strategy Operation Maximum Potential Value Performance Metrics Remuneration Committee Discretion Performance Share Plan Incentivises participants to Awards are granted in the form of nil cost options or a mix of The maximum annual award for Performance measures are: The Committee retains discretion to deliver key financial targets nil cost options and approved options at market price, annually all executive directors is 150% review the weighting applied to measures, EPS growth over a longer term, with to participants.
and to set the target ranges for each Aggregate cash flow particular focus on shareholder measure.
Awards vest after 3 years subject to achievement of performance Relative TSR return and the generation measures see aside.
In addition the Committee will review and of cash to fund investment Vesting criteria for aggregate cash flow is set select the appropriate comparator group in growth and long term against a range based on threshold and maximum Participation may be scaled back where the shareholding for the TSR, or similar, measures.
performance levels determined by the Groups requirement set by the Committee is not met.
projections for the next 3 years.
Helps retain high performing Dividend equivalents on vesting shares may be paid.
TSR awards are measured against an appropriate Malus & clawback provisions apply.
EPS growth targets are set as a % growth range in addition to RPI over 3 years.
Performance below threshold levels results in zero vesting.
At threshold the amount of the award vesting rises from 30% to 100% of maximum opportunity for levels of performance between threshold and maximum targets.
Performance conditions and weightings are set out in the Statement of Implementation of the Remuneration Policy in 2015.
Co-investment Plan SMS Encourages a mutual Participants are invited to participate annually.
Participants may invest up to Performance target is Cash Return on Capital The Committee retains discretion to commitment whereby 50% of their post-tax salary.
review the weighting applied to measures, Each participant buys shares from their own resources.
participants build up a and to set the target ranges for each Maximum matching is 2:1 Vesting range is based on threshold and shareholding in the Company measure.
A matching share award in the form of nil cost options is made 100% of salary.
maximum performance levels based upon the and are incentivised to deliver to each participant, which vests after 3 years subject to Companys business plan and projections for the key financial targets over a achievement of performance target.
Performance below the threshold results in zero Helps retain high calibre vesting.
At threshold the amount of the award Malus & clawback provisions apply.
vesting rises from 30% to 100% of maximum opportunity for levels of performance between threshold and maximum targets.
Performance conditions are set out in the Statement of Implementation of the Remuneration Policy in 2015.
All Employee Share Plans Share plans available to all HMRC SAYE and BAYE plans.
In line with HMRC and None.
employees to encourage all-colleague and plan limits.
wider share ownership and engagement amongst colleagues.
Shareholding Requirements Aligns the interests of Formal requirement not voluntary guidelines apply to directors Executive directors are required to hold shares The Committee retains discretion to executives and shareholders.
valued at two times salary within 5 years.
Participation in long-term incentives may be scaled back or withheld if the requirements are not met or maintained.
For the purposes of assessing compliance with the shareholding requirement vested, but unexercised awards will be considered.
106 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 107 SECTION HEAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In considering appropriate performance metrics the A wards under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan Share buy-outs The Groups policy is not to provide buy-out as a matter of course.
However, should the Committee determine Committee seeks to incentivise and reinforce delivery of the replacement that the individual circumstances of recruitment justified the provision of a buyout, the value of any incentives A wards under the Performance Share Plan Companys strategic objectives achieving a balance between awards that will be forfeited on cessation of a directors previous employment will be calculated taking into account delivering annual return to shareholders and ensuring A wards under the Co-investment Plan SMS the following:- sustainable long term profitability and growth.
Measures The proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the directors cessation of employment Such commitments remain subject to the share plan rules will therefore reflect a balance of direct shareholder value, and terms and conditions under which they were granted.
The performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them such as TSR and those which reflect appropriate investment being satisfied strategies, for example, CROCE.
Non-Executive Directors Fees Any other terms and condition having a material effect on their value lapsed value Non-executive fees are positioned in line with the same The Committee calibrates these targets by due reference The Committee may then grant up to the equivalent value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the peer comparator group used for executive directors at to general and bespoke market intelligence, lead indicators Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buyout within the median level and, notwithstanding peer group comparison, and other indicators of the economic environment to ensure terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
will normally be reviewed on an annual basis in line targets represent relative, as well as absolute, achievement.
Relocation Where the Group requires a candidate to relocate in order to take up an executive position it will normally with inflation and general movement of pay within the reimburse the reasonable costs of the relocation.
Current fees are detailed within the Statement of Implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy Where an internal candidate is promoted to an Policy on Payment for Directors Leaving as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise A minimum of 25% of non-executive director fees are paid executive position the Group will honour any contractual Employment operational and administrative discretions under relevant in shares.
Non-executive directors do not receive any other commitments made through their employment prior to plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those benefits other than a staff discount card for purchasing the promotion.
Contractual notice periods for directors are normally set at rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to products and are not eligible to join a company pension 6 months notice from the director and 12 months notice amend policy with regard to minor or administrative Recruitment remuneration for Non-executive directors scheme.
No compensation is payable on termination of from the Company and the Company would normally honour matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, would be assessed following the principles set out in the their employment, which may be without notice from the contractual commitments in the event of the termination disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
policy for Non-executive director fees.
They cannot participate in any of the Companys of a director.
Notwithstanding this approach it is Company share plans.
The Company will pay reasonable expenses policy to seek to minimise liability in the event of any early The Committee retains discretion in exceptional Service Contracts incurred by the Chairman and Non-executive directors.
circumstances to change performance measures and Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract, targets and the weightings attached to performance Recruitment Remuneration The Committee classifies terminations of employment the date of which is shown below, which will be available measures part-way through a performance year if there is a arising from death, ill health, disability, injury, retirement with for inspection at the Annual General Meeting or at the It is the Groups policy to recruit the best candidate possible significant and material event which causes the Committee company agreement, redundancy or the transfer from the Companys registered office.
These contracts provide for for any executive board position.
The Group seeks to avoid to believe the original measures, weightings and targets are Group of the employing entity as good leaver reasons.
In 6 months notice from the directors and 12 months notice paying more than necessary to secure the candidate and no longer appropriate.
Any exercise of this discretion will be addition the Committee retains discretion under incentive from the Company.
They do not specify any particular level will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment explained in full to shareholders.
Discretion may also plan rules to determine good leaver status.
In the event such of compensation in the event of termination or change when formulating the remuneration package.
be exercised in cases where the Committee believe that discretion is exercised, for example, recognising significant of control: the outcome is not a fair and accurate reflection of Generally salary, incentives and benefits for candidates are long term contribution to achievement of strategic objectives, business performance.
J ohn Carter - 1 January 2014 structured in line with the above remuneration policy and a full explanation will be provided to shareholders.
accordingly participation in short and long term incentives It is the Committees intention that commitments made T ony Buffin - 8 April 2013 Exceptional circumstances may arise where the Committee will be on the same basis as existing directors.
In all in line with its policies prior to the date of the 2014 AGM considers it appropriate to exercise discretion in relation cases the Group commits to providing shareholders with The Non-executive directors do not have a service contract, will be honoured, even if satisfaction of such commitments to the terms afforded to departing directors and allow for timely disclosure of the terms of any new executive hires but each has received a letter of appointment which will be is made post the AGM and may be inconsistent with the pro-rata vesting to be calculated on a basis other than the including the approach taken to determine a fair level of available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting or at above policies.
Such commitments include but are not directors leaving date, but normal performance conditions compensation.
The table below outlines the Groups normal the Companys registered office.
These appointments expire limited to: will always apply other than for the events described in the recruitment policy: on the following dates: table overleaf and the application of discretion will not be Base salary and The pay of any new recruit would be assessed following the principles set out in the remuneration policy table.
used to bring forward vesting.
Director Expiry of Appointment Letter benefits Ruth Anderson May 2018 The Committee reserves the right to make additional Pension The appointee will be able to receive either a contribution to a personal pension scheme or cash allowance in payments where such payments are made in good faith John Coleman Retired October 2014 lieu of pension benefits in line with the Companys policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of Coline McConville May 2018 Annual bonus The appointee will be eligible to participate in the Deferred Share Bonus Plan as set out in the remuneration damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of policy table.
Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable in the remuneration policy Pete Redfern May 2018 settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection table at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
with the termination of a directors office or employment.
Chris Rogers August 2016 Long-term The appointee will be eligible to participate in the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plans PSP and SMS as incentives set out in the remuneration policy table.
Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable In reporting payments to leaving or past directors, John Rogers May 2018 under scheme rules at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
payments below a fide-minimis level of 5,000 will not Andrew Simon October 2015 normally be reported.
Sign-on The Groups policy is not to provide sign-on payments.
However, in exceptional cases payments to an Robert Walker September 2015 payments appointee may be made when the Committee deem it to be in the best interests of the Company and shareholders.
In such exceptional circumstances the business reason will be explained to shareholders at the No compensation is payable on termination of the time of appointment and put to shareholders at the next AGM.
Where required, a payment can be made in employment of Non-executive directors, which may be with cash or shares and may be subject to performance conditions and or a holding period.
Any sign-on payment will be limited to a value equal to twice annual salary.
108 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 109
