E E c c l l ii l l e e e e n n s s t t e e & & w w E E w w o o e e H H c c t t ii v v e e SECTION HEAD STRATEGIC REPORT CONSUMER DIVISION STRATEGY The Consumer Divisions three businesses, Wickes, Toolstation and Tile Giant have distinct strategies.
The strategies for Wickes and Toolstation are set out below: Philippa Marsh Wickes The strategy is to transform Wickes into the UKs strongest Wickes offers a focused range of high quality products at share of the market.
The focused Wickes in-store range serious DIY retailer with the ambition of having a Wickes great value coupled with best in class availability.
During and excellent availability enable customers to shop for project in every home.
This will be achieved by leveraging the year more brands were introduced, there were fewer but a DIY project confident that they will be able to find all Wickes advantaged position in the market and building on: bigger promotions, and stronger direct communication with the materials they need to complete the project.
The business continues to expand its appeal to investment in its multi-channel capability means customers Wickes small box footprint a broader customer base, whilst remaining a great value, can access an extended range of products which can be reliable and convenient place to shop for a loyal base of delivered to home or store with further investments planned.
Modest range extensions to the focused store range trade and expert DIY consumers.
The focus is to continue to With a focused range and access to buying scale through Reinforcing Wickes value price position grow sales and gain market share over the medium term.
the Travis Perkins Group, Wickes is able to offer DIY sector In vesting in further improvements in the online The Wickes business is structurally advantaged over its leading prices and intends to maintain this advantage.
The majority of stores operate from 25 - 30k sq ft and there are no plans to significantly modify the Selectivel y opening new stores in underserved average store footprint.
There are over 60 potential new catchment areas locations in the UK where the Wickes model has already The Wickes plan is graphically represented below: proved that the business would be able to gain a profitable Dan Millers and Sophie Haynes Wickes TRANSFORMING THE CUSTOMER PROPOSITION A Wickes Project in Every Home!
V VALUE FOR MONEY ALUE FOR MONEY WE AL WE ALWA WAY YS DELIVER S DELIVER QUICK, QUICK, SIMPLE & EASY SIMPLE & EASY Refocus product oerin based on Build on multi-channel strenths clear customer needs National estate coverae Maintain structural price Improve in-store infrastructure advantae with authority & experience Extend to broader customer base Leverae roup scale in Become a reat place to work, Wickes plans to continue to buyin & distribution always Leaner service model Develop a diverse workforce to expand its network by between match our customer base Enable reater eciency throuh IT 5 and 10 new stores per year 54 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 55 l l l l H H e e o o s s w w e e w w w w e e t t a a w w h h o o r r W W k k SECTION HEAD Acquisitions The Group is committed to achieving growth through organic expansion, but that does not exclude taking advantage of suitable opportunities that arise to support growth through small bolt on acquisitions.
Small Bolt-on Acquisitions to Support Organic Growth Strate ic investments to protect supply chain Share in cate ories which bypass distribution Geo raphy New cate ories Not a focus Smaller, independent merchants Access specialist markets for re ional inll where valuations attractive Focus on product areas attractive Manufacturin anufacturin to existin customers International expansion not a focus Smaller footprints attractive to Channel Channel Produc Product t levera e existin branch distribution assets On-line Buy or Build trade-o where valuations Accelerate expansion into new Installation nstallation prohibitive or lack of tar ets channels for key product areas Demonstrable IP innovation key Buy or Build trade-o where tar et areas valuations prohibitive Installation risk potential competition with customers Not a focus How Performance will be Compared to Strategy The Groups ambition is to deliver long-term, sustainable value to shareholders.
There are a series of financial and non-financial measures which the Group tracks to monitor performance.
Operationally, success is measured through a comprehensive set of key performance indicators.
All of these indicators are aligned to achieving the Groups strategic ambition.
The Groups actual performance for 2014 is shown in the key performance indicator section on pages 6 to 9 and in the business and financial review sections on pages 24 and 32.
The following diagram shows how delivery of the Groups strategy links through to the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The performance targets for the Consumer Division are set out below: CoConsumer Ambition Financial Annual Strategy PSP investment Ambition Incentive Plan Measure Current Medium-term ambition Double digit Customer Innovation EPS EPS Network expansion 232 Wickes 10-15 Wickes p. a. EBITA growth 111 Tile Giant 30 Toolstation p. a.
184 Toolstation Investment grade Aggregate Optimise Network credit metrics cash ow Like-for-like sales Above market Above market outperformance 150-250bps LAROCE improvement Scale Advantage Operating margin 6% Good LAROCE CROCE over medium term Ben Farler Toolstation improvement prospects 3-5 years TSR Toolstation operates from over 180 shops across the UK Capital expenditure 20m 40m p. a.
Portfolio Management Prospective dividend offering the same range instore, online and through its growth to within LAROCE 7% Add 150-200bps catalogue.
It aims to provide the lowest cost lightside building 2.5-3.25X cover materials to tradesmen and serious DIY customers and to Personal always be in stock in the project quantities its customers Toolstation expansion continues at pace objectives aligned to require.
If for any reason products are not available it offers operational delivery Wickes transformation driving outperformance: next day delivery of those products free of charge.
New store openings Toolstation plans to continue to open new shops across Risks the UK to meet growing demand from tradesmen for Range extension transparent, fixed price products.
Further investments are The Statement of Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 58 to 63 sets out the key risk factors that are considered by the planned to improve customers online experience, provide Directors to be material to the business.
These include those risks which are deemed to be material and may impact upon Maintain value advantage enhanced click and collect services and modestly extend the successful delivery of this strategy.
In addition there are a number of risks which are set out in the table below that are not the range offered to customers.
Extend multi-channel leadership deemed to be material to the Group as a whole but are relevant when setting out a balanced commentary on a divisional basis.
56 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 57
