SECTION HEAD STRATEGIC REPORT The Groups 5 Cornerstones are: CAPTURING THE WAY Upholding Family Values THINGS ARE DONE I have relationships that have been built throughout the Group that make it like a family.
AROUND HERE FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 Keeping People Safe Staying safe is our highest priority.
Making Decent Returns How the Group drives growth and returns is about a combination of a Its about doing the right thing and not clear strategy with ways of working that will ensure its teams deliver being greedy.
2014 has been notable in that the Group has defined the people must haves which have enabled it to grow Working for our Customers to the size and scale of business it is today - its Cornerstones and Building good customer relationships is key Leadership framework - and will help to ensure it achieves its future it leads to loyalty.
Other enablers are the new management trainee programme and womens community which were launched Being the Best during the year.
The best people create the best company.
enable them to work seamlessly with those of the Groups good about the Groups leaders and summarises the Unveiling the Groups Cornerstones Unique Leadership: What Makes the individual brands.
Colleagues quickly said that values was behaviours and personality traits that are important.
Travis Perkins wanted to find a way to define and bottle not a well understood word and working with them it was The framework is a checklist for current leaders and will the ways of working, leading and managing people which decided that going forward they will be known instead as also guide the recruitment and development of those who Codifying what makes the Groups leaders different helped have made it so successful since it was formed by the the Groups Cornerstones.
will lead the business in the future.
complete what makes the Group a great place to work.
merger of the family businesses of Travis and Arnold and How leaders behave is really important to the teams Focus groups, held with hundreds of colleagues as part The Group believes the heart of its business has to Sandell Perkins.
around them and they need to help others develop into of the research process, reported that group colleagues be about how people behave and conduct themselves leadership roles.
Firstly, during the year colleagues from across the are looking for responsibility at a young age, are driven by and that the combination of its Cornerstones with the Groups 2,000 business outlets helped define what can their commitments to their families and have a desire to Leadership framework will underpin everything it does New leaders joining the Group always say that they best be described as the way we go about doing things learn new skills and develop their careers within a stable, and will ensure that it drives the planned growth and never imagined how good it would be to be part of the around here.
A critical aspect of the project was that the successful and safe environment.
Travis Perkins Group and how different it is.
outputs had to be shaped by the Groups people, for the Groups people.
The project started as an attempt to Based on the colleague feedback the new Leadership re-clarify and refresh Group Values in a way that that would framework supports the Cornerstones to capture whats 64 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 65 SECTION HEAD STRATEGIC REPORT Four activity groups have been formed that the Group believes best describe what makes a great leader in Travis Perkins: Included in myPerks is a comprehensive range of flexible Bringing More Talent into the Group benefits.
Everybodys lifestyle is different and so flexible 1.
Management Apprenticeship Scheme benefits allow colleagues to find benefits that best suit them.
What Makes Us Great They can trade some of their benefits in favour of others In 2014 there has been much more activity focused on or elect to increase or decrease their benefits to suit their bringing young talent into the business.
From a pool of lifestyle or circumstances.
Current flexible benefits range 10,000 applicants, 170 young people made it through WHO HOW HOW HOW from savings on mobile phones and childcare vouchers to the recruitment process to join the Travis Perkins plc income protection and the Groups healthcare cash plan.
I AM I LEAD I THINK I DELIVER Management Apprenticeship Scheme, which is now in The portfolio of benefits available will be expanded further its fourth year and is bigger and better than ever.
Have the courage to Develop relationships Think broadly and make Be passionate about during 2015. lead as myself at all levels timely decisions improving performance The two year scheme has been running in its current form Charities and Communities Down to earth our people Visible and approachable Seek out market trends and Challenge the way we do things since 2011 when just 19 apprentices joined the Company.
value honesty use them to make decisions Listen and show interest in Passionately pursue that generate profit The fact that this number has grown nearly ten-fold in Once again during the year colleagues from across the I am comfortable in my own people opportunities for growth skin we appreciate genuine Take a longer term and group Praise people and develop Tackle poor performance 3 years bears testament to its success.
Expectations of the Group have engaged in a wide variety of community and people who can have fun wide view them to be great Get the right things done with apprentices increase each year.
Many now reach supervisor I am confident in my own Think about my whole business charitable activities.
The activities are many and varied and Use a range of styles to pace and energy knowledge our customers influence Know when to use rigorous level midway through their apprenticeship and some take Know the competition and the Group is often recognised for its efforts in this area.
value our expertise analysis or gut feel Keep the customer at the keep on improving I am humble arrogance on assistant branch manager roles within their first year.
centre of everything we do Consider risk and the impact doesnt work in our business for us The City Plumbing Supplies business made it through Management apprentices are a valuable resource for the I am resilient we overcome Make reasoned decisions in to the final of the Business Charity Awards.
The Travis obstacles and keep on going ambiguous situations branches in which they are working.
I am self-aware we ask the Perkins General Merchanting brand, received the Corporate right questions of ourselves and learn from our mistakes 2.
Fast Tracking the Groups Talent Pipeline Partnership Innovation Award for its Breast Cancer Campaign.
Overall, during the year the Group and its The business is constantly growing and changing and so colleagues raised 1.9 million for charities and good causes.
it needs to develop great people quickly to support this growth.
At the same time future leaders need to be adept at At a local level, Northampton-based colleagues joined working across the Groups brands and functions.
forces with Northampton Saints RFC to organise the Big Christmas Toy Collection for children in care or in A pilot programme was implemented during the year to need.
Finally the Wickes business gained an award for enable the speedy entry into Group of high calibre, high Best Commercial Float at this years Manchester A new Google Community has been launched where Building A Workforce with a Difference potential candidates to fulfil the following: Gay Pride Event.
women, and men, can share their ideas, challenges Building a workforce with a difference means recruiting, and success.
P opulate more management pipelines with the desired Engagement developing and supporting people with a wide range quality of people The aim is to strengthen female representation in the of backgrounds and experiences and introducing fresh The Group regularly undertakes surveys to measure how senior leadership and management population because F ast-track candidates towards management roles across perspectives and new ways of thinking into the business.
employee engagement is changing and 2014 was no analysis shows that in every division outlets run by women the Group and beyond During the year, as part of achieving the best possible exception.
The Group recognises that engaged colleagues managers outperform those run by men so its good for workforce the Group established a Womens Community continue to be a vital part of its success and is very pleased Pr ovide future managers with a far broader perspective the Groups people and its customers and it makes good as a first step to building a future workforce that has a that in 2014 levels of colleague engagement reached a than traditional programmes including branch exposure commercial sense.
significantly different composition to the current one.
level that was 40% higher than when the Group first started and support function specialism measuring it back in 2007.
Whilst recruiting and developing more women is an There are already great women in the Group, all of whom Enhance and stim ulate a more diverse mix of high important factor in achieving Travis Perkins growth are contributing to its strong commercial performance, so Colleague engagement is key to the Groups success so it potential managers for the future ambitions, a more diverse mix of colleagues in outlets and an environment is being created where they and others like is good news that the 2014 survey showed that typically within the leadership team will help broaden the Groups them can be a positive force for change.
In addition steps Lo o Without TP plc 8 out of 10 colleagues are proud to work for the business thinking and bring a fresh approach to problem solving.
are being taken to attract and retain more women.
and around 9 out of 10 feel loyal to their branch or store.
Giving Colleagues More Choice - Launch of MyPerks This sense of pride and loyalty makes the difference in During the year further steps were taken to enhance the The Groups Womens Community is aimed at giving the way Travis Perkins people go about their business at Groups industry leading, approach to compensation and women a greater voice in the organisation.
It was launched work and fuels the tremendous extra-curricular activities benefits.
In order to provide more options and choice for across the Group in July 2014 after being pioneered by undertaken with the charities and communities it supports.
colleagues myPerks, an online hub for employees of the City Plumbing Supplies CPS.
Buildin a Workforce with a Di erence Travis Perkins Group, was introduced in 2014.
The hub is Communication open to all employees of the Travis Perkins Group and it Colleagues are regularly informed about the performance provides detailed information about all the rewards and of the Group and the business they work for through benefits that are included in the Perks scheme as well as a variety of internal engagement channels including a specific access to colleague rewards, benefits, discounts, Group quarterly magazine, face-to-face updates, printed advice and guidance.
To ensure ease of access, which is materials, video and digital sources.
A number of the crucial to myPerks, it can be accessed through work or Groups businesses share their local news, successes home computers, mobile phones or tablets.
and strategic objectives in more detail through their own quarterly publications and online communities, all designed 66 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 67 SECTION HEAD STRATEGIC REPORT to increase employee engagement and productivity.
suppliers, shareholders and the communities in which they The following table sets out the gender demographics for the Group: The Groups continuing efforts to drive employee operate.
In essence it sets out the Groups commitment to engagement have proven their worth, with all the businesses Doing the Right Thing.
F M Total delivering consistently high engagement scores in our Number % Number % Number % Any colleague who is concerned about wrongdoing, regular You Talk, We Listen employee surveys.
malpractice or improper behaviour is encouraged to report Director 1 12.5% 7 87.5% 8 100% Ethical Policies the matter using our confidential telephone hotline.
Senior Manager 98 20.0% 392 80.0% 490 100% The Travis Perkins Group is a leading supplier to Britains Equal Opportunities, Human Rights and Diversity Colleague 6,491 23.8% 20,777 76.2% 27,268 100% building construction and home improvement industry.
Grand Total 6,590 23.7% 21,176 76.3% 27,766 100% The Group is committed to promoting equality of Its reputation for providing excellent customer service with opportunity for all employees and job applicants.
It is an the highest integrity is the direct result of the collective The Womens community was launched in 2014 and successes, supporting each other and inspiring more equal opportunity employer and always treats its employees effort of its employees, all of whom are caretakers of now has over 400 members.
Two Womens community women in to the Travis Perkins Group in the future.
and applicants fairly regardless of their age, gender, full that reputation.
How the business conducts itself in conferences were held during the year where over or part time status, disability and marital status.
Decisions its businesses and how it treats others will continue to At a senior leadership level 18% 2 out of 11 of the 200 nominated attendees were treated to inspiring relating to any aspect of employment are based upon ability determine how the world views Travis Perkins.
operating Executive and 13% of the Board 1 out of 8 speeches from women who have thrived in male and potential rather than age, sex, race, religion or belief, are female.
The Group has established clearly defined principles aimed disability or sexual orientation, gender reassignment, civil at helping all its employees to uphold the highest ethical, partnership status, pregnancy or maternity.
A Google community was established in 2014 where legal and business standards across all the business women and men can share their ideas, challenges and The Group complies with national legal requirements activities it is involved in.
in respect of wages and working hours.
It supports the The Groups Doing the Right Thing initiative lays down the International Labour Organisations ILO standards standards expected of its colleagues under the umbrella regarding child labour and minimum age.
It is also John Carter of three separate, but closely related policies on business committed to working only with suppliers who embrace Chief Executive Officer principles, diversity and encouraging equal treatment.
standards of ethical behaviour that are consistent with 2 March 2015 its own.
The initiative sets out the expectations that colleagues will not have any involvement with acts of bribery, will avoid A workforce with a difference allows the Group to maximise Kaycee Benson Travis Perkins, Vauxhall conflicts of interest, will ensure they comply with all aspects the unique and individual qualities of its people introducing of all applicable laws when performing their duties and will fresh perspectives and new ways of thinking into the Groups not become involved with any aspect of insider dealing.
A diverse workforce is at the heart of a strong business performance: it delivers increased engagement, During 2014 it was compulsory for all managers to improves output and generates better financial returns.
complete online anti-bribery training which provided an overview of the Bribery Act and our policies regarding The Group employs over 27,000 people in 18 different Corporate Hospitality, Entertaining and Gifts and concluded businesses across both the retail and merchanting sectors.
with a requirement to pass an online examination.
Around 37% of the workforce in the Groups retail sector The completion of the anti-bribery training is a requirement businesses is female: across the central functions it is 47%.
for all new managers and completions non completions The Groups challenge is to improve the attractiveness of its are reported on monthly.
Any Gifts and hospitality that are merchanting businesses only 14% of colleagues are female.
accepted must be recorded in a register.
As part of the Groups strategy the diversity of all applicant In summarising the Groups commitment to integrity, to shortlists are now monitored by our recruitment teams.
acting honestly and ethically and to complying with the law The following table sets out more details of the mix of men the initiative has provided a one-stop guide for colleagues and women employed by the Group at the year-end.
