SECTION HEAD STRATEGIC REPORT The business benefits from national coverage with over 650 The following chart sets out the key components of the plan branches, an efficient lightside central distribution network, to improve Travis Perkins, combining both sales and profit GENERAL MERCHANTING access to a range few competitors can match, drivers and investments in enabling infrastructure.
a modern vehicle delivery fleet and branch managers who have built an unparalleled relationship with customers.
Branch manager incentives are based on return on DIVISION S TRATEGY capital performance setting the business apart from its competitors, which is a key component of Travis Perkins market outperformance.
Travis Perkins is, and for the foreseeable future will continue to be, Simon Stamp Travis Perkins, Guildford the Groups core business.
It is the Groups largest business by sales, profitability and one of the highest returning businesses operated within the Group.
Modernising the Travis Perkins Model Sales and profit Drivers Category Toolhire Managed services Expand the Modernising Enhanced Multi-channel management expansion development network formats CRM development and pricing Enablers Enhanced IT Invest in safety & Regional capability develop our people distribution 44 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 45 SECTION HEAD STRATEGIC REPORT There is significant scope for network expansion and In summary, the Group is relocation.
Travis Perkins is targeting 5-15 net new branches per annum and plans to increase the number of tool-hire confident that Travis Perkins equipment implants and Benchmarx kitchen implants can extend its market leading within existing branches.
position and further drive The modernisation programme for the Travis Perkins business is underway with the key focus on improving range, improvements to the customer better use of space and ensuring that the price position remains competitive.
This coupled with the development proposition, which over the of sales to local authorities through the managed services long term will grow value for business, expanding the tool-hire category and improving Travis Perkins multi-channel proposition, offers significant shareholders.
The plans to improve the Travis Perkins multi-channel offer are set out below: Mark Munro and Michalakis Michael Travis Perkins, Aylesford Customer experience Infrastructure The targets for improvement are set out below and right: 1 Clean and functional Branch to site delivery for heavyside Where we General Merchanting Ambition Passive Branch collection only for li htside are now Non-transactional Branch actin as call centre Measure Current Medium-term ambition Strong market outperformance Strong market outperformance Transactional capability Heavyside distribution improvements Network expansion 772 5-15 new p. a.
Network expansion opportunity 2 expandin ran e and availability Inte ration to pricin systems Network expansion opportunity Modernisation programme the key focus Next Like-for-like sales 3-5% 1-4% p. a. Li htside ran e access from DCs steps Account mana ement More Benchmarx & Toolhire implants and branches outperformance Modernisation programme the key focus DC direct to site pickin Click & collect Good early progress with LAROCE improvement Operating margin Sector leading Sustain More Benchmarx & Toolhire implants and branches improvement prospects Leadin online ateway Cross-channel fullment for li htside 3 Good early progress with LAROCE improvement Capital expenditure 110m 40-60m p. a. Interactive & social hub CRM and account mana ement Where we systems development will et to Seamless experience across channels LAROCE 16% Add 200-300bps Contact centre coordination Inte rated CRM 46 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 47
