SECTION HEAD STRATEGIC REPORT PLUMBING & HEA TING DIVISION STRA TEGY The strategy for the Plumbing & Heating Division has three key elements: Pantone Pantone Reex Blue c PMS 199c 1.
Building scale in the P&H bathroom installers with a customers with a dedicated Divisions focused customer Graphically represented dedicated branch network nationwide branch network proposition: overleaf tailored to their needs: and efficient delivery service: a. F & P Who lesale expanding the range throughput of product through the reconfigured distribution a.
City Plumbing Supp lies creating a national network a.
Plumbing T rade Supplies once the reconfiguration infrastructure to offer local independents broader of around 400 branches serving local plumbing and is complete, a network of around 80 to 90 branches ranges, which are available more speedily heating engineers and bathroom installers servicing value driven plumbing contractors b. Plumbnation online pr oviding local heating b.
Fewer branches holding broader ranges of product in b.
Tailored bathroom showrooms showcasing the engineers with a fixed price, online ordered boiler and contract specified quantities available for same day best branded and own label ranges, operated by a spares delivery service or next day delivery design consultant, helping local tradesmen deliver c. So lfex providing solar, thermal, photo-voltaic and the complete job to their customers faster and c. Branch network supported by overnight dead under-floor heating packages to specialist installers more efficiently drops from the distribution centre network d. Primaflo w has a complementary product set to improving availability c. Incr easing availability of spares through extending the F & P and so provides the opportunity to offer an number of City Heating Spares implants d. Dedicated large customer account management extended range in both businesses capability providing transparency of products d. Selective r ange extension offering renewables ordered, despatched and awaiting delivery alongside products and advice on fitting improved billing 48 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 49 SECTION HEAD STRATEGIC REPORT The targets for the Division are shown below alongside how Outperformance through: Share Gain Through Focused Customer Propositions the Plumbing & Heating Division intends to outcompete in Reallocation of the capital base from PTS to CPS its markets: Sales and profit Drivers CPS network expansion Plumbing & Heating Ambition Spares and showroom implants Differentiated customer offer Measure Current Medium-term ambition Roll-out of Bathroom Leverage high Develop contract PTS More standalone Supply chain Tailored Sourcing and own label development showroom & ROCE F & P model business City Plumbing City Plumbing e ciencies multi-channel Network expansion 504 5-10 net new branches p. a. F & P supply chain development spares reconguration branches capability Like-for-like sales 0-3% 0-3% p. a.
Development of multi-channel offer outperformance Operating margin 3.5% Good improvement prospects Capital expenditure 14m 10-20m p. a. Enablers LAROCE 9% Add 250bps Ross Taylor PTS Stay Safe Excellent IT Talent to lead UKs #1 P&H business Stanislav Golovenkin F & P 50 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORTS & ACCOUNTS 2014 51
