SECTION HEAD NO STRA TES T TEGIC REPOR O THE FINANCIAL S T TATEMENTS ??.
SECTION continued Stay Safe Governance Throughout 2014 all Stay Safe activity was reviewed by the Plc Stay Safe Committee, in addition to Stay Safe performance being Safety Culture Ladder reviewed at group board meetings.
Stay Safe also forms part of regular Divisional leadership meetings.
Data Trends for 2014 Each months reports represents the rolling 12 month figure Frequency Rates STAY SAFE 11 GENERATIVE 10.5 REPORT 10 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 High reliability organisation HSE is how we do business around here 9.3 The Groups Stay Safe Philosophy and Objectives 9 2014 2013 The Groups underlying philosophy PROACTIVE 8.3 Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Au -14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 that all injuries are avoidable Each months reports represents the rolling 12 month figure Severity Rates and that everyone involved in its 0.25 Safety leadership and values drive business should return home safe continuous improvement 0.2 and well at the end of every day remains unchanged.
0.15 CALCULATIVE 0.1 0.05 It continues to recognise that achieving a significant 2014 2013 reduction in accidents is a major challenge for an Safety leadership and values drive 0 organisation of the scale and complexity of the Group and continuous improvement Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Au -14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 that it requires dedicated effort and perseverance.
The Stay Safe report for 2013 noted a plateau effect in the Since its inception in 2008, Stay Safe has resulted in real Safe Branches lost time frequency rates during 2013.
For 2014, it is pleasing improvement in the Groups safety performance particularly Safe branches are those where: to report that for most of the year frequency rate and group in the first couple of years, however improvement severity rates were below those seen in 2013.
This positive No lost time injuries ha five been reported has slowed and it is now at what is a recognised and REACTIVE trend is supported by a 29% reduction in the number of days characteristic plateau.
Near misses ar e being reported using the Groups online lost overall from 8,145 2013 to 5,783 2014.
The main reporting system This year the Group has engaged with external consultants contribution to the effect is a 10% reduction in those lost time T he Groups internal audit team has not given the branch a to conduct a qualitative assessment of where it is now incidents that lasted a month or more.
red or amber rating following its most recent Stay Safe audit referencing the safety culture ladder in one of its major Safety is important, we do a lot every time we have an accident brands.
The assessment considered five main drivers of Whilst reporting of lagging or output based indicators such In 2014 50% of the Groups branches achieved this benchmark, safety culture: Systems, Safety Profit balance, Reporting, as injury frequency rates is helpful in demonstrating the an improvement from 39.1% in 2013, which means a further Training and Communication.
With some variation across Groups overall long term aim of reducing accidents, there is 218 branches became safe branches in 2014.
Because of the branches the overall assessment rated the brand as often a lag between improvement activity and a translation size of the Groups estate not all branches are audited for safety 3.82 out of 5 or approaching proactive.
Considering the into accident reduction.
With this in mind the Group will be every calendar year so the Group accepts that the safe branch detailed recommendations from the assessment, the reviewing its performance measures with a view to focusing measure is an indicative measure.
It recognises that whilst PATHOLOGICAL Group will determine its approach to a wider roll out of this on a new suite of leading or input based indicators and obtaining Safe Branch status is an achievement it also needs method for assessing its overall safety culture.
objective measures of safety culture and behaviours.
This to continually challenge the baseline for this benchmark and will allow a more proactive approach and a focus on human raise the bar in terms of expectation for what makes a truly factors and reducing errors in the workplace.
Therefore the Group will review the safe branch standards and how it reports on this indicator to provide a Who cares as long as were not caught meaningful year-on-year comparison against a continually improving standard.
70 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 71 0.0% STRATEGIC REPORT BSS has launc hed its own LiFT programme, including a DVD and vehicle design, and highlights vulnerable road users, Safe Branch % of colleagues from Cambridge in real life situations.
The accreditation also provides a competitive advantage as it can be a requirement to trade with certain W ickes has focused on behavioural safety, delivering training customers and so is responsible for over 12m in sales for TP Group Plc to 433 branch managers, deputies and supervisors.
It has Keyline via the rail industry.
also been rolling out the LiFT manual handling programme and improving employee engagement.
The Group was successful in winning the Fleet Safety General Merchantin Award in 2014 from BRAKE the road safety charity, which W ithin General Merchanting, in addition to behavioural was based on its work with the Fleet Risk Assessors, and the training for its branch managers and yard supervisors, a Safer Roads campaign.
The award recognised the Groups Stay Safe challenge was run where branch teams were Contracts success in reducing its accident ratio from 0.7 to 0.54 encouraged to spot potential hazards in branches and to through the use of vehicle telemetry, which provides live fix them, reporting fixed hazards to their regional director.
data from vehicles such as GPS location, speed, fuel use etc.
The Group believes that in excess of 200 potential hazards, as well as sharing lessons from incidents to coach drivers.
P&H which could have led to an injury to a colleague or customer in our branches, have been spotted and fixed.
From January 2014 all new fleet vehicles have been fitted 2013 2014 All Plumbing & Heating Division driver s received a drivers with 4 way cameras to protect the Group and its drivers Consumer day card signed by their regional director, and all directors, from fraudulent claims and help with investigations into any senior managers, heads of department and many branch incidents.
The system has a 30 day recording facility so all managers booked a day out with a driver to help their incidents are reviewed and the footage is used to progress 10.0% 20.0% 30.0% 40.0% 50.0% 60.0% 70.0% 80.0% understanding and learn more about the drivers role and cases and help with training.
how their safety can be improved.
Type of Lost Time Injuries in 2014 Looking Ahead to 2015 and Beyond 2013 All Plumbing & Heating br anches held a Stay Safe meeting 10% The type of lost time injuries the Group experiences continue on June 27, with the branches closing early to facilitate an As part of its continual challenge for improvement in safety to be broadly similar year-on-year.
Branch managers were provided with performance, the Group has recruited a Safety Change 26% supporting materials, flipcharts etc.
to launch the Hole in the Director.
Whilst responsibility for safety will remain devolved However the Group is confident that its Manual Handling Swiss Cheese reporting system.
The team meeting session to the divisional leadership teams, this new role will act 6% programme LIFT and innovations in each its divisions to also built on some of the feedback from the drivers day to as a thought leader for the Group and focus on new ways reduce the need to manually handle heavy objects will 26% fully engage all the branch colleagues in making sure safety 21% to engage with employees and will work with each of the secure the reductions it seeks in lost time injuries in this is an integral part of the operation, from 23% Divisions to build stronger sustainable programmes to area.
LIFT is a bespoke practical programme focusing on making a sale to delivering the products.
The embed the Stay Safe philosophy.
the people, system and environmental issues effecting concept of holes in the Swiss cheese was 2014 manual handling.
There is a focus on eliminating manual 3% launched across the Plumbing & Heating Embedding grass roots behavioural safety will form a key handling tasks as well as teaching safe lifting techniques.
4% Division to better illustrate the importance part of the strategy along with a focus on consistency in of hazard spotting and reacting to near regional and branch manager visible leadership.
Where As reported in the transport matters section below the misses or unsafe behaviours.
attention is focussed on leadership training the Group will Group has reason to be proud of its overall transport safety challenge itself to measure and improve the effectiveness of record.
Therefore, the Board was deeply saddened by the 38% this training and its translation into actions on the shop floor.
Transport Matters tragic loss of one of the Groups delivery drivers from F & P It will also start to champion general health and wellbeing Wholesale in a fatal road traffic accident during 2014.
For the fourth year in a row the Travis as a key part of its engagement and improvement strategy Perkins Group has achieved gold accreditation as part Hit by moving falling object as well as reviewing all of its safety performance measures.
34% of the Fleet Operators Recognition Scheme FoRS and has Hit by moving vehicle This is my last report before handing over the Chairmanship built on the success of being finalists in the Motor Transport Hit something fixed stationary of the Committee to my colleague Peter Redfern, the CEO Industry awards last year by winning the 2014 Safety in Injured while manual handling of Taylor Wimpey, who brings a wealth of experience of Operation Award.
Slipped, tripped or fell on the same level safe working conditions in the construction industry.
In spite Some other kind of accident The Construction Logistics and Cycle Safety CLOCS of the fact that there are still too many accidents in the programme brings together developers, construction Group, there is no doubt in my mind that the investments companies, operators, vehicle manufacturers and regulatory in equipment, training and processes will over time help were challenged with finding best manual handling practice bodies to ensure a road safety culture is embedded across the Group achieve its goal of a significant reduction in the Stay Safe Innovations in 2014 in the region and pitched their finding to a panel of yard the construction industry.
In 2014 the Group became a number of accidents.
The Groups businesses continue to take the Stay Safe supervisors and drivers who scored ideas.
The winning ideas CLOCS Champions, i. e. one of the organisations that have I would like to sincerely thank all colleagues in the Group philosophy and translate this into specific actions that are are now being developed for roll out across the division.
They signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Transport for for their efforts in making Travis Perkins a safer place for tailored to their operations and the safety issues that they include more effective manual handling accessories for fork London to support the CLOCS programme.
themselves, their colleagues and our customers.
Some of the activity completed in 2014 includes: lift trucks.
As a major part of the Groups outward supply, deliveries are Keyline estimated that its man ual workers in the yard move CCF ha five introduced new yard-safety co-ordinators Andrew Simon subject to the FORS and now the CLOCS requirements, and between 4 and 6 tonnes each day.
As part of its target to to provide a focal point for safety and purchased a ride Chairman Plc Stay Safe Committee it has again been accredited in 2014, passing the required reduce this by 75% in 3 years it ran a Strictly Come Dancing on sweeper to avoid manual sweeping and improve 2 March 2015 audits.
The standard is based around safety in driving meets the Dragons Den event where regional directors housekeeping.
72 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 73 2% 7%
