StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 51 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Health & Safety The health and safety H&S of customers and employees remains Incident rates across the business are collated and reviewed to ensure a key focus for the Group.
any trends are identified and actions are taken to resolve issues.
The Group businesses liaise and cooperate with each other to ensure Compliance with the appropriate national and or state law remains a that best practice is followed and their decisions are underpinned by the priority amongst all businesses regardless of location.
Much of the H&S TUI Travel PLC H&S Policy Statement, signed by the Chief Executive, law within Europe stems from the same source, although it has been Peter Long.
Primary responsibility for the management of H&S remains interpreted slightly differently by national governments, and therefore with the individual businesses within the Group but assistance is available there is much commonality in the procedures being included in safety from the Group H&S Compliance Department.
Further assurance that management systems.
sound H&S management systems are being implemented is provided customer safety by Group Audit Services.
Each Sector continues to have responsibility for ensuring the H&S of The Group airlines continue to work together to comply with and improve their customers.
This is achieved by having sound H&S practices and their safety management systems.
In each Group airline there are clearly robust safety management systems embedded within each business.
identified and accountable senior managers who are responsible for safety in the key areas of flight operations, training and ground The Mainstream Sector continues to move forward with the One operations engineering.
There is also a risk-based safety management Mainstream concept and, through the One Mainstream H&S Working system which engages the whole airline at all levels in safety Group, has established the foundations for closer co-operation, greater management.
The operations of the airlines are regulated by the consistency, common policies, systems and processes across all European Aviation Safety Agency EASA and by the applicable Mainstream source markets.
The H&S Working Group meets regularly national aviation body e. g. in the United Kingdom, the Civil Aviation and is made up of colleagues from every source market with H&S Authority.
The National Aviation Authorities regularly inspect and responsibilities together with the Head of GHSCD.
audit each airlines safety management system.
Each Mainstream source market continues to maintain its own dedicated 2013 2014 saw the first full years operation of the Group H&S H&S team of people, each of whom has specific H&S duties.
Compliance Department GHSCD and good progress has been Some developments which took place in Mainstream H&S during 2014 made with regard to: are detailed below: monitoring H&S management systems across the Group: the creation of a UK & Ireland Mainstream Overseas H&S collating relevant data and establishing mechanisms for regular Management Board to provide a greater degree of governance reporting against established Key Performance Indicators KPIs and oversight of UK&I specific H&S management: and Key Risk Indicators KRIs : the expansion of the TUI France H&S team which has allowed a full documenting and communicating to all businesses minimum review of all the Club Marmara properties and the development of Group H&S management system requirements and associated TUI Frances Safety Management System: and H&S standards: the application of H&S resource within TUI Germany specifically providing training in H&S incident reporting and risk assessments: dedicated to the identification and eradication of swimming pool entrapment issues.
providing guidance, advice and support to operating businesses: and The Specialist & Activity Sector continues to operate a dedicated H&S investigating fatalities, serious incidents and near misses.
function based in the UK and overseas, working with all SAS divisions to Group-wide incident thresholds have been established and all establish and maintain Safety Management Systems under the guidance non-natural-cause fatalities and all Yellow, Orange and Red incidents of GHSCD.
Each SAS business is Risk Profiled which facilitates the are automatically investigated.
Trigger points have been set for each provision of H&S responses tailored to divisional and business unit risks.
incident level colour band which, if reached, will result in a full review Suppliers of accommodation, transport and excursions activities are of H&S management processes.
assessed using both physical inspections and self-assessments generated from the Sure2Care in-house, web-based due-diligence system which employee safety now hosts in excess of 37,000 completed H&S assessments.
Our employees face hazards that are both common and unique to their particular business on a world-wide basis.
Effective identification and Within the Accommodation & Destination Sector A&D the responsibility control is achieved through a robust risk assessment procedure.
Risk for H&S is at the divisional level.
assessment is a key element of the safety management systems being Hotelbeds continues to deploy Sure2Care managed from the central developed by our businesses.
Palma-based headquarters with each region responsible for delivery GHSCD is now working in collaboration with dedicated employee H&S against specific Sure2Care targets.
The Hotelbeds Steering Committee resource within a number of geographical locations including Spain, meets regularly to agree responses to any H&S related issues which France, Germany, the Nordics and North America.
Elements of mature are identified.
safety management systems are shared, where appropriate, amongst Within A&D, Intercruises continues to deploy and develop its safety those businesses when developing their own systems.
In this way management system and is increasingly utilising Sure2Care for supplier practical procedures are put in place to assist and benefit the business, assessments as part of its contract with Mainstream for the provision promoting a positive safety culture whilst allowing a consistent of activity excursion and transport services.
The Strategic report was approved by a duly authorised Committee of The Group H&S induction programme Safety in Your Workplace, which the Board of Directors on 3 December 2014 and signed on its behalf by: provides a baseline of H&S knowledge for all employees, is currently being revised and updated.
The induction programme continues to be Peter Long a key element of the Groups commitment to good H&S practice.
